-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/graw2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense, gritty modern infantry combat.
 impressive multiplayer suite with countless combinations of competitive and cooperative game modes.
 gorgeous graphics and cutting-edge visuals.
 excellent sound effects and voice acting that actually helps you in the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player campaign is over before you know it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.6, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 6,406 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
GRAW2 offers up a better, though shorter, single-player game than its predecessor. But the bulk 
 of its gameplay can be found in its impressive multiplayer game. 

  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the game that lent serious legitimacy to the Xbox 360. It was 
 one of the first "must have" games for that system, delivering graphics and gameplay that just 
 weren't possible on any previous console. Between the critical acclaim and the impressive sales, 
 it was inevitable that there would be a sequel. What's startling, though, is the speed at which 
 Ubisoft produced Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2. Just a few days short of the first anniversary 
 of GRAW, we have the follow-up, and as you'd expect, it's a better game, though it's also a noticeably 
 shorter one.  

          Welcome back to Mexico in GRAW2. Now take out some more rebels.     

  GRAW2 puts you 
 right back in the steel-toed combat boots of US Army Captain Scott Mitchell of the fictional 5th 
 Special Forces Group (the Ghosts) for another grueling battle south of the border in Mexico. While 
 you needn't have played the first game to enjoy the second, it certainly helps to understand the 
 overarching plot. A Mexican civil war has erupted between mutinous army units. For various reasons, 
 the elected-civilian government and the US have been drawn into the conflict. In the new game, 
 the fighting threatens to spill over onto US soil along with the threat of nuclear weapons, which 
 gives your superiors even more reasons to scream at you over the radio to defeat the rebels.  

 
  What follows is more of the intense infantry combat that was featured in the original GRAW. You 
 will go on both solo and team missions to achieve a varied set of objectives, from rescuing a Mexican 
 journalist who has clues to the insurgency to neutralizing enemy encampments, and more. The action 
 unfolds on both sides of the border this time, and the game ably captures the first-world and second-world 
 settings. The Mexican side of the border faces even more turmoil than in the first game. The visuals 
 in GRAW2 are also more stunning than in the original game, thanks to sumptuous atmospheric lighting 
 and effects. The incredible scale remains; you'll again look out over vast cityscapes consisting 
 of hundreds of buildings as you fly over in your Black Hawk Helicopter. But now, you can also take 
 in the stunning vista of a setting sun over the desert or gaze at gigantic pillars of smoke rising 
 from the fires of a war-torn Mexican city.  

  GRAW2 features a similar mix of on-foot and in-vehicle action sequences as its predecessor. Most 
 of the time, you'll be on foot, hugging every bit of cover available as you engage a mix of Mexican 
 Army rebels and foreign mercenaries. The cover system remains solid, and you can "hug" most cover 
 simply by moving up to it. Once there, you can swing out or up to engage an enemy before dropping 
 back to cover. It's this system that makes the GRAW games feel more authentic than other shooters 
 in which you can only stand in the open. On top of that, the squad system in the game lets you 
 command a small infantry squad, so it's not just yourself that you have to worry about.  

  Control of your teammates, vehicles, or drones is a lot easier now thanks to the improved communications 
 system. Now you can get a full-screen video feed from any friendly asset on the battlefield, which 
 essentially lets you be in two places at once. You can find some cover, tell your men to move to 
 another position, and then use their video camera to locate and call out targets for them to engage. 
 A cool new battlefield drone called the Mule has many uses, which include battlefield resupply 
 and healing, mobile cover, and remote-controlled scout. You're able to control the Mule directly 
 from the camera view or give it movement orders on the fly. The overhead drone that was cumbersome 
 to use in GRAW is also improved in the sequel because it's far easier to control, and you can view 
 its video feed in full screen rather than in a postage-stamp-sized window.  

          The action takes place on both sides of the border, and you'll have to defend US soil. 
     

  Thankfully, GRAW2 manages to eliminate some of the frustrating gameplay elements that appeared 
 in the first game, such as the annoying rooftop sniper hunts that were more of an exercise in trial 
 and error than actual skill. Those have been replaced with some riveting set piece battles, including 
 a Black Hawk Down scenario, as well as desperate defend-and-hold situations. And while you can 
 go through the game stealthily if you want by using suppressed weapons and sneaking about, it's 
 just as much fun -- if not more -- to go through guns blazing. The large battles in GRAW2 are pretty 
 awesome because usually vehicles are exploding around you, helicopters are buzzing above, and the 
 situation is going crazy. Perhaps the best moment in the campaign is when you're temporarily deprived 
 of your high-tech gear, so you lose all of that oh-so-helpful targeting information that can make 
 the combat in GRAW2 feel a bit  too  easy at times. Suddenly having to locate and identify your 
 targets raises the intensity quite a bit.     

  The artificial intelligence in GRAW2 seems to be on par with the previous game in that it's OK 
 and not brain-dead. Your teammates do a dutiful job of following you around, but you'll still need 
 to do most of the heavy lifting when it comes to combat. However, one of the nice new features 
 of the AI is that it does a fantastic job of calling out enemy locations. For instance, if there 
 are two bad guys next to a red car shooting at you, your teammates will yell out that very fact. 
 Their "awareness" of the level and ability to describe that to you is a nice touch, which adds 
 an extra bit of authenticity to a firefight. And the rest of the sound in the game is also fantastic. 
 With that said, it's worth noting that the plot feels like it's starting to veer toward a territory 
 of silliness, even for a video game. General Keating, your immediate superior, is more overbearing 
 than ever by constantly telling you what to do and behaving like he can rewrite the intensity of 
 the situation by simply yelling louder. And then there's the moment when the president of the US 
 gives you a personal pep talk in the middle of a huge firefight, which suddenly makes GRAW2 feel 
 like it's emulating the over-the-top histrionics of the television show  24 .  

          The multiplayer suite is incredibly varied and has plenty of content.     

  The main 
 downside to the campaign is that it's very short, and you can get through it in maybe four or five 
 hours at most. That's probably how Ubisoft Paris managed to get the sequel done in a year (most 
 games require 18 to 24 months) , but a short game means that it's over before you know it. The briefness 
 of the campaign is reflected in the distribution of the achievement points because most of them 
 are weighted toward the multiplayer aspect of the game. The good news there is that GRAW2 offers 
 a huge amount of multiplayer goodness, even more than the original. Considering that GRAW remains 
 one of the most popular Xbox 360 games on Xbox Live, this says a lot. There's something in the 
 multiplayer suite for everyone, from a six-mission cooperative campaign that takes place in Panama 
 to an incredibly open-ended competitive suite.  

  There's not just more multiplayer content in the form of new maps and new weapons, but there's 
 also stronger gameplay. For example, the graphics in multiplayer now match the quality of the single-player 
 game, something that didn't happen in the original GRAW. The new levels are fairly big, large enough 
 to make even 16-player games feel roomy, and their design is inspired. For instance, "Crash Site" 
 is set amidst the burning wreckage of a downed US transport aircraft. Maps can come in several 
 variations, reflecting different times of the day and lighting conditions, which is a nice touch 
 that shows off the cool new effects.  

  The host can set up a wide range of competitive games, from objective-based to simple team deathmatch. 
 With all the variables that can be adjusted, from the amount of respawns, the weapon restrictions, 
 the objectives, and such, there are effectively countless custom modes that can be created. But 
 there can be a lot of silliness in multiplayer as well. For instance, the new helicopter hunt mode 
 has you and your teammates doing nothing but shooting down gunship and transport helicopters out 
 of the sky with rocket launchers. This task isn't too easy because of the speed and maneuverability 
 of the helicopters, as well as the fact that they can strafe you with rockets.  

  Meanwhile, the six-mission co-op campaign is also a lot of fun because you can romp through a separate 
 storyline along with up to 15 other players. The gist of the co-op story is that a Panamanian strongman 
 is funding the Mexican rebels up north, and a separate team of Ghosts is dispatched to get the 
 job done. Battles rage around the Panama Canal and its outlying areas, with dynamic objectives 
 and other neat new features adding an extra layer of challenge and coordination to the entire affair. 
 Previously, you just had to worry about killing all the bad guys as fast as you could, but with 
 dynamic objectives, your team has to coordinate its actions to accomplish secondary goals. These 
 goals include blowing two radio towers simultaneously or else risking the appearance of enemy reinforcements. 

          The visuals in multiplayer are as good as the single-player game. In other words, they're 
 awesome.     

  The teamwork in the game is also enhanced in co-op and competitive modes by the new aid system. 
 If you're shot by something that wouldn't instantly kill you, such as a rocket, your character 
 will drop and roll around on the ground wounded. You can choose to die and instantly respawn, but 
 if there are friendlies around, they have a limited amount of time to patch you up before you die. 
 This adds an extra bit of urgency to the voice channel as players cry for help and others rush 
 in to save them.  

  There's such a wealth of content in the multiplayer suite that it alone makes GRAW2 an easy purchase 
 for multiplayer fans. If the original game is any indication, there's going to be a large following 
 for GRAW2 for a long time, which makes this a safe investment. The flip side to this is that if 
 you don't have Xbox Live, then GRAW2 is an iffier proposition. The single-player game is fun, but 
 its brevity is certainly an issue. Still, if you're a fan of modern combat, Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2 makes a compelling case for a game that you have to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (468 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I just bought GRAW2 and Rainbow Six Vegas 2 about two weeks ago. They are both great games, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 is better, but this is about GRAW 2. So here it is.
  
  After a little bit longer than a week I have been playing GRAW 2, it is a very fun game, not much 
 different from the first Advanced Warfighter, just a few new weapons, gadgets, features, and new 
 maps. I believe it could definitely have been much better, but it is still a good game, an 8 out 
 of 10. I love the campaign, it is a great story and very intense and fun missions to play through, 
 in its own ways the campaign is better than the multiplayer, mostly because of the cover system 
 which would have been a great feature to have for online play. The multiplayer is great too, in 
 its own ways too, is better than the single player, the co-op terrorist and territory missions, 
 and the versus can be pretty addictive at time, and the GRAW2 and Vegas 2 online community definitely 
 has cooler people then in Halo 3 and some other games which is full of rank obsessed and childish 
 players, along with trash talking children or immature trash talking adults. 
  Ubisoft really does make some great games, I am a bit POed at Ubi for ruining the Splinter Cell 
 franchise, one of my favorites, SPLINTER CELL's SOUL IS STEALH!!! 
  
  Anyway, GRAW2 is one of my favorite games at the moment. I am hoping GRAW 3 will be much greater. 
 I am sure it will be since Ubi has been working on it for the last 2 years. 
  AND, UBI, make more maps for RB6Vegas2!!! Remake Carnival too!!! : ) Good Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiancds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll Just do the usual good/bad points for you to mull over...
  
  The Good
  
  -The graphics seem well done
  
  -Cover system is simple and effective
  
  
  The Bad
 
  
  -Coop Campaign isn't what it seems, you pick a map and complete it together. I honestly thought 
 that the second player would have just replaced one of my squad members (it seems to jive a little 
 better)
  
  -Squad members don't improve/ or you don't get any new members (like in ghost recon 1)
  
  -Squad 
 members aren't crucial, I play with them because they're there, but my brother just leaves them 
 at the start of the mission and becomes the one man team.
  
  -When I used a rocket launcher type weapon, and went into cover, when I looked out, I couldn't 
 see the reticle for my secondary weapon (the launcher covered up what i was trying to shoot. (by 
 my assessment so far, that's the only real "bug" in the game if you can even call it that)
  
  -Almost all areas are outside, though they do change (desert/street and whatnot) there were 
 nearly no building shootouts, which would've switched up the pace.
  
  
  Summary
  
  -Yeah I know I listed way more "bads" than "goods" but that means the bad aren't grievous errors, 
 and some you'll probably never notice or care enough to complain about. Either way, it's worth 
 a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 1 was a very good game but GRAW 2 is even better. This story is fiction but feels like it 
 could be real and like it could happen. In part 1 u were fixing a bad riot in mexico city and saving 
 peoples lifes and in part u r going to stop the rebels from doing other stuff and as u go on the 
 story gets good, which is rare for games to do this and keeps u in. This is a tactical shooter 
 so u order ur team around, do objectives and shoot bad guys. U have these things called a UVA which 
 is a hover droid thats looks over the battlefield from over head. The Mullie which is robot car 
 that holds ammo and other weapons.
  The multiplayer which can be played online or offline or alone, is a good and fun to play with 
 different modes like mission and fire-fight. The graphics are amazing! They so good and the music 
 is epic and the voice acting is top notch. Sound efffects are realistic and good. Once u beat the 
 campaing u will want to re-play it again and the other missions and fire-fight modes are very fun 
 to play. If love the ghost recon series like me or love shooters with a xbox 360 u r fool to not 
 have this game.
  
  Story: 9.7
  Gameplay: 9.8
  Graphics: 10
  Controls: 8.5
  Re-play Value: 8.9
  Overall: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:26 am PT
Review:  I Love the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter Games. I played the first GRAW soon after it came out, 
 and before that I was never a fan of any Tom Clancy Games. I found them too mechanical, and not 
 fun. GRAW1 changed that formula by providing an immersive story, great believable characters, and 
 extremely solid and fun gameplay. GRAW2 improves on all those things, but it is a bit shorter.
 
  
  GRAW2's story picks up shortly after the events of the first game, and throws you into a long training 
 mission, then throws you back into the action. It takes place in the near future (hence the advanced 
 warfighter part of the title) . The story is about Latin America wanting American presence out of 
 there countries, and they come across some weapons of mass destruction...
  
  GRAW1 was a fantastic looking game and GRAW2 is too. All textures are really detailed. Environments 
 are very well done and massive, which gives you a limitless amount of ways to tackle objectives.
 
  
  The audio is identical to GRAW1, which isn't a bad thing. Voice acting is really well done. Explosions 
 sound awesome. All the weapons sound powerful, as they should.
  
  I never got into GRAW multiplayer, so no comment on that. GRAW2's campaign is a bit shorter than 
 GRAW1. I completed GRAW2's campaign in an afternoon (6 to 8 hours) . But the good Thing about the 
 GRAWs is that there are an infinite amount of ways to tackle things, so it is fun every time you 
 play through, and it is worth multiple play throughs.
  
  The GRAW games are not run-n-gunners. It is a tactical shooter and you must make plans as you go 
 along. Figure out what you are gonna do next or you WILL die, often. You do control a squad to 
 help you complete objectives, who's A. I. is excellent.
  
  I fell in love with GRAW. Its so friggin' good I can't stop playing it. GRAW3 is probably coming 
 out later this year, so go play GRAW2 (and GRAW1 if you haven't yet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is one of those rare military themed shooters were you will care about the main character, 
 and the storyline. That is because the story is very weel done, and it is much more than a reason 
 to just shoot some rebels. I found myself becoming increasingly worried for the main character, 
 Captain Scott Mitchell, as the storyline progressed. He goes through some tough times in this campaign. 
 And so will you, playing as him. 
  
  The gameplay revolves around 2 things. These are the Cross-Com, and the cover system. Both work 
 very well. The cross-com lets you effectively give orders to troops, UAV's, and armored vehicles, 
 all on the fly. There is also a cool feature that lets you take a view from your supports eyes, 
 allowing you too see all aspects of the battlefield. The cover system also works very well, just 
 go up to a wall, car, railing, anything, and the character will stick to it. This allows you to 
 fight more safely, and you wouldn't be able to beat the campaign if you refuse to take cover. All 
 of the features of the game work very well, and don't come off feeling like gimmicks. 
  
  Everything about the game feels very solid. The gunplay is intense, the explosions are LOUD and 
 satisfying, and giving orders seems realistic. Not to mention, the game has gorgeous graphics. 
 You'll find yourself huddling for cove rbeside a burnt out car, getting shot at, but looking at 
 the dusty landscapes and amazing skies. Yeah, the game is that beautiful. You won't notice it much, 
 but the camera even shakes when the character gets up to top speed. It's little things like this 
 that pull you into the game that much more. 
  
  Overall, GRAW 2 is my favourite 3rd person shooter ever created. Everything about the game is polished, 
 and it is a load of fun. If you have not yet, go pick up this game today. You won't regret it!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  The game continues the GRAW series by beginning in Ciudad Juarez where the rebels are still causing 
 problems throughout Mexico.
  
  The game doesn't have many changes but there are a couple worth mentioning. In this game you have 
 a medic that can heal you or other squad mates if they're down. You can also see your teammates 
 point of view so you can survey your surroundings better with a different perspective. The visuals 
 have increased quite a bit especially with the explosions. And the Rebels are still pretty tough 
 but nothing GRAW players can't handle. The squad AI is also improved a lot. They will actively 
 seek cover and descriptively call out targets.
  
  Instead of choosing a preselected team like in the first GRAW you have a choice between more squadmates 
 to choose from. Choosing the right squadmates play a large role in the game itself, some squadmates 
 will do better on certain maps than others.
  
  In the multiplayer instead of being killed like in GRAW 1 you still have a chance of just being 
 critically injured so another teammate has a chance to heal you. The ability to take cover like 
 in singleplayer mode has still not been added. There are also two downloadable map packs that you 
 can get from Xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  I love the Ghost Recon series and so I had high expectations for this game. I absolutely loved 
 GRAW apart from the short length of the game. GRAW was over before I knew it but that was the only 
 problem so I figured GRAW 2 would be like the same game but with a much longer campaign because 
 everybody complained about the length so how stupid would the developers have to be to not improve 
 on this point.... right? Well obviously they are pretty stupid because not only did they not improve 
 on the length.... they actually made the game shorter!
  
  I finished the game in two days... and I don't even play too much. No more that three hours a day. 
 When I watched that final cutscene I said six words to myself....'What the hell were Ubisoft thinking?!' 
 I couldn't believe they'd actually made the game shorter. I enjoyed the game so I picked up the 
 controller and said 'I'm not getting more games until Christmas so I'll finish it again' But the 
 next day it was over again so I picked up my surfboard and tried to ride the extremely flat waves.... which 
 have replaced my Xbox 360 until Christmas.
  
  But aside from the shortness of the campaign Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 is an extremely 
 good game. Fun; tense gameplay, stunning visuals, great sound, large weapon variety and great difficulty 
 variety.
  
  If you are reading this review Ubisoft please, pleeeease make GRAW 3 longer if it will be made... because 
 the campaign length is the only thing stopping this game from being perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  I got this game out of the bargain bin on Day after Thanksgiving 2007. The first game was fun so 
 I figured I'd give this a whirl. The concept of the game is great and fun but the execution of 
 it could have been better.
  
  Overall I thought this game was really good. A well played out story of a counter terrorism team 
 in central America where they are not supposed to be (black ops stuff you know) . They single handedly 
 save the day for the president who was kidnapped and they stopped the rebels from overtaking the 
 government. As I said a very well laid out story but the gameplay sometimes feels way too repetitive 
 and its not as tactical as some of the other Tom Clancy Games (RB6 Vegas 1&2) . The tactical portion 
 of the game is extremely limited and not that effective. Its fun picking people off with a sniper 
 rifle but to breach and clear a room with your team and to do it stealthily is not consistent with 
 the RB6 Series games. Your guys just kind of run around and get in your way and really are not 
 that stealthy.
  
  Now that I've ripped the game a new one let me go over the positives. The story was really good. 
 I don't think I have played a Tom Clancy game that had a bad story. The overall gameplay is rather 
 fun. You not only get to go solo out on your recon missions but you get to have up to 2 teams at 
 your command and you get to use vehicles on some levels. There is a wide array of weaponry which 
 you get to choose before each mission and there is this cool vehicle that you can command that 
 carriers supplies around for you as well. Probably my favorite part of the game is the UAV. That 
 thing comes in handy in identifying bad guys and coordinating your attack. The in game HUD your 
 guy has is linked to these vehicles and your team so you can see what they see thus helping you 
 plan your attacks (making it more realistic than just controlling the UAV with no way of really 
 being able to justify where the bogeys are. That portion of the game was very well thought out.
 
  
  The visuals in the game are pretty good. Not the best I've seen or the most interactive environments 
 but overall pretty good. The explosions look and sound great. When you blow up a car that guys 
 are standing behind it feels really good. 
  
  The online multiplayer I've had mixed reactions with. The host of the game has too much control 
 for open matches in my opinion. If it were a private game that would make more sense and it feels 
 really choppy. I have not spent too much time with it so it may just take some getting used too 
 but overall I was not a huge fan. 
  
  Overall i give this game a solid 8. It was good but could have been great. In the Tom Clancy tactical 
 shooters the Rainbow Six Vegas games have won me over and are a lot better in gameplay than this 
 game was but it was not horrible. It is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing. the controls are great only i got confused commanding the tanks and Strykers. 
 the game has some of the best graphics I've ever seen ESPECIALLY the explosions. I could do it 
 myself or be lazy and send in my squad i could use my own tank as cover while it blows the enemy 
 to pieces while i shoot them to bits the cover system was excellent and if your run a corner with 
 an enemy behind it you are DEAD. This is one of my favorite games ever. This game rox. This game 
 rox. This game rox. This game rox.
  _______ ________________ ________________________
  """""""""""""""""""""""" """""""""""""""""""" 
  ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gippal56
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, especially for 20 dollars. I have been a SERIOUS follower of Ghost Recon since 
 its release on PC. I love these games, and they have never let me down. The single player in this 
 game is flat out fun. I have never played a game that illustrated an actual battle as well as this 
 one does. Although I have never actually been in a firefight, this is what I hope it is actually 
 like. Great story, with some intense battles that really put you right in the action. The realism 
 of unleashing bullets, as well as taking them has been one of my favorite things about the GR series. 
 You can only take one, 2 bullets if your lucky, and this really makes you think before you go rushing 
 out with your guns flying. The multiplayer, let me warn you now, is completely DIFFERENT. I love 
 the multiplayer, I am in a pretty good clan, but why didn't they stay with the same style as single 
 player? I feel as if they really let me down here. The single player gave me such excitement, and 
 I couldn't wait for the multiplayer to do the same. But I was disappointed to see a completely 
 different game when I logged on to X-Box live. I have become immune to the players glitches, and 
 controller modifications they use in this game. I understand why they use them, Tom Clancy made 
 it so easy... Multiplayer needs a lot of work, and its unfortunate because it probably won't get 
 it due to the other popular clancy titles being worked on. But when you can get good at multiplayer, 
 and own the morons anyway, it definitely makes you feel good. Not much of a community left, but 
 I will be playing this for a long time. Lets hope the next GR Multiplayer has some influence from 
 GRAW 2 single player. That would be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: The new Cross-Com system works perfectly; Combat is just as intense as ever; The areas 
 in the campaign are more varied, more detailed, and more war-torn than before; Improved AI; Multiplayer 
 gameplay and options are better; Stunning visuals; good voice acting and gritty sound effects that 
 actually help.
  
  The Bad: Campaign is rather short; AI still isn't perfect.
  
  
  How do take a groundbreaking game and make it break more ground? You fix its minor problems, add 
 new things, and improve areas that felt perfect but could still be better. Easier said than done. 
 Red Storm Entertainment and Ubisoft Paris made it seem pretty easy. In just one year they managed 
 to make GRAW's sequel better than its predecessor in almost every way, making this one an even 
 bigger must buy than the first.
  The single-player campaign starts a year later after the events of the first GRAW. There is now 
 a civil war in Mexico and the rebels have gathered along the southern US border. It is time for 
 Ghost leader Scott Mitchell to take care of business.
  In the original GRAW, the city of El Paso was a nice setting, but it seemed too much like a nice 
 quiet area and all of the levels in that campaign took place there. In this campaign, you will 
 be fighting on both sides of the border. Some levels will take place in the desert, some in war-torn 
 city areas, and some in areas about to become war-torn. These new settings make the campaign feel 
 more varied and detailed. The desert levels usually start off with you going in stealthy and taking 
 out packs of enemies. The war-torn areas have no stealth involved and just involve intense battles. 
 The areas about to be war-torn feel just as the first game, you make a stealthy entrance but then 
 provoke an intense battle. There is one mission where you are knocked unconscious from your vehicle 
 exploding from an enemy helicopter missile and your equipment and Cross-com are destroyed. This 
 is very intense and challenging since you are stripped of your items that help you most of the 
 game.
  Now there are more things to take control of and more ways of doing so, thanks to the new Cross-com 
 2.0. With the new Cross-com system you can see a fullscreen view of who or what your commanding, 
 which really helps in finding new positions and finding enemies, especially with the UAV Cypher. 
 Now you can command a Mule. It is a mini-vehicle that carries weapons and ammo. You can bring it 
 with you on a mission and even use it for cover. There are also a few parts where you place an 
 airstrike over your enemies, something that didn't happen in the original. These segments are a 
 nice change of pace, which also make you feel like you can't do everything yourself.
  When it comes to people on foot, you can now also command Mexican infantry along with your fellow 
 Ghosts. This changes the tactics and makes you think more about what you are doing. Before when 
 your squadmates went down while taking fire, you could heal him an unlimited amount of times, which 
 felt a bit unrealistic and took some challenge out of the game. Now your team has a limited amount 
 of healthpacks. With a medic selected you have 6 and without a medic, 3. When you take damage, 
 you can go up to your medic and ask him to heal you. This makes you more careful of what your doing 
 while on a mission. Now, you can point out what class your squadmates are by looking at what equipment 
 they are wearing.
  While they AI still isn't perfect it's better than the AI in its predecessor. Now your squad points 
 out how many enemies are in sight and where they are. If you take damage, your squad will remind 
 you to take cover. The enemy AI is fairly the same. They still make stupid desicions here and there 
 as to where to move. They can be directly in front of you and not shoot in order to give you a 
 chance to take them out. However, this doesn't make the game easy because when they do fire back, 
 you can easily die at an instant and they lay down heavy fire, making it challenging to move from 
 one spot to the next. Your squad is still very useful in combat, if not more useful. 
  The only major flaw in this campaign is that it is short. Normal difficulty can take about 5 hours 
 to complete, even shorter than its predecessor's which already felt short. Quality over quantity 
 is never a bad thing, but a few more hours would have been nice.
  However, multiplayer can more than make up for this. There are more options and weapons than before. 
 One problem its predecessor had was that the graphics in the multiplayer were not as good as the 
 single-player. Here, they are both the same, which means they are amazing. The maps are more interesting 
 and have different times of day to choose from. The different time of day can change the way you 
 play, both cooperatively and competitively. Now there are ways to edit your clan tag. You and other 
 member choose the name and symbol to represent yourselves and when scrolling through the pregame 
 lobby, everything will appear and you will also have a certain color for your clan. 
  When your teammate is down but not out, you can heal him just as you would in the campaign. Each 
 person can only be healed once before death. In the previous game, the co-op objectives just had 
 you killing everybody as fast as you can. Now there are different objectives besides just mowing 
 down your enemies. There are times when you have to destroy two things simultaneously that are 
 on different sides of the map. This adds to the tactics and teamwork needed.
  If you have the first game, you have to get this one. This makes so many improvements over its 
 predecessor. There is a better campaign and loads of multiplayer content, which can be played online 
 and off. If your a fan of modern shooters, GRAW will be a perfect addition to your library which 
 will keep you hooked for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 (yea i know, lenghty title, so we will use GRAW 2) has a very 
 nice military feel to it as the games storyline is set firstly (in the intro vid) in a fight for 
 your life with your teamtes in mexico fighting over nuclear bomb problems. You play as Scott Mitchell 
 (occasionly know as Ghost Lead) , the captain of a four man recon squad know as the Ghosts. Now, 
 there is only 72 hours left for Mitchell and his squad to prevent a disastrous nuclear attack. 
 
  
  The gameplay is all put together nice and solid, as you go through 3 days of continious firefights 
 against rebel forces. To help you on this quest of life or death, you will have some nice features, 
 such as the option of a UAV drone, which will accompany you and your fellow ghosts as it comes 
 in handy alot of the time, as it helps you spot out enemy possitions from a tactical birds eye 
 view, Sometimes you will have access to mule, which can follow you on four wheels carrying restorable 
 ammo and other weaponry.
  
  You can command your squad to regroup at your possition, but also more usefully, you can get a 
 first person view from your teamate and use this view to see things in a tactical perspective. 
 Your teamates can be put into recon mode - which is used for stealth, or a fire at will like mode, 
 as they will act more aggressive with there firing, and will not likely stay unseen, but they will 
 keep hidden from rapid oncomming fire.
  
  GRAW 2 features a cover system like Gears of War, allowing you to take cover behind almost any 
 solid object to avoid enemy fire. This feature gives the game a well constructed stop and pop gameplay 
 ethic. The single player campign is fairly short though, and even on the hardest difficult (elevated 
 risk) it is still an easy experience.
  
  The visuals of GRAW 2 are excellent, and shouldn't revieve any complaints for cheap graphics. The 
 weapons look nice and compact as the facial aspects of the character models look quite good aswell, 
 but the graphics don't quite match up to games like Gears of War. 
  
  Advanced Warfighter sounds excellent, especially the swooshing sounds of bullets just missing your 
 head as you rush back into cover, seing the streak of wind that the bullet leaves behind.
  
  I have not tried this game online yet, but from what i have heard the online play is pretty 
 good, and i am fairly sure that i read somewhere that the game features coop, as well as some sort 
 of death match and team death match gameplay as well.
  
  All up i think this game is excellent and is better then all of the Ghost Recon games. If you are 
 considering this game i encourage you to grab a copy of this addition to the GR series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furu13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, great story the graphic from behind the back is good and with such games, if 
 u pass the training u will get the to final the level in no time with no breaks, but a lot of people 
 didn't have the patience to finish the first level (training) but again it's relative...
  
  once playing, the aiming is good and the movements are really nice, weapons are advanced and some 
 of them are crap, they just look good but not effective at all.
  
  The ghost team that follows your instructions are really inconsistent and unpredictable, sometimes 
 they shoot enemies from far and help a lot and sometimes they just get pinned in the stupidest 
 places and become a heavy load.
  
  the online gaming is good once ur part of a clan and the ranking is cool, but if u lose ur connection 
 u will lose point and i think its rubbish and so unfair for serious players...
  
  The last mission of the campaign is so ridiculous, you got like 5 aids waiting for u give them 
 orders and around 100 rebel fighter to kill, its just wrong with all these options and it will 
 just kill it... 
  
  
  the overall is good and its one of the strangely addictive games.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPOYoung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 offers an experience like few others can. With the exception og GRAW 1 of course. The story 
 feeds off the first game with new elements attached. Which only deepens the story and draws you 
 in even more. A new selection of guns keeps you interested. The over the shoulder view is still 
 top notch for the game, and the controls are almost seemless. There are a view sluggish moves, 
 mainly when rolling to the side or diving forward. But other then that its smooth as can be. The 
 voice acting is great quality, and all the original actors returned. So no new voices for old people. 
 Graphics are amazing, as to be expected from a Tom Clancy game. Multiplayer is something to brag 
 about. Its level system is fun just to keep track of how far you have come from when you first 
 played online. And the one thing that I really enjoyed was the ability to customize what your character 
 looks like. One thing though, when playing co-op online, you better have alot of patients. Co-op 
 for GRAW 2 is one of the hardest i have come by. Ever. But it does provide hours and hours of fun 
 for you, and if you want, your friends too. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan 
 of shooters, and Tom Clancy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tippeetom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for anyone who enjoys a shooting game. i no a lot of people say it is nothing 
 compared to COD4 but i cant see how they think this is true as i think GRAW2 beats COD any day 
 of the week. online multiplayer is amazing, the only thing i would say is that i find i lag out 
 of graw more then i do on cod but apart from that, online is perfect, i play it all the time and 
 i never get bored. single play is fantastic, the missions are all very different. there is nothing 
 worse then playing a game and all the missions are the same ( coff coff GTA coff ) :) the layout 
 of the maps is really good, cover is placed in really good spots, i think a lot of time and effort 
 went into wear and how the placed buildings and other forms of cover. the game offers loads of 
 different game play modes online, witch give's multiplayer some variety. all in all its a grate 
 game, worth every penny i say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maqda7
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game and played it. And honestly, it didn't like it one bit. I thought the story 
 is unimaginative, the graphics are... well.... bad, the guns are not satisfying at all, the controlling 
 your team aspect is pretty cool but I felt the AI is crap and it too complicated to take care of 
 your team as well as shoot enemys and stuff. I can't judge the online play because I haven't tried 
 that yet but I assume that there are better online experiences.
  Into the details:
  
  Story:
  Same old story, terrorists got some bad weapons, go stop em. CREATE SOMETHING NEW DAMNIT!
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  The little video on the top right hand corner is incredibly annyoing. Snipe aiming is pretty good 
 but normal aiming is rubbish. Guns are not exciting, you see the path of every bullet wich is a 
 bit of total bull. Also, the story is incredibly short, it's over before you know it.
  
  Graphics:
  Not a next gen graphics but not a ps2 like game graphics.
  
  
  The entire game 
 doesn't give the experience it portrays.
  If you want a Tactical FPS like GRAW 2, i'd go for Rainbow Six Vegas 2.
  Overall, this game is 
 at most worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Customization is also improved this time around, with more options for your appearance as a soldier. 
 The aiming mechanics are good and the tactical controls are good for a console game. The action 
 is a clever mix between shooting and tactics. Multiplayer better with great character detail, little 
 if any lag, new weapons choice, and waiting lobby simplicity. The bulk of your achievements will 
 come from Multiplayer. Better graphics and cutting-edge visuals and excellent sound effects and 
 voice acting that actually helps you in the game. 
  
  graw 2 is a very well balanced game. Although you cannot just run onto the battlefield without 
 your team, they are not about to just do all the shooting for you. you have a good selection of 
 teammates to choose from for your primary squad, and on most levels you will have an additional 
 item to command, the cover system is very well implemented 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonvts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I picked up Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 not knowing much about it other than the reviews 
 on this site and that it obviously was a war game. My expectations weren't that high I wanted a 
 fun shooter with a decent single player element as well as competitive online play and to this 
 extent GRAW 2 (as it is known) delivered.
  
  The single player campaign though relatively short is thoroughly enjoyable some good well thought 
 out missions with satisfying outcomes, though essentially make your way to this point and kill 
 these guys as you go. I read a few comments that the single player campaign was too short and I 
 agree, within about 10 hours maybe less the single player campaign had finished on the normal difficult 
 however on the hardest difficult it does become rather hard to just waltz past the enemy, the AI 
 is intelligent enough to see you and take cover leading to many gun fights involving popping your 
 head round a corner and popping off a few rounds then hiding back behind the wall again. Commanding 
 your fellow Ghosts is also pain free just look at an area and press up on the D-pad to tell them 
 to move there or down on the D-pad to make them move towards you. Having not played GRAW or any 
 other tactical shooters of late the only game I can liken GRAW 2 to is Full spectrum Warrior which 
 I also thoroughly enjoyed. 
  
  The multiplayer is also enjoyable given options of Solo, Team or Co-op missions. Solo and Team 
 are nothing new much like any other shooter with the normal game modes like elimination Capture 
 the flag king of the hill you get the picture. Co-op is a nice addition if you can get a decent 
 team together, the only problem I have encountered with this is that the CO in Co-op seems to be 
 forgotten you get the Rambo of the team who runs round the first corner all guns blazing and die, 
 you then get the players who stay at the back letting you do all the work. Then you get the players 
 who don't seem to understand the concept of cooperation so a reminder 
  
  Cooperation  co'op'er'ation (noun) Working together - the act of working or acting together to 
 achieve a common goal
  
  When a team mate get's wounded and falls to the floor I do my best to get to said fallen solider 
 to heal them for the benefit of the team, it would seem however that others don't think like this 
 they have the mentality of "I'm Rambo I don't heal my fellow team mate, I will complete this on 
 my own" then swiftly dies as I'm not watching his back anymore!
  
  But as with all online play it's a case of who you get thrown into a lobby with, your fellow man 
 can make or break your experience online.
  
  Overall a fun game worth a rental or buying now that it's getting a bit older the price is right.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: headymoe79
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  The game was great. I really felt like I was in the middle of a real conflict. The story had me 
 all wrapped up. I almost beat up the first Mexican I saw when I was finished.. LOL
  
  Being able to view things from my teams cam's was very cool. The AI on them seemed to be a bit 
 better than the 1st game. They moved to cover when they werent in a good position. I appreciate 
 that. Especially since I had to cut down most of the targets. No prob though... I gets busy. 
  
  Having control over some infantry troops was great!! I always wanted to be able to control 
 separate groups of men. I really liked that. As well as the having group and air support (black 
 hawks) at the same time. That was awesome. It was kind of hectic and I wound up getting the chopper 
 shot down but it was fun while she up there.
  
  The ending was a trip. The ultimate sacrifice. I thought later that I may have been able to avoid 
 that but oh well. Still a great ending. 
  
  And finally the negative.... it was too short. Thats it. Otherwise, I loved it. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Tom Clancy's GRAW 2
  
  Review 130
  
  Released: March 6, 2007
  Publisher: Ubisoft
  Developer: Red Storm Ent.
  Game Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
  ESRB 
 Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Blood, Violence, Language
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (7/10)
  GRAW 2 offers a very generic 
 storyline. You, as the hero, have to stop a terrorist. There is a surprising lack of cutscenes.
 
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  Being futuristic, you have a plethora of cool tools to use to kill the baddies in this game, including 
 scout planes and supply vehicles that you can control remotely.
  
  There are a lot of weapons to choose from as well.
  
  GRAW 2 is a tactical shooter. This means 
 you have to abandon the Halo-like gaming style of running into a crowd of enemies and shooting 
 them up and running back until your shields recharge. In GRAW 2 you must use yourself, your teammates, 
 and your equipment efficiently. Otherwise you will not get through a mission.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  Good graphics, but not nearly as good as the Xbox 360 can give.
  
  Durability 
 (6/10)
  GRAW 2 is a short game with no replayability.
  
  Overall Score (7.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  In my eyes, it's just a mediocre shooter with no standout qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazyboy87
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is so much fun!!!!!!! the multiplayer is my favorite part about ghost recon advanced 
 warfighter 2. plus in the xbox market place you can get the gun pack for free aswell as throwback 
 map pack and throwback map pack 2 for free too. which is awesome in my apinion. also this game 
 has tons and i mean tons of guns!!!! plus you can personalize you character any way you want from 
 skin to helmet to just about everything else. also you can make actual clans and i mean actual 
 becuase somebody cant just put in the same clan name and symbol as your they have to be invited 
 to join your clan. also you can have clan wars and if you want you can play ranked matches. also 
 the campaign is awesome!!! i havent finished it yet becuase the main reason i bought the game was 
 to play online with friends. and unlike on halo 3 there arent a bunch of litte 10 years olds playing 
 it and talking junk. most of the time you have a couple of teammates actually talking about the 
 game and telling you where the enemy is and that kind of talk. also in games your team will work 
 together and be tactful. this game takes strategy, you gotta work together, its not a solo kinda 
 game. plus this game is only $20!!!!!!!!!!!! buy it now!!!!!
  Gamertag: TehSilverWANG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan-g-young
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Ghost Recon and probably every other Tom Clancey game since inception. I've been 
 very negative towards console versions of the games because they weren't similar to the PC versions. 
 And they tended to run a bit similar to standard run and gun games.
  
  I know what your thinking because I hate it when PC gamers claim superiority in all things game 
 related, but in this case I'm not talking about graphics or sound. The PC versions of Clancey games 
 were TOTALLY different games than what was released on consoles. 
  
  Raven Shield stood out to me as being the Icon for the differences between the PC and console variations 
 of the games. And it was a BIG difference, I couldn't believe people were playing the console versions 
 and enjoying it, because to me they were mere shadows of their original counterparts on PC. 
  
  I didn't play GRAW 1 on xbox 360 for this reason but I decided to check out GRAW 2 and was 
 seriously impressed. Finally a console version Ghost Recon that was actually fun. And the multi-player 
 feature will give you endless replay value. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGisTHEbest
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty four was a great game, but the whole gun n run got a little old, this never gets old 
 there are always new stadregies used by other teams that you will always have to work your way 
 around, but if you aernt the type who enjoys REAL WAREFARE and prefers gun n run rent it before 
 you buy it. What i mean by real warfare is that you cannot run up the middle and shoot like is 
 callof duty 4, you need to stay low cover your parters as they move and use real tactics, supressing 
 fire is essensial, and if you dotn sue it your arre most likley going to get pinned down, and you 
 have a diffrent mentality in this game than you do in COD4, every partner means somthing because 
 without backup you are completly  
 need to use more charactors for the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assasinasso
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  The main problem with the original GRAW game was that with time the game lost almost all that made 
 it good, but luckily Ubisoft have struck gold with its sequel that improves upon its predecessor 
 in almost every way.
  
  Graphically the game is much better than I expected with the engine being vastly improved from 
 the original game and even that one didn't look too bad. Characters and environments looks sharp 
 with the exception of some buildings though the best looking part of the game is when you see anything 
 explode. My only other gripe apart from some of the buildings, is the lip-sync of the characters 
 in the video feeds, because no work has gone into them to try and match lip movement with speech 
 and the result is quite horrible.
  
  The sound department is probably the strongest part of the entire game with excellent audio, especially 
 the gun fire. GRAW 2 also contains a fantastic soundtrack, which adds to the whole drama of the 
 game's single player at just the right times. Voice acting is also done to a decent level with 
 the exception being the main character, who sounds more like Christian Bale's Batman, than a top 
 crack army soldier.
  
  Gameplay always makes or break a game and thankfully Ubisoft have not fallen into the sequel trap, 
 were the developers feel they must radically change everything that made the series worthwhile 
 in the first place. The game improves upon the original GRAW in the right areas, without taking 
 away the core elements that we all enjoyed from the past GRAW and Ghost Recon games. Gun fights 
 are some of the best seen in any FPS game, plus the new improved drone and cross com systems, enhances 
 the overall feel of the game. The cover system is brilliant and much better than Ubisoft's other 
 FPS series, Rainbow Six though I was disappointed to see it left out of online CO-OP, but I praise 
 them for keeping it out of the other online modes for balancing reasons.
  
  The AI is easily the best seen for the series, with a much better team and enemy AI system to work 
 with. Your own squad members are valuable assets who can help you flank or suppress the enemy without 
 them being killed constantly. However they are not totally perfect and on rare occasions they can 
 ignore an order, mainly the ones to stay in cover. The enemy is much smarter then previous GRAW 
 games and will provide a decent challenge but I do feel they could be vastly improved upon still.
 
  
  GRAW 2 provides good value for money even though the single player is quite short but it is a lot 
 more fun compared to the longer GRAW 1 single player, which became frustrating at times. Online 
 mode has been improved upon with CO-OP a major factor in the game having a great replay value. 
 The CO-OP missions provide a tough but fun opportunity to play with some friends online, which 
 expands into several game modes though the CO-OP campaign is easily the superior CO-OP game mode.
 
  
  Overall GRAW 2 is easily one of the best Tom Clancy games from Ubisoft and I would look forward 
 to any future installments of the Ghost Recon series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  The main problem with the original GRAW game was that with time the game lost almost all that made 
 it good, but luckily Ubisoft have struck gold with its sequel that improves upon its predecessor 
 in almost every way.
  
  Graphically the game is much better than I expected with the engine being vastly improved from 
 the original game and even that one didn't look too bad. Characters and environments looks sharp 
 with the exception of some buildings though the best looking part of the game is when you see anything 
 explode. My only other gripe apart from some of the buildings, is the lip-sync of the characters 
 in the video feeds, because no work has gone into them to try and match lip movement with speech 
 and the result is quite horrible.
  
  The sound department is probably the strongest part of the entire game with excellent audio, especially 
 the gun fire. GRAW 2 also contains a fantastic soundtrack, which adds to the whole drama of the 
 game's single player at just the right times. Voice acting is also done to a decent level with 
 the exception being the main character, who sounds more like Christian Bale's Batman, than a top 
 crack army soldier.
  
  Gameplay always makes or break a game and thankfully Ubisoft have not fallen into the sequel trap, 
 were the developers feel they must radically change everything that made the series worthwhile 
 in the first place. The game improves upon the original GRAW in the right areas, without taking 
 away the core elements that we all enjoyed from the past GRAW and Ghost Recon games. Gun fights 
 are some of the best seen in any FPS game, plus the new improved drone and cross com systems, enhances 
 the overall feel of the game. The cover system is brilliant and much better than Ubisoft's other 
 FPS series, though I was disappointed to see it left out of online CO-OP but I praise them for 
 keeping it out of the other online modes for balancing reasons.
  
  The AI is easily the best seen for the series, with a much better team and enemy AI system to work 
 with. Your own squad members are valuable assets who can help you flank or suppress the enemy without 
 them being killed constantly. However they are not totally perfect and on rare occasions they can 
 ignore an order, mainly the ones to stay in cover. The enemy is much smarter then previous GRAW 
 games and will provide a decent challenge but I do feel they could be vastly improved upon still.
 
  
  GRAW 2 provides good value for money even though the single player is quite short but it is a lot 
 more fun compared to the longer GRAW 1 single player, which became frustrating at times. Online 
 mode has been improved upon with CO-OP a major factor in the game having a great replay value. 
 The CO-OP missions provide a tough but fun opportunity to play with some friends online, which 
 expands into several game modes though the CO-OP campaign is easily the superior CO-OP game mode.
 
  
  Overall GRAW 2 is easily one of the best Tom Clancy games from Ubisoft and I would look forward 
 to any future installments of the Ghost Recon series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game it was out for more than a year. I still couldn't believe the graphics 
 and gameplay. As soon as I started playing I couldn't put the controller down. I just could not 
 stop playing the campaign. It has different engagements that kind of test you mind on military 
 tactics. I also liked that you can move your team around to get necessary areas captured. Who doesn't 
 love shotting a mexican or two. I then after playing hours of the campaign went to the multiplayer 
 and got kind of disappointed. There was not a matchmaking list like in halo and people don't like 
 you they could boot you for no reason. But once you get into a game you find some maps are just 
 too big for the game. But if you land on a good map with good people, and a good game it is worth 
 playing you want to keep on playing. I am glad I bought the game with achievements that are pretty 
 easy to get too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced War-fighter Two has you completing objectives whilst taking cover, ordering 
 your Ghosts, infantry squads and support vehicles around and shooting a whole lot of Mexicans.
 
  
  All of these mechanics work well, but really this game is simplified to the core. One button (up 
 on d-pad) controls where your squad shoots and where it moves to, with the exception of medic healings 
 and regrouping. This si just too simplified to satisfy a true Clancy gamer.
  
  When you have multiple squads and vehicles at your disposal it can be a hassle flipping through 
 them all in the heat of battle. Occasionally it will get either you or them killed.
  
  Graphics, music, SFX, weapons and voice all sound and look great, and the cross-com works in some 
 areas surprisingly well.
  
  The story and objectives is relayed through your cross-com, which usually entails General Keating, 
 a (ahem) swearing (rolls eyes) and no-nonsense leader of the ghosts. The reason for the above comments 
 is just that the "T" TEEN rating doesn't do the game justice. Hearing "Lets knock the crap outta' 
 them" or something similar just doesn't sound as right as a four letter S word, as no matter how 
 much you might dislike it- cussing has it's place in warfare.
  
  In the end if you bite your cheek and brave the campy, bad writing the game is pretty good in most 
 aspects and the multiplayer is a doozy of a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mervyn1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  
  I was a little dissapointed with the single player campaigne but it held up ok it just seemed short 
 but enjoyable the graphics flow well and the actual control if you have never played a game like 
 this before can take a little getting used to.
  
  It is the Multiplayer section that this game really comes to it's fruistion, i played a game like 
 this for the first time on xbox 360 live and it was so much fun i was not that great at but boy 
 time seem to fly by, after a while i got a little better even though i was so bad a not getting 
 killed people on my team in the team match decided to use me for target practice.
  
  The multiplayer function again flowed well and the intense fighting was fast paced and seemed fairly 
 realistic.
  
  All in all once you have finished to campaign i recomend you go online and start shooting up the 
 cyber world.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsnicket94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I'd never played it before. I'd only seen gameplay videos. Usually 
 it's not a very good idea to do that, but I have never regretted it. This game was just great. 
 The graphics are stunning, the controls aren't regrettable, the difficulty is just right, the levels 
 never get old, and the action comes non-stop. I thought that the gameplay videos looked great, 
 but I honestly never expected it would be as good as it turned out to be.
  
  I'm really not a huge online multiplayer guy, mainly because I get whooped in everything against 
 actual people, but I cannot say that I don't like this game's online multiplayer. The only things 
 that could've been better is, 1) the fact that you can't get up against a wall, 2) when you die 
 you always seem to have to cross the entire map to find any action, and 3) the AI enemies seem 
 much harder in multiplayer than single player.
  
  This game is definitely going to be one of my favorite games that I have for a long time, and I 
 doubt that I'll ever stop playing it for long periods at a time. All in all, if you like endless 
 action that looks, sounds, and feels absolutely amazing, then this game is exactly what you need. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Yeah i went out and rented it for the 360 and just completed it today. As a fan of tactical shooters 
 and a fan of the G. R. A. W series, G. R. A. W 2 doesn't disappoint. The game is really fun and great 
 to get into with very action packed fights and scenarios. Playing part one i always loved the way 
 the HUD and the way you control things and i'm glad this is kept to its true form. The graphics 
 are also a step up form the first game as expected, but the main thing about these games is the 
 tactical warfare. 
  
  I haven't jumped online and i really can't be bothered to either because i don't know i just don't 
 feel like it. But anyway i'm sure the online is great if it keeps to the same nature as the single 
 player campaign. Though i'm abit disappointed that there was no split screen multi-player but i 
 had a great time going through the single player and completed with a range of different maps and 
 lots of weapons and explosions. Anyway if you enjoy tactical shooters or the previous G. R. A. W game 
 i suggest you go out either buy it or rent and give it a go, it's a great shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  To this day , the original G. R. A. W. is still one of my favorite games released on the Xbox 360. 
 I still find myself popping it in now and then, even more than the widely acclaimed Halo 3. 
  
  However, the reason why lot of gamers didn't like the Ghost Recon series was its unforgiving 
 difficulty. I myself hated the games of the sixth generation because they were so blisteringly 
 difficult that I couldn't have any fun with them. Well, G. R. A. W.2 is even more forgiving than the 
 first one and the team A. I. has been improved enough that your squad doesn't end up doing something 
 stupid.
  
  Of course, the game would be nothing without its awesome multiplayer capabilities. One of my quips 
 with the original game was that it only had four multiplayer co-op maps for you to try to beat 
 with your friends, but this sequel provides much more co-op maps that are much more involving and 
 important than the previous games. A major improvement on the multiplayer from the original to 
 this game is that you can actually be healed on the battlefield. There will be moments where you 
 are shot enough to be critically injured, but still alive for a few moments. This gives your allies 
 a chance to run over to you and heal you, providing a second lease on life that was impossible 
 in the first game.
  
  Customization is also improved this time around, with more options for your appearance as a soldier. 
 Not only that, but the multiplayer matches are even more customizable than before, with a day/night 
 option implemented as well as more flexible match types. It's a shame, though, that players can't 
 play as the "bad guys" and you still can't control any vehicles, which is kind of a disappointment 
 since one of the biggest draws of other games in this genre have truly amazing vehicles that do 
 nothing but improve the gameplay.
  
  The campaign really isn't that long, which is a shame, and since the obvious inclusion of a co-op 
 function isn't included, the only replayability for the campaign is to unlock achievements. 
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 is a great game with a passable and very playable 
 campaign, amazing multiplayer, great graphics, impressive audio, and a story that you can actually 
 get into. If you own an Xbox 360 and you haven't picked up this game yet, do yourself a favor and 
 purchase it as soon as possible. Trust me, you'll be happy that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  
  GRAW 2 single player is an excellent game. The aiming mechanics are good and the tactical controls 
 are good for a console game. The action is a clever mix between shooting and tactics. Team members 
 won't do much for you unless you tell them, though combining tank/chopper/drone/soldier support 
 makes everything easier. It's all controlled from the D-pad, so it doesn't interrupt the action 
 with button-holding maneuvers. If you desire, you can put your camera in the vehicle although it 
 requires holding LB the whole time. The campaign is a little easier than GRAW, but unfortunately 
 it's all finished in less than 5 hours. Multiplayer leaves a little to be desired from the epic-war 
 feel of the single player missions. However, there's no cover system like in the single-player 
 game. It's definitely a 9-rating game, but a short one unless you really like subtle variations 
 on multiplayer. This is a very good game and I recommend it to almost anyone. Th only problem is 
 that if you have played the first one this is like the same game but better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 follows on exactly where number one finished. With Mexico City in flames, the threat has 
 moved to US soil in the form of a Nuclear Threat. Although still mostly urban combat like its predecessor, 
 the game has a lot more diversity in its levels. There are desert villages, burning towns, and 
 US city streets. All of these have different cover. The levels in GRAW2 are also much larger meaning 
 that there are a number of ways in which a single street can be entered and exited according to 
 your means of attack. Enhanced AI on both US and rebel sides make the combat much more engaging 
 with your team mates engaging sensibly, calling out targets and calling for help when suppressed. 
 Likewise, enemy soldiers will attempt to suppress you, flank you, grenade you and flush you out 
 for their snipers. These combined make GRAW2 an upgraded experience of its prequel yet so much 
 better. While the campaign is quite short, the levels are large and take some time even when rushing. 
 Players who like to sit back and plan their assaults will have plenty of time and fun doing so. 
 The story is also more compelling with plenty of gritty action sequences and cut scenes. 
  As things go progressively wrong, the game becomes more intense and sometimes you will be thrown 
 right into the middle of a firefight and forced to survive. This is where the ultra-fluid control 
 system saves lives. Easily moving your squad from cover to cover, flanking your opponents and suppressing 
 them with fire is essential for success. Often you'll find yourself quickly retreating to cover, 
 regrouping and planning you counter attack all within a matter of seconds. It has to be that, because 
 that's all you've got. Luckily, Ubisoft introduced a little help this time. Your squad usually 
 consists of 4 including yourself; however it can be expanded to include tanks and other vehicles 
 which you can control. This support squad is often as helpful as the incorporation of the medic 
 who can heal both you and your boys. All are vulnerable to heavy fire however, and must be looked 
 after. In some missions you will be required to go "lone wolf" (meaning without your squad) and 
 those missions are tense and nerve wracking knowing you are alone. 
  The multiplayer is a massive improvement. Not only is there plenty of DLC, but there are dozens 
 of new maps as well as the old ones. The co-op missions are more fleshed out with better graphics 
 and enhanced AI. The multiplayer in GRAW2 is everything GRAW wanted to be, and so much more. Different 
 spawn systems along with new weapons make the game more balanced for newer players, and more intense 
 for the pros. The co-operative mission difficulty was greatly increased, forcing players to work 
 together or fail miserably. This not only added a nice touch of voice chat to the game, but made 
 it a whole lot more rewarding when you succeed because you worked together. The ways in which objectives 
 are carried out is far more important this time around. Fail to take out a radio station before 
 destroying a depot and you will encounter attack choppers and armoured cars. Do so before and you 
 save lives and hassle. Overall GRAW2 is a very good game. Although short in story and main game, 
 the multiplayer picks up the rest. It is definitely well worth a play through, particularly if 
 you are a fan and/or have or want to play its predecessor. You don't need GRAW to understand GRAW2, 
 however it does make for an overall better experience. The visuals are awesome, and some game play 
 moments leave you gagging for more. Very good, but not amazing. One you pick up and play, then 
 come back to a couple of weeks later. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_t0rqc-1xd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Awesome multiplayer mode. I don't realy know why all those games are sold as Tom Clancy's titles. 
 Tom Clancy is responisble for the plot and I have to say in most cases the story line is crappy 
 or dare i say at least to say unrealistic. They based it to his books and stuff but I prefer the 
 game to the books. lol ... GRAW 1 and 2 for the PC were great games and Tom had nothing to do with 
 their success. Tom Clancy is a writer/author right? What did he know about the gaming part? All 
 i could say about this is that it rocks! Defied my limitations to it. Don't get me wrong, all Tom 
 Clancy games are awesome! This game is better than the first GRAW. Really. It is underrated nowadays 
 to classic Def Jam. What's the competition? I don't understand them being in the same class. GRAW 
 is highly more honorable. Tom Clancy outdid his last projects with this game. I say everything 
 from this game sounds unoriginal to say the least. I just had to know. This modern tactical shooter 
 game is the best in this year. I really awaited for its final release on PS3 but it took ages, 
 so I settled for the Xbox 360 version which I did not regret unto this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarRockerGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  In case you were wondering, unlike some other Tom Clancy games, this game is not based upon a book. 
 However, that does not mean anything in this awesome 3rd person shooter.
  
  Some people say that 3rd person shooters don't give you the "experience". GRAW 2 gets you into 
 the game. As you are hit you react accordingly. Bullets whiz by; In quiet city streets a sniper 
 can really scare you.
  
  The first thing you notice about GRAW 2 is the graphics. Even on a tube TV the graphics are stunning. 
 Sound effects have improved as well, along with sound quality.
  
  Unlike the GRAW 1, your teammates play a big part in this game. They will not stand in the open 
 and shoot in front of 5 enemies, they use cover. An added feature is the ability to see from you 
 support's point of view (drones, tanks, helicopters, and teammates) . You teammates will tell you 
 information aboutthe environment like "I see 3... no 4 targets. Four targets captain; what do you 
 want me to do with them?"
  
  Weapons have good detail, but reloading looks bad. When you reload, you simply move your hand onto 
 the clip, to your vest, and back, and it makes some noises.
  
  Campaign is painfully short and offers few achievments. The storyline for the campaign picks up 
 right after GRAW 1's storyline. The same theme is present.
  
  Multiplayer is great, with great character detail, little if any lag, weapon choice, and waiting 
 lobby simplicity. The bulk of your achievments will come from multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The single player is nice the weapons and comanding your squad mates are really cool so is comanding 
 helicoptors and tanks!!!! but the part I really liked was the multiplyer and the instant action 
 and even the abillity to customize your guys that was really awsome too online is sweetness and 
 so is just local play the graphics are sweet and the audio rox!!!!!! the only reason i gave this 
 game a 8 was the frustration and the glitches that were funny but repetative like you would see 
 the same glitch about 20 time in the same level and if your a beginer at GRAW like i am than the 
 single player will be very long and will seem like it will never be over!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the other 
 thing it is kind of hrd to see some things in the distance like in the dust so that pretty much 
 wraps up this game so have fun with it  
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is probably the best FPS game I've played so far, the graphics are just simply superb and 
 the gameplay just sucks you in within a few minutes of playing. 
  
  Story: Something I hardly ever see in the typical FPS, luckily GRAW 2 has a story. It's a bit simple 
 of a story but it's decent it's just rescue the President of the United States and disarm the nukes 
 nothing else to it. Beware of shortness!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just out of this world. It's as if you are actually fighting in Mexico 
 with your squad mates and I know I said this before but, the game just sucks you in. There are 
 many many cool features to the game such as being able to call in airstrikes, the new Cross-Cam 
 which lets you moniter you squad mates and allied tank units there are many others. Cover system 
 works like a dream allowing you take cover behind virtually anything, such as cars, tomb stones, 
 trees, mail boxes, buildings ect. The guns are perfect in this game too. 
  
  Sound: The weapons effects are not the greatest I've heard but are somewhat decent, the music is 
 diffrent story. The music is very well done, fits in with the mood of the game perfectly. 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great, not the best I've seen in a tactical FPS ( RSV 2) but I will admit 
 the charecters look stunninly realistic along with some of the buildings in the game. 
  
  Overall: What're you waiting for go buy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this almost a year after it came out, being the first game I got on my Xbox 360. I saw 
 a few reviews about this game and thought it looked fun. I brought it home, and it took about an 
 hour to get used to. I was used to the run-and-gun games, and the single-player was a VERY tactical 
 mode. It was a blast though. I couldn't wait for the next mission, because the gameplay just made 
 sense. You never had to rush anything, in fact it was more important to take your time and form 
 good strategies. And it had me hooked for the entire campaign... which lasted about 7 hours. Listen, 
 single player is really fun, but very short. The multiplayer on the other hand, will keep you going 
 on this game for quite a while. Lets get one thing straight on the multiplayer, it is a COMPLETELY 
 different game than the single-player. Single-player is tactical, multiplayer is run-and-gun. Still, 
 this game has good enough gameplay to fit the entire spectrum of shooters.
  
  Now, the graphics. Wow. They were very nice. They just had great lighting, and the explosions looked 
 pretty real. For a 360 game it doesn't have the best graphics, but they looked very nice overall. 
 It's kind of old now though, so don't be surprised if they look outdated to you.
  
  This game lasts. You will play it for a long time... considering you have Xbox Live. If you don't, 
 well you're losing out on the best part of the game, which loses points for me, considering when 
 I got this game I didn't have Xbox Live. So make sure you have Xbox Live, then get this game, it's 
 one of those must-haves that none has.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics:9
  Lasting Appeal: 8
  Overall: (Not an average) : 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  It's the year 2014. You are the Captain of a team called Ghost, you are Scott Mitchell who is again 
 sent on a mission to Mexico to stop a coup'de'tat that the Mexican rebels plan to start. So what, you 
 rescued Princess Zelda' s life or President Valentine's life in other terms. Ghost Recon Advance 
 Warfighter 2 is a fun tactical shooter that only takes place in a third-person perspective. Now 
 you need think like Sun Tzu to surpass your enemies in battle to advance forward. There are many 
 techniques you can use to survive in the battlezone including taking cover, team commands, the new 
 aiming system, cross com, and detection goggles. The thing I really like in this game is the concept 
 of planning each attack. So almost every mission grants you with three men you can bark orders at 
 like Go To, Regroup, Recon, Assault, and Attack. The way the character you playing is incredibly designed 
 with goggles and a cross com camera. The cross com allowes you to look at your squad mates view 
 or via through video camera with some of your mission contacts. But that's the only start of the 
 device, point at one of you teammates and hold RB to see through his or her cross com camera on 
 what that person is seeing, and you can give commands while you see through the person's view. The 
 thing I don't like about this game is that that you don't know where you can see the hostile so 
 you can't see in the daylight that easily with the detection goggles. Instead of planning out your 
 attack in third person view, you can look at you map and see the enemie's marks on the map. But wait, there's 
 another map you can look at, that would be the Strategic map, someone please explain this one to 
 me, what good does this thing have. So on the second map, you can see most of the time four green 
 arrows but you can see the Ghost Recon logo on the map, but it doesn't show on the key legend what 
 it is. The game was greatly designed because of the cities, the A. I, guns, and the voice actors did 
 a really good job. If you're a fan for tactical shooter, you will enjoy this game for a few months, now 
 I like tactical shooting games too. I really love how much help the smoke grenade can give you. It's 
 really strange how you get hit so easily in cover, so you need to think fast befor leaving cover. The 
 next problem I've with the game is if only it would be a bit longer compared to it's early predecesessor, but 
 it's a really good game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthOpsX
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I picked up GRAW2 on release day and played it straight away on its hardest difficulty setting. 
 The campaign, while it doesn't neccessairly break any new ground from its previous outing, it still 
 is very entertaining in its own right. The campaign clocks in around 12-15 hours if you take your 
 time to do things right the first time on its hardest difficulty setting. Graphically the game 
 shines. And there wasn't much slow down even when there was action all around in the biggest fire 
 fights. Online was just as good offering a bevy of game modes that pit teams against one another 
 and single player adversarial modes. Though the one complaint with GRAW 2 multiplayer comes in 
 the form of extreme camping by players that lack skill. As good as this game was though, lack of 
 online support early on through xbl made it quite forgetable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zcrimson07
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  if you liked graw 1 you WILL like graw 2, and if you're new to the ghost recon series there's no 
 better time to start. as for me i've been a avid ghost recon fan since ghost recon 2 on xbox, it 
 was the first game i played consistently online and became really good at. graw 2 takes place immediately 
 after the events of the original and is just a continuation of the story which even though it's 
 not the best story it certainly leads you on an exciting, albeit very short, journey. i beat the 
 game on my first playthrough on hard in about 5-6 hours. i should also note that if you're looking 
 for some easy achievement points this game definitely is that game. during the short single player 
 campaign you can expect pretty fair and challenging ai and usually helpful ai teammates. even though 
 the single player is real short there's plenty of reason to buy this game, especially at an attractive 
 $30. the lasting power lies in the multiplayer which can be really intense and tactical. the only 
 turn-off is that its been out for a while now and the online community is probably on the downside 
 and everyone is at an advantage for having the game for some time already which just means the 
 learning curve will have increased. theres also a co-op portion of the game, quite extensive it 
 would appear, but i didn't really get to experience this because i don't know anyone with the game 
 and don't like playing co-op w/ random people. 
  
  moral of the story: come for the single player, stay for the online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Note: I have not played online with this game.
  
  Ghost Recon is a series that prides its self over realistic and tactical action and, especially 
 in recent years, maintaining a Hollywood style, action packed storyline. As far as realism is concerned, 
 to the average mainstream gamer this latest instalment to the Ghost Recon series (and the sequel 
 to the critically acclaimed Advanced Warfighter) , is one of the most realistic games you'll find 
 on the market today. However, if one looks at some slightly less mainstream titles such as Brothers 
 in Arms and the online shooter Red Orchestra or even at the older Rainbow Six and Ghost Recon games 
 it is clear that games can be far more realistic but, sadly, these games don't sell particularly 
 well, especially to consol gamers. On the Hollywood side of things, this Ghost Recon manages to 
 have a decent enough storyline that, although it's hardly likely to keep you on the edge of your 
 seat in suspense, is enough of a reason to kill the hoards of poorly trained enemies. In case you 
 were interested, from what I could gather from my poor attention span to mediocre plots, you play 
 as a Captain in a secret US Special Forces unit, codenamed 'Ghost'. Some Mexicans become angry 
 about something and manage to get hold of some nukes from a Middle-Eastern nation and it's up to 
 you to deal with the threat that eventually leads to US soil. Now that's not exactly the best blurb 
 ever but that's pretty much all you need to know about the situation to stop yourself saying "isn't 
 this a bit pointless?" Sadly, GRAW2 is a very short game and can be finished in around five hours 
 which leaves me wondering why everyone was so irritated at the short length of Call of Duty 4 and 
 yet this went so unnoticed.
  
  Graphically, the game is fantastic in parts and lacking in others. The character models and skins 
 of you and of your fellow Ghost soldiers are fairly brilliant and well detailed but the graphics 
 on enemy soldiers and in the environments are quite poor. Also, the lighting can at times be quite 
 good and at other times appear bland and almost nonexistent. Similarly, the sound in the game can 
 at times be great and at other a bit patchy. For example, the rifle and machinegun sounds and the 
 like are as they should be; a mixture of loud but high-pitched to maintain the realism, but the 
 sound effects for explosions are pretty poor. Also, when you're in a helicopter or around other 
 helicopters in-between levels the sound from their engines and rotor-blades is almost inaudible. 
 On the subject of sound, the voice acting is decent enough as is the script, although the main 
 character, as little as he speaks, sounds like he has a razor blade lodged in his throat. 
  
  The gameplay itself is rather intuitive, despite the peculiar control scheme. The game is based 
 around a cover system that requires no button presses but simply a push pf the left stick towards 
 the desired cover, this leaves the controller open to useful squad commands that other games don't 
 have. Thanks to this cover system though, sometimes it can be difficult to get 'dug-in' under fire 
 and under pressure which can get annoying, on the whole though it works well. A feature I quite 
 like, which also adds a bit of realistic detail to the game, is the ability to switch shoulder 
 with your weapon to get a better look at the enemy or to remain in cover better while firing. It 
 doesn't sound like much but it can be very useful, you'll probably know what I mean if you've played 
 a 3rd Peron Shooter before and have found yourself unable to see an enemy over the great hulk of 
 your character. The squad commands are easy to use and make sense. With a tap of "up" on the D-Pad 
 your selected unit moves out and with a tap of "down" they regroup on your position, much like 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas or Brother in Arms. What's clever though is that you can order your units around 
 from three different view points: from your own perspective; from the perspective of the unit; 
 or from an overhead map. This can be really useful if you get separated from your squad. Your infantry 
 allies' AI isn't very good however, although they'll automatically take cover if they come under 
 fire without a word from you, they find it very difficult to actually shoot anything and you'll 
 find yourself doing most of the killing. Even if you pick out a particular enemy for your guys 
 to fire at they'll generally respond with a "can't do that sir" or "can't shoot from here" for 
 no good reason, even if you get your men into cover perfectly parallel to the enemy's. Also, the 
 AI of the enemies isn't very good, although most of the time they'll take cover for a slightly 
 longer period of time if you hit them but fail to kill them, they fail to truly understand suppressive 
 fire (come on, if a PS2 game could do it you'd think a high-budget 360 game could manage it) and 
 as such will leave cover to fire on you even if there's a tank pounding the wall next to them.
 
  The worst fault with the gameplay, however, is that if you're in cover you're pretty much invincible 
 to everything but an attack from behind. Now I don't mean if you're 'clipped' to cover and not 
 firing, just hiding, I mean that if you're clipped to cover but stood up spraying your weapon off 
 with no heed for your personal well-being the enemy seem completely unable to hit you at all. In 
 comparison, standing up in almost exactly the same position with the same amount of your body exposed 
 but not being clipped to cover, warrants certain death. Although this provokes good use of the 
 cover system it simply doesn't make any sense to anyone with any common-sense.
  Another issue with the gameplay is that aiming and hitting enemies is far too easy and makes you 
 feel like you're doing very little at all. Although there's no auto-aim, first the enemies are 
 highlighted by a red diamond on the screen and yes, this is supposed to be near-future and everything 
 but to me it just ruins the fun of the game (I think a better idea would be to have these red marks 
 only the overhead map that can be accessed in real time rather than have them on the HUD) , after 
 finding these targets all you have to do is line up your giant circle of a cross-hair on the red 
 diamond, whether you can actually see the guy doesn't really matter at all, and then so long as 
 your gun is on a semi-automatic (i. e. firing one round for each pull of the trigger and no more) 
 the enemy will die in a couple of shots. Too easy. 
  
  In conclusion, these points, although intrusive, can just about be ignored and don't completely 
 ruin the score of the game. As such, GRAW 2 remains the perfect antidote to those bored of all 
 those FPS' of late and is definitely worth a look, especially if you can pick up a cheap copy or 
 borrow it of a friend.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 7
  Sound: 6
  Online: N/A
  Longevity: 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  graw 2 is a very well balanced game. Although you cannot just run onto the battlefield without 
 your team, they are not about to just do all the shooting for you. you have a good selection of 
 teammates to choose from for your primary squad, and on most levels you will have an additional 
 item to command (a chopper, UAV, tank, additional squad, or sometimes a combination of the above) . 
 the cover system is very well implemented (the game assumes that if you run up to cover you want 
 to GET BEHIND IT, not just stand next to it while you get shot. there is a very good selection 
 of weapons, and when you are commanding your squad, the "tactical" part of the shooter shines (unlike 
 some games where you can forget about commanding your squad and just let them do what they want 
 to do) . however there are a couple flaws. you can't use the cover system in multiplayer, and there 
 are some items (tanks) that you can only tell when to move, not where to move, but both these flaws 
 are easily forgiven when you consider how good the rest of the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  i didn't get this game when it first came out but fortunately a legacy edition came out with all 
 the added maps, weapons and everything else that came with it for a reasonable price so i got that.
 
  
  the graphics are amazing and it flows nicely through out the environments and gives good gameplay. 
 despite it being much shorter to the first GRAW it still is a worth while game because with the 
 multiplayer that it has and the achievements that u can unlock. The multiplayer is fast fun and 
 competitive you have a range of classes which suit to anyones preferences from rifleman to gunner.
 
  
  overall if you havnt got this game but considering it get it but get the legacy edition because 
 its cheaper overall to get that than download them on xbox live and if you havnt got live this 
 is a game which u must have it for because the multiplayer is that much fun.
  
  the only flaw in the game i would say is 
  1. its too short
  2. ummmmmm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Fun Single-Player
  +Great Sound and Visuals
  +Awesome Multiplayer
  +"Better" Archivements
  +Up to 4 Players on one screen, even Online
  
  The Bad:
  -Single 
 Player is short
  
  First off, I wasnt that much into the Ghost Recon-Series before I rented the 1st GRAW and bought 
 it after 1 evening in Multiplayer. After I played months later the Single-Player I was, simple put, stunned. I 
 just had to buy the second!
  
  The Gameplay :
  Its still a mix of Arcade-like Multiplayer and a tactical Singleplayer, both with countless Weapons 
 to choose from.
  The Single Player is a lot easier, shorter and not as unique as the first. Because it is almost completely 
 set in desert-like Areas, the Visuals are great, but theres not that much around. Its still very 
 much fun and you wont have a second to breathe until the end. Too bad it is extremely short... the 
 first seem to me almost 3 times longer. If you never played GRAW before this is still a good choice 
 because the difficulty is pretty low, which actually means if you played the 1st you see the ending 
 after 2 evenings.
  But at least theres a lot to unlock.
  The Multiplayer didnt change that much. On the graphical side, there are moving shadows of the trees 
 and you dont have the Super-Heat-Nightvision-Goggles anymore which makes the MP a lot more fun 
 overall. The Basics stayed the same which is good IMO. The first is known as one of the best MP-Shooer 
 ever so I prefer less changes over a forced re-invention. And its worth playing every Minute.
 
  If you played the first, you can download a lot of Bonus-Stuff for SP and MP.
  The Archivements are not as insane to archive now, which lets you come back for many single- and 
 Multiplayer-Rounds.
  
  The Graphics:
  The Characters and Explosions look awesome. You can see everything on you Character, plus little 
 details you dont expect. Actually, I cant remember any game with such well made Characters.
  But theres a negative side too... since, like I said before, its more desert-based, you dont have 
 much difference between the areas in the Single-Player.
  That doesnt count for the Multiplayer... you have more places then you can think of and a whole 
 bunch to download too.
  Its said to be the "Best Game in HD" compared to a "normal" TV, but I couldnt test it until now 
 and I will update this Review as soon as I can.
  
  The Sound:
  Stunning, well Mixed, a lot of "own" Style... theres absolutely nothing bad about it. Just one little 
 question : Why did they use the same Menu-Theme again???
  
  So...:
  If youre a fan of the 1st you bought it already anyway, to all others it depends on what you want. If 
 you play Multi-player a lot this is the right choice, if you want a deep single-player better get 
 GRAW1 first and then think about getting this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I would give this game a 8.8 if allowed.
  
  Let's get this out of the way: I've never played a game so full of patriotic sewage... it's amazing 
 how much this game series is stuffed full of it. I half expected to see a video of American soldiers 
 raising the flag and begin singing "God Bless America" as the end credits rolled. GRAW2 is so full 
 of itself sometimes it's cringe worthy, and lines like "You're the best damn soldier I've ever 
 had under my command" are excruciating to sit through. Oh, the goosebumps. Where's that recruiter?
 
  
  Patriotic warts aside, GRAW's main strengths lies in it's presentation and gameplay mechanics, 
 where it truly shines. The game is beautifully crafted and vast (flying over an entire city being 
 torn apart by war in Hi-def with a great sound system is pretty impressive) , and the game just 
 feels overall very solidly built. There are some curiosities that stand out considering how everything 
 else looks. For example, when you change magazines, there is no actual magazine exchange at all; 
 the animation happens but the magazine itself is not swapped. A bit strange as every little detail 
 is modeled otherwise. The controls take some getting used to.... at the start they feel a bit sluggish 
 but after a while it's not too bad. One thing I did end up wishing for was an option to increase 
 the speed of the aiming reticule. It's simply too slow, and I've died more than once because of 
 it. Besides that, no complaints.
  
  Oh yea, the story. Basically the same old stuff. Separatist rebels with a rogue nuke, blah blah 
 blah...... the other side trying to stop a major disaster blah blah blah..... it's simply a mold 
 to fit all into, which is unfortunate as what fits into that mold is so well done. If this game 
 didn't have such a generic story, it would be ultimately incredible.
  
  Combat can be very intense at some points, though the enemy A. I. is moronic and they are easily 
 picked off, especially considering cover is assured protection and the enemy soldiers can't flank 
 to save their lives. Hard difficulty is tougher, but only due to the fact that the enemies' inflict 
 more damage and have better accuracy, not due to their tactics. Speaking of A. I., your squad mates 
 are overall useless, suicidal imbeciles, and the only reason to keep them alive is to heal. I'd 
 kill all of them myself if I wasn't penalized for it.
  
  If you're into military 3rd person shooters, GRAW 2 is absolutely worth a rental, if not a pickup. 
 It's intense, engrossing, and despite a few flaws, quite an enjoyable experience.
  
  Just remember to salute that flag afterwards....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I bought this game around a month ago for a bargain. Every body was talking about it and I needed 
 a rest from COD 4, something refreshing. When I started to play it I realized all the potential. 
 This is an excellent done game. It has a super good design and very good graphs. When you play 
 it you can see that they really put a lot of though in it. 
  
  The only thing for me is that I got used to fast paced games. It is a little too slow for me. Once 
 you play COD4, Halo 3, Frontlines and Bioshock (although Bioshock is a little slow too) you feel 
 that GRAW 2 is a little slow. It is understandable since it is more a tactical game. I really recommend 
 the game to all the tactical games fans. But if you like a lot of action then it won't completely 
 satisfy you.
  
  I stop playing after a couple of hours. I'm planning to finish it but right now I'm hooked to COD 
 4 and Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Plot: The story continues the story that was started in the 1st GRAW. Your back in Mexico City 
 finishing the job you though you finished in the 1st one.
  Graphics: The graphics aren't identical to the 1st game but are similar. But many small things 
 have been improved, the textures look much more sharp and the lighting is also done better. The 
 explosions in the 1st were just crazy and Ubisoft upped the explosions once again and they're just 
 stunning. It hasn't been long at all and the sequel came out in almost under a year so, the graphics 
 aren't too out of the ballpark but they're still nice on the eyes.
  Gameplay: The gameplay feels identical the guns have the same feedback and veterans of the ghost 
 recons will still have their favorite weapons. The only real difference is the emphasis the game 
 puts on using UAV's. They become important, aiding in finding your foes. They also introduce some 
 other gadgets and vehicles which change the game but not signifcantly.
  Sound: The music is ported directly from the 1st so you've heard the menu music in the 1st and 
 that frankly is very annoying and old. The in-game music is nice though. The guns sound the same 
 and the explosions sound better but as for the sound overall its not bad. It's nice with surround 
 sound.
  Value: GRAW 2 has a excellent campaign that is just a great experience it feels just like the 1st 
 but it's just more memorable and has more action. But, it's over quick probably under 10 hrs.
 
  Achievements: The achievements include you beating campaign on the hard difficulty and beating 
 coop online. They're similar to the 1st only it's on the easier side.
  Tilt: GRAW 2 doesn't do anything not seen before but the campaign is fantastic and the multiplayer 
 is too. GRAW fans will love it and others will too it's easily reccomended it's just nothing not 
 seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  GRAW2 is the sequel to GRAW1, which makes sense. It is set 3 days or so after the events in GRAW1 
 and you have suddenly developed a much cooler more generic character model, amazingly more high 
 tech gear and the voice of Master Chief and Solid Snake (who is the same personalmost) . 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Amazingly GRAW2 looks better than GRAW1. This is amazing because they released 
 about 10 months apart. So all the textures are sharper, everyone has a new, cooler look, and all 
 the Mexicans you will be killing probably animate better when you slaughter them.
  
  SOUND
  
  More generic voice acting, bland music and crappy sound effects that plagued the original 
 GRAW.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Exactly the same. With the same lagged up reaction times. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Now, if you have noticed, the review has been pretty crap. But that's about to 
 change here as it's the GAMEPLAY SECTION!
  
  GRAW2, as mentioned earlier starts soon after GRAW1, and it is up to you to traverse through 10 
 hours of intense ritual Mexican slaughter following the trail of some missing nukes using more 
 high tech gadgets and some more ghosts and vehicles. The good part is, is that everything has been 
 improved, you can issue orders from the units perspective now, so you can issue orders a lot more 
 easily. The UAV has been improved so its less crappy. AI has improved so your team is less crappy. 
 And difficulty has been reduced to make it better or worse depending on what you like. After you 
 finish GRAW you will realise that Scott Mitchell is the toughest character in the history of the 
 universe and could kick chiefs arse from here to another universe where he'll be killed for staring 
 in Halo. Then you will notice, if you haven't already, that there is a Online mode where all your 
 friends from GRAW1 will be hanging out. It has been improved dramatically here with better graphics 
 and Gameplay add on's. A added bonus is the DLC. You can download new online campaign maps, multiplayer 
 maps and GRAW1 multiplayer maps for a small fee, which makes this game a bit more appealing. However, 
 prepared to get your arse kicked all over as everyone you meet is a pro, and you have to learn 
 the skills of the tradefast. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  GRAW2 is an improvement over GRAW1 but its still to generic for my liking, but the solid online 
 and improved game mechanics make this a good TTPS.
  
  6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Yes, I will admit you should buy the game because it is fairly fun, if you like modern shoooters 
 that is. It has a fairly short campaign and you fell so.... Im not telling the ending, but you 
 might say, "oh, i think ill buy it for the multiplayer" yes, there are new maps for multiplayer, 
 have a party and invite me, but, the thing is the fact that the multiplayer maps are very laggy 
 if you are playing them online, but they still are pretty fun with a friend (s) to play the maps 
 you downloadded, all of them are really fun to play with team battle, but Ill let that up to you.
 
  Just doing this so my review can get in:
  La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La La 
 La La La La La La La La 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  The Original GRAW was in many respects the first Next Gen game on the new XBOX 360 system. Offering 
 not just great graphics but great gameplay. Gameplay we had never witnessed on any of the old systems. 
 Its easy to say it was one of the best games for the first year of the XBOX 360's life and one 
 I still highly reconmend. 
  
  So with this, GRAW 2 as a lot to live up to. Overall it lives up to its prequel but defiantly shows 
 weaknesses in a game that feels a little rushed in areas. I say rushed because GRAW 2 originally 
 was released surpisingly fast compared to most sequels nowadays. Gameplay wise there isn't a lot 
 of change but there are some good improvements and some step backs. First off all the game offers 
 much of what it offered in the original GRAW. The game features a pretty short single player story 
 and strong multiplayer. In fact GRAW 2 feels as if much more time as gone into Multiplayer and 
 the Single Player feels slightly rushed in comparison. The single story didn't last me long, in 
 fact I was surprise how disapointing it was compared to the original classic game when the XBOX 
 360 launched. Its kind of the same old 'save America from nuclear explosion' story we have seen 
 before, and although story wise Ubisoft have done a superb job at providing different methods on 
 the same story with games like the superb Rainbow Six Vegas and Splinter Cell. The story in GRAW 
 2 is a real letdown that only provides very few moments that are memorable. Another area where 
 the game suffers is in its voicework, tho good the dialogue is mostly poor with a very 'macho, 
 true American Hero' style to it. Scott Mitchell (the man you control in the two GRAW games) is 
 totally different from the original. I liked the character in GRAW 1, I hated him after finishing 
 GRAW 2. In GRAW 2 hes very tough 'American Hero' type character and the other chaacters around 
 you like to remind you how great a soldier you are. I found it a really letdown in the story and 
 in my opinion ends up hurting the game a lot single player wise. 
  
  Thankfully Single player is saved by the games multiplayer, tho I haven't add a huge amount of 
 time to play Multiplayer, what I have played as been great. Tho not a huge amount as changed since 
 GRAW 1 its still a blast and its worth mentioning that graphical it is now on par with the single 
 player experience, as GRAW 1's multiplayer offered slightly poorer graphics just to keep it running 
 well. But GRAW 2 does improve on this. The weapons you'll need are all there and it plays great. 
 Gameplay wise GRAW 2 doesn't disapoint, and the areas of improvment are welcomed. The biggest being 
 the new Cameras fitting on your troops so you can see in there perspective and you'll end up using 
 it quite a bit. Its easily one of the best new features in the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Still great fun, and still feels fresh despite this being a sequel. Tho compare it to 
 Vegas and you'll see a few areas needing improvment. Can still feel slightly sluggish in areas.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Looks great, tho not a great improvment on GRAW 1 you can't really expect it since the 
 game only came out a year ago. But there are a few performance improvments even tho I saw one or 
 two Graphical glitches.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: Hurts the game alot, I was surprisingly disapointed. Plus the dialogue just let 
 it all down and left me slightly sickened. Needs Improvment.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Still great and a blast to play. Tho it can be tough because there are some great 
 players out there. 
  
  OVERALL: I loved GRAW 1, so I can't help but feel disapointed with its sequel. Tho Multiplayer 
 is great, the single player is really disapointing overall and when compared to the original is 
 a huge step backwards. Overall if you really need some GRAW go for the original which is already 
 a classic in my eyes
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  have you noticed that may game company's nowadays are going down the drain because the make sequels 
 that suck for originally great games. not ubisoft. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is truly amazing. 
 
  
  PROS:
  
  1. commanding ability. most games when you have a squad or any friendly soldiers they just do whatever 
 they want to or follow you and do EXACTLY what you do. take for instance. COD 4. yea that game 
 is cool but when youre getting shot at Caotain Price is a mile away stabbing a dog or something. 
 in this game you can COMMAND your troops, helicopters, tanks, APC's, UAV's and about anything else.
 
  
  2. visuals. for a game made as a long ago as this the graphics are ridiculous. even though theres 
 no blood and gore. and the clip doesnt move when you reload. the graphics blew me away.
  
  3. ability to pick weapons and squad. how many other games have this? you can actually PICK your 
 weapon AND squad before you start your mission to make sure you have the right equipment which 
 is amazing. 
  
  CONS:
  
  1. no blind firing. tis sucks because whenever your under heavy fire you have to stand up to shoot 
 back, and half the time you get your your face shot off or somethin. 
  
  2. difficulty. this game is so easy even on elavated difficulty. you fly through every single level 
 until the last one which is hard as crap. this sucks because it presents no challenge. i beat the 
 game in 6 hours. 
  
  3. multiplayer. not even gonna say anything it just sucks.
  
  If you ask me this game is awesome. the multiplayer needs a bit of work though i hate that stupid 
 meter that pops up whenever you reload or do anything. the storyline is amazing and creative which 
 many games lack..... creativity. "oh hey look another game where Dr. Evil is trying to take over 
 the world and you have to press A a bunch of times to kill every one of his minions." yea how lame 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Improvements on all the original problems, continues the decent story, still has the 
 same good 'ol GRAW gameplay intact
  
  The Bad: Only slightly improved graphics, still crippled multiplayer, shorter than the first, feels 
 more like an overall expansion than a sequel
  
  GRAW was one of the first games I ever played on my 360 and for that I love the series. I always 
 loved the series back when it was released on the PS2 (at the time I didn't think it sucked I know... that 
 version was terrible) and now the series just keeps getting better and better. This version, however, 
 feels like an expansion pack than a full out sequel. The story continues with the Mexicans vs. 
 Americans war and this time they have a nuke (you can figure out what happens there) . The game 
 is EXACTLY the same as the first so I won't explain what you already know. There are some new cool 
 weapons though (the names are too complicated to remember) and a new support vehicle the M. U. L. E. 
 This provides ammo and health and will follow you throughout your mission. You can now see what 
 your squad and other support is seeing by holding down RB and you can tell them where to go through 
 this as well. This is a BIG improvement and is much needed. Plus you can now move the UAV around 
 in the mode as well. The graphics are only slightly updated (they don't look to impressive now) 
 and the multiplayer is only slightly updated but is still crippled (why can't they keep the single 
 player stuff in the multiplayer? It's been this way since the first game.) I also want to point 
 out the cover system. Yes, it's not as good and Rainbow Six's cover system but it works so stop 
 being lazy and quit complaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trw534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This was my second xbox 360 game. It has a great campaign but it is kinda short. But it takes about 
 4 days to complete or 1 day and a half of straight playing. But it is still a great campaign. In 
 the campaign you go to many different places. There are alot of weapons also. but you dont drive 
 any vechicles. .but you do get to shoot out of a helicopter. in campaign you have a team of 4 other 
 people that you also control. (hint hint) the ending is great. you blow up vechicles too. the easy 
 is like medium and the hard is HARD. But its still fun. The online play is good too. Lots of maps. 
 I give this game a 9.7 out of 10 where 1 being the worst and 10 the best. If you dont know how 
 to play it has a very explaining tutorial. It has a different tutorial for each level of hardness. 
 this game has lots of extras too. this is a great game for the 360. The first graw was awsome but 
 this one is a great precessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueguykisame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  a fantastic shooter, as expected from tom clancy. better than frontline fuel of war, though u cannot 
 control as many vehicles, its extremely fun and a buy game, everyone should at least rent it. I 
 strongly enjoyed this game. its a nearly perfect 3rd person shooting game, as you are in a war, 
 in most missions, you also have a team of 3 (not including urself) to control. i would compare 
 this game to frontline: fuel of war or the previes GRAW, however, the previous ones werent as good; 
 the graphics are pretty good, and in no way dissapointing to the 360. this game is better than 
 call of duty 3, so if you liked that game, fuel of war (frontline) , or battlefield 2, etc. you'll 
 more than likely enjoy this one. i hope there will be a 
 
  
  well, that would be my review,
  blueguykisamhope htis was of some use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The cover system has become a great feature for 3ps games, luckilly this masterpiece was one of 
 the first games to have a cover system! This game is known for it's tactics and squad maneuvers... 
 it's really got this in depth feel to it. Once you start getting pissed at your squad, just kill 
 them and run your own mission! none of that "mission failed" crap to stop you from killing your 
 squad! it's good in the maniac shooter kind of way ASWELL as the special tactics kind of way so 
 you can be a brute commander, or go by the book! trully a masterpiece, especialy the recon action! 
 sending tanks and helis at your command to kill everyone hostile is PRETTY cool! so i strongly 
 recomend you play this game! Just have fun and abuse your power but still use sniper like tactics 
 and you'll get the full efect of this excelent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 (or GRAW 2) is easily a very and great third-person shooter with 
 a lot of tactics and thinking involved in gameplay. The game's story mode takes place after the 
 first GRAW and your main character is sent right back out to do his job. The game's gameplay is 
 based around real-life military tactics which make the game more realistic and satisfying to play. 
 The game's story is definitely a down part of the game considering its very short. Other than that, 
 the single-player is fun, but to short. The game has a lot of weapons to choose from and use (of 
 which they are based on real-life weapons.) The game takes you to locations like Mexican valley-like 
 areas, city levels as well and also allows you to control soldiers and as well as vehicles at certain 
 points as well. GRAW 2 is definitely a great game that any tactical shooter fan does not want to 
 miss. A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  If you spent a lot of trigger time with the first GRAW, then you will fell right at home when you 
 load this game up. It looks and plays almost like the first GRAW. I am not saying its a bad thing 
 at all. You can jump right in start playing without having to re-learn a new control scheme. If 
 it ain't broken don't fix it, right? The graphics, sound and game play are pretty much the same. 
 I did not play any XBL games, so I don't have any input on that side of the game. However I did 
 run through the single player campaign on the hardest difficulty without too many problems. If 
 you got any tactical skills at all you should be able to do the same. My only real beef with GRAW 
 2 is the length. Like so many shooters to come before it, GRAW 2 is way to short. I felt that if 
 I would have played at a easier level I would have been done in one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingTuell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I was dissapointed with GRAW 2. I didnt play the first one but i thought i should try the second. 
 I expected alot more. The graphics are prettty good and so the crosscam. It is also very easy to 
 control your team. The multiplayer on Xbox Live was a huge letdown. It takes a long time to get 
 use to the feel of moving your guy around. Shooting in multiplayer is also very challenging. One 
 plus though is that you can custimize your player to make him look the way you want. This is a 
 good game for $30 but there are some better ones that would be worth getting. I give its campaign 
 an 8.5 but i give its multiplayer online a 7. This is an OK game but if you really want to get 
 it you should probally rent it first and see if you think its worth buying. This is a great game 
 but there is some room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raylee93
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  i dont know its good but they dident do all they could have . the voice acting pritty much suck 
 but the fighting makes u feel like u are there. i would say rent it first. i dont know its good but 
 they dident do all they could have . the voice acting pritty much suck but the fighting makes u 
 feel like u are there. i would say rent it first. i dont know its good but they dident do all they 
 could have . the voice acting pritty much suck but the fighting makes u feel like u are there. i 
 would say rent it first. i dont know its good but they dident do all they could have . the voice 
 acting pritty much suck but the fighting makes u feel like u are there. i would say rent it first. i 
 dont know its good but they dident do all they could have . the voice acting pritty much suck but 
 the fighting makes u feel like u are there. i would say rent it fii dont know its good but they 
 dident do all they could have . the voice acting pritty much suck but the fighting makes u feel 
 like u are there. i would say rent it first. rst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t8trg8tr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a great sequel, and read on to learn more:
  
  The good: 
  -Great, competitive multiplayer
  -A fun single player
  -Very realistic
  -Lots of tactical 
 options, such as drones
  -Tons of multiplayer game modes
  -Split-screen online and offline
  
  The bad:
  -No cover system in multiplayer
  -Short campaign
 
  -Can't actually get in vehicles
  -Your team is extremely stupid (still)
  
  When I picked up this game, I wasn't so sure about it, because it was a year old. Boy was I surprised 
 when I started playing it. It is still up to par with the latest tactical shooters, and will provide 
 plenty of fun hours. Following are my overall thoughts on the game:
  
  The single player campaign was very fun, and had a very good storyline coming off of the first 
 game. The fun-level is high up, and it has lots interesting options. As I said before, the mule 
 is fun to use, as well as the drone. All in all, the single player is great, except for two things. 
 Number one, your team doesn't do much at all, besides run around and get shot at. Secondly, it 
 is too short. If you are getting it just for the single player campaign (it does have split screen 
 adversial modes, however) , you will get your money's worth, but don't expect months of entertainment.
 
  
  Now the multiplayer is where this game really shines. Although it lacks some of the cool features 
 the campaign has (like holding your breath) , it is still very fun. There are three main modes: 
 Solo= Every man for himself; Team= Two teams fighting each other; and Co-op= All the players work 
 together to beat the AI. There are several different game modes within each one of these. The main 
 downside to multiplayer is that it does not have the cover system that the campaign has.
  
  The split-screen multiplayer is also very good. This is the only tactical shooter I can think of 
 that has four-player split screen. You can play with four of your friends right on your own console. 
 But that is not the best part. You can play adversial game modes as well, so if you don't have 
 LIVE, you can still play against other people, not just AI. The split-screen is definitely a great 
 feature in GRAW 2.
  
  Verdict: A great tactical shooter, and is for anyone, whether they can play online or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inevitable8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First i played online first it can keep you playing for about 40 hours before starting to get bored. 
 i only got to rank six. the campaign is very good, there are no glitches, there is a myriad of 
 weapons to chose from. but i don't think the AI is very good it would be better if there aim was 
 a bit better but since there's alot of them i guess it makes up for that. another thing that i 
 didn't like at first that was different than other fps's is that you have to hold the trigger down 
 all the way but i soon got used to that. overall it is a great game and i suggest to you to buy 
 or rent it. even the online part can be a gam ein itself.
  
  My Indepth Rating:
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics:9
  Sound:7 (on online the music perputually repeats at little annoying) 
 Value:9 
  Tilt:10
  
  Overall: 8.6
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsterdr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft took an already great game, updated the graphics, continued the story, gave us new guns, 
 maps, multi-player modes, and more. 
  
  
  The graphics look great on my cruddy 21" tube TV. 
  
  The guns fire great and feel like they 
 are actually damaging the enemy. The damage is realistic. They added new team members. Such as 
 a medic and a marksman. 
  
  The new cross-com is also very nice. Much easier to control you squad, UAV, any other support you 
 may have, and the MULE, a new unarmed vehicular ammo cache. 
  
  Multi-player is loads of fun, be it split screen or online. Though, the majority of ranked matches 
 I've played to date have been on the map headquarters. While fun, playing the same map over and 
 over can get quite tiring.
  
  I would recommend finding some people who you enjoy playing with and organize different matches. 
 Such as a very dark level with no night-vision.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is the fact its so darn short. I could probably beat it in 4-6 
 hours. Though, It took me around 8 hours the first time through on the medium difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Well, tbh i got this game like last week. I beat it already and i'm bored with it cause the online 
 is like dead. I guess it's cause i got it soo late. The campaign is really really fun if your into 
 tactical shooter. Other wise, stick to like cod4 or something. Its still a fun game and i got it 
 for like $25 at a store so its really worth it. The online co-op is really fun, especially when 
 you get in a group of people who know what to do. There's a lot to do on the co-op and a lot of 
 achievements for it as well. For the elimination matches, they are pretty fun as well. You can 
 get a lot for achievements for it as well. So pretty much, this game still has a lot of life after 
 you beat it because the online is fun and there's a lot to do. If your wondering whether or not 
 to buy this game, well its a buy. I don't think its like the BEST game I ever played, it had a 
 lot of potential, but i don't know it's still a fun and really good game to try out and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Yea, this is a bit late. I never got around to playing this until now. I really liked the first 
 GRAW and found this sequel enjoyable. The graphics are great and the gameplay is intriguing and 
 stands up well against most canned FPS games out there. I found myself a little frustrated and 
 compelled at some points (in a good way) but all in all I found this title to be a bit predictable 
 and kind of flat at times. There are a few points in the SP campaign that can be tough and require 
 some real thought on moving forward. The story line is similar to the first GRAW and wraps up well 
 though a little short in my opinion. The SP campaign should have been longer and more intense. 
 I found plenty of just flat "kill this guy, kill that guy, snipe that guy, move onspots in the 
 campaign that seemed really predictable. When I got to the end, I was ready to move on. The MP side 
 is fun, but I've found that the people playing MP are quite a bit more skilled than I am due to 
 my delay and at this point and it's pretty much suicidal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  The greatest part of this game is that single players have an AI team which you could give strategic 
 commands to. You can command 2 or more AI soldiers plus soldiers in vehicles in some missions. 
 Your crew will consist of gunners, medic, sniper, and more which depends on your needs.
  
  I think it's a very caring game. Being able to heal your team and having the medic heal you. The 
 teamwork system was simply the best.
  
  My favorite which I used in my advantage is commanding the spy camera to give me a view of exposed 
 enemies ahead. When you shoot down the exposed enemies, hidden enemies which the the spy camera 
 above could not see will eventually expose themselves.
  
  You can use the mule to your advantage too, giving it orders to come to you to supply you with 
 weapons but the ammo you carry is most of the time enough for the mission. You can also pick up 
 weapons beside dead enemies which is convenient and time saving. What I have noticed though is 
 when you kill an enemy with a grenade, there will be no weapon dropped on the blast site.
  
  It's actually easy if you handled a sniper rifle instead while your team cover you or kill 
 attacking enemies. This game offers the finest quality of rifles with scopes.
  
  The game has a free download of addition 8 weapons available at Xbox Live.
  
  It's perfect 
 for single players out there who likes to control an AI crew. The AI are really smart. They will 
 protect you from harm.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackbob666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 has to be one of the most brilliant and most entertaining Tom 
 Clancy game that I have ever seen to date. You play as Scott Michell (whom you play in the first 
 Advanced Warfighter game) . With Advanced Warfighter 2 the graphics are slightly better, the lighting 
 is simply amazing and the storyline is pretty cool.
  
  Although Advanced Warfighter 2 is a pretty short game, it has a high replay value to it. It's similiar 
 to the first Advanced Warfighter but with more improved weaponry. The multiplayer is enhanced a 
 bit, and you don't die as easily like you did in the first one.
  
  The year is 2014 and the war in Mexico still rages on from the first Advanced Warfighter game. 
 But near the end there will be a big secrifice with the Ghosts which surprised me a lot. I was 
 hoping for another sequel for the Advanced Warfighter games. But that might not be happening, all 
 we can do is pray that Ubisoft listens and makes more Advanced Warfighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 has to be one of the most brilliant and most entertaining Tom 
 Clancy game that I have ever seen to date. You play as Scott Michell (whom you play in the first 
 Advanced Warfighter game) . With Advanced Warfighter 2 the graphics are slightly better, the lighting 
 is simply amazing and the storyline is pretty cool.
  
  Although Advanced Warfighter 2 is a pretty short game, it has a high replay value to it. It's similiar 
 to the first Advanced Warfighter but with more improved weaponry. The multiplayer is enhanced a 
 bit, and you don't die as easily like you did in the first one.
  
  The year is 2014 and the war in Mexico still rages on from the first Advanced Warfighter game. 
 But near the end there will be a big secrifice with the Ghosts which surprised me a lot. I was 
 hoping for another sequel for the Advanced Warfighter games. But that might not be happening, all 
 we can do is pray that Ubisoft listens and makes more Advanced Warfighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0VAWLIMIT
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  I remember when my brother and I first played the original Ghost Recon. Both of us reacted almost 
 immediately with: "Ugh, this game is terrible!" and promptly resumed playing Rogue Spear instead. 
 I never even played the original Ghost Recon enough to give it a fair review. Luckily, Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter (the rather silly-sounding name is often abbreviated as the equally strange 
 acronym "GRAW") is almost nothing like its predecessor. And luckily, my brother and sister and 
 I were able to play it cooperatively, which is probably the only reason I played it as much as 
 I did. The game's primary appeal in my opinion comes from its somewhat futuristic setting, although 
 it's not futuristic enough for me to give it a higher rating for being sci-fi. Otherwise, much 
 like in the Rainbow Six games, it's brutally realistic in the manner that you can only carry a 
 few guns and you'll get killed if you take so much as two or three shots from an enemy. Also like 
 Rainbow Six and most other Tom Clancy games, you'll find yourself thinking "Why can't I use that 
 guy's gun? Or drive that vehicle back there? Or jump over obstacles?". However, unlike the Rainbow 
 Six games, there is less variety to be found in GRAW in terms of both environment (it all takes 
 place in a dusty city) , mission types (you basically just run around and shoot people) , and guns 
 (the selection is very limited) . The graphics are great, but that is expected in a modern game... 
 while the gameplay falls flat, which is also pretty standard in a modern game (why can't they ever 
 make them like they used to?) . As for the story, it's lame and ignorable (as expected) , as are 
 the poorly-voiced and non-lip-synched characters that communicate with you and give you your objectives. 
 In the end, it's just a somewhat entertaining but still mediocre tactical squad-based shooter that 
 leaves much to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fraggerman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  After buying the game I had very high expectations of it, after playing the first game and I must 
 say, I have not been dissapointed. Anyone who has xbox live or even just has friends over now and 
 again must play it's awesome multiplayer. The single player is just as great, although short. The 
 cover mechanic works very good and the feel of being under fire from enemy insurgents is absolutely 
 breathtaking. When that first bullet zaps by your head and misses it by a couple of millimeters 
 you almost want to jump behind your couch and order your dog to return fire! All in all, it's a 
 must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  When i first played the training part of GRAW 2, i knew i was gonna love this, and i do. Once again 
 not only does this game has a great Single Player, but the multiplayer just keeps it coming.
  
  Once again, you play as the Ghost leader, Scott Mitchell who's appeared on every Ghost Recon, 
 this time of course, it's set in the near future where you'll find the 'Advanced Warfighters'. 
 These are advanced for many reasons, but the main reason is because of their super cool gadgets. 
 The Advanced Warfighters use satnavs that are attached to their helmets which allow them to view 
 their team-mates or other drones such as the Mule which is a small remote vehicle that resupplies 
 you with ammo and new weapons. 
  
  In GRAW 2, Scott Mitchell must help fight the Mexican Rebels and find out what they're planning 
 to do as their war seems too suspicious. So the Team Leader and his 3 Team mates must all work 
 together to fight through the Rebellion and hope to god they survive. At the start of most missions 
 you can choose 3 members to take with you, soldiers such as Joe Rameriez or Alicia Diaz, all off 
 which have different abilities to others, like Alicia is a sniper expert and Joe is just your standard 
 rifleman, however each have their tough and weakpoints so make sure you choose wisely for the suited 
 solution.
  
  GRAW 2 may be shortish, but it still packs great tactics and intense firefights that'll keep you 
 on the go and repeating the process even on the hardest difficulty. Perhaps the only thing that 
 makes GRAW slightly disappointing is the amount of achievements that can only be unlocked online, 
 so for those who dont have Xbox Live, don't expect to get too many achievements. However, that 
 doesnt ruin any gameplay on this game whatsoever, GRAW 2 is brilliant and should be played by all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  GRAW one was a great game with all of the perks for a shooter fanatic gamer. Usually games take 
 12-18 months to make but GRAW 2 only took less than a year, and maybe that's why the story was 
 so short.
  
  GOOD: The graphics are amazing and the sound affects are top-notch. The multi-player is superb, 
 and the AI are pretty usefull. The camera is pretty good and the way the game is presented, like 
 how you look through a special GRAW mask the whole game which informs you about usefull information, 
 is great.
  
  BAD: The story is short and getting into the game is really difficult. THe training TAKES FOREVER 
 (EVEN THOUGH YOU CAN SKIP IT, BUT I RECOMMEND THAT YOU DON'T BECAUSE IT REALLY HELPS) . THe action 
 in this game is pretty low and there isn't anything to get into with this game except for it's 
 multi-player. So i recommend that you don't buy this game unless you have Xbox Live because without 
 it, this game really sucks. I'm being so brutal with this review because this game really disappointed 
 me. I was expecting better from GRAW 2 but all I got was crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeo_Fury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Single Player mission is great. Multi Player is fun. What does this game lack? Not a lot. While 
 GRAW was good fun GRAW2 sort of killed it in my eyes. A much better Multiplaye experience. More 
 Weapons and vehicles make for a more interesting time and simply hearing "Far Support awaiting 
 orders." gave me goosebumps. The Explosions are amazing.. so amazing that I often find myself getting 
 shot cus im watching them so closely. The Ally A. I. is surprisingly good, while your Squad wont 
 outright get themselves killed they do have moments of sheer stupidity, but hey, nobodies perfect. 
 The Single Player missioin was fairly short.. which was upsetting to say the least. And I felt 
 it ended way to abruptly, but at least the ride was fun. Logging onto multiplayer and facing down 
 a team of bots with some friends is great fun, and I believe that Bots make an FPS more fun. Bottom 
 line is, this is a must have for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  The only reason one would consider buying this game is either they liked the first Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter, or they haven't played Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
  
  You don't need to play the first GRAW to understand what's going on in the singleplayer, because 
 in the beginning of GRAW 2 everything that happened in GRAW is pretty much summarized. So if you're 
 new to the series, don't fret, you won't be left in the dust. The singleplayer story is pretty 
 good; it has lots of action and team mechanics are better than ever. However, it lacks diversity. 
 A couple times you will revisit a certain part of the city more than once, and the objectives sometimes 
 seem the same and are usually predictable. The graphics are amazing, however, so if you have an 
 HDTV this game can really show it off.
  
  The multiplayer is a blast. Spawn killing, however present, is reduced dramatically, especially 
 in the bigger maps. Sniping is loads of fun, and the co-op maps will keep you up late at night. 
 The only problem with multiplayer is the fact that it hasn't evolved much since Ghost Recon 2. 
 The only new feature that I can think of at the moment is the ability to heal wounded teammates. 
 This feature would've been perfect if you had the ability to drag your teammate to cover, but unfortunately 
 you may be a sitting duck out in the open if you try to heal your teammate.
  
  The sound is really good. Crank up that surround sound and the firefights will get your adrenaline 
 pumping. The sound of grenades bouncing towards you, and explosions going off around you can really 
 make you feel like part of the fight.
  
  I recommend this game to those who are interested in seeing how the GRAW storyline ends up (even 
 though GRAW 2 leaves on a little bit of a cliffhanger as well) , and for those who enjoyed the last 
 game's multiplayer and want to continue that experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2, a sequel to GRAW is even a lot more better. Theres some new features added to the game 
 and almost all of them is great. Well, almost though still, its nice Ubisoft and Red Storm managed 
 to add them to the game. The gameplay here is almost disame to GRAW except its more fast paced 
 and the battles are more intense. The new guns added to the game looks great. Some though are pretty 
 much unbalanced but can still be helpful. The AI of the enemy is also good as they will try to 
 take cover. Like in GRAW, one thing bad about it is that they know where you are always once you 
 attract there attention. The pathfinding of your allies can be somewhat a little problematic. Your 
 squad though is ok although your fellow tanks will only follow one path. Thats mean that if theres 
 something blocking there way, they'll just go straight towards it rather than go around it. That 
 can be somewhat problematic in some missions as you require them to reach a certain point to continue. 
 The games length is somewhat shorter which is too bad but you'll probably enjoy GRAW 2 while it 
 lasts. Visuals of GRAW 2 looks better even. The characters, environments, objects, everything in 
 the game looks great. The frame rate fo the game is stable also. The sound and music of GRAW II 
 are better than ever. Of course, you might hear the same soundtrack on a couple of missions but 
 its still enjoyable.
  
  If you ever played GRAW and think its great, your gonna like GRAW II even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  In order to prevent an imminent attack on American soil, players must lead a four-man team on an 
 11-mission campaign, with battles taking place in mountainous regions, deserts, rural areas, and 
 small towns. A sophisticated graphics engine incorporates such elements as real-time day and night 
 cycles, a dynamic weather system, and destructible environments.
  
  The artificial intelligence of computer-controlled teammates has been an area of focus for this 
 installment, with two new orders available to squad commanders: recon and assault. Issuing the 
 recon order will have troops gathering intelligence and only attacking an enemy if fired upon, 
 while the assault order has soldiers concentrating all their firepower on a specific target. The 
 game also does away with the checkpoint system, allowing players to save their mission progress 
 at any time instead of at specific intervals.
  
  As players issue commands to their squad and carefully plan out their attacks, they can once again 
 rely on CrossCom technology to view the battlefield from the eyes of their soldiers. CrossCom 2.0 
 lets players expand the picture-in-picture display to a full-screen view for a more detailed look 
 at the environment. A tactical approach is essential, as rebels will not only attempt to flank 
 your outnumbered squad on the ground, but they will also take advantage of elevated positions for 
 sniper fire. 
  
  To help improve your team's chance of success, air strikes can be called, mobile cover can be utilized, 
 and weapons can be replenished with unmanned artillery mules. Each squad member can also be healed 
 directly on the battlefield with the new medic soldier class. Xbox Live support is also included 
 for up to 16 players on a choice of 18 maps. Clan support, dynamic spawn points, and a six-level 
 co-op campaign are just a few of the new online features in store for Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bannockburn1314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I am going to be one of those few individuals who is going to praise this game up and above the 
 rest of the Ghost Recon games. In fact, I enjoyed playing this game more than GRAW. If you're a 
 fan of the series, then you should know by now every sequel is practically like its predecessor; 
 the game feels very much like the first GRAW, and thus if you enjoyed the first, you'll obviously 
 enjoy the second. 
  
  What I did enjoy about this game more than the first are the small details; for example, you wear 
 the new ACU, and thus the game feel very contemporary; the action in the game feels more intense 
 as you find yourself in multiple heavy engagements not only with your own unit, but also having 
 the ability to control tanks, choppers, and other infantry units all at the same time. Hence, the 
 game can get extremely complex along with multiple enemies firing at you. For me, I found this 
 to be highly enjoyable and much more action packed than I got from the original GRAW. Other improvements 
 have already been said by other reviewers such as a greater control and position of your UAV and 
 unit. The crosscom for example can now be viewed through one of your Ghost. This is fun and enjoyable 
 since you can position your soldier exactly where you want them in order to set up a good position 
 to engage your target. The ability to draw your enemy fire as you flank is incredibly helpful. 
 The controls of the game actually went back to the Xbox GR2 and SS series games. Thus, when you 
 want to change weapons you get option much like you did in GR2 and SS. It all feels very familiar, 
 but at the same time feels entirely new. You also get to choose from new weaponry; for example, 
 you got to use the M468, which does exist, and could be a potential replacement of the m16/M4 series 
 of weapons; with that being said, I wanted to see the HK416 in there as well, but it wasn't. 
 
  
  Did I mention this game is action packed? There will be times when, for instance, when you're shooting 
 out of your Blackhawk, enemy convoys will be blowing up, and you call in an air strike; there will 
 be times when you blow up an enemy tank with an air strike, and it goes without saying that it 
 looks absolutely amazing. There was a few times when I said, "holy sh*t. Without a doubt, despite 
 the short campaign, the game is worth a buy, and really I don't find the short campaign to be a 
 factor in the game overall. It's not as short as people say, and in all honesty I think I spent 
 probably about 7 or 8 hours playing; mind you, I don't sit for long periods and play right through, 
 and I take my time to figure out what I'm doing. The game also seem to incorporate something the 
 other games haven't seem to accomplish: suspense. The game very much feels, mostly because of the 
 music playing at important parts, like what you are coming up to is either important or will be 
 difficult. 
  
  One major difference in this game, and something I didn't like was the medic. I didn't screw around 
 the controls enough really to care to see if I could change the amount of med kits, but you get 
 something like six med kits per mission. This is more than enough not only for you, but for your 
 team mates as well. I found this to make the game easy for the most part and gave the game that 
 lack of "realism" to where you could only get shot once maybe twice. You could be red, and get 
 patched up and your health meter would be green again. I didn't like that and took away from the 
 game than anything else. Perhaps I'm too old fashion. 
  
  At the end, you finally get to learn something about Scott; this is nice since if you're a long 
 time fan, you've grown to love Scott. I know its just a "video game", but if every military personal 
 in every branch of military service acted like Scott Mitchell, then (being an American) , I don't 
 think anybody could bad mouth the military. In sum, I found this game to be highly enjoyable, and 
 in fact the fun factor, suspense, and improvements on your crosscom and UAV surpasses GRAW, and 
 probably every other GR game; that's just not an off the cuff remark either; I'm a long time fan, 
 and I love all the games  I just think this one is the best, despite it being "short". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  When GRAW was released in March 2006 it got quite a bit of praise from the 'professional' gaming 
 review media. In actuality, this had less to do with how well or how poorly GRAW performed as a 
 game, and more to do with the fact that the initial launch titles for the Xbox 360 were so mediocre, 
 that even a flawed game like GRAW looked great in comparison.
  
  The single-player side of GRAW had a number of problems, such as uneven checkpoint spacing; poor 
 AI governing 'rescued hostages', who had a tendency to go running out to get killed (and inevitably 
 forcing a restart) ; and a proclivity to level cheap ambushes at the player, often with concealed 
 enemy troops and / or vehicles. All these flaws made many of the game's levels a frustrating exercise 
 in multiple trial-and-error pathways. So I was unwilling to pick up GRAW 2 until the price had 
 dropped quite a bit.
  
  I was pleased to discover that GRAW 2's single-player does a good job of improving on things. The 
 checkpoint system is much more user-friendly, and you now have the ability to include a medic among 
 your three squadmates, and thus your character can receiving healing at critical moments. Encounters 
 with enemy troops rely much less on contrived 'magic' snipers and 'pop-up' armored cars to sustain 
 the intensity of the combat. 
  
  The player now has the ability to select from a variety of weapons at the start of each level, 
 thus avoiding those instances in GRAW when being forced to carry the same rifle thru several consecutive 
 levels often put you at a distinct disadvantage ( such as trying to countersnipe Mexican snipers 
 in a nighttime plaza using a rifle without a scope) . And the annoying levels from GRAW where electronic 
 'jamming' efforts by the enemy, rendered your vision too blurry to shoot with any degree of accuracy, 
 are thankfully absent from GRAW 2.
  
  Some problems remain; having to use the D-pad for issuing commands remains frustrating because 
 of the lack of mechanical sensitivity with this part of the controller, and all too often I wound 
 up sending my Ghosts straight into a firefight when what I was trying to do was call up supporting 
 arms, such as helicopter or a M1 tank.
  
  The collision-detection physics governing grenade tosses or grenade launcher shots continues to 
 be flawed, and quite a few times I blew myself up when a seemingly accurate grenade throw wound 
 up bouncing back onto me off a 'wall' that shouldn't have been there. And like GRAW, GRAW 2 is 
 rather short in length in the single-player game.
  
  Even if you're someone more at ease with the faster paced, run and gun action of a Halo or GoW, 
 with its price now at or below $30, GRAW 2 can be worth your while to pick up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  A magnificent shooter that set's the bar higher for the 360. An amazing blend of real-like graphics, 
 impressive A. I system, and excellent sound makes the game a must have for any shooter fan. Fantastic 
 explosions and realistic gun-shots are just an added bonus to this Tactical Shooter. Command your 
 crew and give orders depending on the given situation.
  The game includes fantastic gameplay which allows you to interact with your environment such as 
 crouch, duck, take cover. The game includes a vast range of weaponry. 
  An extremely fun single-player campaign, online and multiplayer mode makes this game a must have 
 for all shooter fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I apologize if you are experiencing some deja vu right now. When you hear about a tatical shooter 
 staring Scott Mitchell and has the best multiplayer so far, sort of reminds you of last winter 
 huh. So lets to a check:
  
  Scott Mitchell? Check
  Ghosts? Check
  Mexico? Check
  Rebels with bad intentions? Check
  Standard-setting multiplayer? Check
  
  Yep, we've got 
 a classic on our hands
  
  On the positive side: The deepest and the richest multiplayer that the Xbox 360 has ever seen. 
 As well, it has a fantastic single player mode with none of GRAWs annoyances.
  
  On the negative side: The game doesn't have enough new content to be consider a full sequel. But 
 who cares? You can play this one in HDTV.
  
  Verdict: Even better than the first one. A definite buy to anyone especially if you loved the first 
 GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  the storyline was pretty cool. Creative would be a good word I guess. Who would have though Mexico 
 would ever give us some problems......
  
  Graphics were great. Really top notch. Gameplay was awesome. dont like the multiplayer (maybe its 
 just becaue i lag out of games a lot . This is the only game that this happens to me. also, there; s 
 some crazy good people on multiplayer who just camp and snipe.
  
  worth the buy, probably should rent it first. Awesome game
  the storyline was pretty cool. Creative 
 would be a good word I guess. Who would have though Mexico would ever give us some problems......
 
  
  Graphics were great. Really top notch. Gameplay was awesome. Multiplayer is good.
  
  worth the buy, probably should rent it first. Awesome game
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa aa a aa a a a a a a a aa a aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  A sequel to the top Xbox Game of 2006 is here and banging. The Story continues as the hostility 
 in Mexico has escalated and moves toward the American border. Still unofficially at war with the 
 rebels. The US has sent its premier undercover task force to mop up the mess. The Ghosts. The game 
 has several upgrades such as the Cross-Com 2.0 and the ability to take cover with any object as 
 well as more powerful and cutting edge weapons. The multi-player is the same as GRAW but you can 
 now heal your team mates on the battlefield as well as tweeked graphics and, of course... game 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Want to know how I feel about GRAW 2? Read my review of GRAW 1 for 360. Its exactly the same! Except 
 with these new comments:
  
  Overall the graphics seem a slight bit better. Maybe its just the lighting. The online has improved 
 alot and I actually enjoyed it more even though people still tend to not play as a team. Theres 
 alot more to do online now! 
  
  The campaign seems funner to and there were slight changes here and there like better team command 
 and more action instead of running around. On the downside the campaign took half the amount of 
 time as the GRAW 1 did. Bummer. 
  
  But still its nothing special to me at least. Fun game but as it says up top.... "Been there, done 
 that."
  
  So if you rented GRAW 1. Return it and rent this instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This is the first tom clancy game that I have played in a real long time, and I have to say I was 
 pretty satisfied. The lighting and graphics were awesome. The enemy AI was also pretty challenging 
 which is also a plus, because i know I don't just want to be able to plow through a game like nothing, 
 you had to be somewhat stealthy with this game. The fact that you were able to control squads was 
 pretty sweet as well, like tanks and helicopters. The UAV, which was the thing that hovered and 
 showed you where your enemies where and different parts of the maps was also very useful for surviving 
 every mission. I give it a thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link12394
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Got this game without first play #1 (how foolish of me) , but dont worry i got it later on. This 
 game is everything you want out of a tac shooter. It has great graphics love the gameplay and everything 
 about it. The only problem is it has a short single player campaign is quite short. I am big on 
 the single player, so this to me is pretty big, but if you dont care as much about that then i 
 wouldnt see anything wrong w/ this game... Its definatly worth your money, time, and attention. 
 So if you have a 360... like shooters than this game is for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  From the delicate puff of pixels that heralded the death of a Space Invader to the thundering geysers 
 of dirt gouged from the battlefields in Call Of Duty 3, explosions have always been the lifeblood 
 of video gaming, a flash of pyrotechnics helping to rock even the dullest adventure. But when it 
 comes to digital detonations, GRAW2 is in a league of its own.
  
  A sequel to 2006's Advanced Warfighter - a PC hit and the first game to showcase the Xbox 360's 
 graphical muscle - GRAW2's fearsome fireworks help create some of the most convincing combat zones 
 in gaming history; while most blasters are happy to present explosions as a static burst of flame, 
 every blast in GRAW2 packs a killer punch, the initial shockwave showering bystanders with red-hot 
 shards of metal and flaming debris before a cloud of smoke billows outwards, choking everything 
 in its path. And while cheap smoke effects have been used in dozens of similar titles, it's not 
 until you've seen an oily cloud scattered by the downwash of a helicopter or dancing in the grip 
 of an ever-shifting wind that you realise GRAW2 is a massive leap forward for gaming verisimilitude. 
 
  
  Eye candy aside, GRAW2 offers more than a visual facelift for Ubisoft's anticipated sequel, delivering 
 all the thrills the developers hoped to include in the first game but didn't have time to implement 
 when pressurised to get GRAW on the shelves to bolster the 360's initially vapid library.
  
  In terms of strategy the basics remain unchanged, and the intuitive interface makes it easy 
 to order your troops into the fray. But while players could use a tiny window to sneak a peek at 
 the battlefields in GRAW, an improved spy camera allows you to scout the landscape at full-screen 
 and watch the skirmishes unfold from the perspective of your troops, making it a cinch to spot 
 targets, use cover and employ advanced flanking techniques. The inclusion of the new MULE vehicle 
 - a mobile ammunition dump that replaces the boxes of bullets scattered through the first game 
 - also allows you to concoct elaborate plans, either using the tiny truck to steal a glimpse behind 
 enemy lines, or as temporary cover when you creep into hostile territory. 
  
  GRAW's variety of environments has also been enhanced for the sequel, allowing players to master 
 military tactics in both the rugged landscape around the Mexican border and the twisting alleys 
 of US cities, forcing players to constantly evolve their battle strategies. And while the urban 
 environments in the first game were devoid of humanity, GRAW's streets are now peppered with civilians, 
 helping maintain the game's sublime illusion of reality and winding you ever closer into its electrifying 
 campaigns.
  
  But while the environments will challenge the hardiest GRAW devotee to rethink their gameplan, 
 the intelligence of your teammates makes the most extravagant strategy a joy to implement; while 
 your comrades in the original game were limited in how they communicated, they'll now give players 
 precise details on the position of enemies, right down to how many rivals are lurking ahead and 
 even the colour of car they're hiding behind. Of course, improvements in friendly AI are offset 
 by the boosted sophistication of your enemies, with GRAW2's canny computer-controlled fighters 
 using complicated, ever-changing tactics and making the best use of cover to get the drop on your 
 squad.
  
  While the original Advanced Warfighter was a stunning achievement, GRAW2 is a gaming rarity - a 
 sequel that builds on the successes of its predecessor, rather than relying on a slick graphical 
 upgrade to shift copies. And for anyone who prefers the slow burn of Rainbow Six to Gears Of War's 
 itchy trigger finger, this is essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is an awesome game, great graphics great game play and lots of tactical action. Like 
 in prior Ghost Rcon games you play a advance warrior fighting for the US and the United Nations. 
 You are put in some really differcut
  if not impossible mission, where you go behind enemy lines and reach your objective. The game is 
 very hard if not impossible at times, starting over or from your last check point is a normal occurrence 
 so get use to it. Though you are suppose to be a team you find your team isn't very good, and get 
 shot most as much as they shoot an enemy, and even worst you find yourself alone taking out a tons 
 of enemies alone. That's pretty weak, considering you would never ever do that in real life. The 
 game is a lot of fun, but not really a Gear of War sort of game so don't buy this if you think 
 you gonna go running and gunning, not gonna happen here. This is more like the one shot your dead 
 sort of game, which can be very frustrating after playing games like GOW and HALO.
  The Add-On bring more of the same, now your fighting in Mexico and you still find yourself and 
 your men fighting 4 on 100 battle, but you do have some great weapons at your disposal can do a 
 lot of damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  When i played G. R. A. W 1 i told myself i had to get part 2 and so said so done. I didnt think the 
 graphics could get better after playing G. R. A. W 1 but they actually did. The graphics in this game 
 are outstanding as with part 1, the A. I and the sound effects are very realistic. A few more weapons 
 have been added to the list and i'm more of a sniper man so i have to say the new sniper rifles 
 in this game are great.
  
  As with part one you are granted the ability in some stages to control a tank or helicopter along 
 with the 3 teammates that are with you in almost every stage. There has been an addition in this 
 part too. In some stages you are now granted the ability to call in an airstrike on a target. This 
 ability is awsome. The first time i did it and saw the jets fly over and everything exploding i 
 reloaded from the previous checkpoint so i could do it again. lol
  
  All in all i have to say that this game is fantastic and i think that if you are the type of person 
 that enjoys tactical shooting games then this game has your name written all over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xivalai72
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is the best Ghost Recon ever made! It is a fantastic tactical 
 shooter that is sure to please you. They have 3 different difficulties and a great storyline. You 
 can pick from alot of different soldiers for your team. They still have the old team from Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter. You can even get a medic on this Ghost Recon to heal you and your team 
 anytime that you want to. So you don't have to worry about dieing so much on this one because you 
 can heal yourself now. The online play is very good also. I recommend that you buy this game if 
 you like Ghost Recon games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echou07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 1 and 2 are both excellent games. I love military shooters especially 
 the ghost recon series. This game is loads of fun and is amazing both graphically and game play 
 wise. The one thing I initially wanted when GRAW first came out was the option of it being in first 
 person perspective with weapon like R6 vegas. If they ad that into the next series i think this 
 game would rock even more. But I'd highly recommend this game for those who love military sims 
 and ghost recon. So if you havn't picked up your copy yet pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingThief
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 by Gaming Thief
  
  Good
  You can take cover behind walls and other objects.
  You have a few different weapons to pick 
 up.
  The A. I is quite good.
  You can run fast.
  You can play online.
  You have a mark where your supposed to go so you never get lost.
  
  Bad Enemies can damage 
 you alot if you dont take cover.
  Shooting can be difficult.
  Aim can be difficult.
  Enimies seem to have large ammo clips.
  Online is not gonna be good judging by single player.
 
  
  Dont buy this game its useless if you want a game where you can take cover behind things get gears 
 of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I love virtually all Clancy games, especially the Ghost Recon series. I didnt mind the gameplay 
 of Ghost Recon 2, because it still had some tactical choices to be made in the game. But the GRAW 
 games are basically run and gun shooters. The Tom Clancy games have always been about realistic 
 combat situations, and they have strayed too far from their predecessors.
  
  Gameplay- Absolutely no tactics int his game, just set up a good cover spot, and start blasting, 
 its that simple.
  
  Graphics/Sound- The graphics are excellent. The lighting is great and so are the textures. The 
 sound is good, cathing the frantic sounds of battle.
  
  Value/fun- This game has a very short campaign thats nothing to write home about. The multiplayer 
 is supposed to be great, but I see it being nowhere in the same arena as Rainbow Six Vegas' multiplayer. 
 Although I love the Ghost Recon series, I just didnt find this game to be even as good as GRAW 
 1, and it certainly doesnt even touch the great games of Ghost Recon 1 and 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJCaboose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Let me put this clear. I love this game, so I guess this is kind of going to be a positive review.
 
  
  Now what is it in this game, you may be asking yourself. GRAW 2 is a modern tactical shooter. And, 
 if you don't like this type of games, don't even think about it. But if you like it, my friend, 
 you're really going to enjoy this game.
  
  First of all, to graphic-lovers, this game is not going to disappoint you. Nice colors, cutting-edge 
 graphics, it's just plain good.
  High tech weapons, this game's weapons are very varied, and very futuristic style. Sweet.
  Maps 
 are huge and have very nice colors.
  AND, you can stick your back to the wall. I know, it's a very simple thing, but it's amazing when 
 you can do this, lol.
  
  THE BAD:
  Why, every game has something bad. GRAW 2 has a weak point, which is its campaign. Too short. It's 
 finish when you just started to get into it.
  And yeah, it's an important part of a game....
  
  BUT there is something which helps it. Of 
 course, I'm talking about its multiplayer. This game has an amazing multiplayer game. If you have 
 Live, man you're lucky.
  
  Overall, this game is sweet, nice and... Highly addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Graw 2 is a very nice-looking fun shooter. The only problem i had with the game is that it is too 
 short. If you liked the first one then you will love this one there are some cool new things, but 
 i thik the gameplay is similar. The weird thing is that there are no civilians. The engine is good 
 but sometimes the ai isn't that smart only tough. I think it's pretty fun to control your squad 
 and give them comands. The game is very realistic actually some of the cities look almost exactly 
 the same as the ones in real life. Your surroundings aren't very destructible, but the gameplay 
 is prety good overall. The audio is very good. If you finish the game quickly like alot of people 
 did then there is multiplayer but with all the cool games coming out there might not be as many 
 people online like in some other games. If your a fan of the first game i reccomend you pick this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is way more than an expansion or a lazy part 2. It improves Ghost 
 Recons feature set in every which way imaginable from the visuals to the a. i. to the feature set 
 ingame to the gameplay. Multiplayer coop is loads of fun yet again for hours and hours after you 
 finish the campaign. What better way to play the campaign than to team up with a friend or friends. 
 Multiplayer cooperative play will easily become more popular than deathmatch soon enough so much 
 so players like myself will probably decide to buy a game on this great feature alone. If you liked 
 the first Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter or any of Tom Clancys games from Ubisoft, this game is 
 the gem to own and play. Buy it now, I cannot recommend it enough. Definetly one of the top 10 
 games that belong in every Xbox 360 owners library . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 begins almost immediately after the events of the first in the 
 series. After killing one of the rebel leaders, Captain Scott Mitchell is sent back into the heat 
 of battle in Mexico along with his team, the 5th Special Forces Group, also known as the Ghosts. 
 The civil war situation in Mexico only becomes worse before the Americans are asked to leave by 
 rebel leaders, and this is when the Ghosts are most effective; they are sent in unnoticed. One 
 thing leads to another and eventually the Ghosts are discovered. Evidently, the rebels are not 
 happy. It seems that this is the reason they decide to reveal their plan; they currently have possession 
 of nukes capable of striking anywhere on US soil. Their intentions are clear. This game was released 
 only about a year after the previous one, which makes it very surprising how they managed to make 
 such a great game in a short amount of time. Then again there is not a whole lot of length to the 
 main story and there is very little in terms of legitimately new gameplay mechanics. The game plays 
 well both online and offline; the controls work well and despite there being so many things to 
 manage on some levels (helicopters, fighter jets, UV drone from the previous game and your own 
 squad etc.) One downside to the online play besides the slightly slower frame rate that has come 
 to be expected, if two people are playing on the same console you are no longer in the over-the-shoulder 
 view point, but first-person and because of this everyone else playing must compensate, even when 
 there are not two players on the same console. Essentially, this does not allow you to take cover. 
 There are plenty of levels obstructing your path in each level and there are various grenades, 
 guns, vehicles and equipment at your disposal to deal with them. One of the unique guns this time 
 has a 2x camera attached to it which allows you to look around corners without exposing yourself 
 to enemy fire. A new feature lets you see through the eyes of your fellow squad mates as well as 
 the UV drone. This can be used strategically to your advantage, especially when examing a new zone 
 of the battlefield. There are two new small mechanics that make the campaign a little bit easier. 
 On a few missions a new vehicle called a Mule can follow you using your commands and provide you 
 with ammunition, new guns, and health recovery. You can also have medics on your team which can 
 heal you up to 6 times each time you get out of the heat of battle. Aside from the actual gameplay, 
 the game looks and sounds quite good. The environments in which you fight range from big open desert 
 type areas to more urban locations. And everything from the gunfire, to the voices to the music 
 playing on some occasions really helped get across the sense of a huge battle.
  
  Overall this was a great sequel but it probably would have been better if they would have spent 
 more time on it. It was not quite as satisfying as the first game in this new branch of the Ghost 
 Recon series but it was still very exciting game. The story was great along with some of the characters 
 and it is still worth a try and quite possibly a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x360_plaaya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 Tom 
 Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom 
 Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom 
 Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom 
 Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 2Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PostwarEMINEM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W 2 was very action packed especially on the harder difficulty setting where the enemies 
 apparently have their own brains. game to me was very realistic in stature, and had some decent 
 weapons. the online play is pretty good too. could be little more like the actual gameplay with 
 online play though. like i have said before tom clancy games are awesome and i own every one made 
 (having been in the military) and will continue to get them. and as long as they keep coming out 
 looking more realistic in gameplay, graphics, and weaponry i will always love to play them. its 
 just hard to play them all when you have so many to play and chose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I love the fact that you can look through your teammates eyes. That is really cool. And all of 
 the weapons are sweet.
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  Pinguin
  (Ping) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilzombie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this with my Xbox a few weeks ago, and I haven't been able to put it down since. The 
 single player is short but sweet, it's only taken me so long because I started school. Graphically, 
 this game looks awsome, and and is awsome to play aswell. Your team-mates' AI is really good. They 
 say how many enemies they can see, and tell you when they've hit one. They even congratulate you 
 when you get a headshot. You can get into some pretty intense firefights during the campaign. The 
 enemy AI may not be the brightest, but it will do. Overall, this is a great game that can't be 
 missed if you want great multiplayer action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsd1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I've trying games signed by Tom Clancy since the first RaibowSix, I tryied a LOT! I enjoy the novels 
 but looks like the games are always close, but no cigar.
  
  GRAW2 is just as the others, everything looks right and nice but when you play it its just like 
 playing a soldier simulator and not getting into the character. Everyhing fells like dolls, even 
 you. Dont mather how nice the weapons and explosions sounds, the world is fake you can fell it 
 more than you can hear or see it.
  
  Also, the action part of the game looks nice, but the cutscens and everthing else looks really 
 bad, as it was done by someone else with a low budget.
  
  After many years trying I give up about Tom Clancy&acute; s games, GRAW2 was my last try, no more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletwaster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  If you aren't a fan of tactical shooters don't bother but if you like using every piece of Intel 
 to you're advantage in a battle then this is the game for you. The single player experience is 
 best played on guarded risk the training is optional and if you are new to the genre then the low 
 risk difficulty will assist you beyond the training and into the combat.
  The AI is not very intelligent until the halfway point of the game same with the squad but they 
 are a lot smarter than in the first game. The helicopter gun-rides are the best parts of the game 
 and include their own statistics page. The multi player is seriously flawed but the co op types 
 are not to bad.
  So if you want to kill your friends you wil be very disappointed. If you want to cooperate with 
 your friends you will love this games co op storyline. So if you life shooters this is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for online play however the single player campaign is over really quick i recommend 
 you get this game. The online play allows you to fully customize your classes which are Rifleman, 
 Grenader, Auto matic rifleman and my favourite Markman :) . Each can be fully customized however 
 i think they could have added a lot more to the choice of what you guy looks like etc. The online 
 play is intense and most of the time the team that works best together wins so get used to talking 
 to people and coming up with tactics while playing Graw2. If you liked the previous ghost recons 
 you would love this. All in all get this game if you want some kick ass multiplayer action and 
 cooperation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W.2. is the best Ghost Recon game in series yet. This game is very addictive game and in 
 my opionon ends too fast. And that makes it too short because you wants to play it all the times. 
 I have only tried to play the game by my self so far. I want the game to last a little bit longer 
 than just a week or more. But i heard that there is an awesome Xbox Live Multiplayer which is a 
 good reason for those who have Xbox Live. I have seen pitcures on the first G. R. A. W. and then you 
 may see that it has almost same graphics as G. R. A. W.2., The controls in the game are not simple 
 first time you play it, but after an hour you learn the controls without any problems. The game 
 is difficult and you get kiiled so easliy, Getting shot 3-4 times you will die, So you have to 
 take cover when you are at war. A good thing is that you can pick up any weapon you want from your 
 enimies if you getting bored on your primery weapon. This is a must for Ghost Recon fans, Dont 
 miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + Mind Blowing Graphics
  + Equally impressive sound
  + Great Multiplayer component
  
  Cons
  - Very short single player campaign
  
  Great games 
 tend to serve for sequels. However, few of the sequels manage to surpass the initial experience 
 left by the original game. In the case of Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2, the package is just 
 as mind blowing as the original, if not better.
  
  Once again you are put into the shoes of Captain Mitchell, leader of an elite unit of soldiers 
 known as "Ghost". It seems the Captain is once again on Mexican soil only a couple of week after 
 his adventures in the original Advanced Warfighter. This time, he is in charge of finding two missing 
 nuclear devices stolen by a renegade general, whose intentions are to detonate said weapons inside 
 US soil. With the stakes at their peak, Mitchell and his team of braves have quite a journey ahead 
 of themselves.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Advance Warfighter 2 is how similar it is to the first one. 
 The game controls with the same dead on precision as the original, as you battle your way through 
 waves of smart and cunning Mexican soldiers and mercenaries, using high tech gadgets and a whole 
 lot of tactical deployment. If there is one gripe with the game, is the fact that the campaign 
 is very short, but what it doesn't deliver in terms of length, it does so on thrills and endless 
 action.
  
  Now, the fact that the game is very similar to the first doesn't mean that this pony hasn't learned 
 a few new tricks. For one, Mitchell is more maneuverable than before, taking less time to accomplish 
 actions. He has also learned some new evasive rolls that are great during heavy combat. The cross 
 comm. has also being redesigned, allowing you to drive the vehicles you command, as well as seeing 
 the action from your teammates point of view. Though these new changes are only a small refinement 
 on an already winning formula, they offer quite a bit in the range of new tactics and movement. 
 Another change is the addition of a medic. While Mitchell and co can still heal and revive fallen 
 teammates, none can do it to the degree of the new recruit. They are also even more limited when 
 it comes to carrying med-kits. The controls for switching weapons and rate of fire have also been 
 re-visited, and are more responsive and intuitive than before. The multiplayer has also seen a 
 facelift, bringing even more options and customization than before.
  
  The original Advanced Warfighter was an amazing looking game, and this one is no exception. The 
 character models, animations and effects all look outstanding and cleaner than in the original. 
 Of worthy mention are the lighting effects, which were already good to begin with, they are a sight 
 to behold. The shadows and highlights cast in the different environments and characters are both, 
 stunning and completely realistic. The frame rate also runs silky smooth all throughout the adventure, 
 with only minimal hiccups when huge explosions happen.
  
  The sound effects are also better this time; with weapons that sound so real you'll look around 
 you thinking you are really getting shot at. The musical score is also much better, getting rid 
 of the out-of-place rock songs for a more cinematic one, further enhancing the experience. If there 
 is one detriment it would be the voice acting, which can sound downright cheesy at times, but is 
 not really enough to deter from the game. The multiplayer aspect of the game is also further refined, 
 featuring graphics almost as good as those of the single player campaign and bringing plenty of 
 customizable options, offering a great amount of variation in modes.
  
  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 lives up to its predecessor and offers an array of improvements 
 that quite make up for its short campaign. The games multiplayer adds tremendous replay value and 
 the enhanced graphics and sound make it even easier to recommend to people who have not played 
 the original. As for the fans, this game is a delight and it does not disappoint.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tundrawarlord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Usualy im not a big third person shooter fan but this game is exceptional. With amazing sounds 
 and stunning graphics. single player taking you all over the mexican border through mountain villages 
 and dense cities. The single player is great, with average lenght and lots of fun. The only problem 
 is that it is not extreamaly hard like other games and can be compleated pretty quick. And ther 
 are alot of cheezy moments but that aside the detail is amazing from the dust in the wind to the 
 EXPLOSIONS, god the explosions are amazing. As for multiplayer, Dident realy shine in my heart. 
 But very fun at times. Defanatly give this game a try if you are in to modern shooters and third 
 person shooters. you wont regreet it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuRRaY-
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft has given us another amazing war game to continue the legacy of Tom Clancys Ghost Recon 
 series. Only available for the XBox 360 and the PC, this game is one that should not be missed, 
 for a number of reasons.
  
  With enemies constantly barking orders at each other and the ambient streets being pelted with 
 gunfire, this will take many closer to warfare than they will ever get. The orchestral score lends 
 itself to the background as you fight for your country, and the occasional break with rock music 
 pumps you up for the task at hand. It cant get any better, unless you are Rainbow 6 Vegas.
  
  GRAW2 combines the gritty look of war with a brightly lit, futuristic style to it. Being mainly 
 urban warfare, the streets are highly detailed as they gleam from the bright sun directly overhead. 
 The characters models are stepped-up from the original GRAW as veterans of the first can notice 
 differently textured clothing on Mr. Mitchell, which seems of higher quality. Combine that with 
 the beautiful explosions and the traditional third-person camera and you may feel that you are 
 in the war of the future. Lets just say that the rain is, Wow! as well.
  
  Although many will at first complain about a slower control scheme, veterans and those enjoying 
 this style of gaming will get used to them quickly. Featuring slower, more strategic warfare than 
 Rainbow 6 Vegas, you have the power to set up your teammates for ambushes and commands tanks and 
 Black hawk helicopters to name a few. If you factor in the control over the futuristic yet realistic 
 weapons made available, you will be sniping enemies from 280+ yards with your squad pinning them 
 down in no time. Getting head shots are no problem either once you get used to the controls.
  
  This game isnt necessarily pick-up-and-play in single player, and that applies to multi player 
 as well. You need to give yourself some time to break in the way the game plays. Once you do you 
 will see various modes, maps, and players to play against. The game gets very intense online as 
 you work with your teammates to try and clear the opposing team or just defeat everyone in a free-for-all. 
 The storyline is fantastic with twists and turns throughout the engrossing fight against Mexico.
 
  
  With decent AI (both enemies and teammates) , great visuals, and great sound; the game should be 
 rated high enough on these merits. When you factor in the responsive controls along with the single 
 and multi player fun, this game is amazing. Be forewarned, the game is great once you get used 
 to the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is similar to the first GRAW, although some new features have been added to improve 
 gameplay. One significant change is the addition of the improved cross-com system, a battlefield 
 information interlink between all friendly units, that now allows a full screen view of what any 
 unit is seeing. This makes the direction of friendly units much more accurate and effective. The 
 squad A. I. is improved. The game begins in Ciudad Ju&aacute; rez where rebel activity has caused 
 civil unrest throughout Mexico. The Ghosts are sent to Sierra Ju&aacute; rez to investigate claims 
 that the rebels are in possession of a dirty bomb, later revealed to be old Ukrainian Red Star 
 III nuclear warheads. Soon after the first act, it is revealed that delivery systems as well as 
 the nuclear warheads are being smuggled to the rebels from the Panama Canal, which leads the Ghost 
 team to travel to Ciudad Ju&aacute; rez to search for the nukes. After battles with the rebels, 
 a group of mercenaries appear in the conflict. Upon extracting from a mission involving a meeting 
 with a journalist with information about the mercenaries, Lieutenant Rosen's Blackhawk 5 is shot 
 down and Mitchell's team is forced to extract via Humvee. The driver is eliminated by a Havoc helicopter 
 and Mitchell is knocked out from an explosion. He is forced to escape via Blackhawk 9 and then 
 sent on a mission to rescue Rosen. Mitchell is then sent on a joint mission with Bravo team (lead 
 by Derrick Parker) to secure the nukes. However, only one of the remaining nukes are destroyed 
 and a rebel leader escapes with the last nuke. Mitchell does manage to kill the leader as he escapes. 
 However, it is revealed the leader was not in possession of the nuke. US intelligence then finds 
 out that the mercenaries plan to take the nukes to El Paso, Texas to destroy a large dam. The dam 
 turns out to be on top of a major US installation where the mercenaries were using a jamming antenna. 
 The Ghosts then find out the nukes were not at the dam. They then cross onto Mexican Soil and try 
 to eliminate the Nukes. Mitchell and his team end up pinned down on a balcony right above the site 
 where the nukes will be launched. Meanwhile the US will use an EMP (Electro-Magnetic-Pulse) missile 
 fired by air support to stop the launch of the nukes. However, Mitchell and his team are still 
 in range of the blast, and General Keating hesitates on authorizing air support with friendly soldiers 
 in the blast area. Keating tells Mitchell Son, I can't ask you to do this, but Mitchell says Sir, 
 it's why you sent me here, you know this is the only way, , and air support fires the EMP missile, 
 catching the Ghosts directly in the blast of the EMP. The view cuts to Mitchell falling back by 
 the explosion, with faint voices from Mitchell's crosscom. Lieutenant Rosen's Blackhawk can be 
 seen from this view, and while Keating and Rosen plead with him to stay alive, President James 
 Ballantine thanks him for saving the nation. Rosen's chopper hovers over Mitchell, Rosen appears 
 on the crosscom saying Soldier, you're going home and the game then cuts to the credits. It is 
 unknown whether Mitchell and the other Ghosts survived. It is widely believed that Advanced Warfighter 
 2 will be Captain Scott Mitchell's last appearance in the Ghost Recon series, either dead or alive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The reason why this game sucks, Because the Single player is to short. It took me 5 hours to beat 
 that game in a day. The Online is the same as the first, Just with alright maps in it. I just try 
 this in my friends house today. I try to beat it in one day, It was to short
  
  Graphics look like graw 1 graphics, Just a bit better in my fact
  
  Sound is like graw, Just 
 with horrible people Value is worth 30 bucks are less
  
  This game is way to short, If you really want this game, Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordsmanBeta10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is excellent.
  Pros: Great singleplayer, great multiplayer, somke and particle effects are excellent, graphics 
 are excellent, and gameplay is spot on. A. I. in the game is slightly improved.
  Cons: Graphics are not as good as GRAW 1. Very similar to GRAW 1 in every way. Enemy and teamate 
 A. I. is still dumb.
  GRAW 2 is still a very good game, but the problem is that it is in every way similar to GRAW 1. 
 Not that it is a problem, just wanted a few more changes between them. Multiplayer is great. There 
 is nothing like sixteen players in a co-op game for Missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday and didn't know what to expect but when i played it i was extremely 
 surprised by how fun it was it is extremely realistic and fun at the same time. This game is about 
 a war taking place in 2014 between America and Mexico and you are a soldier in a team called the 
 ghost and you and your team of 3 other men basically need to win the war for the U. S. but you do 
 it in a realistic way by doing it one step at a time. GRAW 2 has stunning visuals and graphics, 
 with great gameplay and controls at the same time. I basically couldn't stop playing because it 
 was so interesting and i beat the game this morning. The Multiplayer is a lot of fun and gives 
 you something to do after you beat the game. The only problem with this game is that it is too 
 short it can be beaten within 6 hours. Overall this game is definitely worth a buy or at least 
 try renting it if you are not sure but it will not disappoint you if you are a fan of shooting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  First thing I was amazed at was the great graphical detail in the GR series. GRAW 2 does not dissapoint 
 in the way of visuals. I think the best thing is after having an HDTV for a long time, I begin 
 to hate SDTV images and playing next-gen games on those TVs kills me. Fortunately, GRAW looks great 
 in any level of definition.
  
  Now let's talk about the gameplay. Not much has changed since I played the first GRAW, but the 
 features make up for it. The mule is AWESOME, as you can do so many things from equipting, to even 
 hiding for cover behind it. But the single player hasn't changed much, although there's not much 
 to complain about. What else can you expect from a Special Forces game?
  
  But the one grace that does make this game a true multiplayer revolution is the online play. Who's 
 up for a Co-op game? It can be with you, me, and 14 other people AT THE SAME TIME. For the first 
 time I've ever known, you can play a fresh (not related to the single player) campaign online with 
 15 other people. There is also a skew of multiplayer head-on action, which I love because it doesn't 
 fall to the death of most realistic games, where if you die, you're dead until the end of the round. 
 Overall, I would strongly recommend you rent this game for a 3-day weekend, or just straight up 
 buy it. If tactical shooters are your type, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Very realistic, however it can lack in certain areas. But overall the graphics are lush, 
 detailed and nice to look at. I have come to expect this of most Tom Clancy games. :) 9/10
  
  Sound: Very good I like the way they seem to have a unuique sound for each weapon, also for 
 you HUD there will be little sounds which adds to the experience. Also soldiers seem to acknowledge 
 your commands with a Moving to Position, UNDER FIRE, Target Down. So overall sounds good.
  8/10
  
  Replay Value: If you have all the single player achievements, it's still fun to go 
 back and complete a situation with a different team, weapon and difficulty. But if your not that 
 kind of person there isn't much replay value. However I am that kind of person! :) 7/10
  
  Creativity: Not much different from GRAW but I enjoy all the segments with the colnel telling you 
 to Get In There Mitchell the different mission variety makes the creativity of GRAW adequate. 6/10
 
  
  Multiplayer: Dissapointing. Not being to take cover and not much character customization to RSV 
 is a bummer. So MP is a little dissapointing but its still always enjoyable to shoot an unsuspecting 
 soldier with a sniper rifle! ;)
  6/10
  
  GRAW 2 is a short but pleasurable experience, even though the ending was a little What the... O_o 
 you will still enjoy killing players and terrorists alike tactically and efficently. Now get out 
 there and show 'em what your made of!
  
  Score: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchy-andy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  graw2 is one of the best games i've ever play'd. and trust me, i've playd alot of games!!! it seems 
 very realistic. for a start the graphics look like the videos of iraq. i like the combat engine. 
 because it is very simple unlike alot of games like that. but then the bad thing is you need alot 
 of spare time to play this becuase it is a very slow moving game. i like the cutseens were you 
 can look around wile things are happening. and i also like the way you can command your squad and 
 air sapport. so overall i would highly recommend this game 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silly_0
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  The awesome multi-player maps in this game are ruined by the removal of everything that sets this 
 game apart from the rest. I feel like GRAW 1 when im in multi-player. no cover, no third person, 
 back to non-hdr tunnel vision. The single player is downright amazing, but don't buy this, rent 
 it. If they could only have put as much time into the multi-player aspect, this would be the most 
 popular game on Xbox live right now. You never feel like you can't do what you want to do in the 
 single player, no glitching when enemies get close, no accidental rolling out of cover, beautiful 
 and numerous weapons. I love the single player, and cried over the multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The two versions are completely different stories and are both fun but the XBOX is superior to 
 the PS3 in sharpness, color, and is not as buggy. It does have slighlt longer load times though.
 
  
  Its a guily pleasure to shoot and is down right fun. The explosions in the PS3 may slightly edge 
 out the Xbox version but that is all. Even the textures are better than the PS3.
  
  It says on the cover it has blood but I never saw any? Should be classified as Teen Rating but 
 they wanted to get a more hardcore gamming audience so they gave it an M rating ??????
  
  Its too short and can be finished very quickly, but has super high replay value.
  
  Go ahead 
 and buy this one as it is one of the few real good shooter out right now.
  
  XXXXX xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (Xbox 360 and PS3 versions)
  
  The gameplay is similar to the first GRAW, although some new features have been added to improve 
 gameplay. One significant change is the addition of the improved cross-com system, a battlefield 
 information interlink between all friendly units, that now allows a full screen view of what any 
 unit is seeing. This makes the direction of friendly units much more accurate and effective. The 
 squad A. I. is improved, with less problems occurring than in the last GRAW. Units will actively 
 seek cover and descriptively call out targets (i. e. behind the red car , or under the green roof 
 )
  
  Plot
  
  The game begins in Ciudad Ju&aacute; rez where rebel activity has caused civil unrest throughout 
 Mexico. The Ghosts are sent to Sierra Ju&aacute; rez to investigate claims that the rebels are in 
 possession of a dirty bomb, later revealed to be old Ukrainian Red Star III nuclear warheads. Soon 
 after the first act, it is revealed that delivery systems as well as the nuclear warheads are being 
 smuggled to the rebels from the Panama Canal, which leads the Ghost team to travel to Ciudad Ju&aacute; rez 
 to search for the nukes. After battles with the rebels, a group of mercenaries appear in the conflict. 
 Upon extracting from a mission involving a meeting with a journalist with information about the 
 mercenaries, Lieutenant Rosen's Blackhawk 5 is shot down and Mitchell's team is forced to extract 
 via Humvee. The driver is eliminated by a Havoc helicopter and Mitchell is knocked out from an 
 explosion. He is forced to escape via Blackhawk 9 and then sent on a mission to rescue Rosen. Mitchell 
 is then sent on a joint mission with Bravo team (lead by Derrick Parker) to secure the nukes. However, 
 only one of the remaining nukes are destroyed and a rebel leader escapes with the last nuke. Mitchell 
 does manage to kill the leader as he escapes. However, it is revealed the leader was not in possession 
 of the nuke. US intelligence then finds out that the mercenaries plan to take the nukes to El Paso, 
 Texas to destroy a large dam. The dam turns out to be on top of a major US installation where the 
 mercenaries were using a jamming antenna. The Ghosts then find out the nukes were not at the dam. 
 They then cross onto Mexican Soil and try to eliminate the Nukes. Mitchell and his team end up 
 pinned down on a balcony right above the site where the nukes will be launched. Meanwhile the US 
 will use an EMP (Electro-Magnetic-Pulse) missile fired by air support to stop the launch of the 
 nukes. However, Mitchell and his team are still in range of the blast, and General Keating hesitates 
 on authorizing air support with friendly soldiers in the blast area. Keating tells Mitchell Son, 
 I can't ask you to do this, but Mitchell says Sir, it's why you sent me here, you know this is 
 the only way, , and air support fires the EMP missile, catching the Ghosts directly in the blast 
 of the EMP. The view cuts to Mitchell falling back by the explosion, with faint voices from Mitchell's 
 crosscom. Lieutenant Rosen's Blackhawk can be seen from this view, and while Keating and Rosen 
 plead with him to stay alive, President James Ballantine thanks him for saving the nation. Rosen's 
 chopper hovers over Mitchell, Rosen appears on the crosscom saying Soldier, you're going home and 
 the game then cuts to the credits. It is unknown whether Mitchell and the other Ghosts survived. 
 It is widely believed that Advanced Warfighter 2 will be Captain Scott Mitchell's last appearance 
 in the Ghost Recon series, either dead or alive.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Unlike the first GRAW, players in the online multiplayer mode can be downed , or critically injured, 
 instead of killed. This gives teammates the opportunity to heal a downed teammate and prevent the 
 other team from getting the point, although downed players can be shot and killed by players from 
 the opposing team before they are healed. The mechanics in the multiplayer mode have also been 
 improved, and characters can now slide into a crouched position while running, where in the first 
 GRAW this was only available in the single player mode. The ability to use cover like in the singleplayer 
 mode has still not been added to the multiplayer mode. In multiplayer the player can choose from 
 four weapon classes, including Rifleman, Grenadier, Automatic Rifleman, and Marksman. Choosing 
 the rifleman class makes the player more proficient with rifles, the automatic rifleman more proficient 
 with machine guns, and so on. Another new feature added to multiplayer was full-screen cross-com. 
 As in singleplayer mode, the player can hold down the right button and bring up the fullscreen 
 view. This can be used to view friendly players' views as well as the Drone, but cannot be used 
 to give commands or manually fly the drone.
  
  Team Selection
  
  In this addition, the player can select each NPC to bring along for each mission rather than choosing 
 a preselected team, as in Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. Choosing the correct teammates plays 
 an important role as certain teammates perform better on certain missions (e. g., choosing the anti-tank 
 gunner to combat enemy armored vehicles) . This decision is aided by an Intel screen that gives 
 your objective and a rough estimation of the enemies your team will face. Each time a new mission 
 is started or the player regroups with the command vehicles over the course of the mission, the 
 player will receive new Intel and can choose new teammates and rearm. Another feature is that the 
 Riflemen have a different Assault Rifle each.
  
  Unit Descriptions
  
  Rifleman - At least one rifleman is present in any team. They are versatile soldiers, effective 
 against enemy infantry and armed with scoped assault rifles.
  
  (Machine) Gunner - Better armoured soldier, armed with a light machine gun, capable of pinning 
 down enemy forces and destroying light/civilian vehicles (which may provide cover for enemies) . 
 They are inaccurate at long range but are able to prevent enemy troop movement in a wide section 
 of the battle zone they are covering.
  
  Grenadier - Grenadiers are armed with underbarrel grenade launchers. This enables them to quickly 
 destroy light armoured/civilian vehicles and deal with enemies behind cover, or in groups.
  
  Medic - The medic is the only team member able to heal Captain Mitchell, and having him in 
 your team allows you to carry 3 additional medkits, which is often vital. The rest of the team 
 are trained to heal an unconscious teammate to red (injured) health, but only the medic can fully 
 heal them. This is particularly useful before a major firefight. The medic is only armed with a 
 submachinegun, and therefore is ineffective in medium to long range contacts. The Medic was cut 
 from the PC version of the game.
  
  Marksman - The marksman is capable of killing enemies at extreme range or behind cover with a sniper 
 rifle, and is useful in recon missions. However, she is not the best choice in large scale fights.
 
  
  Anti-tank Gunner - The anti-tank gunner is armed with a lethal Rocket launcher, and is vital for 
 defending the team from heavy armor (main battle tanks, helicopter gunships) . He can deliver massive 
 power over long range, however it is usually best to use your support units in this role, since 
 the anti-tank gunner has no other use. A medic or additional rifleman is usually more popular.
 
  
  Note: Through choosing his weapon, the team leader can perform any of these roles himself, but 
 is always a medic as well. However Captain Mitchell cannot carry additional Medikits or heal other 
 team mates to 100% Health. However in the PC version of the game nobody is capable of healing.
 
  
  Support Units
  
  AH-64 Apache Helicopter Gunship - The AH-64 Apache is by far the most effective support unit. Its 
 30 mm gun and 2.75 rockets are capable of annihilating any enemy, however it should try to avoid 
 enemy anti-tank gunners.
  
  AH-6 Little Bird Gunship - The Little Bird is similar in capability to the Apache, however it is 
 far more fragile and should be used with support to protect it from RPGs or machine gun fire.
 
  
  F-15E Strike Eagle - The F-15 fighter jet delivers enough power to destroy just about anything. 
 There is a delay between uses, the pilot notifies the player when he is standing by. The F-15 is 
 the only support available in gunride missions.
  
  Sikorsky Cypher UAV - The UAV is able to scan an area and feed intel directly to Captain Mitchell's 
 HUD. It is vital in missions where little support is available, and allows the Ghosts the advantage 
 of being able to plan an attack in detail before going in. The UAV can scan an area (at low altitude) 
 for around 5 seconds before being spotted and shot down, so users should be cautious. The UAV is 
 able to monitor units within its target radius at high altitude, so when positioned over a battle 
 zone it can stop enemies from disappearing from view.
  
  M1A2 Abrams Main Battle Tank - This tank is almost invincible. The Ghosts need only to deal with 
 enemy RPGs and cover behind it and it can send the enemy running. The Abrams can deal with all 
 enemy ground vehicles and destroy cover. Enemies are forced to remote positions, where riflemen 
 and snipers can deal with them without being at risk of being pinned down. The Abrams must follow 
 a preset route.
  
  Stryker APC - The APC is armored enough to protect those covering behind it from small arms fire. 
 It is armed with a regular shell gun, similar to a tank, and a heavy machine gun on the top. The 
 gunner can potentially be killed, effectively limiting its ability. The APC requires support from 
 the Ghosts to avoid being surrounded by gunners or grenadiers, and is limited to moving along a 
 specific route.
  
  UH-60 Black Hawk - The Blackhawk, which is used to transport the Ghosts between missions and carries 
 re-enforcements and equipment, has an M134 heavy machine gun mounted on the side, allowing Captain 
 Mitchell to defend the aircraft and clear insertion areas. The UH-60 is manned by a pilot and co-pilot, 
 and usually a logistics support officer to brief the team.
  
  Humvee - The Humvee can transport the team between missions in relative safety, but carries no 
 equipment etc and is unable to safely enter battles. Humvees with gunners sometimes escort the 
 Ghost Truck to rally points.
  
  Infantry - Additional Ghost units and Mexican loyalists can be controlled in some missions, the 
 same as your main team. They are always a pair of riflemen, and allow you to vary your main team 
 more by providing additional firepower that makes up for the specialists' weaknesses. Having additional 
 infantry allows flanking maneuvers. It is unknown how when commanding Mexican loyalists the full-screen 
 cross-com can still be used despite the lack of cross-com equipment on the soldiers.
  
  MULE - The MULE delivers equipment and medkits, which is vital for a soldier working alone. They 
 allow the team leader to change his role and heal himself in battle. Mules are not well armored, 
 and should follow at a safe distance. They can be driven in command-full-view, but this is generally 
 unnecessary.
  
  Characters
  
  High Ranking Officers * General Keating (US Army) * Major General Martin (US Marine Corps) (Multiplayer 
 only) * Colonel Jimenez (Mexican Army) * Lieutenant Barnes (United States Intelligence Officer)
 
  
  Ghost Leader * Captain Scott Mitchell
  
  Riflemen * Joe Ramirez * Paul Smith * Matt Beasley
  
  Gunner * Marcus Brown
  
  Grenadier 
 * Bo Jenkins
  
  Marksman * Alicia Diaz
  
  Anti-Tank * John Hume
  
  Medic * Alex Nolan
  
  Support personnel * Lieutenant Josh Rosen (Black Hawk 5 Flight Engineer) 
 * Lieutenant Teagues (Black Hawk 5 Pilot) * Private First Class Provenzano (Ghost Team's Humvee 
 Driver) Provenanzo is killed at the end of the mission The Price of Peace when the Humvee is blown 
 up by a Havoc Attack Helicopter, Provenanzo is machine-gunned by the Havoc as he is still in the 
 Humvee, therefore he is killed before the Humvee is blown up, throwing Captain Mitchell out of 
 the Humvee. * Derrick Parker (Bravo Team Leader) * KC Kirkland (Bravo Team) * Cpl Ramon Vega (Mexican 
 Army) Ramon Vega saves Mitchell at the beginning of the On your own Mission, which takes place 
 after the Price of Peace Mission and escorts Mitchell to the Extraction Point. Not much other information 
 is received about Vega after the On your own Mission, as Vega is left on the ground during the 
 Extraction. Weapons * MR-C * SCAR-H optional ELGM * AS50 * MP5A3 * Rx4 Storm * Mk 48 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aroman010
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  OK. I know its a little harsh, but this is out of love. Your game costs 59.99 and your fan base 
 is huge. Your story is great and your next-gen capabilities are spot on. You put your game out 
 your fans buy it and naturally they play the hell out of it. Some bought it first thing in the 
 morning / noon, others later on. Like a good book, true gamers don't put it down. Imagine Those 
 gamers faces when midnight comes around and out of no where, the game is over. Unfortunately, thats 
 how it is. Now don't get me wrong, the game isn't bad. Its actually great! Graphics are beautiful, 
 online is fun and realistic (just as a tactical shooter should be.) , and the controls are pretty 
 much the same. There are some extras that were not in the first, like the new medic class, as well 
 as the m. u. l. e. and the ability to control your teammates through there visioncams. But in the 
 end for 59.99 your left expecting and wanting much more. Now I know normally I wouldn't be so harsh, 
 but when your first game is a stepping stone of next-gen systems and your fan base is following 
 strong, you don't charge them full price for a game that lasted half as long. It's a great game, 
 but its sadly over priced and way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a great game, just like the original, except this game is better. The Campaign is easier 
 this time around, with awesome graphics and sound effects. The controls play out smoothly just 
 like the first. The new addition of having a medic came in handy during the Campaign. The story 
 also plays out well. However, the only thing that remains broken is the multiplayer. It is just 
 like it was in GRAW, and is just as boring as it was before. It sucks because on Xbox Live, if 
 you do a Co-op mission and one of your team members kill you, you can't come back to life, so you're 
 done. GRAW 2 is a great game. I would be more impressed if they had a co-op mode for the Campaign. 
 However, GRAW 2 is still a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfonzoZ121
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in series. This is an awsome game. It's so much fun. I say anyone who has 
 an xbox360...... should get this. The multiplayer is pretty fun. For Ghost Recon games, that is 
 the best multiplayer. The graphics are great. I don't see one thing wrong with this game. Well 
 maybe the voices are a little funny sounding. You will like this game. There a lot of weapons. 
 My favorite is the grenade launcher. This game is cool. If you like shooter games. Get this. It 
 is really one of the best games for the 360. Get it. Play it. Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyPierre1441
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  A true sequel in every sense of the word. The first thing youll notice when starting up the game 
 is the graphics are much improved over the already impressive previous installments. Smoke effects, 
 explosions, bullet holes and everything in-between all have a realistic air to them. The games 
 audio certainly doesnt disappoint either. The musical score is always appropriate and always lends 
 to the action going on around you. The firearms all sound authentic and the ominous booms and small 
 arms fire coming from several city blocks away should be experienced on a surround sound system 
 to really be appreciated. The only complaint I have regarding the audio is that the Mexican revolutionaries 
 speak English this time around, and only a handful of phrases designed to taunt you. If they were 
 going to make these Mexicans speak a language we all understand maybe it wouldve been nice to 
 hear them giving their squad orders, call for back up, or point out your location?
  Perhaps the greatest improvement here is in the games campaign mode. With the exception of maybe 
 the first mission, theyre all very action packed and not tedious at all, like some of the first 
 games missions. The only problem here is that the game only has three acts, and while the honest 
 focus of the game is mulitplayer, one more act would really have made the single player portion 
 much more satisfying. Other revamps include your squad A. I., which allows them to find cover within 
 a basic area, or right behind a specific barrier. This gives you more time to help them out with 
 your gun rather than your tactical map. Your thermal goggles too are actually useful this time 
 around. You can use them for distance as well as close up shooting. Another one of the better upgrades 
 is unit support (tanks, helicopters, and even us soldiers) which is efficient and smart enough, 
 but still under your command. The multiplayer portion of the game is more or less the same as in 
 the first game featuring only minor tweaks to make it less frustrating, while also retaining the 
 single player games superb graphics. But given that the mutiplayer was GRAW 1's, best feature this 
 is still forgivable. The new maps themselves are what give a lot of the improvement to the game, 
 more so than the game play tweaks. Over all I would recommend this game to anyone with a Live account, 
 but if your offline save your money, but be sure to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCore117
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is one of the best tactical shooters available for the X360. GRAW 2 definitely outmatches 
 the original GRAW with a range of unique, new aspects added to the game in single player and multiplayer 
 modes, to make the game a whole lot better. Although the campaign is short with only 3 Acts with 
 around 4 missions in each, it brings a great experience to gamers on the X360, espescially as gamers 
 have 3 different difficulty settngs to play depending on their level of skill. The cross-crom technology 
 has improved vastly since GRAW. It enables gamers to have a whole new control over support vehicles 
 and of course their ghost squad. The interface has also improved making it easier to switch weapons, 
 and change a weapon's firing mode etc. Their are more classes for ghost squads including Medics 
 and Anti-Tank gunners. The multiplayer allows gamers to take part in local 4 player co-op and versus 
 matches with the option of NPC bots to kill. The xbox live multiplayer is the height of the game 
 allowing 16 players to battle against eachother in tactical battle modes or with eachother in specifically 
 designed, co-op missions, different from those in single player. Overall GRAW 2 is an excellent 
 tactical shooter that is definitely worth buying and has stunning graphics and excellent gameplay 
 features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  When first playing this game, you will immediately be amazed by its pretty and realistic graphics. 
 The game looks and plays like a reporter is chasing behind the main character, trying hard to keep 
 up with him as he blasts his way through some of the most intense and enjoyable firefights in the 
 3rd person genre. Most of the time you are trying to find the best approach to take out the enemy, 
 sneakily hiding behind cover and setting up your men so that you can shout GO LOUD and take out 
 12 enemies in 5 seconds. Ordering issues to your men is simple and easy to do, and most of the 
 time all you have to do is tell em where to go and theyll know what to do from there. Occasionally 
 they will act stupid and stand in enemy crossfire or complain that he cant see the enemy when he 
 is obviously taking cover behind the wall in front of him. But most of the time your team is competent 
 enough to look after themselves. The actual firefights are great fun, especially when you execute 
 your plan perfectly. You get a great feeling of achievement when you take out whole enemy bases 
 and come away unscathed. The game is challenging, especially on the harder levels, but most of 
 the time you are not in danger, and you can simply take cover aslong as you like, taking potshots 
 at the enemy until the last one is dead. This can take away the feeling of challenge which is a 
 problem. However I can do nothing but recommend this game to anyone who loves shoot em ups and 
 exciting videogames.
  
  The Good -- Lovely graphics - Exciting gameplay - Absorbing
  
  The Bad -- Pretty short - The odd glitch - Stupid AI/teammates occasionally 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 truly earns the dubious distinction of being the best game you'll 
 probably never play if you haven't already. Under-hyped by its own developers and (reasonably) 
 underappreciated by reviewers, this second installment of the GRAW series has a novel and compelling 
 storyline with immersive multiplayer action to keep your FPS need satisfied for months.
  
  The Good: GRAW 2 has a massive weapon selection, much like its counterpart, Rainbow Six. This adds 
 an element of interest to the game, as you experiment with different firearms to see which work 
 best with your style of play. GRAW 2's control-scheme (which I imagine isn't too different from 
 GRAW 1's, but I wouldn't know) , while not necessarily intuitive, is great, once you get the hang 
 of it. While all online FPS communities are going to have those morons who have nothing better 
 to do than team kill or sing their favorite rap song, very loudly, much to the annoyance of their 
 team, said people are much fewer and further between in GRAW 2 than any other FPS I've played online. 
 Grenade Launchers are in the game; I felt that should be a comment all its own. :) Achievements 
 are reasonable, spanning a wide range, from those you get just for playing the game, to those that 
 really separate the men from the boys (or women from girls) .
  
  The Bad: Night Vision Goggles do relatively nothing in multiplayer (as there are very few dark 
 levels) . Grenades, rather than being a sidearm (having their own button, separate, fire button) 
 as they are in most FPS games, take the place of your primary weapon when you want to use them. 
 It's a hassle to change back an forth, especially if you want to grab them quickly, and thusly, 
 are usually turned off in multiplayer maps, to prevent people from going on suicide runs to create 
 Rolling Thunder.
  
  The Neutral: There is a wide variety of camo patterns available for use in multiplayer, however, 
 these can only be adjusted by the host. It would have been better if they were player selectable 
 (especially in solo matches) , so that you could better plan, tactically, how you would like to 
 blend with the scenery. However, it is helpful in team matches, because it makes it easy to distinguish 
 between friend and foe.
  
  The online community of GRAW 2 should be a model for all other games to follow: you can find serious 
 competition when you want it, but you can also find friendly veterans who are willing to help out 
 newbies with their co-op matches while they get adjusted to the control-scheme. Clan matches are 
 actually officially recognized in-game (for those of you who enjoy playing with and against clans) . 
 There is a ranking system, online, similar to that of Halo 2. Basically, its only faults are thing 
 that are high negligible and definitely fixable in the next installment. If you don't have GRAW 
 2 already, I recommend you pick up a copy, if even you only plan to play it in your spare time 
 between saving the city of Rapture and covering the left catwalk on Kill House. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plix3110
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 has stunning graphics and the guns are amazing but i have never been into the over shoulder 
 view in the game or the first-person view WITHOUT the gun i mean thats just corny. I personally 
 LOVE the games that have the first-person view with the gun as in example Call of Duty 3. or Rainbow 
 Six Vegas which is also made by Tom Clancey. If GRAW 2 had that view it would be a definate top 
 3 game that i have ever played. Plus online is a blast...... if your good :D.
  
  So to sum it GRAW 2 is a amazing game just that view kills it but it did kind of grow on me but 
 i still like the gun view much more. So Rainbow six Vegas does top this i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBARTON
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Good game... but definely not a 8, 9, or 10. The most I would rate this game would be a 7.0. Good 
 but not great .The missing element in this game is not great graphics (which it has loads of) ... the 
 missing element is not sound (which is good) , or Gameplay which overall is descent though sometimes 
 your cover is compromised when trying to peep out and shoot or fails to respond when you need to 
 try to duck ,aim and shoot. The missing element is ...... fun !! This game has everything going for 
 it except it is frustrating. Being killed so easily and so quickly in a mission takes away all the 
 great things about this game. Although after being killed numerous times you can finally figure 
 out the right combination to get through the mission. There just is not enough substained gameplay 
 before you end up killed and repeating the same mission over and over.
  I love the action and adventure of a good war game but unlike Call Of Duty 2 this game has way 
 to much stealth. Of course one must be stealthy if one is to survive in this game (unless you want 
 your brains scattered throughout the streets of Mexico) .
  So in summary this would have been a Great Game if not for the missing element of fun which was 
 diminished by the games difficuly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power4ward
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The campaign as well as the multiplayer is fantastic. The campaign is a bit short and was easy 
 to me but overall a fun game. The multiplayer is fun and addictive. It has a wide range of weapons 
 and maps. Theres sniper rifles which includes the .50 cal, All the machine guns you can ask for, 
 and even grenade launchers- which most players will consider cheap to use and may block the use 
 of them in online games. Its a very fast paced game where sniper rifles and machine guns both have 
 their strengths and weaknesses. The game style is very different from that of rainbow six vegas, 
 which may cause vegas fans not to like it, but I, being a fan of both games, recommend giving this 
 game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic and i enjoyed every second of it.
  
  Single player:
  The single player campaign is very good and is lengthy. The main battles are fought in mexico and 
 you lead a squad of 4 soldiers (including you) through the campaign. You will have to make a good 
 use of cover unless you want to get ripped to peices. The game also has a clock so if takes you 
 ages to play a mission by the time you finish it could be night time and your next mission will 
 start at night.
  
  Multiplayer:
  This is my favourite part of the game as there is so many different modes to play but my favourite 
 is team sharpshooter which is basicaly two teams of people set against each other and the first 
 to fifty kills or the most kills in the given time limit are the winners. There are also many different 
 maps for multiplayer to play.
  
  I would recomend this game to anyone with one of the suporting consoles or buy one of the consoles 
 soley to play this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Now I have never played the original Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter on the Xbox 360, but I have 
 played it on the PC, and even though they are two totally different games, I had a pretty good 
 idea on what the story in the game was so I was not completely lost when I played Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter takes place right after the original and it doesn't 
 stop until the chilling finale. I've noticed that Tom Clancy games are having awesome endings these 
 days (see Splinter Cell Double Agent) . Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 might just be the best 
 Ghost Recon game that I have ever played and trust me I have played them all atleast twice.
  
  One thing that you will notice right away is how beautiful this game looks. On an HDTV this 
 game looks very close to what I would imagine would be the real thing. On a regular TV the game 
 still looks very good, and it is easily one of the best looking Xbox 360 games out on the market 
 today. The sound is absolutely amazing. The voice-overs do at times sound like they are from a 
 low grade action movie, but thats ok, because that helps make this game what it is. The explosions 
 sound amazing, and the bullets as well.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 has a huge awe-effect on the gamer that is playing the game. 
 Nothing is crazier than being in a helicopter and flying over a city that is in flames due to rebel 
 attacks just as the sun is setting. It is an absolutely beautiful sight, that I will probably never 
 ever forget. Now I know what you are thinking, its just a game, this guy is getting way too attached. 
 Yes you are right it is just a game, but I dare you to not get attached to this game and its characters 
 and story.
  
  As you progress in the story there are times where your general who is shouting out orders to you 
 is telling you that you need to move faster other wise the mission is going to be a failure. Its 
 absolutely amazing, because even though there is no mission timer at all, you feel like you are 
 letting your country down by not getting a move on. Well there I just blabbered on for four paragraphs 
 and that was just about the single player. The multiplayer is even better.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is so varied that it literally takes you days to experience everything 
 that the multiplayer aspect has to offer (even more if you are playing the single player campaign) . 
 There are lots and lots of maps and different game types that you will feel overwhelmed at first, 
 but then once you start playing you realize how much fun the game is and then you cannot stop.
 
  
  One of the biggest highlights in this game is the co-op mode. You can play on the same Xbox 360 
 or you can play with people over Xbox Live. Either way you look at it, the co-op campaign in this 
 game is the most intense gaming experience that I have ever had since the first time I played co-op 
 with a friend on the n64 version of the original Rainbow Six. Honestly no-one does co-op like Tom 
 Clancy does.
  
  Another thing that the game has going for it is the achievement points that you can unlock. These 
 require you to go back to the single player mode and beat the levels doing things like not being 
 hit, or beating a section of the campaign mode on a harder difficulty level. The multiplayer has 
 great achievements as well, because if you seriously want to learn the game and become one of the 
 best at it, then the achievements will just come gradually and they will show that you have been 
 working hard to get where you got.
  
  Ghost Recon Advacned Warfighter 2 is one of the greatest games ever made and as of right now it 
 stands as my Game of the Year for 2007. I can even see myself enjoying this game more than Halo 
 2, mainly because I just enjoy the modern warfare stuff so much more than I enjoy the science fiction 
 shooters. No matter how you look at it Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is a must own for shooter 
 fans with a 360, and it might just be worth buying the console for. One things for sure I am definately 
 going to pick up the original Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is the sequal to the highly liked tactical shooter, and it is still the same old game, maybe 
 even too the same.
  You still play as Scott Mitchel, the leader of the Ghost squad. Yet another problem happens and 
 you have to stop it. The game takes place in Mexico, again. Even though it is the same place, it 
 looks awsome. Actually, the graphics are really good, but they are identical to GRAW 1's graphics. 
 It seems like they only did a small touch up from the first one, yet they are still well done. 
 The worst part of the game is the gameplay. Even though it is still good, it is just too easy. 
 Not only is it much more easier than the first one, the single player campaign is really short. 
 Not only that , the fact that your HUD tells you where all the enemys are in the area. I know that 
 this feature was in the first game , because I beat that too, but the first game was much harder 
 and longer. Yet the mulyiplayer is very deep which should give you more lasting value once you 
 beat the extremely short single player campaign, but it can not even come close to how good Rainbow 
 Six Vegas'. It is just not all that fun because you cant use cover like in single player, and it 
 is too easy to kill someone or to have someone kill you.
  All in all, GRAW 2 is still a great game, yet it seems like more of an expansion pack than an actual 
 game. Rent it and save yor money for the better tactical shooter, Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borggamma1
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  After recently completing Rainbow Six Vegas, I decided to give GRAW2 a chance. Unfortunately I 
 was very dissapointed.
  
  Graphically GRAW2 is an amazing game. The sound is equally mindblowing. Unfortunately the gameplay 
 IS NOT.
  
  The commands system is horrible. Regroup should mean to simply fall in around the player's character. 
 Not to move to a specific point and stay there for a few seconds before following. The AI is mediocre 
 at best, often walking into walls instead of going around, and not moving into position to follow 
 an attack order.
  
  The weapon models are not very good either as the spent clip is not removing during reloading, 
 though the player goes through the animations of removing the magazine. Mitchell's mouth never 
 moves when giving orders to the squad which is also very sad for a next gen title.
  
  The first person mode is another disappointment for a so called next gen title. There is no physical 
 model of Mitchell of the weapons in first person mode.
  
  The cover system is absolutely atrocious! The idea of facing either side is ridiculous. Multiplayer 
 is generic with all the weapons seeming to act exactly the same.
  
  All in all, this game should be a weekend rental, don't bother buying it, its not worth your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brmarlin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2... Ironically long title for such a short game. Its ridiculously 
 short, ends before you know it, and the ending is somewhat sad.
  However... in the time you have before its over, you get some of the most cinematic, tactical, immersive, 
 epic battles ever. Imagine this: You are told to go to a rally point near an abandoned building. 
 Destroyed, amazing urban environments surround you. A few guns are lying around. A helicopter waits 
 for you. A rocket flies into the noon-time Mexico sky, taking the copter down.
  
  Enemies charge from a building across the street, going down the street in large groups, coming 
 from the doors. Enemy helicopters let more in. You open fire, as more reinforcements come, resulting 
 in an epic battle of gunfights. 3 or 4 minutes later, the fight is still going on. As you are getting 
 overrun, a humvee bursts into the fight. You hop in, rewarded with an intense cutscene involving 
 enemy infantry, helicopters, and explosions. All this is just one level, not even near the end 
 of the game. It is the second best tactical shooter on the 360, and that's a close one. It barely 
 loses to Rainbow Six: Vegas, in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayormoose
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Your mission is to neutralize two nukes in possesion of rebel forces. Ofcourse you get to kill 
 many rebels and rebel vehicles. The support is better too. you can now view what your support views 
 and control them from there thanks to improved cross com. The support Ghosts have more decorative 
 uniforms. The multiplayer is spectacular. The weapons have improved. For example, more assault 
 rifles and silenced sniper rifles. There is brand new head gear. You will see masks and hats. If 
 you have memory card data from GRAW, SCDA, RSV you can get head gear from their as well. Now females 
 can play as females by playing as females with female characters by changing to females. The face 
 paint is dissapointing. The maps are new, with new forms of gameplay. You can change the time of 
 day on a select few. I don't think their good maps though. Also, represent your countries colors 
 with new camoflodge. If you liked GRAW you will like GRAW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is nothing but a great game in all aspects , graphics, game play and sound effects and all 
 ...
  
  the game play is wonderful because of the different options they've added in this second chapter 
 such as Air support and the mule as well as the different squads you can control in the game, also 
 there's a wide variety of soldiers and weapons to choose from, which makes the game even much more 
 enjoyable and less repititive; in fact, every mission you do is different from the other missions 
 in how much support you can get and how many weapons you can use etc, it's just plain pleasure.
 
  
  The graphics look awesome and I have never played a game that realistic and good looking before; 
 sharp textures and sweet environments to look at and the draw distance is just unbelievable even 
 with a SDtv !! WAAW it's pure pleasure indeed !!
  
  however, the game is so short !! may be because it did not have much time to be further developped 
 since it came out one year after the first one but YA GRAW is very and noticabely short , you have 
 about 12 or 13 missions to go over in no time , but still it's always a pleasure to replay some 
 of the levels on had difficulty or something, and the multiplayer does expend the game's life a 
 bit but GRAW is a great game to own, though !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  So as many of us rushed to buy the shiny new sequel to the BAFTA award winning game of the year, 
 none of us knew we were in for a treat and a trick,
  
  The treat is the game has the same story with a short gap but very short compared to its predesscor, 
 it also takes the next gen looks of GRAW and actually delivers it BETTER! and now its more visuall 
 stunning than ever, but the draw distance at the end of ACT 2 is a JOKE!
  
  The Mulitplayer is the same basically and I think a few maps have returned to pleasure the 133T 
 Ghosts out there and remind the Noob that Ubisoft still sells GRAW 1 if they want to back and learn 
 from the start.
  
  Still deserves more than it got but definately one of the best games of 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloFreek11904
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 compared to GRAW (1) is basically exactly the same with a few minor differences. The single 
 player game play is what you expect from GRAW, you run you hide you shoot with a couple of diffrent 
 scenarios. Basically a less fun version of Gears of War. It is also short compared to the last 
 one but still difficult. Multi player on the other hand is just hard to get at. Getting into a 
 game can take longer than the casual gamer wants to wait. Once you customize your character (lots 
 to chose from) you will valiantly attempt to get into a game. These are the three things that happen. 
 One you go to a game and it says the round has already started you have to wait for the next round 
 to join this requires you to wait for a sort bit of time to about the time you could have played 
 about a game and a half of Gear of War. 2nd you join the game that hasn't started (go figure) and 
 your ready to play with about ten other people, But the Host decides your not worthy to be in His 
 lobby. So he simply kicks you out no vote, no chance to talk it over. 3rd when your waiting for 
 a game to start most host for some reason won't start the game. They just wait until you go crazy 
 and leave, or they just end the game session and you get disconnected. But lets just say you are 
 that special person who gets into a game. I can be Very frustrating especially for the casual gamer 
 to be able to produce in a game that is player vs player. pretty much all the guns are the same 
 and they are all Horribly inaccurate, its pretty much luck if you hit someone and vice versa. The 
 only fun online activity that barley worth going through the multi player moat of death, is the 
 co-op. its pretty fun and challenging sometimes. So GRAW 2 is just an ok gamer won't appeal to 
 people that just want to play. 6.1 fair if that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has always been about great multiplayer, and GRAW 2 keeps the family name intact with 
 a huge selection of maps (some available in night and day modes) , dynamic respawn areas that prevent 
 rampant camping, entirely customizable game modes, and a new medic system that gives you the chance 
 to save your teammates in the heat of battle. The new clan system also deserves praise, as it allows 
 you to select custom team names, import logos, choose your team camouflage, find clan matches, 
 and recruit/demote clan members. I would have loved to see a ranking system like those in Battlefield 
 2 and Rainbow Six Vegas, but it didnt make it into this version of the game.
  
  Ubisoft also includes six great standalone co-op missions for you to engage with your friends. 
 This mode could have been even better if it allowed us to play the single-player campaign in co-op 
 (once again, a feature introduced in RSV) , but were left hoping that Ubisoft offers some follow-up 
 missions via a downloadable expansion pack. With only one year of development and a handful of 
 improvements to offer, the GRAW 2 single-player campaign plays more like an expansion pack than 
 a full-blown sequel. While it still delivers many riveting combat experiences, they arent plentiful 
 enough to keep the game from feeling like a step down from its cousin, Rainbow Six Vegas. Enemies 
 still make poor decisions during firefights; when a pile of dead soldiers who have felt the wrath 
 of my sniper rifle lie atop one another, you would think other soldiers would avoid this meat grinder. 
 But no  they foolishly scurry from safe cover locations to join the bloody mound of fallen comrades. 
 The cover system, while still operable, feels clunky now compared to the superior RSV offering. 
 Maybe its just my weak arm, but the grenade system in GRAW doesnt feel as polished as other Clancy 
 titles. Its not uncommon for me to take out my entire squad as the grenade ricochets off a windowsill 
 or cover point instead of landing by the intended target. Its also a pain to switch out of your 
 primary weapon just to make a quick toss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reboundxshooter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This is my second favourite Clancy game of all time next to Rainbow Six Vegas and it has alot of 
 things that are better than Vegas in the game. Better Sqaud, more realistic, more action, much 
 much much better storyline although its far to short, more weapons to shoot through walls yay, 
 and more maps. However online I still go for Rainbow. So you ask if the game does all that stuff 
 better than Rainbow why isnt it rated higher or at least superb. Well the online is far from what 
 it should of been a make a your own ghost addition would of been nice but they skipped that out 
 and although the multiplayer is nice fast kills its uncomparable online to vegas. The story is 
 a zillion times better than anything I have seen in a while no stupid terrorists trying to takeover 
 the world. You get some nice cut scenes aswell but you will get through it in no time at all.
 
  
  8.6 GREAT GAME TO PLAY WITH YOUR FRIENDS AS ITS 4 PLAYER CO OP BUT BUY VEGAS IF YOU HAVE TO ONLY 
 GET 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  GRAW2 is an improvment over GRAW1 but single play is still dull. its is way to simple and very 
 easy to lose your interest in it. The co-op missions are awsome though. when you have 3 of your 
 friends over and you ya'll take opn the co-op missions you can go for hours without losing getting 
 tired of playing the same missions over and over again.
  
  Even though the single player can get boring the multiplayer stays great. Then hundred or sop weapons 
 to choose from gives you a wide selection of diversity whether your a hardcore sniper or a crazed 
 auto rifleman there is a weopon screeming for you to use it. Multiplayer does have its draw backs 
 though... it can be dificulpt to find a game sometimes bc higher level people boot noobs that join 
 a game. YOu may have to try 3 games before you find some one that is going to let you polay in 
 his room. Sometimes you will find your self in a room and everyone is a marksmen witch can be a 
 hassell and take away from the game play (every 2 steps you get guned down.)
  
  All in all as long as you have a decent online connection this game will provide you with countless 
 hours of online play. And a great co-op for you and your friends to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insert_Clip
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game really has it all in it's multiplayer. Tons of game modes, options, and a good bit of 
 maps keeps things interesting whether you want to play adversarial or cooperatively. In that respect, 
 it reminds me of Rainbow 6: Vegas, it's more or less a close-quarters combat counter part. The 
 maps are all huge, sprawling outdoor environments that are detailed beautifully, all the way down 
 to the blades of grass that are on your screen when you lie prone on the ground. The player models 
 and textures are also top notch, and the animations are flawless as well. You more or less look 
 freakin' bad-ass, and any foe would run at the sight of you...
  
  but of course, those foes do not, and the AI in the game is pretty decent, as soldiers will go 
 prone, throw grenades, and flank your position. It is nice to see they aren't as extremely deadly 
 accurate and almost unrealistic in their reaction time, but if they were the game might be unplayable.
 
  
  There is one thing in this game that really keeps it from getting to that 9 out of 10 score for 
 me, and that is how your player moves and aims in the game. There is something weird in how you 
 move, as if you were almost on ice skates. Any time you run, once you let go of the stick you sort 
 of glide for a second, so it's hard to more or less just stop right where you want to. The more 
 annoying thing is aiming works the same way, and it more or less gets down right frustrating just 
 trying to aim at a guy, especially if he is far away. I'm not sure why the movement and aiming 
 is like this, I guess to try and make it seem more realistic, but I'm not seeing it. I'm sure as 
 you'll agree with me, its not that hard to be running and then stop right where you want to stop 
 in real life.
  
  With that aside, the game is still great as you take down infantry, tanks and other sorts of armor, 
 machine gun nests, and the dreaded helicopters that pop up on some occassions. The game is set 
 in the future, so your equipment definitely gives you an advantage over the opposition. When you 
 target someone a blue or red outline surrounds them, letting you know they are friend or foe, and 
 you can use the probe that hovers the battlefield from the air to scout out areas for you, painting 
 targets and putting red diamonds on your screen to their exact positions. Hey, its the advantage 
 of being in the special forces of one of the richest countries in the world.
  
  The game isn't perfect, but if you like full squad combat in a large scale environment, or are 
 loyal to the ghost recon franchise, trust me when I say that this one definitely lives up to the 
 Ghost Recon name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  I really didn't expect GRAW 2 to top GRAW 1 in terms of overall gameplay and graphics but it actually 
 did but not to the extent that made me piss my pants. The graphics were improved just a little 
 bit. Enough so that you can at least notice some differences between the two games. The explosions 
 sure do look A LOT better! What really makes the game stand out graphically is the little effects 
 that you notice like when explosions happen near you your screen shakes.
  
  The gameplay feels the same just like GRAW 1 and I don't mind. I liked how GRAW 1 played so that's 
 a plus.
  
  The value of it is quite dissapoiting though... I beat the campaign in like 7 hours... Pretty short 
 but it was still sweet though :) The multiplayer is fun but it doesnt match up to other games out 
 there. The community is rather large fortunately.
  
  This is a game that GRAW 1 lovers should definitely get. For those out there still waiting for 
 the Tom Clancy experience cop this game right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Being in the army, I really wish that they had this technology, things would be much easier than 
 they are now, especially with mout training. The graphics on this game are beautiful and the controls 
 are easy to use. The game gets pretty exciting and you have many different uses of your squad, 
 equipment and vehicles. Basically you are called to Juarez and you must fight against the rebels 
 in a new mission. You get help from the Mexican army, and can control some of there vehicles. This 
 may sound the same as the first one, but you have different ways to control your men. You can control 
 them to move fire with their personal view. This game is very awesome to play and you also have 
 equipment to asist out in the field such as mule. It carries your weapons and extra ammo. You also 
 get new weapongs such as the rifle that allows you to fire without looking down at your sites. 
 You can shoot around corners without popping your head out. It also contains zoom, which makes 
 it easier to put some good shots down range. Personally I like this game, and if you are a fan 
 of part 1, you need to get part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  ubisoft has never let me down before and GRAW 2 has proved it. the single player is shorter but 
 very addicting and will suck you into it as soon as you play. it ha a great storyline about how 
 you are trying to stop the mexicans from launching nucleur missles on to the united states. it 
 has three acts consisting of around 15 missions or so. the shooting engine is way better in the 
 ghost recon and the graphics are good too. more team commands in this one as well. also newer support 
 items to help you in battle making the game much more interesting. as well as the AI in the game 
 has become much smarter and more deadly depending on what difficulty you put it on. the multiplayer 
 it very good as well with coop campaign and many more to choose from. if your into tactical shooter 
 games than you definitly need to pick this game up because it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game rules. The single player is awesome and the story to it is very good. It takes place 
 the day after the last game ended, and keeps going into more story twists about were the nukes 
 are. The com system I think is much better than the last game. The graphics aren't that bad at 
 all either. There are games with better but they are still very good graphics. The team interaction 
 is also great yo can control them in about every thing they do. Also the explosions are the best 
 part of the game. So basically its a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-CA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer
  man, lets already talk about multiplayer... jesus, so many options and stuff. Not only options 
 like game mode, but you can edit all game modes and there are plenty of those. you can edit your 
 kit, about that you can even costomize your own character and climb up in rank. There is also multiplayer 
 options like the look, like you can chang night and day on the maps and camo. There are very many 
 weapons to play with and you can also play campaign missions up to 16 players, local or on xbox 
 live. Nope, thats far from the end, there are plenty of goodness options and gameplay in multiplayer, 
 its just outstanding.
  
  Singleplayer
  While the Singleplayer wasnt so intresting is in orignal graw. sure there are more options, features, 
 units and stuff but this game take bout 6 hours to complete while orignal graw took 10-15 .. and 
 the story isnt either as good as in the orignal.
  
  Graphics
  amazing, awesome, outstanding, great, perfect... my eyes cry.
  just look at those explosions 
 and visuals... man.
  
  Sound
  very realisisc gun fire and aimbet.. The music is propobly the best, amazing.
  
  Value
  wait, 
 wait, wait.... what ever you do, dont buy this to PC. Compare to the sucky, crappy PC version which 
 also has higher priece.. then I give 10/10 on this one.
  
  Final Word
  The singleplayer maybe isnt as great as the old one. Sure it IS better but I by way perfer the 
 orignal graws story, and hours. But thanks to the PERFECT multiplayer, I whould pay dubble priece 
 only cuz of this. MAN this multiplayer is AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why most games with good single player have bad online gameplay. Gears of War was 
 that way and many of the other Tom Clancy games are that way too (except Vegas) . I loved the single 
 player in this game. Very enjoyable, and I was able to complete it on the hardest difficulty and 
 I never beat the first GRAW!
  
  When you get online though, it's just bleh. There's idiots with clans who won't start games, people 
 use the no explosives modifier so much that the grenadier class is totally useless online, and 
 if you've just started online no one will let you join their games, 3/4s of them will just kick 
 you out with no reason. How can you ever get better if no one lets you stay? I've noticed particularly 
 this game has very laggy multiplayer. It's jerking all over the place, and I can go right over 
 and play Forza 2 and it's not laggy at all, it's just this game. Additionally, you can't mount 
 up against walls and stuff for cover online like in the single player, just like the first GRAW 
 which I really hate. It changes the gameplay since you can't cover.
  
  Perhaps I've not given the multiplayer much of a chance, but it's not looking too good to me. I'll 
 give it some more time, but the single player is well worth the play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaos39
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 (GRAW 2) , is an amazing game. When I first picked up this game 
 I started playing the campaign, the campaign is great and is a lot of fun. The campaign has great 
 replay ability, I know for sure, in my case I could go through it multiple times. The computer 
 AI is quite good, and the rich environments look really great. Warning though, the campaign is 
 quite short, but the great multiplayer makes up for that 100%. I would suggest first trying the 
 campaign and doing the tutorial, if you step straight into multiplayer it might seem a bit hard 
 and frustrating. But after you learn what your doing the multiplayer comes to you easy, and is 
 so much fun. Personally I think it ranks up there with Halo in terms of multiplayer. The maps in 
 GRAW 2 are a great graphic achievment, and are also huge environments to explore. Overall if your 
 looking for a fun shooter, GRAW 2 is definitly a game for you, espescially if you play Xbox live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's 
 a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, 
 but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. It's a good shooter, but not my favorite. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentluap
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  After the great experience from playing the orginal. This game was down as one of my atticipated 
 sequals on the 360. When it hit the shelves I had to buy it. But I stuck the multiplayer mode and 
 never really got around to playing the single player. Well over the past 2 days I decided to sit 
 down with the single player mode and it was worth it.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 sucks you in from the start due to the return of the very addictive 
 gameplay, but this time it's came back a bit more fast paced and the movement doesn't feel as clunky. 
 The gameplay is also helped with a few extra cross-com options available to the user. One of the 
 being the Drone which is a great help on the battlefield to send ahead and check on the number 
 of hostiles, so you know the size of the gun battle you are about to face. Also another new introduction 
 to the the game which is also great is the Mule this offers the chance to change you guns for different 
 attack tactics depending on the distance and the amount of hostiles your about to face. Another 
 good thing about it is that both of the new options mentioned are only available on certain parts 
 of the game, so it doesn't make the game to easy. Also once again the cover system is an important 
 part of the game or else you are going to torn apart to be honest. Also the commands that you give 
 out over the cross-com system is easy to use once you get the hang of it. The gunfights are also 
 outstanding again which makes the biggest impact on the gameplay. Some of the battles you think 
 how am I ment to make it through this fight due to the amount of the hostiles you are taking on, 
 this certainly comes to mind in the defend parts of the game. Also the gameplays realism makes 
 it that much more enjoyable as you really have to think about every move because if you step into 
 the open for a clear shot at someone and there's a sniper around say good night, as the sniper 
 will go for the headshot and there's a 90% chance its going to on target as well.
  
  The graphics on Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 are once again breath taking. The detail in everything 
 in the game is high and well rendered. The draw distance is also impresive, this is shown to full 
 effect in the helicopter parts of the game when you are on the gun in the helicopter. These parts 
 blew me away as the scenery was great and at parts took your attention away from what you where 
 actually doing but then the sound of the gunfire hitting the side of the helicopter eventually 
 gets you to take notice of what you are doing. The explosions on the game are the best I have seen 
 in a game the first few explosions will make you pause for a second. The graphics really adds to 
 the realism offered by the game, as you really get lost in the games looks.
  
  The sound on Ghost Recon Advance Warfigher 2 is one of the games strongest points in my opinion. 
 The voice acting is fantastic which really helps as there's a lot of video feed on the cross-com 
 in the game. Also there's plenty of objective updated given through your cross-com. The weapons 
 all sound different and the sound of the gunfire coliding with the surroundings sound great also. 
 The hostiles also make clear/easy to understand announcements in gunfights which also adds to the 
 realism. The sound for the viechles are also realistic and very clear in the game, which is a great 
 help as you know when helicopters are over the top of you and this helps with the whole getting 
 into cover. The realism in the sounds on the game really makes a huge impact on the gameplay also. 
 The addition of some background music in some of the battles as well made emotion of the battles 
 much more clear. If this was mentioned to me I would of thought it would spoil the experience of 
 the game but to my suprise it didn't.
  
  Some of the extra things that made Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter 2 feel like such a masterpiece 
 and made such an enjoyable game is some of the epic battles. One of them involving a lot explosions 
 from helicopter fire in close quaters this battle is the one that took my breath away the most 
 in the whole game. It looks so nice it was unbelievable and also a fantastic gaming experience, 
 the mood of this battle was heightened by the background music mentioned in the sound part of the 
 review.
  
  Another great thing about Ghost Recon Advanced Warfigher 2 is the multiplayer is also a enjoyable 
 experience. So to go with the great single player game there is a great multiplayer. Which means 
 even if you only want to play through the single player mode once the game still offers something. 
 The only thing I had issues with on the multiplayer is there's a lot of disconnections, but this 
 might have been sorted by a patch by now.
  
  Overall I can't say much more than this game is a masterpiece and an essential purchase for the 
 360. Due to realism and all the work that has gone into the great gaming expierence it offers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leo924
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The single player mode is fun, and challenging. You can do the campaign, or 
 quick mission. The campaign is just right length, and has a lot of twist, that keeps you guessing. 
 The game makes you feel like your there fighting with the ghosts. The multiplayer is just as good. 
 You can play free for all, team Vs. team, of up to eight, and co-op. In team battles, there are 
 two teams of up to eight. In free for all, you play with up to 16 players. In co-op you get up 
 to 16 players, to play 6 missions. There are a variety of levels, game variants, and weapons to 
 keep you playing for hours. I seriously recommend this game for anyone who likes shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  I had my 360 for a while when I bought this game and it made me a believer in the system just like 
 Gears did. This game is so fun, fast paced, great looking, and did I mention fun. There isnt much 
 to complain about with this one so lets get down to talking about it. GRAW 2 is set in a fictional 
 conflict where the Mexican govenment is being harrased by some rebel forces. Little do those forces 
 know they have to deal with the Special Opps that is the Ghost Recon. Let me tell you like in real 
 army life these guys kick butt (forced to say butt lol) Anyway in the fight against these rebels 
 its one dog fight after another and with some variety thrown in to boot. One second your alone 
 taking them on, in another instant youve got your team backing you up, then your whisked away in 
 a chopper to fire on some rebel scum who wish they were as cool as the rebels from star wars. To 
 say the least its done in all good sensible order. The Graphics are HOT!!! I think their better 
 than gears. Especially being in the army myself. I almost think their too good. Dont want everyone 
 to know what we have in real life. The camo uniform they use us up to date. The machinery they 
 use is all real. Yes there is a gun that lets you see around corners in real life and a system 
 that lets you see your buddy on the battle field. These are all real things wether the game makers 
 knew that or not is the question. They even have the new Stryker vehicles in this game which I 
 dont think their called that. Anyway the accurate detail and lighting make this a real life experience. 
 So now I guess you dont have to join to see what its like. Bottom line its all truly depicted in 
 this game.
  
  The story is cool albeit a little thrown together. Like I said you are fighting a rebel force to 
 help Mexico..... why Mexico I dont know maybe the developers didnt know how Iraq looked or didnt 
 want to offend Iraqis dont ask me. Anyways your some Officer (as usual never a SGT) and your the 
 star of this fiasco. Your job is to stage by stage clear out these insurgents lol. Well aside from 
 some talk from a general and some black guy didnt pay attention to who he was (and im black so 
 who cares) things are talked about on a sometimes confusing manner. Nevertheless things roll right 
 along. The biggest problem with the story is it is very short so short that I beat the game in 
 like a week and these days that is rare for me considering my lack of tim to fully give a great 
 game like this. The mutiplayer makes up for the lack of depth here though.
  
  The Gameplay is a little confusing with the controls but easier when you get use to them. It plays 
 similairly to Gears but with better layout and button use. NO multi use of the A button. Getting 
 on and off of walls are easy and fun. Poping up to shot is even better and makes sense. The sniper 
 rifle can be a bit cumbersome. Overall though the controls are tight. You can feel it when you 
 make a kill because of the good rumble use. You feel like you in danger by the great layout of 
 everything. Enemies dont much and sometimes force you to look for them. They are not all smart 
 though as most of them set patterns and you can just wait and kill them. It seems you never run 
 out of ammo either. Where your team mates are involved though its a weak mixed bag. Why didnt they 
 do like Socom and make voice command optional? It can sometimes be confusing switching between 
 a UAV and your team mates in the heat of battle. You get so nervous sometimes its hard to do stuff. 
 Believe me at some points in this game things will be coming at you hot and heavy. Glad I havent 
 run into stuff like this in real life. Theres even a stage set up like the black hawk down story.
 
  
  The music is very effective and laid out to kick in at the right times. Lets face it though folks 
 music is a foregone conslusion where 360 games are concerned cause you can turn it on or play your 
 own so music should always be a 10 in my book. Dont like what the games playing? Play your own 
 music right? The sound effects and the voice overs more than get the job done.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is the best I have seen in terms of variety. Like gears you can team 
 up with a buddy online and play another story mode so its like having two stories in one game. 
 Then there all types of co op matches cause lets face it some of us (namely me) suck at death match 
 lol. As usual gamerscore is a big factor in this game and drives you to want to play more and more. 
 I think it wins over gears in this dept but not many will agree.
  
  In short this game is nothing less than phenominal and I would play it more if not for my back 
 log of games on over four systems (PS2, PS3, 360, DS, and PSP) so heres to GRAW 2 you make having 
 a 360 worth all the money I spent on it. PEACE yall!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is the follow up to the hugely successful GRAW. A lot of the features from the previous 
 game return, so you will, for the most part, find it a very enjoyable experience. The graphics 
 are immense, especially on an HDTV. Explosions look awesome, and the environment and textures look 
 really good. The gameplay is very easy to get used to, and the layout of the HUD and the controller 
 set-up couldn't be more practical. The 3rd person camera returns, but you can, if you like, switch 
 to the original 1st person view.
  
  The campaign starts exactly where GRAW left of. Although it is very entertaining and immersive, 
 it is very short, and can be completed very quickly - even on the hardest difficulty level. The 
 plot is well planned and easy to follow. Basically you have to stop Mexican rebels from firing 
 nuclear missiles on to US soil. Not very imaginative, but really fun none the less. If you don't 
 have Xbox Live, then you probably won't put many hours into the game as the online play is where 
 you will spend the majority of your time. There are in the region of twenty different game modes 
 to play, split into Team, Solo, and Co-Op matches. 18, yes 18 maps are available to play on, and 
 that is with out several more which can be downloaded on Xbox Live Marketplace. The online play 
 is very addictive as it is identical graphically and game play wise. There is a nice selection 
 of weapons and you will soon find which ones work for you, and those that don't.
  
  Overall this game is a really good vaule if you have Xbox Live, but if you don't after a short 
 amount of time it might start to gather dust on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beng0919
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Great addition to the Ghost Re-con series. The game has unpresidented graphics and the game play 
 is great., the story-line is short, but entertaining never-the-less. It is a little easy at times 
 but allows you to keep a steady pace. The online experience is very good. Some of the controls 
 are hard to get use to at time. Multi player rooms, hense, hard to order drone, hard to direct 
 players ect. You also cant take cover quite as productively during online gaming. But besides a 
 few minor things the online gaming is very strong. overall the game is one of my favorite stealth 
 shooters to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought my Xbox 360, I purchased GRAW 1. And it was awesome! But, I wanted for Ubisoft 
 to come out with a sequel. Not sure why, but I did. And guess what: Ubisoft did. And its great.
 
  
  The story takes place 24 hours after GRAW 1. After the adventure that Scott took on yesterday, 
 he is going on another adventure. One that includes new weapons, a new class of soldier (the Medic) , 
 and the new Cross-Com 2.0. Oh, and also, your men don't have death wishes like they did back in 
 GRAW 1. Hmmm.... so what could make the single player bad? Two words: its short, which hindered 
 its score from me. The multiplayer is also very well thought out, and very fun to play on Xbox 
 Live. Though single is too short, the multiplayer is one of the best I've ever played. If the single 
 player doesn't suit your GRAW addiction, then the multiplayer definitely will.
  
  All in all, GRAW 2's campaign is flawless except for one thing: its too short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBBeerad
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I had a great time playing this. However, after playing GRAW on the PC I'm pretty let down by the 
 lack of team control in the 360 version of GRAW2. I'm even considering buying the PC version and 
 selling my 360 version just to play the game in a way that makes me feel like I'm leading a team 
 instead of pointing at an area and saying go there and see if you get shot by that guy walking 
 up to you Sure sometimes its about sending your group, but I want to be able to tell my sniper 
 to take out that guy not have the machine-gunner blast him away and give away his position. GRAW2 
 for the Xbox360 is more first person shooter than tactical shooter. Still the visuals and sound 
 are great to watch. The action and story are fun to play. I'd just think they could have done what 
 they do for the PC version in the 360 side. Also this seemed a little shorter than the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hastati4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 does everything that the original did right. And 
 it does more. It's campaign, while being much shorter, is greatly improved. And the multiplayer 
 action is some of the best you will find on the 360 to date. Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutely 
 perfect in my opinion. The campaign replaced the common sniper battles that were commonly found 
 in GRAW with some intense, heart-pounding firefights at closer ranges. Your squad of Ghosts now 
 seems much easier to handle and they are far more valuable now if you get into a fierce fight. 
 The moments where you find yourself behind the gun in the helicopter are spectacular again. Vehicles 
 explode everywhere, and you'll find yourself frantically trying to take down that anti-tank gunner 
 before he blasts you with his rocket launcher. But the game doesn't just have action. There are 
 some levels where you have to option to use stealth in order to get a good shot at your enemy, 
 and moving about the environment without being seen is almost as intense as the fighting itself. 
 The additions of more support units like infantry, air strikes, and the littlebird helicopter are 
 also quite nice. The multiplayer gameplay is some of the best I've seen on the 360 to date. I think 
 so many games lack that online co-op element. It's just as fun as playing competitively. The game 
 features a 6 mission online co-op campaign. This campaign doesnt really need to be played in order, 
 as you dont really have much of a story to follow. You go here, blow something up, extract, go 
 somewhere else, kill a guy, etc. But you dont need a story. The fun of playing co-op with other 
 players is enough for me. This is probably the deepest multiplayer I've seen yet. There are just 
 so many ways to play that you could play for a month and barely scratch the surface.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are gorgeous in GRAW 2, better than the original. Explosions are very, well, 
 explosive, and the environments just seem more real and huge than they did before. Characters look 
 spectacular, and the game overall looks better than most 360 games.
  
  Sound: Sound is great as well. Explosions are incredible, gun shots are very intense and make you 
 feel like you're holding something that could tear something apart, not some squirt gun that magically 
 kills things. The things your squad tell you in combat makes it feel much more real. They let you 
 know when they are moving to a new position, and when you are in recon mode, they will tell you 
 when they see enemies, how many of them there are, and what direction they are in.
  
  Value: Anyone could spend many months with this game, as long as you have Xbox Live. There's just 
 so much multiplayer to dive into that it should be a long time before you are satisfied with this 
 game. The two Ghost Recon games for the 360 have been two of my favorites so far. Ubisoft never 
 fails to make a great game these days. Do yourself a favor and grab a copy of GRAW 2. You won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  While the first one was enjoying, GRAW 2 is better with better graphics and some new features.
 
  
  Gameplay 
  One of the funest of the part of the game. Playing as Scott is nice. The ability to take cover 
 is still present and will be helpfull. Taking over a Black Hawk's minigun is funner and exciting. 
 One thing added in the game is that like when using a Cypher, pressing the RB button long enough 
 makes you be able to see what the Cypher sees in fullscreen. Disame on your teams but you can't 
 control them, only command. The AI looks better although there ability to like know where the player 
 is always in cover looks a little unrealistsic unlike in Rainbow Six: Vegas. Also, tanks will only 
 follow a specific route so if there something in the way, they will just keep bumping on it than 
 find an alternate route. At least the gameplay is fun.
  
  Graphics 
  The best part. The graphics looks better and sharper and more realistic especially the lighting, 
 shadows, and characters. Smoke and Explosions looks much much better. People talking in the small 
 miniscreen on your cross com looks nice. Buildings looks highly detailed. The Atmosphere of the 
 best I have seen so far. The environment may be a little bit bland during on a cutscene although 
 it still looks beautifull. Well, thats all I can say.
  
  Sound 
  Another fun part of the game. The sound's are really nice from battles to you and your team stalking 
 a enemy. Explosions, gun fire, helicopters when flying, tanks while moving, and voice over sound 
 perfect. Also, your team will scream if how many enemies they can see. Thats all but the sound 
 is really awesome.
  
  The game is looking nice and good. Hope that there is GRAW 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhysHayes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Having come out so soon after the first one I guess that everyone was a little sceptical as to 
 how good Capt. Mitchells next outing was going to be. But to me it could be exactly the same game 
 and still be great and it has to be said that this game tops the first one. Story This new instalment 
 is set about two days after the original and it seems two days is a lot of time in the United Sates 
 tech lab because everything seems much more advanced. Anyway, it seems the rebellion in Mexico 
 is picking up speed and you are sent back across the boarder to; once again, wreak havoc with rebel 
 plans before they eventually cross the boarder. This includes helping Mexican soldiers, escorting 
 vehicles, shooting people from helos and getting into lots of cover. The story develops well and 
 keeps you listening to the exposition but the third act seems to end without warning and you feel 
 like Wiley Coyote when he runs off the cliff only to look down and see nothing but air.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay hasnt really changed since the first one except for the fact 
 that your subordinates seem to have jumped about 50 IQ points. Once your team is set to Attack 
 mode they will move from cover to cover to get a clean shot at their target, which ,if youve 
 played the first GRAW will come as quite a relief because originally just shooting at the enemy 
 seemed like too much of a challenge for them. The addition of a medic also really helps when you 
 or any of your team has an allergic reaction to lead (although he doesnt seem to know how to use 
 his gun) . The newly added ability to call up a full screen view any of your team or support vehicles 
 can really help when strategically placing said personal. All this means that if you play smart 
 and have enough patience, you can go many of the missions without firing your gun. Graphics
  
  The graphics for the GRAW were great but the GRAW 2 graphics have definitely and present with 
 much more atmosphere. Many of the missions feel quite dissimilar to one another as they span from 
 high mountains to war torn Mexico cities and suburban Texas. The mist of blood expelled from killed 
 enemies and vehicle explosions starting chain reactions with near by cars really help set the scene 
 when youre hopelessly out numbered. The online graphics take a little bit o a dive but thats 
 to be expected, the only thing that that get me with the multiplayer graphics is the character 
 models. Everyone of the different classes armour seems to look dumber than the last, the Gunner 
 looks like he has wings growing out of his back!!!
  
  
  Sound
  
  As it is nowadays most military shooters seem to have the same guns and with them the same sound 
 effects, and this game is no different but they do their part. The games explosion sounds are really 
 great though, especially if you put Mitchell really close to a C4 youve planted, youll be blown 
 away (Did I just say that. . . sorry) . Even things like back round noise in the wrecked cities 
 and the enemys chit chat you hear if you manage to get close enough, stands out as being above 
 average. Multiplayer In all honesty the multiplayer for GRAW 2 just seems to have been ported straight 
 from the first GRAW. The Online missions are different and are a little more intricate but other 
 than that there is very little change in the gameplay modes. That Class models have changed but 
 not really for the better and the maps are different but the same when you break them down. I dont 
 mean to give you the impression that the online for this game is bad because its really not. This 
 online is well worth playing. Value The simple shame that the story mode seems to drop out from 
 under you really makes me wonder if this game was worth paying &pound;27.99 for but I think that 
 the replay value of the story mode pays big dividends in the long run and of course theres the 
 online multiplayer. If you dont have Xbox Live however Id think about giving this one a miss 
 if I were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadshadow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  I remember when i first tried the Ghost recon series, I didnt liked it, was so slow, bad graphics 
 and slow control response. After some years I played the demo of this great masterpiece and I loved 
 it, so I had to get it!!.
  
  Finally this last weekend got it!
  
  At first as any new game, the tutorial is great to understand the game control, type of game etc, 
 fot those player who like to learn on the move, maybe can get a litlle boring.
  
  Now to the game, you start on the desert of Ciudad Juarez (I&acute; ve been there pretty close on 
 details) and the action begins, you have to eliminate the rebels who opposes the americans in Mexican 
 territory. And thats it... the basic story =P
  
  Now playing inside the game I found some great details that maybe for the US (or another country) 
 doesnt get them, but being mexican I did, for example, in the center town of Cd. Juarez I found 
 a lot of publicity of events that were ocurring at the time of the launching of the game, for example 
 the Lopez Obrador (AMLO) campaign for president, the comedian Polo Polo and Lupita Dalessio in 
 the Palenque ( a traditional concert place here in Mexico) . The restaurants presents the classic 
 breakfasts!! huevos cocidos, burritos, tacos deshebrada, barbacoa!! EVEN THE PHONE BOXERS ARE THE 
 SAME FROM HERE!!! But with the name of DARKATEL insted of ALCATEL.
  
  in the cementary, I saw images of the Virgen de Guadalupe and the Sacred Heart, on the tombs, now 
 thats getting the most detalied city.
  
  so Graphics and details are PRETTY AWESOME!! im glad they know of the mexican culture.
  
  Sounds:
 
  Great! bullets, bullets, orders, explosions, and the little pieces of music you hear are great 
 ala heroic feeling.
  
  Voices:
  Here is a lower hit...
  
  Being in mexico I use my xbox with the spanish setting of language, but they translated the game 
 for the Spain Spanish... that really pissed me off... but its okay, after playing it I understand 
 you found Mexican Dialogues but with a overexagerated accents. Ill say it once: the best translated 
 game with the spanish language from Mexico is Gears of War! for those who doesnt know was translated 
 by mexican actors.
  
  Controls:
  A LOT BETTER than the first game I played, I only feel a little sticky on the walls but that can 
 be fixed with practice.
  
  Extras: A LOT :D
  
  Multiplayer: GREAT !!! i only played a few matches but, yeah its pretty neat to be on a squadron.
 
  
  Final Words:
  
  If you love the marines, and war get it! you wont be dissapointed. I f you dont get it, you gonna 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancey's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is the sequal the major seller GRAW 1 with many 
 improvements. You again play as the same Scott Mitchell and the story takes place right after GRAW 
 1. Again you will be fighting Mexican rebels, who is not done yet in this war and this time they're 
 just right on the door step of USA. This is when the Ghost comes in again. The thing you're going 
 to noticed first is the major improvements in the visual side. The character model and environments 
 looks more detailed then before with great shadow effects. Unlike the first GRAW game the great 
 visuals can only been seen in campaign and not multiplayer, in GRAW 2 you can have great visuals 
 in both single player and multiplayer. Besides the pump in visuals there are many other things 
 to enjoy in GRAW 2. There are some new weapons, vehicles, and a new medic system. One of the new 
 vehicles is the Mule. It is not used for combat, instead it is for restoring heath, restock on 
 ammo, selecting a different weapon, and used for cover. For the medic system you can know heal 
 yourself by ordering one of your medic soldiers to aid you or other soldiers. This means no more 
 running through a level with red health. In the last GRAW game the Cross Com is used for communication 
 and to order your men around the battlefield, but it was in a small display in the side of the 
 screen. GRAW 2 improved on that and now you get to see first-person by just holding the right bumper. 
 This really helps out because not only that you get to have a full screen to look at, but you can 
 actually order your men while looking at your Cross Com which makes it safer for you. The campaign 
 in this game is amazing with some epic moments and intense battles. There is intense moments where 
 you feel heavily outnumbered until your reinforcements arrived a feel seconds before death. Which 
 adds on too the intense battle is voice acting and your soldier giving you very useful advice of 
 where your enemy is. Also your commander screaming orders and talking to you through the Cross 
 Com during an intense battle really makes it more real. If you play previous Ghost Recon game before 
 then you will know that you can only take a few hits before dying. The downside is that it is too 
 short and there is kind of less freedom then the previous game. The AI has improved from the previous 
 GRAW game, but is still sometimes do stupid things. Like sometimes if you order them to take cover 
 they run out into the open or if you order them to attack an enemy vehicle they don't do anything 
 and just sit there. The enemy AI is smart enough and is pretty aggressive which is really satisfying. 
 They enemy AI would take cover and sometimes would flank you which adds on to the realism. The 
 multplayer in this game is loaded with content. You can played 4 player split-screen through live 
 which supports up to 16 players, or you can play system link up to 16 players. The are many variety 
 of game types like solo elimination, co-op helo hunt, team elimination, team mission, solo mission, 
 co-op campaign, co-op territory, and more, which you get to customize too. There are 6 new co-op 
 maps which is a side story to the actual campaign. The co-op is one of my personal favorite thing 
 about GRAW 2. There is nothing more fun then cooperatively working with 15 other players against 
 enemy AI. There customizations in GRAW 2 like the appearance of your character or the settings 
 in your game match. The thing that made it more easier in multiplayer is the ability to heal injured 
 players in the battlefield. If the players took up some bullets but not enough to kill that player, 
 that player will fall to the ground until another player in that team helps him or you can just 
 press the A button to die. What is odd about the multiplayer is that you can't use the cover system 
 like in the single player. My best guest is that it even out the multiplayer sense it will be kind 
 of cheating sense you can look through a corner without revealing yourself sense it is third-person. 
 The graphics like I said before is a major improvement. You can see good detail on the sand affect 
 as it blows across the desert. The explosions in the game is one of the best explosions I ever 
 seen in a video game. The audio in this game is great. The music really fits in with the firefights 
 throughout the campaign. The voice acting is really well done. Your allies throughout the campaign 
 acts more realistic saying stuff like there is 2 rebels behind the truck, no, count that 3. Overall 
 if you want more out of GRAW 1 or if you're into tastical shooters, then this game is for you. 
 This isn't a type of game where you run and gun, but about taking cover. The gameplay is a lot 
 slower then most shooters you encounter. There is plenty of replay value, besides the multiplayer, 
 there is many achievements throughout the single player and multiplayer. Despite the short campaign 
 the multiplayer is what this game mainly focuses on, but that doesn't mean the single player isn't 
 worth experiencing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umer_fawi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I think that Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, designed specifically for the PC. 
 Building on the foundation of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, the sequel is a near-future warfare 
 masterpiece . Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 for the PC screams tactics, and you'll need to 
 bring your best to bear if you are going to get the Ghosts past their latest challenge... It's 
 2014, and the soldier of the future returns to encounter a new and more imminent threat along the 
 recently completed wall on the U. S./Mexico border. The Ghosts are more powerful with an upgraded 
 Integrated Warfighter System (IWS) , but will have only 72 hours to assess the threat and stop 
 the rebels from reaching U. S. soil. With a border that's 1,900 miles long and an enemy that doesn't 
 play by the rules, this is a job for the U. S. military's most elite fighting unit. This is a job 
 for the Ghosts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofanatic333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is an awesome over the shoulder game. It has many real-world weapons (ie FAMAS, M107, MP5 
 etc) . GRAW 2 consists of 3 acts: 1. First day, 2. Second to third day, 3. The last day. Its starts 
 off with an easy training where you do get the option to skip it, but it can earn you some gamerpoints 
 if you do it. The missions are fun, with lots of shooting. The thing GRAW 2 left out, like GRAW 
 did also, is when you are in first-person, you don't see your gun. That makes it a little bit harder. 
 On easy your teammates are retarded, the first level one of my guys stood right next to the C4 
 as it went off..... leaves a little to be desired. You don't get to drive anything, but you still 
 get the Blackhawk Chaingun ride. The multiplayer is, well, just pure awesome. Co-op campaign for 
 achievements, helo-hunt, elimination, the works. If you have a Rainbow 6 Vegas or Splinter Cell: DA 
 save on your hdd you get extra headgear. Not much different from GRAW, but GRAW 2 is still better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CowbellFanatic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a well put together game. You are put in the role of Scott Mitchell who once again is 
 sent to Mexico to save the day from those damn Mexican rebels. You'll experience outdoor combat, 
 urban combat, solo missions, team missions all which help give the game a nice variety.
  
  The tactical aspect of the game is one of the most accessible I have seen in the genre. To order 
 your squad mates around simply look where you want them to move and they will go there and find 
 appropriate cover for themselves. To have your team go to an objective or take out an enemy its 
 as simple as looking at what you want your team to do and pressing a button. They will intelligently 
 do what you tell them to in most cases. You also can look through your allies eyes with a simple 
 squeeze of a button. This gives you an understanding of exactly what your team can see and you 
 can issue orders from this view. Throughout the game you command fellow Ghosts, Mexican infantry, 
 APCs, helicopters, drones, tanks and air strikes. Sometimes to get something done you have to do 
 it yourself. When you aren't commanding your team you'll be fighting the enemy head on. The game 
 works great here also. You can choose from a large variety of different weapons, most of which 
 behave differently enough that you probably won't just have one gun that you will power through 
 the game with.
  Targeting enemies works well. You can choose to scope in or the quicker method of holding the left 
 trigger to steady your aim. The graphics are great. The effects are particularly nice. Watching 
 a vehicle explode after throwing a well placed grenade is very rewarding. The characters all look 
 great as well.
  
  The sound in the game is everything you would expect. Explosions sound perfect, gunfire sounds 
 just as it should (as far as I know) , and your allies dialogue is very accurate to what is going 
 on in the game. You may hear an ally saying that they see two enemies and then another will pop 
 into view and they will correct themselves. They will repeat themselves though.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is awesome. It took some time for me to adjust to this game after mostly 
 playing Halo 2 on lon XBL, but once I did I found a very team oriented experience. Teamwork is 
 very essential in GRAW 2. To be successful a good team needs to communicate often and know how 
 to use they're different weapons cooperatively against the enemy. There is also a multiplayer Mission 
 mode that you can play with up to 16 people. These missions are well thought out and can be great 
 fun if you don't have any issues with latency. The game does have its faults. The main character 
 is probably the biggest one. He is the perfect stereotype of a tough American soldier. His dialogue 
 is incredibly cliche and is extremely predictable. You cannot skip sections where you are getting 
 news clips or hearing your annoying commander yell at you which isn't bad on your first playthrough, 
 but after that it gets frustrating. These are both minor problems and don't detract much from the 
 game.
  
  If you enjoy tactical shooters at all, or if you want a Live game that rewards teamwork then make 
 sure to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The first Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was a new step in the series of the Ghost Recon series. 
 Because of its new gameplay twists, extrememly beefed up graphics, and all new ways to tactically 
 fight in modern day combat, the game was made one of the greatest games of last year. Now, a year 
 later, Ubisoft and Red Storm Entertainment have put together a seqel to the Advanced Warfighter 
 trilogy, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2.
  
  The story still is behind the battle between Mexican rebels and Mexican loyalists in the country 
 of Mexico. Now, the Mexican Rebels are aiming to attack the US border near Texas, and its up to 
 you to bring them down again. The Single player portion of the game is improved over GRAW 1, but 
 it also plays a lot like GRAW 1, making it lack in innovation. The campaign is also shorter, clocking 
 to about 5 to 6 hours. But make no mistake, there are some good improvements. For one, your soldiers 
 are no longer having death wishes, for they take cover now and also point out areas where the enemies 
 are. If you put them on Free Fire mode, you can also notice they are much more intelligent, which 
 also helps in hectic situations, though, you are still mostly taking most of the shots.
  
  What really made GRAW 1 one of the greatest 360 games of the year, was its terrific and stellar 
 graphics. Though this is no Gears of War, this game's engine is incredible and full of detail in 
 every single object in the game. Character models look great, along with the environments. One 
 of my favorites, the explosions. Absolutely amazing and a pleasure to look at.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty top notch. The gun sounds are very sharp and have a great feel 
 to them. The explosions and effects also sound amazing. The voice work is also pretty good too, 
 and not too overacted or too dramatic in spots.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is just as great as its predecessor, only, this is the real highlight 
 of the game. There are all types of modes to play around with, all supporting 16 players. Its got 
 a new co-op campaign as well, which is also great to have back. The multiplayer luckily helps GRAW 
 2's over all lasting value, because if there was nothing new, this game would fall totally flat.
 
  
  If you're a fan of shooting games, then this game is a must have. This will not change your mind 
 if you do not, but for those who do, you will have a lot of fun with this game. The only problem 
 with it is, the game doesn't feel totally like a real game. It feels more of an extremely huge 
 expansion pack. But with all this in mind, Ghost Recon Advnaced Warfighter 2 gets an 8.7 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Last year, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was released on many different platforms. Despite being 
 a hit game on the Xbox 360, every other platform it was released on, including the PC, seemed to 
 be missing the glory of the 360 version. The PC version was definitely better than the brutal PS2 
 and Xbox versions of the game, but it still lacked some really important aspects that the 360 version 
 included.
  So, this year, a sequel to the successful third-person, tactical shooter was released on the Xbox 
 360, and soon to be released on the PC and PS3. Many critics were appalled by how fast the sequel 
 was developed and complained that it was more of an expansion than a sequel. However, the campaign 
 starts immediately after the events of the first game, continuing your role as Captain Scott Mitchell. 
 The campaign is splendid, with a great suspenseful and highly intense sequence of battle and story. 
 Although the squad AI still seems to have some problems like the first game, there seems to be 
 some improvement. However, besides this fault, the campaign is none other than perfect. The length 
 may seem to be a bit shorter than the first game, but it is still a nice adventure. The sound is 
 very well done, as well as the cover system, making the game very realistic and adding a great 
 intense feeling to the combat.
  As for the graphics, one word: masterpiece. In my opinion, GRAW 2 has some of the best graphics 
 the 360 has ever seen. The visuals are incredible, especially the new explosions worked into the 
 game. I have never experienced an explosion in a game more realistic than in GRAW 2. The fire and 
 impact are stunning.
  Also, the new Crosscom is amazing. It is so much better than GRAW 1s Crosscom. The new Crosscom 
 2.0 features a switch able camera view from a top right corner camera view, to a full screen view 
 for your teammates, satellite scout, and air and tank support vehicles, making it a lot easier 
 to dish out commands and keep track of the success your commands carry out. Also, the voice acting 
 is excellent, and actually helps you in the game, unlike some other games out there.
  GRAW 2 has an outstanding multiplayer. First of all, in most games, when you play multiplayer, 
 the graphics are not as good as offline graphics due to internet connections and the like. However, 
 this case does not apply with GRAW 2. Unlike GRAW 1 online, GRAW 2 features cutting edge visuals 
 online and off. The graphics are, of course, a little better in the single player, because it is 
 very hard to have the same experience online and off (I mean, all the games say on the boxes and 
 in the opening credits, Game Experience May Change Online) . But, compared to the first GRAW and 
 other games, it is just a great accomplishment.
  The graphics are great, but that is not the best part about the online play. The online play features 
 a variety of game modes including up to 16 players per game with great maps. The game modes are 
 very addicting and realistic. Also, the online play features an entire campaign mode were you play 
 a completely new campaign from the single player one, along with a bunch of other people online. 
 The missions are long and challenging, and really great because your squad is made of other players, 
 not the sometimes lazy and rather sometimes stupid squad mates of the single player.
  The online play, overall, is a main reason to get this game. You may experience some irritating 
 waiting room problems such as long waits and getting booted often in ranked matches if your rank 
 isnt high enough. However, these problems are very minor and can easily be worked around.
  GRAW 2 overall is an outstanding game, online and off, and does have more improvements since the 
 first than meets the eye. With stellar graphics, a great campaign, and extraordinary online play, 
 GRAW 2 is one of the best games of the year. It is hence to be released on the PlaySation 3 and 
 the PC, but being comparable with the successful Xbox 360 version is still a main question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  While the graphics for GRAW2 have been tweaked a little they pretty much remain the same as they 
 were in GRAW Not that it's a bad thing in such a short time but every little thing helps. While 
 the single player mode is challenging, it is made even more challenging with the fact the the movement 
 is clunky. The movement seems more like moving a robot than an actual person. Keep in mind this 
 is JUST my opinion. There are 4 missions in single player and they are relatively long and somewhat 
 exciting but have no real story to grab you and pull you in. The meat of the game is in the multi 
 player modes. The versus and the co-op modes are spectacular! If you can find a great group of 
 people to play the co-op portion of the game then you will be treated to an awesome time. I have 
 met many people this way and my friends list is ever growing because of it. The co-op portion is 
 worth purchasing the entire game in my opinion. I believe there are 6 co-op missions in the game. 
 The versus modes, of which there are many, go from the straight forward death-match (with re-spawns 
 and without re-spawns) to much more complicated versus modes that have one person it until he is 
 killed and then that person is it until he is killed to a mode where each person is assigned one 
 person they can kill so while you may be targeting one person someone totally different may be 
 targeting you. Complicated but great fun to play. As of writing this, the only DLC has been older 
 Ghost Recon maps for use with multi player versus and co-op terrorist hunt. A definite buy if you 
 have XBOX Live and like to play co-op and versus with other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the continuation of a game most 360 know and love. It has delivered the goods, but will 
 leave you with the been there, done that feeling with and even shorter single player mode, than 
 the first game.
  
  The goods: Graphics are top-notch (as before) , music is nothing short of award nomination (which 
 gives the game its over all cinematic feel) , and multiplayer is back for the hungry.
  
  The bads:
  
  This is basically the same game as the first, its mostly a lot flash and less 
 substance as the story is very weak and has little point to be a continuation of what actually 
 had a story, your team mates go brain dead on you often as they may do their own thing or just 
 don't follow comands at all, and the game is dangerously short, as it clocks in at around 8 hours 
 in your first run on normal setting and can be beaten in under 4 hours the second time through.
 
  
  The conclusion:
  
  As the first game before this, its a great experience, but offers little improvement and an even 
 shorter single player mode. This is a simulator, so for those who do not like this types of games, 
 venture at your own risk.
  For all the game delivers, its best as a rent for half a month at best (including if you desire 
 to play multiplayer) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAPMONGROL
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Great game, not worth the full price. Single player campaign is forgetable and short, but the online 
 is great. The problem is, if you're new to ranked games you will never play, jus get booted. Tons 
 of online gltiches as well, and constant lag problems, and people getting dropped. Also there is 
 the glitch were no one in the room can talk. Great team game, but half the time theres no commonication.
 
  
  Graphics: Great graphics, awsome maps, only good if you have an HD-TV. The maps are great, and 
 you can change weather settings.
  
  Sound: GRAW, some of the guns sound weaker
  
  Gameplay: Pretty fun, gets old though, online is just spawn camping, not as many great battles 
 that the GRAW1 maps had.
  
  Multiplayer: It's not rich and deep. People just play the same 3 or 4 maps, just like GRAW. Ranked 
 matches, well you will never get to play due to higher levels kicking people. Easy achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshdrew
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best in its serios and is so realistic the graphics are amazing it actualy makes 
 you feel like your in a war with explosive bombs and bullets flying over your head plus all the 
 cool high tech gismos and gadgets in the game. this is definitly one of the best titles for he xbox360 
 to add to your coolection of games. did i mention the online multiplayer it is so good and the servers 
 are never never empty. man this game is so mind blowing its worth sixty bucks. tom one of the best 
 game in tom clancy's serios of war and army games. this is a must have title for your xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVKnightmareVI
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun, but I would say easy to put down, once you finish the fairly short campaign 
 you do have lots of great multi-player options, but sadly if you don't have online play this game 
 is just worth a rent. If you are new to Tom Clancey game's then you should rent this game first, 
 but if you are a Tom Clancey fan or if your just into some Casual shooters this would be the game 
 for you. This game has a huge variety of weapons and when I say huge I mean HUGE, this game has 
 many favorites like the MC-R, and also the AK-47 and the M107 Sniper Rifle. You also have a character 
 creation, you'll get extra clothes to fit your character if you have other Tom Clancey games, like 
 Rainbow Six Vegas, and Splinter Cell Double Agent. If you have a Ubisoft account (which you can 
 get for free) you can get an exclusive multi-player map free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_boy_phil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Great game all around even if the single player was really short (like 3 hours if your a n00b) 
 but its a little challenging going straight thru the game on hard your first time but its still 
 pretty easy. Pretty basic ghost recon game and its helpful that your teamates can heal and in multiplayer 
 theres a lot of dumb people that dont realise once someones on the ground they arent dead. Multiplayer 
 was probably the best part of it even tho searching took a long time but once you got into a game 
 the host probably wasnt going to leave for like 4 hours. A lot of the game modes were pretty usual 
 for shooter type games, but there were a lot of unique mode that not many people played and co 
 op was really fun I give it a 9.2/10 becuase theres a lot of shooters that are the same as this 
 and this is just an updat to G. R. A. W. so buy it if you like shooters or just wanna have some fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - You play as a ghost and you must, blah, blah, blah....
  You can control your squad and on top of that Tanks, helicopters and now Jets or bombers!!! Also 
 even a nice new robot ammo car like thingy..... called the mule. The game has more missions that 
 involve more awesome missions to blowing up the enemy base to blowing up the enemy's house!!!!! 
 So expect the same good old feeling just as you had when playing the first one.... (That is if you 
 played the first one..) Sound: Much better, more vibrate sounds and voice acting, as well as background 
 effects. (Gunshots in the distance) Graphics: Of course it looks better, I mean don't you have 
 Pictures to look at? Anywho, the game looks much better and even more cooler looking explosions 
 , So be proud and play the damn game!!!
  
  Replay Value: Multiplayer is very active, and this time you can play a co-op mission with up to 
 4 players, but it may lag or slow down.... other than that great game to play with some Ex-Marines.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeTD21
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Single player campaign is intense and innovative. The graphics look amazing. The sound 
 is good. Multiplayer plays different then other shooters, but is still great.
  
  The Bad: Campaign is too short. The multiplayer makes it to hard for new players to get into games. 
 A little to easy.
  
  Overall this game is exactly what you want in a sequel. It adds some things to the gameplay that 
 makes it stand out from its original. But keeps all the elements that made the first one so great. 
 And while the getting into games is hard at first, after a few games it becomes much easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miningguy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  If you like squad based games with a future war or just like guns this game will work for you. 
 In story mode you play as a squad leader (of course) named scott mitchel in a war vesus the mexican 
 terrorists. This game takes place 24-hours after the first advanced warfighter so if you played 
 the first one that would give you a good advantage since the gameplay mechanics are the same. Your 
 job as Scott is to stop the mexican terrorists from advancing over the US border. the multiplayer 
 of this game is the same as warfighter 1 with its lean over cover system instead of a more get 
 on the wall and blind firing. New to the multiplayer now is its helicopters (Not avalible for flying 
 unfourtunetly) and also some of the new gamemode which are not that new to the genre though great 
 additions. Overall this game is great but is to average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewy_Crunchy1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  In the second installment of the GRAW series, you once again play as Captain Scott Mitchell. The 
 single player in GRAW 2 is one of the most exciting and entertaining ones I have played although 
 it is much shorter than the previous game. The cover system is brilliantly put together and the 
 game will give one many opportunities to use cover as Scott will be pitted against tanks and countless 
 numbers of Mexican rebels. The weapons available to the player seem fairly realistic in look and 
 damage done to enemies not being too advanced for the time in which GRAW 2 is set. When one fires 
 one of these guns, he sound that comes out of them is incredible just like all of the sound effects 
 in the game such as the ground shaking explosions. Just as you begin to fall into the epic soundtrack 
 and the heat of battle, there is very little of the campaign left to enjoy. This problem may be 
 solved with the three levels of difficulty if one wants to play the campaign through multiple times. 
 In the last GRAW, the multi-player became old quite quickly. Luckily, GRAW 2 didn't fall into this 
 trend. The level designs were the problem I think and the numerous maps in GRAW 2 are made to perfection 
 resulting in a never ending fun experience that I am yet to stop enjoying. If the levels do not 
 keep one entertained, the many game types will. There is everything from team death-match to pitting 
 yourself against an endless onslaught of helicopters. Unlike in other games, you can check your 
 progress and see how close you are to getting achievements. On-line, there is never a lack of games 
 with up to 16 other players. There is, however, a problem joining some and an invite system that 
 only works a quarter of the time. This means that if you want to play with friends, you may spend 
 a long as five minutes finding a game that allows you to invite each other and has a reasonable 
 amount of people in it. Overall, GRAW 2 is a game worth buying if you enjoyed other shooters like 
 it and will instantly become a classic. It is at least worth renting if you enjoy other shooters 
 because it is sure to be a fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willlovesatreyu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I played this at my friends house for the whole night (we beat it) and afterwords we spent 
 another week playing the multi-player, this game is definitely worth it, if you get bored with 
 the single player the multiplayer will last you enough till the next one comes out. Just like the 
 Original the game is set in Mexico, and what a Mexico it is, im mean WOW they really did well on 
 the graphics, excellent lighting particles and oh the explosions, the explosions were so good I 
 wanted to blow up everything in my sight. This game is a must buy, especially if you are looking 
 for a game with raw action, and those oh so great I CANT BELIEVE I JUST DID THAT!! moments. Ubi-soft 
 has hit the mark again with another great GRAW action title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastercosmo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 picks up just after the events of the first GRAW. You 
 play as special forces Captain Scott Mitchell, leader of a group of elite soldiers called the Ghosts. 
 You are in Mexico helping the U. S. and Mexican Loyalist forces combat a rebel insurgency. You are 
 equipped with the Advanced Warfighter system, which lets you get satelitte intel, see what your 
 soldiers see and even highlights known enemies on your HUD.
  The missions are basically a series of small scale battles with rebel forces. Along with you are 
 your 3 squadmates, whose A. I. has been greatly improved from the original. Now they call out enemies 
 positions dynamically. Rather than jsut giving you the direction, they actually tell you where 
 the enemy is. (such as Hostile, behind the red truck! ) They also seek cover more efficiently and 
 are much more accurate with their weapons. Another update to the gameplay is the medic class, who 
 carries medpacks to heal and revive any of your teamates or you should you take a hit (but you 
 still cannot be revived if killed, so dont think you're invincible) Any enemy you see directly 
 will show up as a red diamond on your HUD, as well as anyone who fires at you. However, some enemies 
 will not show up on your HUD if they havent engaged you, so watch out for them. The enemy A. I. 
 is largely unchanged, so they are still pretty dumb. They will typically stay in one spot, or if 
 they do move, they dont move far. You can just sit in wait until they poke out to fire at you or 
 your team and take them down. Also at your disposal are several different kinds of support, including 
 an AH-6 Little Bird attack helicopter, an M1A1 Abrams Main Battle Tank, a Stryker APC, airstrikes, 
 and a second team of infantrymen. I found the Little Bird uterrly useless, but the rest do their 
 jobs nicely. However, the tanks move on a fixed route, and you can only tell them to move along 
 that route, fall back towards the start of the route, or to shoot any enemy you tell them to. That's 
 not to say the tanks dont help, because they do. The second team of infantrymen helps with the 
 firefights by giving you an extra unit to move around for flanking or for suppressive fire. As 
 for your weapons, you can carry one primary (assault rifle, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, etc.) 
 and there are many to choose from. A change from the original game, however, is that your secondary 
 weapon can be a Submachinegun, not just a pistol. You can also take a shotgun, but i have never 
 tried it. I honestly cant think of a time when i could use it. Now you can take the Zeus T2 rocket 
 launcher, but still have an automatic weapon for firefights. I recommend the P90 or Cx4 storm. 
 Those are the two most reliable for me. As in the first game, the sniper weapons can penetrate 
 some walls, making no place safe for the enemy. You also carry two slots for explosives and grenades. 
 You choose a kit rather than individual items. The offensive kit supplies you with about 7 or 8 
 frag grenades and 4 or 5 smoke grenades, and is usually the ideal package. Some missions you will 
 never use grenades, but they do come in handy sometimes, such as taking out an enemy in cover that 
 is too dangerous to try to flank. Several missions also put you behind an M134 Chaingun on board 
 a UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter. These missions are very simple: blow the living hell out of every 
 red diamond you see. You have unlimited ammo but the weapon can overheat, but overheating takes 
 a very long time, even if you fire without stopping. The firefights can be very intense, with chunks 
 flying out the walls from bullet impacts, large explosions from cars being shot and grenades, and 
 of course the din of autmatic weapons fire. The marketplace fight at the end of the 4th mission 
 is especially amazing, with tanks firing at you, the rounds hitting dangerously close to you and 
 shaking the camera, the almost deafening weapon fire made even louder (and more kicka$$) by the 
 airstrikes you call in. Overall, the game is fairly short, about 7-10 hours. Though it is easier 
 than GRAW, it is still a fairly challenging and very, very fun game for those 7 hours. The online 
 multiplayer component is fun, but the absence of the cover system in multiplayer sort of troubles 
 me. Most of the maps are pretty big, and people tend to lean twoards sniper class on bigger maps, 
 so dont be surprised to get randomly cut down while on a stroll through the hills. (i dont have 
 A LOT of expireience with multiplayer, about 30 hours total at my friends house, so im just using 
 what i expireienced)
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are simply amazing. The detail on everything from character 
 models to buildings, to the smoke and fire of explosions completly immerse you in the expierience. 
 When your blackhawk first flies over the war torn city of Sierra Juarez, with all of the billowing 
 smoke clouds and wrecked buildings and a huge draw distance, you will be completley amazed (or at 
 least i was) The lighting is perfect, especially at sunset, where the sky is lit up a brilliant 
 orange and everyhting is bathed in shadows. But perhaps the best part of the graphics are the explosions, 
 brilliant yellow orange fireballs and billowing smoke clouds signalling the destruction of some 
 poor guys Honda and 2 or 3 of your enemies.
  
  Sound: From the distant fighting and the rustling of your gear as you sprint across the street 
 to the awesome booms and thuds of explosions, the sound also adds to the immersion factor. My only 
 fault with the audio is that the guns could be a little louder. When sniping, i felt like i was 
 using a BB gun rather than a high powered .50cal sniper rifle. However when engaged in huge fights 
 with maybe a dozen weapons going off, this is not a problem.
  
  Overall: This game is an immerisve, intense and highly entertaining expierience. If your looking 
 for a tactical shooter that is more fast paced and less trial and error, look no further than Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  graw 1 was highly successful and so graw 2 had a big challenge ahead however merely a year later 
 its here. graw 2 uses the same engine as its preddessor and whilst the campaign is short and not 
 to fanatstic and overall feels the same as graw 1 theres no mistaking that the little changes have 
 made a big impact to the game. new weopens and some old ones a chucked into the mix snipers, rifles 
 etc and all look and feel fantastic the reloading and weopens swap stays the same with releastic 
 time waits and the player moves releasticlly. however the game isnt as punishing anymore. ammo 
 isnt so much of an issue and one bullet doesnt send you back to the last checkpoint which really 
 makes a diffrerence to how tactical you have to be whilst you still cant run and gun across a road 
 you dont have to take it as slowly either. whilst this change was seen as a negative aspect by 
 most i dissagree with the critics it makes the game more possible and seem fairer, and for the 
 people who like a challenge just turn the difficulty up. overall i think this is an exceptional 
 shooter and well desrving of the rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeycj7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 was the best ghost recon game i had ever played the story was more in depth than the first 
 one. I could tell that the enemy was a little bit tougher even on hard mode they had better AI 
 than the first one. but the story was so short it felt like when the story ended i was just about 
 getting used to story they cant do that i mean come on spend a few more years on it cause i bet 
 it will pay off i think all games are worth spending a lot of time making them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome. I actually have not beat single player but my dad and I love to play 
 on the multiplayer together. We especially like the setting territory. The graphics are awsome 
 along with the controls. It took me a little bit to learn the controls but I was new to the xbox 
 controller. Just like all good game it was very replayable. The gameplay is fun and the cpu is 
 smart. some other games to look into if you like this is gears of war, advanced warfighter 1, or 
 call of duty. I have nothing else to say. a a a a a a a a a a aq a a a a a a a a a a a a s s s 
 s s df m dgag as 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkhornet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is the best in the series. It is one of 
 the best looking game on 360. The effects are excellent. The ways that the character move and shoot 
 are so realistic that make you forget the real environment. Now the emeny has better AI and better 
 reaction so don't expect to finish the game so easily. The vehicle are so realistic espiceally the 
 helicopters. They look like real things. Tanks and armour cars are very good too. But I don't understand 
 why there is no clip dropped down or put into the gun while reloading and there is no shell coming 
 out while firing pistol or sub-machine gun. Except thost bloody facts the game is really amusing. Unlike 
 GRAW, GRAW2 has many great battles like defending some sort of building and storming the rebel base.
 
  
  It is based on both mexico and US soil. But the campaing is too short which can end up so quckily. The 
 worst thing is you cannot skip the in-game movies even if you are playing the game second time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foller21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  this game rules over all but it could be better like better command tactics to your team more support 
 and More Freedom the story si short and could be longer and i heat it because in the end the game 
 leaves you in doubt to what will happen next. The question i want answered if scott died or lives 
 or was severly injured it is exiting that you actually command a team but it can be better i liked 
 this game because it is good and fun and i think is the best in the tom clancy series this game 
 could be a lot better and could maybe had a better rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter debuted just about a year earlier, and I'm pretty surprised at 
 that. Still, I don't present its cons based on the release date. But trust me, not much has really 
 changed since the first game. The graphics have improved, but not so much the tactical game play 
 itself.
  
  Game Play ~ The controls and commands aren't as clunky as the first game's. With that in mind, 
 you'd think that the core game play would have changed. Well, that's where I'm disappointed. The 
 AI (Oops! I meant, your team's AI) has improved, but the enemy's moves are way too predictable, 
 which lessens the action. The squad commands are very easy to use now, but sometimes, the AI won't 
 move at ALL when you tell them to. The missions in the campaign are all very different, but with 
 all of these things put together, it seems that if you hide behind boulders in the desert all day 
 and wipe out hostile units, you'll get through every mission the same way. It was said that you 
 could use different strategies for game play each time you play, but of course, that ain't very 
 true. Then we have some better points of the game. The weapons look and sound awesome, giving you 
 an authentic feeling. Well, at least something's authentic... One omre complaint I have is the 
 continuous lack of beginner-friendlines that the GRAW games have displayed. The objectives for 
 the tutorial are either too complicated, too hard to understand, or hard to fulfill... abnormally. 
 Yeah, I have the nerve to say this.
  
  Then comes along the beautiful cross-cam and satellite scanner that allow you to see through your 
 teammates' vision and that allow you to see everything in the area from above.
  
  Anyhooooo -- on with the review!
  
  Graphics ~ The lighting has improved so that my eyes aren't 
 blinded as much anymore, but otherwise, the mechanics or.... physics (whatever) are still kinda 
 funky. Whenever I steal my teammate's cover position (for the sake of my virtual HP) , he passes 
 right through me. Yeah, err.... I don't fully understand game mechanics and physics, but I'm good 
 enough to recognize these things. Still, one thing that amazes me are the videos that are frequently 
 sent to your visor. They look absolutely real! Well, they do put in some real-life people, but 
 you get my point. Sound ~ A. U. T. H. E. N. T. I. C.
  
  Overall, this game is acceptable, but please try it out first. Many have different opinions on 
 this game, particularly this series. I believe that this game is better than the first one, but 
 keep in mind that there are other games in the world to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyripper
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This has been one of the most awated games for me as i loved the first of the GRAW series. The 
 graphics has improved slightly and there is a much vaster variety of weapons to choose from. Many 
 things have been improved such as your team who tell you where you can find enemies and how many 
 there are. Also the UAV cam has been made much easier to use and is much more usefull. Multiplayer 
 and online play are much better also as there are far more maps than there were in the first game. 
 However bots have not been changed much and they act in a similar way to the first game. Also the 
 problem with changing clips from the first game is still present. When you reload he doesn't actually 
 take out the clip from his gun. Altogether it is a great game and i would recomend it to anyone 
 who was a fan of the first game. However if you prefer a game that is not so open warfare you should 
 wait a few more months until Rainbow six vegas 2 is out on the streets as it should have improved 
 equally as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIKINGS1600
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I bought GRAW 2 the day it came out, because i loved the first one. The second brings better online 
 and offline gameplay , better graphics and an unbelievable amount of online features. graw is definetly 
 one of the best games for the 360, graw is simply amazing!!! online is fast paced, realisticwith 
 one of the greatest weapon selction in any game. the only bette oline shooter is rainbow six vegas, 
 wih i also highly recommen, with both these game, u will not be dissapointed. the campaign in graw 
 is simply a masterpiece, featuring highly realisti fireights, and good ai. the graphics standalone, 
 while the sound is perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  just a year after tha release of GRAW, Ubisoft releaes a (n) continuation of 1 of tha best tactical-shooters.
 
  Now like i said nbot much has changed. But tha graphics look better. And Tha weather affects r 
 amazing. Tha character models r more bulky. Tha graphics r tha biggest improvement. In some missions 
 u'll wanna stop and look at how good tha envoirnments look and tha weather affects make it all 
 look better. And it makes everything gorgeous.
  Now tha gameplay is basically tha same. U run ,take cover, pop-up, and fire. And if u've played 
 GRAW 1 and ur good at it like me... tha game is no challenge. U have more allies since u get 2 pick 
 a medic and a marksmen. Ur old allies r tha same, but when u tell them 2 be silent they won't shoot 
 any enemy and tha only time they will is if they r getting fired at. Which is a really big improvement. 
 And when u tell them 2 be weapons free... well u get tha deal. And u have tha ability 2 go full-command 
 view. Which is usefull when ur trying 2 target enemy's. And tha mule is what u'll like. From it 
 u can heal, refill, and that's pretty much it. Now u have a limited number of medkids. So have a 
 medic wit u at all times. He can also heal u. And there r a lot of weapons. And u'll find tha right 
 1's. Now instead of having a pistol... u can have a SMG or a shotgun and weapons wit silencers.
 
  Now tha story... u play as Captain Scott Micthell tha u played as in GRAW 1. Ur sent 2 Mexico since 
 there is an uprising of rebels. And u have 2 clean tha mess. Tha rebels have gathered 2 rebel against 
 that NASJA thingi tha U. S. president and tha Mexican president r trying 2 make. And it is a short 
 and sweet story. And u go 2 U. S. soil but not 4 long. And there's this weapon tha rebels have and 
 u and ur squad r tha only 1's who can stop it which is tha last mission.
  So it's just GRAW 1 wit better graphics, shorter story, more allies, and a bonous section that 
 has character bios and etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makuta46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon advanced warfighter 2 is the best damn game on the X360. Trust me it's worth your money. 
 It has great multiplayer and online play. A little challenging but really is worth playing for 
 hours on end. But really Ghost Recon advanced warfighter 2 really gets to you and you can't put 
 it down because of it's awesomeness. Gameplay, graphics, sound, and replay value are all great. 
 Online play will have you butt glued to the couch for hours on end. Did I mention it's really awesome. 
 Anyway to wrap this up GRAW 2 is the best single, multi, and online game ever to hit the gaming 
 market. Thank you Ubisoft For making another great game to the Ghost Recon franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  GRAW was an excellent tactical shooter, and definitly the best on the 360. It was a relief to hear 
 that a sequel was being released because the origional GRAW had some flaws that would hopefully 
 be fixed. Fortunatly, the sequel does fix the problems of it's predecessor. Graphics - Unlike the 
 the origional, the graphics are less glitchy, and slightly sharper in detail. Character models 
 and weapons as well as the effects like flying tracer rounds and explosions all look excellent. 
 Sound - Very sharp sound and good voice acting. All the chaos going on has nice sound that is fitting.
 
  
  Gameplay - Easy to learn controls that are located well on the controller and actually respond 
 when you use them.
  
  Story - Interesting storyline with a decent length that brings you to many locations all over Mexico 
 and the U. S in different conditions such as night and day. The story doesnt get boring but keeps 
 intensifying as you progress.
  
  This is currently the BEST tactical shooter on the Xbox 360 after Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  *Warning- Long review, I please ask you to take the time to read all of it, for I belive it has 
 ultimately described the game as need be and is true to every aspect of the game, giving enough 
 knowledge to base important descisions such as whether or not to buy such a game or to simply ignore 
 it. Thank you.*
  
  Graw 2 hits everything at every angle and is an excellent game! It's gameplay changes between Single 
 player and Multiplayer. In Singleplayer the world is diverse, you feel as if you are there as if 
 everything that happens is actually happening (up until you die that is, which will happen if you 
 are playing on some of the harder difficulties) You move like you would in real life. Your tactics 
 are just as they would be as a militant soldier! You are a futuristic fighting force, with technology 
 that allows you to Identify and Eliminate targets before they have even the slightest Idea that 
 you are in the vicinity. With Improved tactics to use via the crosscom 2.0 and with more supports 
 added and new weapons the possibilities are endless. The Single player missions are diverse and 
 real. You feel as if you are going through what the military would go through and you feel as if 
 you are truly the only thing standing between The U. S. and Nuclear War. Going through the Single 
 player Campaign you will be wrapped up in the action, or in every moment as you take the head shot 
 with your M107 Sniper rifle or if you sneakily eliminate a group of targets by use of the MRC-LWs 
 guncam. The single player Campaign also is loaded with extras such as gameplay videos, complete 
 directories of Characters, Bio's, and weaponry. The game also includes a debriefing area in which 
 you may listen to objectives and intel gained throughout the game and recall conversations for 
 certain situations lest you miss something vitally important. This is alot for just a single player 
 campaign but this is not all. The single player mode also has its own ranking system pertaining 
 to a new Quick mission mode in which you may play previously played missions for points in which 
 will be ranked to see who is truly the best. Along with this the game gives you 1 of 5 play styles 
 according to how you acted in each situation. Despite the fact that the most difficult of the 3 
 divisions of campaign you may choose from leaves more a challenge to be desired, the Campaign is 
 truly amazing and leaves ultimately few points to work on.
  
  Multiplayer is a little different than Campaign. In multiplayer there are again many options as 
 in Single player. There are as in the first G. R. A. W. numerous gametypes to paly from so that you 
 are never bored with any one game type and you never feel restricted to play one type of game. 
 THe game includes an extended CO-op Campaign in terms of the original game's and is packed full 
 of new challenges that i n the end add up to be even more difficult than the game's acctual campaign. 
 The ranking system is excellent except for a few key points such as being grouped with other players 
 around your own skill level and in terms of losing experience for even being associated with players 
 of the lowest ranks (i. e. Completly dominating a ranked game as a level 6-Staff Sergeant against 
 level 1's and 2's, Privates and PFC's, and still losing some of your hard earned rank percentages) . 
 All in all though the gameplay is very well done in multiplayer. The few remaining flaws consist 
 of Mic disfunction in some games, and connection issues occure moderatly. Again there are still 
 many extras in this multipalyer that the first game did not have, such as a Class encyclopedia 
 that has a detailed bio of each class so that you may find one that fits your play style, a multiplayer 
 weapon directory, and ofcourse something most games do not have. An Achievement status quo. There 
 is a special section in which you may check your progress towards gaining an achievement! (i. e. 
 you can see your % out of those 100 sniper kills you've been trying to get to see how close you 
 are to those beautiful gamer points!) . So all in all again only a few points remain to be fixed 
 and mastered in the multiplayer.
  
  Graphics. The graphics in this game are real, and beautiful. The visuals create a real battle field 
 inwhich you truly feel like death and destruction has occured in, or is about to occur once you 
 step into the playing field. The graphics are hugely enhanced and even without the use of HD copacity 
 the game is remarkable well touched up and giving you a shiny glare in the sun. Yes, in the sun, 
 the day affects and landscapes look oh so very real in this game, the graphics were done marvelously 
 leaving nothing to be desired starting as soon as you see that first Air strike called down via 
 you and your radio in not only single player, but multiplayer's co-op campaign also has such situations! 
 What more can be done in a tactical shooter? What more?
  
  The sound in the game is done well and sounds real and intense. Bullets fly, you hear them, richochet, 
 hit, peirce, you hear it all, you don't have to wait for your team to respond before knowing whats 
 going on, it is all depicted very clearly through the sounds. Everything is done nicely. Your team 
 responds to practically everything that goes on, and so does the enemy. After reviewing all of 
 the sounds of the campaign three seperate times each and then some, there can only be one thing 
 said of the sound in this game and that it leaves out one thing. Variety of team-speak. Your team 
 is very repetive, as is your general. The Dialouge is, not always, but too often bleak and even 
 repetive, in briefings and in the fight (after completeing all of the single player numerous times 
 I'm pretty fed up with hearing That shot was beautiful sir! while being pinned down by a Helo and 
 7 rebel soldiers. and then having my team repeatedly say No shot, gotta move and then to have them 
 stay put and continously repeat themselves. But other than this the sound is wonderful and throws 
 you into the war.
  
  The overall value of the game is great the story line is great, the campaign is no pain to play, 
 pure enjoyment due to the difficulties not being overbearingly impossible such as in A few certain 
 WWII shooters I endured (wink wink call of duty on veteran, wink wink) It has the perfect set up 
 in single player for those who want to have an easy and casual time in difficulty and for those 
 who want to up their game anotch. The only aspect it is missing is a selection for those who wish 
 to do the impossible, in which it lacks, however, this outcome can be good and bad, for various 
 reasons. The multiplayer makes you feel like a real soldier and thus you enjoy how you are deployed 
 on missions to plant demo charges and extract before the other players team can take out your elite 
 Ghost Squad and prevent the destruction of their base and supplies. Or when two sides both with 
 support team face off to control important zones and choke points to secure the area as their own. 
 The multiplayer matches feel alot like a mission in campaign only now you have your buddy right 
 next to you, covering you all the way. To add to all of this the learning crb is not extensive 
 and does not take long to learn to aim your rife and eliminate a target, but for you to master 
 the art of seeking and identifieing zones of cover and advantage points may take you to play through 
 the game once or twice before you take you skills on xbox live to show everyone whos the real Champion. 
 The game's value rates high indeed due to all of this and more.
  
  More so I must give this game a better review for the fact that I do so love it and also loved 
 the first G. R. A. W. However, I never really played any Ghost recon games before Advanced Warfighter 
 1. Still I higher the review due to my love for the game, but it is love well placed, for I have 
 relunctantly written down the poor parts of the game and not just the great and the good parts 
 of this game. So my reviewr's tilt on the game goes up Makeing my rating on a 9.2 Superb.
  
  In Summary: I say that the gameplay is quick and easy, but at times can frustrate. The graphics 
 are absolutely real.
  The sound is great, but repetitive.
  The value and story of the game is pefectly done continueing on from the original game.
  and 
 I love the game enough to boost it's score.
  
  In leaving the Difficulty of this game would be Just right for all but those who want to accomplish 
 the most gruesome and difficult of tasks.
  To date I have spent within 40-100 hours playing this game, and so I do know much about it and 
 believe I have rated it fairly.
  The learning curve takes about 30 minutes to become aquinted with, and about an hour to truly grasp 
 every concept for the first time.
  And lastly, I would classify this game as the best in its series. Not just out of the original 
 GRAW and itself, but out of all Ghost Recon games and possibly all games Labled under Tom Clancy.
 
  
  A 9.2 / 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  GRAW
  Campaign: There's not much to say about the campaign as it isn't really that bad, really good graphics, 
 nice car explosions. Bad side about it is that there ain't much blood spilled and the gameplay 
 feels sorta to short.
  
  Multiplayer: The Multiplayer is just near-horrible, I mean they did put quite a few decent customization 
 stuff, like facial paints, helmets etc. Cars dont blow up, almost 100 weapons but they all look 
 almost the same, not much of a different. Killing terrorists on it is just as bad as killing people 
 on it as they all look the same, no blood, no bullet holes on the body or vehicles, it feels kinda 
 dull, not interesting enough.
  
  GRAW 2
  Campaign: Almost the same as GRAW2 With the exception of too-cheap-to-make-it-longer. The campaign 
 is like 50% shorter then GRAW which just ruins it.
  
  Multiplayer: They made a improvement since GRAW Multiplayer, but it still needs alot of retouching 
 even with the nice graphics and music. Clips dont 'unplug' from the main weapon when reloading 
 while hugging or not hugging the wall (assuming they fixed that 1 year later) . Not enough customized 
 stuff to use, poor blood splatter, cheap screen design, like the main weapon, handgun, grenade, 
 ammo clip, fps shooter, number stamp pics displayed on the screen (of course) .
  
  Overall, even wth the improved multiplayer from GRAW2, Alot of players just expect more from it. 
 The creators of this game should hang in shame for creating such a short-ass campaign and not enough 
 gore or explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuclear24
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The graphics for this game are awesome to say the least. I love the way the explosions rock the 
 camera if you are too close. The AI seems to take cover well when under fire, but they still pop 
 up every so often, allowing you to knock them off relatively easy. If you're not used to war games, 
 than the learning curve will be a little harder. I would say the only thing I DON'T like about 
 this game, is how small and hard to read the lettering is on the screen. I also like the fact that 
 you can turn off graphics such as blood. I prefer to leave this feature turned on for realism, 
 but I have small siblings that like to play this game and they don't need to see it. I know it's 
 a mute point, what with the very mild language, but it still helps a little. Over all, I recommend 
 this game to anyone who is even remotely interested in war games, even though the missions are kind 
 of short. The game play is simple yet sophisticated, and the sound effects are out of this world, 
 which is exactly where your mind is, if you don't pick up Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keesler23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  i love the game and the graphics and all the guns and everything you do during the game but i hate 
 how the game drags on forever and all of a sudden it just ends. But thats just my opinion message 
 me back and tell me what you think. Because to me it has a good ending but why does it all of a 
 sudden just end with the seen of the bomb blowing up and why didnt it affect me with the nuclear 
 and do you think its leading into a graw 3. Who knows but hopefully yes. And if it does please 
 let be better than what the halo 3 demo has brought so far considering its not that big of a difference 
 from halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 boosts itself above all other tactical shooters by introducing incredibly graphics, soundtrack, 
 gameplay and addicting multiplayer.
  
  Story:
  You're Scott, head of a GR squad 4 years from now, you'll be using weapons that aren't published 
 yet and not even special forces are using them yet, you'll be protecting various presidents from 
 summit meetings, by doing this you'll kill anything offensive.
  
  Gameplay:
  You are equipped with special weapons, including turrets on helicopters, assault rifles and bazookas, 
 there a tons of devices you will use.
  
  The tactical aspect of the game comes from commanding 3 other soldiers with you, their 100% useful 
 in the game, they'll take cover and give you supporting fire and they'll follow your commands, 
 you'll be given a S-cam where you can see your soldiers vision.
  
  You can make special moves, like sliding, sliding on your knee's etc, the interface ingame looks 
 alot like Metroid Prime.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Some textures seem a little sluggish, but the overal game is fantastic looking, explosions look 
 great etc, the games TPS view let you see the smooth animation your character makes.
  
  Explosions look fantastic, from tanks to exploding barrels, everything gets shot out of all direction 
 in a blazing fire.
  
  The sound is great, from the commando's to the soundtrack, the soundtrack is something you'd expect 
 from a intense scene from a action-movie nowadays, gunfires all sound unique, and you'll constantly 
 hear enemy fire etc.
  
  AI:
  This game has some really hard AI, with a factor of dying quickly, you can take a few shots and 
 die, this means covering is a key-tactic, getting your teammates with you is a must to, since they'll 
 clear out just as many people as you do, and there are loads of 'em.
  
  Is it a good tactical shooter:
  Get the game if you like the genre, its the best one out now, 
 don't forget its addicting multiplayer either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalleema
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying I don't play a ton of shooter games. I've played Gears of War and Fear 
 and the older Rainbow Six's and Ghost Recon's but I never got into GRAW. So I picked up GRAW2 the 
 other day thinking What the heck, Clancy is at least quality stuff and I was impressed.
  
  I didn't play the multiplayer, which I'm sure is very fun, but the Single Player was engaging on 
 it's own. The graphics were excellent and there were times when I found myself saying holy **** 
 , which is an awesome response to have to a game I think.
  
  If you get a chance, pick up this game. It's easy enough to play, fun to play and the Story which 
 is normally quite thin in Clancy games (ironically) is pretty engaging in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TankhunterXYX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, the campaign is really short but the online is really fun. The squad commands 
 were really easy and good and the explosions were something else, they were incredible. The graphics 
 in the game are incredible, and hey don't even down grade for the multiplayer. The guns are really 
 cool in this game, like the snipers can shoot through thin walls. You can also control UAVs and 
 Moles (vehciels that restore your ammo inthe middle of a mission) and use it for cover. If you 
 have Xbox live i say get it but if you don't either get it then this game or just rent this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best in the series of Ghost Recon Games. I was never a fan of the serie 
 suntill advance warfighter but after playing this one I'm completely hooked. GRAW was a good game 
 and it got me hooked into it right up untill the end. This game is simlar to the original gameplay 
 wise but there are a few extra features sich as the MULE which is like a portable ammo crate on 
 wheels and the ability tosee the action through the eyes of fellow soldiers and the CYPHER as well. 
 Also the graphics have taken a massive overhaul and are much more realistic than the previous version. 
 Although all these changes are great some are unnecesary and I can't help think that this one is 
 slightly easier than the oringal. I don't know whether it is because I played the original soo 
 much that I find this easier or whether that is how it was designed. Despite this Ubisoft have 
 made another solid Tom Clancy game and I cannot wait to see what else they put out there. I will 
 happily give this 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillErmarinE15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  In Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 you are Scott Mitchel. You lead a squad of ghosts into Mexico. 
 However the the mission is all hush-hush so there is a lot of sneaking, but also a lot of intense 
 firefights.
  The Graphics in G. R. A. W. 2 are really good. They're up there with Gears's and Oblivion's. The lip 
 syncing in G. R. A. W. 2 is terrible. The characters in the pop-up window start talking. And after 
 they stop talking their mouth's continue to move. It is nothing serious, it is just a minor problem.
 
  The online is great, even though there are a lot of WHAT THE **** IS THIS ****! I ****ING SHOT 
 THAT MOTHER ****ER 50 MOTHER ****ING TIMES! ARRGGHHH!!!!!!!!!!! But the gunfights online are intense. 
 These are some of the best.
  The controls in G. R. A. W. 2 are effective, but a little un-responsive. Such as you are running and 
 you want to stop. It takes a second for your character to stop. A cool feature is being able to 
 customize your character's head. Even though this is a short review, you SHOULD buy G. R. A. W. 2 
 it is worth it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first graw i coulden't get enough and graw two only ups the bar on awsome. This game 
 is a great follow up to the first game but it also has things that the first did not like more 
 detail in graphics this gamme is stunning to see and hear. The one problem is you can beat the game 
 in about 7 hours or so and while its fun it just doesn't last at all but there is a great multiplayer 
 that enyone who liked the first will instantly love. Overall graw two is a much better game then 
 graw one and its so much fun that i bet you will play the story over an over again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2kitz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Story: yeah yeah you all know it
  
  Improvements: Graphics, faster gameplay, wider range of weapons, more AI interactions, UAV cam 
 upgrade is awesome, better mission voice (i cant hear a damn thing on the previous one)
  
  Game Length: Just Perfect for fast pace action shooter.
  
  bad points: the aiming system should 
 be a little more faster, or should try to be gears of war like.
  Player move too slow and the wall cover isnt all that good, gears is better.
  health system is 
 like kinda crappy but at least u can heal now, i wish its kinda like gears.
  
  Good Points: true next gen graphics.
  sounds pretty good
  you can now hear the voice mission 
 brief.
  
  overall: u should get this game if u already bought the first one, wont dissappoint u and will 
 make u play the single player over and over again if u are those kind of people who love perfection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Hi guys,
  
  I have some mixed feelings about this game. I love Tom Clancy's series VG, but this one, I don't 
 know if its a way to make us spend more money for an expansion, or it really its the secuel for 
 one of the best XBOX 360 games done.
  
  The first thing I thought was, I need to get it as soon as it's released, but what was my surprise, 
 I was getting deeper into the game, and sudenly, It overs!!!, what the ..... That never happened 
 to me before, just like 4 or 5 acts, and that's it, you don't even get good stuff, just the same 
 action you had before.
  
  Graphics, yes, are better, but who cares, I wanted more action, levels, and stuff. The multiplayer 
 is good, but still doesn't fill me.
  
  It could have been a better idea to download those short levels from XB live, and even cheaper. 
 I recomend you to rent it first, don't waste your money to have a 3 hrs fun.
  
  I think these guys have to learn something about their partners, just have a look at Rainbow Six 
 Vegas Red PAck, excellent add-ons for an excellent game, and much better, excellent price.
  
  Guys, don't beleive the hype, is just the same GRAW 1 but with a .5 tilt.
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  When I rented this game, i knew the reviews were great and everything, but when i played the single 
 player campaign and the graphics were so real, but the gameplay stuck. The missions are so boring, 
 i played it for about 30 minutes and fell asleep. Some of the features get confusing. The multiplayer 
 mode is really fun. graphics on this game is the only thing it gets its boost. I advise people 
 to rent it first before you buy it. and if you dont have anyone to play it with, you will be bored 
 out your mind, they need to bring this game more alive . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattt090
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 will always remind me of the 60 dollar waste of money game i bought. At first buying GRAW 
 2 i thought the game would have some cool new weapons and levels. The gameplay was pretty much 
 the same but a few new good/bad multiplayer features were added. But overall I was very dissappointed. 
 the new weapons of GRAW 2 i couldn't really tell any that stand out. the only real cool addition 
 in it weapon wise that i noticed was that with sniper rifle during campaign you can shoot through 
 walls.
  
  Level wise this game sucks to the GRAW fan. the old ghost recon fans might like a few of the old 
 levels remade but I hated most of the levels. i got to know them but i hated them. in my opinion 
 GRAW had way better levels and in order to get the GRAW levels on GRAW 2 you had to buy them, which 
 i didn't do cause i knew no one else would and i would never get in a game because i would have 
 been the only one that bought the GRAW levels. Overall, GRAW had better levels you might like the 
 levels of GRAW 2 but only if your a die hard fan of the old ghost recon.
  
  the gameplay was the exact same except for a new roll move you can do on the ground.
  
  the 
 multiplayer compared to the first GRAW was a little better. but not everyone will like the new 
 additions to the multiplayer. the ranking system will not put you on your friends team. the teams 
 are all randomly picked, this is pretty dissapointing if you are wanting to own some fools on the 
 other team with your buddy. Another multiplayer feature added, which is a complete waste of time, 
 is clan wars. sounds cool doesn't it? but the down side is its completly unranked. so your in a 
 clan match and the other team quits cause they dont care its unranked. and even if you won a ton 
 of matchs there is no leaderboards for clans. WASTE OF MY TIME!!! i didn't play in any clan matchs. 
 didn't need this addition unless the matchs are ranked. The last addition to the multiplayer was 
 good but easy to do, it tells you how close you are to ranking up. they put it in an inconvenient 
 spot but at least its there in the leader boards.
  
  in conclusion, rent it first or at least play the multiplayer demo.
  but its a waste of your 
 money if you buy it if you are only a GRAW fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cropentax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Graw 2 was nice they is alot of stuff to do unlike GRAW 1 where pretty much the campaign and the 
 online. The is Helicopter hunt the protecting a base for whole hour and many more. In graw 2 the 
 graphics on online are more involving and better controls. I like the fact that the former online 
 famous maps are still around and bigger. The acts were cheap in that i beat the campaign in a day 
 and was done with the game achievements in a week. The downloadable content is even better and 
 the two multi player modes. I didn't like the terrorist though on the onlline matches they seem 
 dumm, coming to a battle field and not even put up a big fight. Any the game is good and fun and 
 involving its an better evolved graw 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a next-generation game in the fullest sense, whether it's the 
 loaded package of impressive graphics and special effects, the top-notch sound, or the tactically 
 enhanced gameplay. Red Storm's four-plus months of extra time have served the game incredibly well 
 and you can see the difference in the screenshots and you will feel it in the gameplay. It's still 
 Ghost Recon, which is to say it's still a rather acquired taste in first/third-person shooters, 
 but as the series goes, this one is easily the best one yet. You'll be impressed with the stunning 
 single-player game, and when you're done, you'll finally get to play long sessions on Xbox Live 
 with an online game that's fully equipped to deliver a next-gen package. My advice, get this game, 
 or get thee to a nunnery! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcong
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to most, I dont like Graw 2. The entire game is kind of boring to me.
  This is because basically what you do is run around and shoot ppl. Now, i know, everyone will say 
 that all you do in EVERY shooter game. However, that is not so. In games such as halo and Battlefield 
 you can use vehicles (with which you can run them over or use the turrent) , you can stick them (in 
 halo) , throwing grenades is MUCH easier to do (in halo) , you can assasinate them (in halo) , downwight 
 melee them (in halo) , you can call in artillery strikes or mortars (in BF) , and so, so forth. In 
 Graw 2, there is no melee, no jump, no vehicles you can directly and kill in, throwing grenades 
 is a hassle. The whole game is just boring to me. The game lacks anything fresh. However, i must 
 say, the graphics are phenominal (despite the clip not coming out of the gun when reloading) and 
 you've gotta love the back to wall feature. the game would've been much better had ubisoft put 
 that ability in multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is the sequel to Graw is it good or is it the same? its amazing!. 
 You are taking on the role of Scott Mitchell the Ghost team leader once again. Graw 2 takes place 
 48 hours after the events of GRAW this
  fighting mexican rebels for a span of 72 Hours fighting on environments like small towns and urban 
 environments. The gameplay for Graw 2 is top notch it uses a great cover system you can go prone 
 take fire using that cover there is amazing assortment of weapons every single one of them is unique. 
 when your fighting you move like an actual solider. Your squad members are smart as well there 
 of different classes like riflemen medic marksmen gunner grenadier etc they give you a heads up 
 like i see two captain target eliminated or things like by the bridge captain or like i see three 
 hes all by himself captain. Even when you get hit they let you know there like your to exposed 
 Ghost leader find cover so they aren't just there too shoot they fight along side you like real 
 soldiers. The A. I is great too when they see you they alert others and fight like real enemy soldiers 
 You don't always have to fight with just your Ghosts you can command things like Tanks in certain 
 parts of the game or even Mexican loyalists or air support . The Graphics in Graw 2 have been upgraded 
 a lot more this time around from a technical standpoint . when you look at the environments, soldiers, 
 guns, and physics around your jaw would just drop, weather its shooting at soldiers, vechiles or 
 blowing something up its all so good, or seeing the enviorments when your walking it make you feel 
 like you were actually fighting in that war. The sound in Graw 2 is good as well when you fire 
 the gun it doesnt sound like it was made up or when you hear the voice acting it sounds like your 
 actually talking to that person in real life or when you hear an explosion it sounds like an actual 
 explosion notthing fake. The single player was short for some people depending on how much you 
 played but it was just right for me. So when your done with Graw 2's single player you can play 
 on xbox live with up to 16 players and there is many game modes to choose from like sharpshooter 
 its like team deathmatch or takedown just to name a few but the options are limitless you can also 
 play co-op with friends or have system link. There is also leaderboards a ranking system and clan 
 support as well and you can select your class when you fight online. so there are a great assortment 
 of things you can do in Graw 2. Graw 2 should not be missed by anyone if you like realistic military 
 shooters and have xbox live you have to pick up this game see yo u in Graw 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  When i played the demo of this game after hearing all my friends ranting and raving about the first 
 GRAW, i was hooked. The multiplayer was impressive and very well rounded. The matches were easy 
 to find, and everyone was friendly and not dicks. So i purchase the game and pop it in to find 
 that eveything i had seen in the demo was gone, as if they made the demo to trick people into buying 
 a half made game. Onto the review
  
  Graphics: almost top par next-gen stuff, very detailed people, enviroments and such. Overall this 
 is one of the games few strong points. Sound: Everything seems to be in order here, no sound is 
 off beat but i dont care about sound unless its really annoying. Gameplay: Most people are going 
 to disaggree with me, but dont just because i am back handing your game, just hear me out. ill 
 start with single player.
  
  Single Player: Wow, i never thought something could be so short and so easy before, until i played 
 GRAW2. I decided to give myself an extra challenge the first time i played the single player and 
 amped it up to the maximum difficultly. Now normally this would make the game very hard like CoD2 
 on Veteren. But actually i had no problems beating the game in about 8 hours. This is sad, for 
 a $60 purchase i was given almost nothing of a singleplayer. They should have just focused ALL 
 on multiplayer to make it worth it. But they didnt. To give the single player some credit it has 
 some great moments of tension and suspense, but that is taken away by the fact that enemies dont 
 seem to be that smart, and your allies have the terrible accuracy. Multiplayer: Oh boy is it bad....... 
 Its a lag fested, server failing, Ranked mess. It took me about a half an hour to find a server, 
 but i was booted because i was a level 1 and everyone else was level 4. Now how can i level up 
 if i keep getting kicked from every single game?? THe constant servers failing is a sign that they 
 didnt spend much time on them or they just dont care anymore. My internet is great, it works just 
 fine with every other game and that leads me to believe that GRAW 2 is messed up with that. But 
 i admit when i actually wasnt lagging or seeing other people lagging i was having quite a good 
 time. Its dragged down though when you shooting at someone and they skip to the side and kill you. 
 Or you freeze and it says, this connection failed. What happend to the demo i played!?!? i never 
 lagged once, no server ever failed, i was having a ball! VERY dissapointing to me.
  
  Overall: This game had the stuff to make it for me. You cant ignore the things that happend to 
 me. I couldnt find any matches, i was lagged in and out of matches, the single player was to short 
 and easy even on the highest difficultly, AI was stupid most of the time, your team mates couldnt 
 hit the broad side of a barn with a shotgun, if your not a lv 10 you will get kicked from every 
 game you actually get into. If you cant trust a DEMO then what can you trust, i should have rented 
 it probaly but my hopes were running off the demo. I hope the first one wasnt like this. I'm selling 
 this piece of trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlover12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  how can you say that this game even so much look at 8.7!? it deserve by far 150 out of 10. Now 
 you can look at the view of your guys without exposing yourself! and whatever gun that was made 
 is kept! maybe next one they can make a customaisble gun!. sure it is short but more mission the 
 last GRAW. and this is a game that is worth every penny! so go save and buy this game! one thing 
 was wierd was that micthell sounded kinda chinese accent. but the gear for multiplayer! man that 
 super cool and is great advertising that some of the headgear is locked till you have of the game. 
 like some of the headgear that is locked is GRAW1 headgear which I already have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCFNameless
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  One of the best military tactical shooter games ever in video game history!!
  It is very exiting plus the grafics are awsome, a worth playing game with a touch of new and futuristic 
 weapons. Tom clancey did good on a game like this so newcomers be prepaird for an exiting thrill 
 and action through out taking place in Mexico City and The United States of America! Have fun with 
 it too.
  A must buy video 
  The only thing thats low on my perpective is the short game play campaign mode...
  One of the 
 best military tactical shooter games ever in video game history!!
  -SCFNameless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I see a lot of people pulling the same card as they always do with these types of games. They say 
 It's just the same game with different weapons and levels. . Whether it's a sports series or a 
 Tom Clancy series or the Halo series, people constantly accuse sequel games as being the same thing 
 . It's how the production company pulled it off is where the games separate from one another and 
 GRAW 2 is outstanding and in a lot of ways, better than the first.
  
  Gameplay: 10- In true Ubisoft fashion, the gameplay is incredible. For a tactical shooter, the 
 GRAW series has controls that are superior than any other game in it's genre. The L trigger provides 
 the smoothest gun-aim control mechanism on any shooter. Picking and zeroing in on your target is 
 smooth. As far as the typical gameplay mechanics (running, ducking, lying down, rolling etc.) , 
 they are superb. The placement of the controls in correspondence with the buttons is incredible, 
 making it extremely easy to pick up the controls. The gameplay is extremely responsive, giving 
 no delay in response time and a smooth scheme. The AI is as good as a game can have.
  
  Graphics: 10 - This game has to challenge Gears of War for the best graphics on the 360. The visuals 
 are even more vibrant and life-like than the original GRAW and the environments look so real you 
 get a feeling as if you have actually just experienced in real life what you saw. The explosions, 
 smoke, bullet dents and holes, cars etc all look impeccable. The depth of the graphics seems unlimited. 
 If you are a fun of outstanding visuals, this game is appealing to the eye.
  
  Sound: 9- The sound is great. If you have a theater system, you'll have even more of a life-like 
 feel to the game. Gunfire sounds as realistic as something can possibly sound. The sound effects 
 including running, explosions, voices and just about everything else is great, but just not perfect 
 and that's the only problem. The sound is by no means a problem. It is a positive of the game, 
 but it isn't PERFECT. At times during the game, the sound becomes dull and boring mostly because 
 of the dead times during the game. That is the only knock on the sound at all is that sometimes 
 it doesn't match the perfect intensity that the rest of the game elements provide. However, it 
 does it's job and then some... no REAL complaints here.
  
  Value: 10- While solo campaign is a tad shorter, the multiplayer options give this game even more 
 replay value than the last one. The co-op missions are a blast and the GRAW series brings it again 
 in the multiplayer arenas. The first GRAW was my favorite shooter to play online, but this game 
 is giving it a run for it's money. Many production companies of TPS, FPS, and TS games could learn 
 a thing or two from the GRAW series. The added feature I like the most is clan support. It is much 
 easier to manage your clan on this game compared to any other game since Halo 2. Tilt: 9- I love 
 this game. The only knock is that it's a sequel which ALWAYS takes at least a little of the luster 
 away from the game. If this were the first GRAW released, I would give it a 10 on the tilt, but 
 it isn't original. Other than that, the multitude of options GRAW 2 provides gives endless fun. 
 You'll find yourself going to bed at 4 am at times where you have to be at work/school at 7 am 
 without realizing you have been up that late.... especially in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeacorpsePirate
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the components of the old with a few added! The online is a fun experience as 
 well with many people playing all times of the day! The story was fun, fresh and challenging. The 
 squad commands are pretty good as well. The only flaw that i had with the game is that ive never 
 seen a sniper run around with a .50 caliber sniper rifle and shoot at the same time. Another flaw 
 is that an autromatic rifle laying down is sometimes more accurate at long range than a sniper 
 laying down which is stupid. But all in all it was a very fun and good game to play and the online 
 option will keep you occupied for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riddell-daniel
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say! I never played the original GRAW because I bought an xbox 360 and a few months 
 later GRAW2 came out so I thought, hey, this will be as good if not better, right? To start with, 
 the graphics are very good, theres some glitches here and there but nothing too serious. Most of 
 the time though theres so many bullets flying around you dont notice it. The sound is also excellent 
 but needs to be played through a good sound system. This can really make or break the experience 
 of actually being in a warzone. The gameplay is also excellent, its nearly (but not quite) like 
 playing blackhawk down instead of watching blackhawk down!!! The Mexican shouts can get abit annoying 
 after a while (particularly the use of the word gringo) but it doesnt detract from the fun.
  
  My main gripe with the game is its length!! I played it solidly for about 7 hours and it was 
 over. I was abit annoyed with this as I dont really like the multiplayer. I suppose that what you 
 get for a 1st class game that was churned out in one year but needless to say, it could have been 
 twice as long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttots08
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 25, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game by far has to be the best war game ... I may being giving a little le-way on my score 
 because war games are my favorite but this i believe by far deserves it. Graphics are amamzing 
 , gameplay is awesome, a little short but challenging experience .... the story line follows through 
 perfectly with the first graw. The amount of detail they put in the lighting, shadow effects is 
 just priceless.... i cant imagine how games can look any better in the future.... This is just 
 an amazing game, i know this review probably didnt help you out, but all i could say is BUY THE 
 GAME ...... GRAW 2 is amazing, hopefully there will be a GRAW 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 24, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  ok i give graw1 a 8.7 because it was new and good but graw2 is not what graw was the gameplay is 
 in the past in graw i give it a 8 now igive it a 7 because they dont make it better the new controls 
 and technics are from the past,
  
  the ai is pretty stupid in some parts the level desing are boring the campaing is like the other 
 graw so its like graw 1.5 the graphics are the same than last years so they are good but not new.
 
  
  i hate graw2 voice acting but it still have great sound effect
  
  multiplayer is boring is like a ps2 game its horrible and the maps are not so good like in graw 
 1
  
  its a decent game because is almoust the same than graw1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  GRAW2 has this innovative gamestyle that makes unique and sets it apart from others. Its very similar 
 to the first game with some new additions that takes this game a step further in a direction that 
 is too hard to pass up.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The visuals have been significantly improved. Everything you see truly feels and looks next-gen. 
 GRAW 2 has a realistic sense to it that compared to real footage looks almost identical.
  
  Sound: 9
  I feel that UBISOFT has actually captured the intensity of a fight in GRAW 2. Everything 
 sounds amazing as they would in real life. Its so immersive, It throws you right in the game.
 
  
  Value: 8
  The single player campaign has been shortended the previous GRAW, but this game adds a lot of replayability 
 through the quick mission game mode as well as how expansive the online has been made.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9
  GRAW 2 is in impressive sequel that should'nt be missed. The depth to this 
 game will keep you playing for months and If you're a fan of GRAW you'll have no problem jumping 
 into this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirkFaulkner
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  This game is picture perfect, getting more out of the 360 than last time. And an evolved control 
 system giving you greater squad control, rather than just havin a couple of gus following you around 
 gettig in the way of killed. And an awsome online multiplayer thats even beter than G. R. A. W. and 
 that was something!! But what i dont get is why when they have made the single player mode better 
 than ever giving toy total squad control and an all round better gaming experiance would they make 
 it such a short lived game? For sure you can play it again on two harder setting to get the extra 
 Acheavement Points as in G. R. A. W, but then it was only twice now 3 times thats not a longer bigger 
 game thats the same old thing just a little bit harder.
  Having said that mutiplayer has gotten better, if easyer only on the acheavement, and i sopose 
 thats what this outing is all about so get out there and frag some butts!!
  This is a WICKED game people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Here is the review my friends...
  Loads of content and variety make this the most realistic, feature-filled shooter on the market.
 
  The single-player campaign in Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is a continuation 
 of the one seen in the first game, as fighting between Mexican government and rebels has thrown 
 the country into civil war, If you played the first GRAW, youll feel instantly comfortable with 
 the controls in the second game. Things have been fine-tuned just a bit, so the cover system feels 
 a bit tighter, as youll be able to take cover and hop back out instantly. The combat is just as 
 solid as ever, and I found the gunplay to be a bit more satisfying this time out, particularly 
 when youre using cover effectively.. talking about the multiplayer you will remember the first 
 GRAW with some of the same, but with a few exceptions. Graphic whores will surely be unhappy to 
 hear that the multiplayer offering doesnt look as good as the single-player campaign, although 
 there have been some visual improvements. Naturally, there are a ton of news maps and some new 
 weapons, including the amazingly powerful grenade launcher that can fire off six explosive rounds 
 in rapid succession. Although not everyone cares about it, there are a lot of diehard fans that 
 will drool over the clan support, a feature that was sorely lacking from the first game. Sure, 
 its definitely a great game, but wed love to see a little more innovation the next time out. 
 Still, if youre a fan of Ghost squad, this is one adventure you wont want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay:
  Single Player:
  This game is very fun game to play I have beaten the single player twice now and about to start 
 it again just for fun. The single player campaign is short but wow is it fun. It consists of you 
 using your tactical part of your brain to plan out attacks and do your missions flawlessly. You 
 can play this game many different ways from being a lone wolf a person that likes to use his character 
 to kill rebels and not using the team that is with you much. Or you can choose to play as a stragestist 
 a person that plans out all attacks and weak points in the enemys position and exploit them. All 
 I can tell you is you will have fun doing mission different ways and trying to do it like a true 
 ghost .
  
  Multiplayer:
  This game rocks in the multiplayer category. First off the co-op campaign is one of my favorite 
 modes me and my friend love playing against like 100 rebels to do a objective like taking out a 
 leader of the rebels. Graw2 has so many combonations you can do its not even funny. Like you can 
 play modes like hamburger hill two teams battle it out for control of a central area for points. 
 Or another favorite CTF capture the flag games so much fun. Of course it has regular deathmatches 
 single and team based. And so much more. Makes the game so worth the 60 bucks I spent on this game.
 
  
  Controls:
  
  Single Player: If you have played graw1 or any other tom clancy game you can get the buttons really 
 quickly. If you have never played a tom clancy game on the 360 before like me when I got this game. 
 The tutorial in the beginning of this game will teach you all you need know and even want to make 
 you master them for the achievement points. Multiplayer:
  The controls on the multiplayer part of the game are bascially the same except two things I have 
 noticed. One is the cover system is not in the multiplayer version of the game. Which at first 
 I hated but now I love because it makes people stop camping around buildings and get out there 
 and have some fun. Also graw2 dosen't have many surfaces to take cover behind that are flat anyway 
 so a cover system would be dumb for this game. Another thing is you can lean around corner which 
 rocks in multiplayer mode. For instance you know someone is running around a biulding so you hide 
 at the edge of it lean out with your gun snipe him and lean back to take cover. Way better the 
 a dumb cover system in my opinion.
  
  Sound:
  The explosions and gunfire sound awesome in this game only thing I didnt' like too much was the 
 voice overs for this game were kinda out of sink with the lips. But I noticed after a while they 
 not tyring to sync with their lips at all. But I rarely noticed it because I'm too busy trying 
 not to get killed when they telling me stuff. Graphics:
  I got one word to some up graw2 's graphics WOW . Nuff said.
  
  Value:
  This game is worth 
 every penny you pay for it. Trust me been playing it for like a month now and can't put it down. 
 Bottom Line:
  Get this game if you into tactical shooters at its best. With a bundled multiplayer mode that kiks 
 #$#. Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Story: The story basically takes off straight after GRAW. It takes place in 2014 2 days after the 
 story of GRAW just south of the United States Border. You start n Juarez where rebel action has 
 caused unrest in Mexico. Early on in the game you find out that the rebels have stolen a nuclear 
 warhead and the primary objective throughout the game is to stop the rebels launching it. You play 
 as Mitchell a member and squad leader of the ghosts and you go through the missions alone or leading 
 a small group of other ghosts (Story: 7)
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay is similar to GRAW with some new features added in. The main change is the 
 updated crosscom, intead of sending it to a place on the map, you now control the crosscom and 
 you move it like controlling a character. Multiplayer is also verysimilar to GRAW but with a few 
 added features, these features include abeing able to revive a downed team mate a feature taken 
 straight from Gears of War. (Gameplay: 9)
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game looks amazing, the graphics are smooth throughout and cut scenes look even better, in 
 multiplayer you do have a small drop in quality but it isn't too recogniseable. (Graphics: 8)
 
  
  Overall 8/10, this is a great game that is alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drinkz
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  This game is very similar to rainbow six vegas, its the ubisoft / tom clancy connection, this game 
 is very good in single player because it is clever and can make you feel pretty cool, partly because 
 its sooooo easy, (bieng so easy is also a flaw) the major letdown is online, this is because instead 
 of a better gears (of war) system were you can join a game and play (done dusted) you have to wait 
 in a lobby on your own until the game finishes silent. this can get annoying when you are trying 
 to game hop, the other flaw is that when most of the multiplayer maps are flat and grassy, snipers 
 tend to just lie in the grass sometimes just causing a stalemate and often annoying people like 
 me who often just want to run in with an assault rifle and gun people down. appart from this this 
 game is third best only to tom clancies rainbow 6 vegas and gears of war. (pretty god damn good 
 game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this is a good game with great graphics and solid single player. It's 
 just a shame they released the same game last year. Yes, there are some improvements, but nothing 
 deserving of a sequel. This should have been an expansion with a lower price point. With that out 
 of the way lets talk game-play. The single player game is shorter than GRAW, but a lot more focused 
 and a lot of fun. There are a few minor improvements to the game-play, mostly with the cross-com, 
 of note is the ability to see through the eyes of units under your control. You are able to control 
 or issue orders from this view, which can be really helpful, although not ever really needed. Now 
 on to the multi-player. Co-op was the only thing I found myself going back to. I was hoping to 
 see the multi-player to be more like single player with the ability to take cover and fire blind 
 or from behind cover. But, that is not so. The multi-player was developed by a different studio, 
 and you can feel that gap. It looks better than it did last time around, but it would be nice if 
 all the great things from the single player made it over. Hopefully next time they will spend a 
 little more time with the game to make a true sequel and maybe even change up the multi-player 
 by making use of the cover system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icepunch29
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Great multi player, great single player, great graphics, and guess what it is a great game. The 
 charachters are good and the weapons are sweet. The graphics are so good I can't explain how good 
 they are. The diffuculy levels are choosable and the gameplay is awesome. Learning how to play 
 takes about 10 minutes and when you get threw the tutorial it is all fun and games. hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hih hih hi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Ok so GRAW2 is pretty amazing, a lot has been done since the first one. They are keeping true to 
 the essence of the game and adding more to it. People always whine about how there isnt more to 
 the sequel but when a company changes the game a la Halo 2 people scream and throw fits. The game 
 is great if you liked the first GRAW, you will like the 2nd even better. The graphics are great 
 and the multiplayer is a blast I dont know what else anyone could possibly ask for. There are 
 only a few things I would like to see... I would like to see the USMC Digis, I know its based 
 on army soldiers but I could care less what Japanese wear unless I was looking for them in the 
 jungle. I still would love to be able to see my gun in 1st person that would be super. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  OK, I just downloaded the demo and played it up and my gosh I was instantly amazed by the graphics 
 I saw. Scott Mitchell looks downright gorgeous with his new graphics... the shading is perfect 
 everywhere and lighting effects are simply awe-spiring. I've seen tech videos and I know that there's 
 more in store. I simply must give the game a 10 in graphics...
  
  Gameplay is improved from the first and I found it easier to learn the ropes. The control scheme 
 is easier witha new crucifix (or at least what I call it) format. Rather than scroll an annoying 
 list, you actually get to use the thumbstick to point in a direction. The ends of the crucifix 
 are different things, like what weapon you want or what firing rate. I found driving around the 
 mule for the little bit I did a fun ride that for some reason had me hooked. Scott can now run 
 faster and that actually increases the pace and makes the game a bit more accessible for less strategic 
 of us... Only complaint I have about the gameplay at this point, is that the Px4 pistol for some 
 reason keeps making one hit kills no matter where I hit the enemy.
  
  The sound is a great blend. I could hear the right amount of ambient noise, crazed screaming in 
 Spanish whenever I began a slaughter, but the best part was hearing my men giving me enemy locations, 
 tips... they actually help me and that's a plus in gameplay and sound. I didn't like the soundtrack, 
 though...
  
  I only played the demo so I really can't judge its value, but if the final game is even half this 
 good... dangit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  GRAW2 is the 2nd game in the advanced warfighter series. This time your fighting on US soil to 
 stop a nuclear attack. This game is unbelieveable. The graphics are awesome and the gameplay is 
 the best. The campaign mode is a bit short but this game packs a lot of action into it. That is 
 why that this is an awesome war game series. The multiplayer on this game is great where you can 
 customize your player and you can join with someone or a clan and you can verus other people in 
 a little war or you can play campaign with someone but the campaign is a bit different to the original. 
 GRAW2 is an amazing game to play and the storyline is so powerful and interesting, it wants you 
 to play more and this is the best Ghost Recon game I have ever played. If your wondering if you 
 want to get it, then get it because its an awesome war gaming series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankee251
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 16, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Single player is great but what happened with the multiplayer. i dont care if there is 20 different 
 types of game modes to choose from becuase when you finally get to play after waiting in the lobby 
 for a half an hour the game isnt even close to the single player. You cant take cover, the cross 
 cam is useless, the movement is horrible it feels like your trying to control a brick, the shooting 
 is strange, and even if you are an experienced player you die way to easily. My opinion is that 
 this is a game that you should definitly RENT, becuase once you beat the intense single player 
 you have gotten all there is the game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm gonna be honest, the closest game to a tactical shooter that I had played before this 
 game was Counter-Strike and that was years ago. In the past I've gone for the more run-n-gun shooters 
 such as Unreal Tournament and Battlefield. For me, buying GRAW 2 was a big gamble since I wasn't 
 sure that I would like a game that focuses on commanding your squad mates and indirectly controlling 
 vehicles. When I started playing it though I realized that even with all the chaos of controlling 
 multiple things at once, it's still a fun action-packed experience.
  
  In the single player, most of the commanding things you'll be doing are done with the D-Pad and 
 shoulder buttons. You use the D-Pad to select what you want to control indirectly, then you use 
 the d-pad to tell them what you want to do. It's simple and it really doesn't require much thought 
 to just select the helicopter, point at a tank and tell it to start shooting. With everything you 
 control there is an option to see through a camera so you can see what they are seeing. Through 
 this view, you can point at something using their vision and tell them to attack or move to a specific 
 place. Every vehicle and squad member supports this and it's a nifty way of controlling your squad 
 directly. In this view you also control the drone which gives you an aerial top-down view of enemies 
 and locations. This helps you prepare for coming firefights before you actually engage the enemy. 
 The cover system in GRAW 2 works a lot like Gears of War, you press against something and when 
 you think you've got a safe shot you peek out and fire. It's simple but with the option to command 
 your squad mates while in cover makes it easier to take out enemies without putting yourself in 
 danger.
  
  With that said, the game is too easy. Even on Elevated Risk, going through the game doesn't take 
 a lot of effort even with the extremely limited 2-hit health system. The AI of your squad mates 
 is pretty self-sufficient, so fortunately it doesn't feel like babysitting whenever you're in a 
 squad with other soldiers. Also, your team is amazingly good at pointing out where enemies are 
 in a firefight. They'll tell you that an enemy is hiding behind a blue car or a truck or a tree 
 with voice acting, which is pretty neat I have to say. I'd like more games to do stuff like that. 
 The single player campaign is a cinematic, action-packed experience from beginning to end, where 
 you'll be using various new high-tech guns, equipment, and vehicles to keep things fresh and exciting. 
 There are many different sequences and situations that you have to deal with, like using your night 
 vision, protecting friendly vehicles from your helicopter, dealing with a broken HUD, and taking 
 out airborne enemies with rocket launchers and grenade launchers. The game is good at keeping your 
 entertained throughout the campaign, even if it is very short.
  
  The multiplayer, however, is almost a completely different game. The way you control your movement 
 is strange in comparison to the single player, your character delays a bit when you change directions 
 instead of instantly going from left to right, and you can't take cover. This doesn't keep the 
 multiplayer from being really really fun though. There are tons of modes you can choose from, making 
 the multiplayer experience the bulk of what you're getting for your $60. There's solo versus, team 
 versus, mission mode, helicopter mode, and lots of others, and a load of maps to choose from. One 
 of my favorite modes in the game is the multiplayer campaign mode. This is not to be confused with 
 a simple run through the single player with a buddy, this mode has about 6 or 7 customized maps 
 built specifically to house 16 players all trying to help each other complete the objectives, and 
 it's actually really fun when you're with the right group. The maps that house these objectives 
 are very big and it can be extremely difficult to complete the objectives compared to the single 
 player. For me personally it usually takes about 7 or 8 tries just to get a hang of each map. The 
 only problem with this mode is that when you die, you're dead, and you have to wait until either 
 everyone dies or the objectives are all completed to start playing again. Since each try can last 
 up to an hour, it takes a lot of patience to get through this wait just to play with the same people 
 again.
  
  Visually GRAW 2 looks great for the most part, with high-res textures and great character models. 
 There are some very cool dust effects in the environments that make it look awesome in HD, and 
 the maps are huge, both in single player and multiplayer. Apparently the first GRAW had less impressive 
 visuals in the multiplayer than the single player, but there isn't much difference between them 
 this time around. This is no Gears of War, but the visuals still impress.
  
  In the sound department this game shines. The sound effects of the weapons and the chaos in each 
 firefight add a lot to the experience, and the music is fantastic. The audio really helps to engage 
 the player.
  
  The value is tough to score, because if you don't have Xbox Live then in my opinion, don't bother. 
 The single player isn't enough to keep you entertained for very long and the multiplayer is by 
 far the best part of the game. If you do have Xbox Live, then the game will definitely provide 
 hours and hours of entertainment.
  
  If you're looking for an awesome multiplayer game to keep you going on Xbox Live, this game comes 
 very highly recommended. If you're looking for something predominantly single player, get Oblivion 
 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Slightly improved graphics &amp; sound, new features, better AI, with new missions &amp; maps. 
 The original GRAW rocked on the Xbox 360 and GRAW 2 is following right within its foot steps. Not 
 much to say other than that, everything was included that the 1st had, Co-Op player online &amp; 
 offline, great Single Player Campaign, and a fair amount of Co-Op missions. What really makes GRAW 
 &amp; GRAW 2 standout compared to their Tactical Shooter Rival I guess you could say, Rainbow Six, 
 is the fact that you can bring friends online with you to something Rainbow Six Vegas should of 
 had. The only thing I would want different is maybe 5 or 6 more Co-Op missions, but other than 
 that GRAW 2 is solid and is a must buy for any tactical shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icybl00d3d
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Well theres so much to see in this game so i suggest you buy it and play it. The campaign is just 
 amazing with perfect graphics and sound and just the right type of gameplay. The game never goes 
 boring so you dont have to do the same thing in all missions there is allways something new and 
 interesting. Now the best part. MULTIPLAYER. im so addicted to this game and im a person who plays 
 all the multiplayer games, Gears, Cod3, BF2, Anything i have them all but this is the best one out 
 of all becouse its really fun. Get this game its tottaly worth the money. And one more thing there 
 is no glitches in this game for some reason.. idono how thats possible but yea there is none and 
 i play with some people who are masters in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHoke
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so here we have it. Another Ghost Recon and more of the same well done tactical shooting. GRAW2 
 does everything the original did but better, with improved graphics, refined single player game 
 play, and as always awesome online gaming. Fans and unfamiliar gamers of the franchise will love. 
 As always I will encourage any 360 owner to get into the Xbox live gaming community, these games 
 simply are not worth the price tag without being able to play them online. Though not for everyone 
 this one is definitely worth a rent, and if you have Xbox live and enjoy a good shooter it is worth 
 a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etiennec9
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I love these games, and I loved this one in particular, but it was very much a continuation of 
 GRAW 1. I know it's a sequel, but it felt exactly the same. Actually, it felt shorter. The new 
 elements, like air-strikes, were not enough to warrant the number 2. I'm thinking GTA. When they 
 put a new number on a game it's different. This series is just a continuation of the same game. 
 Not that I didn't enjoy every minute of it. I loved it but I also blew through it in two days. 
 I like the targeting system but the AI is practically retarded. They're pretty accurate with the 
 difficulty set on hard, but they aren't particularly threatening. They never really attack you. 
 They shoot at you and get cover, but knowing where you are they rarely approach or move to get 
 a better angle, and their tactics don't exist. One of the most challenging levels was the cemetery 
 scene. The AI was perhaps best on that level, but why can't the AI be like that all the time? Lastly, 
 the new squad controls were a great improvement over GRAW 1, especially being able to command from 
 within the HUD. The downer is my team gets spotted, or they sometimes don't attack when you want 
 them to. The UAV was more durable than last time, which I appreciate but having a chopper, a team 
 and a tank all on the same mission is tactically difficult if you don't want to take any losses. 
 It can be done. It's just hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markman-7
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2) is a sequel to the one year old game that came out and 
 was proclaimed the killer app for the Xbox 360. This tactical shooter puts you in the shoes of 
 Ghost team leader CPT. Scott Mitchell who is put right back in Mexico to quell a rebellion by a 
 group of rebel terrorists who threaten the U. S. border. Obviously, the plot is the stop them from 
 starting a world war and then......... zzzzzzz Who cares about the story when you got nicely balanced 
 gameplay that has been fixed from the first GRAW. The game puts you into a lot of intense firefights 
 and against all kinds of vehicles like tanks, helicopters, etc. These firefights led to some big 
 action sequences that are awesome to be a part of and makes the single player experience highly 
 enjoyable. The graphics in GRAW 2 are absolutely phenomenal to look at since it has sharpened up 
 from the orangery look that the first one had which was a bit annoying to look at but overall, 
 it was refined from its predecessor. The controls are pretty stiff but if you played the first 
 one, you should be comfortable with it. When you are trying to move your character in a certain 
 direction, it doesn't respond as well as some the more prominent shooters. It still easy to pick 
 up since most shooters are except you have to get used to it if you played other shooters like 
 Gears of War or Rainbow Six: Vegas. For the most part, the sound of GRAW 2 is pretty good since 
 you got your typical sound effects for explosion, weaponary, and so on. The music when its around 
 in certain levels is well performed with the booming orchestral music kicking into high gear when 
 you are in pretty intense firefights which gets you pump up during the game. The acting is hit 
 and miss with some poorly written dialogue and the actors playing it like some typical episode 
 of 24. The Online multiplayer game is where you really get your money's worth. It is pretty easy 
 to find matches depending on how your connection is because it can also be hard to get a match 
 going if your connection is not up to par to other player's connection. However, if you get a match 
 going, it gets intense and up to par with all the other great shooters with amazing multiplayer. 
 It also has a high variety of modes to choose from which is an example that Epic Games should had 
 followed with their multiplayer modes. The only major flaw I had with this game is that its too 
 short. The single player campaign is awesome but the term I looking for is sweet but short. It 
 will take about 6-10 hours to finish the campaign which is a lot shorter from the previous entry 
 and the story is pretty vague and non-existent which doesn't work well with the gameplay if you 
 wanted to immersive players into these characters but I won't harp on it since they weren't really 
 go for that kind of game. Overall, GRAW 2 is a well crafted sequel that is worth picking up for 
 the multiplayer. However, the game didn't feel like a sequel but more like an expansion pack with 
 more refined material add into an already great shooter. Anyway, it is still one of the more refined 
 sequel that has came out for the 360 and should not be missed by fans of shooters. Gear up and 
 Kick some terriorist... I mean Mexican rebel A**. : ( (Sorry, can't say that word) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlink789
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  The graphics are beautiful. the smoke is so realistic. And lets not forget the game play. The levels 
 are challenging and fun though very short. The story could be built up a bit better. stole nukes 
 pointed at us ?! The opponents are difficult as usual by your allies are no smarter no longer taking 
 suicide runs into open land surrounded by opposite soldiers but taking cover and shooting more 
 precise. multiplayer is best done online given the fact that most levels are designed for more 
 the twelve people .Play this game if you want a challenge. i give it a two out of three 2*3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Superb Graphics; Updated A. I; Tatical works well without getting confused; Better online 
 game/graphics
  
  BAD- Too short; Plays like GRAW
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  the game is a third person stratagy shooter, you just dont go in the middle of fire and blast away 
 your enermies, this takes the real side of war games as you use tatics and and control comands 
 to move your alies, as you take cover and use each weapon wisly.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The best graphics i've seen so far on an Xbox 360, realistic exsplotions and backgrounds, real 
 life movements and chrecture desgns. the only probblem is if you look through a mirror or a window, 
 it shows you a reflection, but not the relection you s'posse to see, like a relection of a road, 
 but if you turn around, theres a wall behind you
  
  SOUND-
  Fantasic sound effects and awesome background music and great voice acting, this game makes you, 
 not only look like your in the game, but also sounds like your in the game!
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  GRAW is a wonderful game for your collection, but get the PS2 version, 
 get the 360 version, this is a game to remember! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTMETODOWORKxX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  A great game with future warfare. The campaign is awsome, but is very short which was pretty dissapointing. 
 The night vision is alot better and the new weapons in this game are much better than in the first 
 game. There is an awsome sniper that can shoot through thin walls and a gun with a camera on it!! 
 The multiplayer is far better though playing on live is a blast. Between the cooperative campaign 
 and team/ solo elemination. The multiplayer has a great clan system, and matches are intense. At 
 this point this is my favorite game to play on live and im just about always on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Before Reading On,
  Please Note that this is a Single Player Review Only:
  
  This is my first time playing the GRAW series on the xbox 360, and i have to tell ya'll. It's much 
 more fun than what you can expect from the PC version of GRAW!
  
  The first thing that impressed me the most is the graphics.. The Smokes Particles are freakin Advanced! 
 And the Character details are very high in the detail.. U will always admire the graphics in GRAW 
 2 each time u play it.. and it will awalys look beautiful all the way till the end!
  
  The squad commands are a little bit of a nuisance when you first play it... but after a while.. you 
 will get the hang out of it.. and play like a Ghost. The sound effects in the game is fantastic! 
 The explosions, hearing the gun battles and bullets flying around you will just get you on the edge 
 of your sit, with a wet palms grippin your gamepad... you will be in pressure at most times.. the 
 voice acting of the enemies are kinda weak though.. yes its hilarious hearing the enemy communicating.. but 
 it doesnt have the realistic feelings in it... Your teammates will also make calls realistically 
 regarding the enemies postition just like a quarterback will, and you will give them orders more 
 than just a quarterback will in a football game! You are like a head coach!
  
  So far.. the game is about 6 hours long.. but it depends on how you play it.. if you play it like 
 the way it's supposed to be played and take your time in every steps you make.. this game will definitely 
 gonna satisfy you!
  
  The Cross Com 2.0 is a great tool to help you during your mission.. you can watch your drone, teammates, and 
 most of your squadmates in their 3rd and first person view.. It works really great watching them 
 running.. the colour makes the game look as if it's captured from a Live News... Its a cool feature!
 
  
  But GRAW 2 has some other downsides too... Our Team mates sometimes tend to act stupid. Sometimes 
 they keep on saying Theres no shot from here, gotta move But, if i went to their position... i can 
 simply take the enemy out.. I think that part needs to be fixed. Maybe our team mates are still using 
 cross com 1.0.. LOL!! And also.. Our A. I Team mates WON'T take cover at times.. sometimes they will 
 just stand still and shoot in the open. So watch out, you still need to give them position and Go 
 To commands even in a heavy battle fire fight.. i Guess that won't make them a great War Fighter 
 afterall... Enemy A. I is acceptable though...
  
  Another downside is you can't see much of great animations in the game.. The ragdoll physics are 
 not as good as in GRAW (PC) , and the running animations aren't much and not that totally smooth 
 in the A. I sections. And One last thing.. the day and night cycle won't work all the time.. I just 
 have a feeling the day and night cycle is actually kinda linear...
  
  So far.. that's the only downside in GRAW 2.. Command controls are bit harder than R6 Vegas, but you 
 should get the hang out of it as time goes by.
  
  GRAW 2 is a fully action-tactical game. The intense level is high.. and it has good replay value.. And 
 if you played long enough.. You will master and be a Real Ghost to take out your enemies Professionally.. A 
 few bug fixes will definitely make GRAW 2 and advanced game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cry_wolf121
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game, how can I say, is better then the first. THere are many reasons why. first of all, the 
 instruction was a bit better then the frist one and the including of new multiplayer maps and the 
 opertunity of creating groups and figiing togeter. Picking diffirnet soldgers and a better array 
 of wepons are also a plus. The medic is good if the capitan gets injured, he is able to help others 
 and have them help him. Overall this is one of the better games in the shooters
  
  The end
  Booboo bab baoo ( (soryy have to make 100 words) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vesty21
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  After buying GRAW 1 just recently and really enjoying it i decided to get GRAW 2 straight away 
 while i was still in tune with controlling the game and i have to say it is a really good game, 
 its true that the single player campaign is shorter than GRAW 1 but the graphics and gameplay more 
 than make up for it. This game becomes really good value when you jump into the very addictive 
 multiplayer section through xbox live! Ive never really enjoyed the online games for Gears of War 
 and Call of Duty but this game is just a lot of fun online and well worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The original Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter took the Xbox 360 by storm. After suffering through 
 too many months with too many underwhelming launch titles, the Tom Clancy-inspired tactical shooter 
 knocked me back with the force of a nuclear air strike. Everything about the game - the ultra realistic 
 graphics, the hyper intelligent squad tactics, the futuristic military hardware and the expansive 
 multiplayer modes - screamed next-gen. A new standard had been set and there was no going back.
 
  
  Now it's less than a year later and we already have a sequel. With such a short development window, 
 can the GRAW franchise possibly revolutionize the genre and the console again? No... not exactly. 
 But while GRAW 2 does not break any fresh ground, it provides so many satisfying improvements that 
 the experience is actually more engaging and exciting than the first one. This is an absolutely 
 fantastic follow-up.
  
  To begin with, the story is better. Picking up mere hours after the last left off, Captain Mitchell 
 is called back into action to prevent yet another group of extremist Latin American rebels from 
 securing yet another set of stolen nuclear devices. While the premise may not have changed much 
 - or at all - the way it unfolds has. CNN-worthy news footage pipes directly into your HUD, providing 
 a scarily realistic look at the global conflict surrounding you, while Disneyland-worthy jeep or 
 helicopter rides introduce and immerse you into each setting seamlessly. Events aren't as patriotically 
 straightforward as before, either. You may be asked to destroy damning evidence against the US 
 government or wage battle in fragile, economically depressed towns. The plot is no longer just 
 black and white, but tinged with the slightest shades of grey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comebackkid1701
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The campaign is short not as short as many say but yet it is a great campaign 
 even without a long campaign. Its better then the rainbow six campaign and its not even as long. 
 The online mode is great as well but it would of been better if they went off of rainbow six for 
 it because the ranks kept me into it and all the gear but i like the online play even more. There 
 is quite a few maps and it seems like theyre are plenty of weapons. I would like it if they had 
 some more options for your gear and armor but i cant complain because its still customizable but 
 not that well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAMSKYWALKER
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. The plot behind this game includes you, Capt. Scott Mitchell, trying 
 to save the USA from two nuclear bombs that are in the hands of the Mexican rebels. The ghosts 
 have 72 hours to prevent the rebels from attacking the United States. Some of the levels that they 
 place you are in Juarez, Mexico and in El Paso, Texas. The graphics in this game are amazing, they 
 did a great job with the smoke and fire in this game. Sometimes the characters can be a little 
 choppy but overall they are great for the 360. The sound in this game makes you feel as if this 
 is happening to you right now. It can either pump you up before you go into a fight, or make you 
 realize the damage that has been done. The multiplayer is fun but the missions in it take to long 
 to beat and can be quite difficult in times. The career achievements for this game are easy if 
 you know how to take cover and use your map to your full advantage. If you are looking for a futuristic 
 military game then this game is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodring
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  It is good but because there isnt loads of new content I cannot give it too high of a score. There 
 are many good points to GRAW but not enough to make GRAW 2 fresh and original. This is good but 
 only if you didnt play the first one and if you did play the first one it is still worth checking 
 out if you loved it . For me though it just wasnt a big enough step and it felt like GRAW 1.5 and 
 not a full sequel. This could have been another 9.4 but because they didnt make the graphics new 
 and all they did was put a new dramatic shadows then it doesnt make it new . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker67
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The Graphics are superb, the game play never gets old, and its very highly 
 competitive. The changes from GRAW 1 are perfect, they took the best, and eliminated the worst. 
 The ability to change the lighting on all the maps is perfect, that way later on, we won't have 
 to pay to get the ability to play a map that is darker, or has more fog. There are great ranges 
 from map size from very small to unbelievably large. Great for clan play, especially due to the 
 new in clan play mode. Purchased the day it was released and have not put it down for more than 
 a couple of hours. Must Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicDivision
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  A shooter that really doesn't bring anything new to the table. Basically, you are shooting red 
 diamonds.... there is no thrill in the game. Even though you get to control a squad and various 
 armored vehicles, it's still boring and repetitive. The single player game is basically the same 
 as the first GRAW.... trust me, it isn't worth it. Maybe when the game only costs 20 bucks, I'll 
 get it.... before then, you may as well just buy GRAW 1... or any other xbox 360 shooter for that 
 matter. If you want a good shooter, I'd recommend Rainbow Six: Vegas or Gears of War over this 
 overrated P. O. S. a thousand times over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ternet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  I builds off the first ghost recon very well. New guns and new multi player maps, if your like 
 me, you and your buddies pick up this game just to shoot and kill things. Strategy is still laking 
 in the multi player, leaving for a more run and gun type experience. The depth f the game is laking. 
 If you want an epic story line with plot twists and turns your better off with a Tom Clancy novel 
 then one of his games. Added weapons but same controls. It is very easy to learn and a blast if 
 you and a friend want to kill some time. If you want that pick it up and go game, GRAW2 is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon AWF 2 is a near futuristic realistic military game and this is the best 
 military action game currently in the market.
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon AWF 2 is more than just an expansion pack to the game that started next-gen 
 for xbox 360, the original GRAW. Wtih GRAW 2, The developers tweaked the already impressive engine 
 and made it more polished than last year's GRAW. The game even though was a bit short from the 
 first installment, but in a year the amount of work went to the game cannot be denied. The graphics 
 are more polished than before which is still one of the best looking games currently available, 
 but the real visual pleasure is the explosions and the particle effects, it simply the best in 
 any game, even dare I mention........... Gears of war. The sound effects r topnotch with real-life 
 gunshots and also this time the music is more varied which tends to make the game more enjoyable. 
 The real deal of this version of GRAW is the in depth multiplayer, its packed loaded of all types 
 of multiplayer you could possibly want, from the usual stuff like Death match, capture flag to 
 some insane and fun objectives like who shoots the most choppers out of the sky... its fun lol.
 
  
  What makes this different from it's Rainbow Six cousin is, it takes place in huge urban areas instead 
 of tight urban combat and features more advanced high tech satellite assist technologies. So if 
 you in the market for the most elite Special forces and prefer urban combat and hightech weaponry, 
 this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  This game rocks.
  
  The gameplay on this game is great. The single player campaign is very action packed and is vewry 
 hard not to get addicted to. In the story the Mexicans have 2 nuclear bombs that you are trying 
 to destory and save the United States. You go throuhg many missions that go from stealth to all 
 out destruction. You aso get many different weapons and vehicles that you can use while you fight. 
 The multiplayer is pretty good although some things could have been better. There are many modes 
 that you can do that arer sweet but I wish that you could get on a wall and look around it like 
 in single player. That would have been pretty sweet.
  
  The graphics on this game are incredible. They are great. The explosions look amazing and are some 
 of the best graphics on the 360. The players also look great. One small thing that I really like 
 is the realism of when you aim down the sights because it just looks so good.
  
  The sound is AMAZING. You will feel like your really in Mexico fighting rebels with guns firing 
 all around you and planes flying over you from your airstrikes. It's just flat out amazing.
  
  Overall, this game is great but not very many people play it online anymore which isnt very 
 good, so its ur choice, if you have friends who still play it then get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This review will be more about the online play. The online gameplay is amazing. It's one of the 
 best online FPS game I've played. I'm a big fan of Killzone, but I think GRAW 2 smoke's Killzone 
 out of the water. The graphics, sound, and overall gameplay are great. It's easy to learn the buttons. 
 RIght Trigger to shoot, joystick to move, Click to zoom, basic controls are easy and flow well. 
 The maps are huge and very graphical. The online play is fun and most of the time friendly. It's 
 more adult-like than Halo. It's realistically great because, even though sometimes it gets frustrating, 
 you really don't have a health bar, it just depends where you get shot. Get shot in the head, HEADSHOT, 
 one shot kill. It doesn't take 20 shots to kill somebody like some FPS. All in all, this is a must 
 have game. If you like army games or not, You'll enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bungeeeman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  My favorite part of GRAW 1 was the single player campaign, even though the game had some great 
 multiplayer action. GRAW 2's campaign is probably about half as long, but seems more interesting 
 and better thought out. Even if you just want to play single player it's a great game, but it won't 
 take you all that long to get through. What amazes me most though is the multiplayer in GRAW 2 
 is absolutely great. I usually don't spend much time on xbox live but this game has pulled my in. 
 It's great looking, the control scheme and gameplay are solid and it gives you an all around amazing 
 experience. The game isn't perfect, but it's definately one of the best xbox 360 games out there 
 if you like combat sims, definately worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhOsT_rEcOn_26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game!! thats all I have to say it seems to me a really good shotter!! But Gears of War 
 2 is going to beat out the 3rd one.... well if they ever make a third GRAW............... But buy 
 the game... if your in for a rally good kick you should buy GRAW2... I dont have much to say but 
 I really like the first GRAW!! does it have to be 100 words thats dumb.... I dont like it... I hate 
 it I want to send this!! Anyway all im tryong to say is.... BUY GRAW2!! its awsome!! its better than 
 those other games execpt for some!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PackersMax
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a great game, but it's a short one and a repetitive one. I know some people will say 
 there is xbox live etc. , but if you don't have it, it's a really short game. I don't know why, 
 but it's not the type of game that I will play again and again like I did with gears of war. There's 
 a lack of... fun. Sometimes the missions are so long and repetitive that you find it really boring. 
 If I give a great score to that game, it's because of his multiplayer mode. Rent that game if you 
 don't have xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpo335
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  When you first start the game, you are welcomed by a suck up marine who talks about the Mitchell's 
 achievements in the 1st game. Soon this is all over and you get into the action. The graphics in 
 this game are extremly well made, and it feels like you can reach out and touch it (at least on 
 an HD tv you can) . The AI has gotten smarter for both your team and the enemies. The sound has 
 been revamped to sound more realistic and the gameplay is astounding. Everything is great fun until 
 it is over, which is very soon. The only bad thing about the campaign is the length of it, it's 
 very shot. You could beat it in 6 hrs tops, it leaves you wanting more. But that's what multiplay'ers 
 for.
  
  Multiplayer is extremely good this time around. They fixed the spawn system so say bye bye to spawn 
 killers, a big problem in the last game. The graphics are eqaully beutiful and the gameplay will 
 keep you wanting more. Say bye bye to stupid achievements such as reach the top of the solo leaderboards 
 , now it is defend a zone for 1 hr, which is very hard if not in the right crowd. Overall this 
 game is a very good game but is more like an expansion than a full fleged sequel. It's a great 
 buy either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsidejedi360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is of course, the sequel to last year's game with the best acronym and quite possibly the 
 best Tom Clancy game ever made. GRAW 2 is a great successor that irons out many of those game's 
 problems and provides an even more satisfying campaign ( albeit a suspectedly short one) . The game 
 starts off where GRAW 2 left off, the US and Mexican presidents are in D. C. signing NAJSA in the 
 year 2014 (this is really odd because GRAW 1 took place in 2013, but it says that GRAW 1 took place 
 2 days ago and it is highly unlikely that it took place on New Year's) . You, as Ghost Captain Scott 
 Mitchell, are sent across the border to investigate WMD reports in Mexico. The story dosen't really 
 progress much, but it's still fun and features some funny, smart-ass, army man dialogue. The actual 
 levels are excellent, with some awesome moments and tense firefights. The squad mechanics have 
 been upgraded a bit, with the ability to see over their shoulder with your entire view. This really 
 helps in a firefight when u need to designate targets to your squad, and u can even do this to 
 your vehicle supports. You're offered more types of vehicles, from tanks to even fighter jets that 
 are all incredibly fun to use, if a bit clunky. The majority of the gameplay is still the same 
 GRAW norm, not having changed much or offering something drastically different, but that doesnt 
 mean it's not awesome. The campaign itself is considerably easier on the normal diffuculty than 
 GRAW was on its. This definitely good, since some parts of GRAW's campaign were enormously frustrating. 
 However, it being very short, only aroung 5-10 hours, give or take, will disappoint Ghost Recon 
 purists who're hoping for the diffuculty to ramp up later on. The game looks as good as ever, with 
 a nice increase in detail, that is increasingly apparent in the chopper levels (which are way better 
 than the last game's) with a huge draw distance and an amazing sense of scale. The sound is amazing, 
 with great weapon sounds and a nice orchestral score (some voice acting is suspect, but it gets 
 the job done) . All in all, if you were a fan of the original GRAW, get this game. If you were intrigued 
 with GRAW's idea but thought it too intimidating or think these kind of games aren't accessible 
 enough, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbshaffer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  A friend gave me this game for my birthday on a recommendation from the game store. I was skeptical 
 as I slid the disc into the Xbox and powered on. After playing for a while I actually started to 
 like the game. Being able to strategically control your team in order to reach way points on the 
 map is really fun. Your boys will tell you when they see an enemy and then the enemy will be flagged 
 in your 1st person view so you can get an idea of where he is. Aside from controlling your team 
 you also have many other instruments of war at your disposal, such as a scout drone, supply vehicle, 
 tanks, helicopters, and even air support when you need a tank blown to smithereens. I ran through 
 the game on medium difficulty with relative ease. It could have been due to my slow and precise 
 movements with my team, using the scout drone often to find any enemies in an area I was about 
 to move to. Slow movement was possible due to the fact that there were no time constraints on your 
 objectives. The game did a good job of making me feel like time was of the essence but I knew that 
 I could take it slow if I really wanted to. Gamespot said that the campaign was pretty short but 
 I thought it was just right. I was ready for the game to be over right when it was which let me 
 move on to multiplayer mode. The most interesting part about multiplayer mode for me is the maps. 
 The lighting on some of the maps is really great for hiding due to speckled shadows from the treetops, 
 and dark alley ways. There are lots of bushes and tall grass to crawl around in and the camouflage 
 worn by the soldiers blends really well into the terrain. There are also plenty of achievements 
 for you to gain by playing online with friends and strangers.
  After having logged many hours into the game I am still very satisfied and may even run through 
 the campaign again on hard mode to unlock the other achievements. If you pick this game up add 
 my gamercard so we can have some fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johneese
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  GRAW2 puts you one day after the events of GRAW, and throws you into combat right from the start (if 
 you choose to skip the tutorial) . The MULE is one of the new things added to the sequel. Its a 
 little six wheeled tank thing that you can change your weapons, refill your ammo and heal you. 
 Another addition is the MEDIC class. The only advantage to having one is he can heal you, and packs 
 three extra medikits, but if I have a MULE tagging along with me, id much rather have a SHARPSHOOTER 
 or an extra RIFLEMAN. The updated Cross-com is another huge upgrade, instead of a little screen 
 on the top left corner, you have the entire screen. Another huge installment in GRAW2 is the actual 
 combat. In this one, you have huge fire fights and unexpected events, (like your EVAC chopper going 
 down right before it picks you up) . And the dramatic music makes a big difference in the whole 
 mood of the game, you feel entirely different about a gunfight depending on the music. Multiplayer 
 is great, (as to be expected) the first G. R. A. W's multiplayer was awesome, so just imagine a spruced 
 up version of that.
  
  --=G. R. A. W. 2 is a MUST BUY or at least RENT. If your a fan of Tactical Shooters, this is a must. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is nice not only because its graphics seem very, very decent - but because they' took the 
 time to add in extra little perks that pull you into the game abit more. Such things as radio chatter 
 GONE once a teammate falls is rather fun, but over-looked thing in multiplayer HELP! I'M DOWN HES 
 OVER THER- as one of your teammates voices cut out, you just know someone died. With the ability 
 to heal teammates with smaller wounds and put yourself at risk as well also asks you if you are 
 a team player inside, and make you wonder if you are being pulled in by the emeny just to follow 
 the same fate or not. The realistic swap time between weapons, frags, and smoke is also a nice 
 add-on, nothing agasint Rainbox Six Vegas, where you can throw a frag with the twitch of an eye, 
 and start firing again before it hits the ground - but its not like that in real life. The only 
 thing they've seem to have left out was the ability to cook granades. The amount of time it takes 
 to pull out the frag, and prime it is all a nice effect though. What also adds element to the game 
 is that you don't always have the ability or access to the drone, which helps with your warrior 
 system of locating enemies. Alot of people seem to be turned off by this add-on in the game, as 
 to say Its to easy to find enemies. no its not. The drone only covers a small area when you do 
 have access to it - only 25% of your local area - you've still got alot of blank spots which is 
 lovely - but back to the point I was getting at, you really have to look for enemies, cover plays 
 a big role - this game MAKES you want to move slow and low, depending upon the type of game mode 
 you are playing, which also even expands into multiplayer play , very rare.
  
  Enjoyable game - but on the bad side some game modes leave you forced to watch others play if you 
 die that round, and sometimes people just want to run and gun, in GRAW 2 if you don't have your 
 sights up and you run into another player that does - chances are you are done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I'd like to say, KEEP IT UP CLANCY!... He's never let me down, not once. This game is just 
 as good, if not (And quite possibly) better than the original. It stuns me to see the detail in 
 the graphics, and it still freaks me out when I hear that bullet zing past me on my 7.1 THX surround 
 system. Even though the graphics are GREAT and it sounds impeccably superb, thats just the beginning, 
 the game play is just as exciting as the graphics and sound. You just can't beat the online play. 
 One thing, I've found to be an issue in some of Clancy's more recent games, is the accuracy of 
 the rifles, i. e. the lack luster of a head shot in Rainbow Six Vegas when compared to Black Arrow. 
 In this game, its no issue, you'll never hear yourself screaming, WHAT THE %UCK, I know that was 
 a head shot! , not the case at all. It still gets me going how photo realistic the graphics are, 
 even on my 51 HDTV it looks great, which with bigger screens you notice bad graphics much more. 
 NOT the case in this game, GREAT GREAT graphics. If you like Clancy games, then buy this one, its 
 a must have, I'd play it over Splinter Cell: Double Agent, and Rainbow Six: Vegas, any day, any 
 time, anywhere... This game even tops G. R. A. W.. Buy this game and you won't be left unsatisfied, 
 trust me on that......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheUnionFrag
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  As your insert chopper flies over a sierra to reveal a sun-soaked city in flames, your commanding 
 officer shouts some details about how tactically important it is to take this one objective, but 
 you don't care. You're too busy looking at just how damned beautiful the vista presented before 
 you looks. GRAW 2 really is quite amazingly beautiful and, along with Gears of War and Splinter 
 Cell: Double Agent, is yet another title that shows off the sheer power of this console. When combined 
 with streamlined tactical options in the form of Cross-com and immersive audio, this game is simply 
 superb.
  
  The single player campaign now offers a low risk option for those of you who just want to explore 
 tactical options without any considerable risk. Playing on guarded or elevated risk levels, the 
 campaign, set in the border cities of Juarez in Mexico and El Paso in the USA, will take anywhere 
 from 10 to 20 hours to play through and is loaded with suspense and adrenaline-filled moments. 
 From holding off a tank group until friendly far support can neutralise it to successfully sneaking 
 round some tangos to engage them on your terms, the game offers it all.
  
  Probably the best gameplay feature in the campaign is, by far and away, Cross-com 2.0. Making a 
 debut in the original GRAW, it now returns with more forms of support granted more often, as well 
 as the ability to control certain assets and see what they see in full-screen, which, although 
 it sounds unimpressive, is very useful when it boils down to the actual game.
  New forms of support include vehicles such as the Mule - a remote-controlled land-based drone that 
 can resupply you and your squad with ammunition and new weapons on the fly, Far Support - a squadron 
 of F-15E fighters that can target any armoured target with cluster bombs, and the OH-6 Littlebird 
 - armed with miniguns and rockets, it has a smaller profile than the Apache, but is just as deadly. 
 Night-vision, a heavily criticised aspect of the last GRAW, has been greatly improved, combining 
 body heat detection and illumination.
  
  The multiplayer experience in GRAW 2 is a lot more comprehensive than it's predecessor. Along with 
 many new modes, such as Team Battle, which involves AI soldiers as well as players, and Helo Hunt, 
 in which the team must work together to bring down some seriously strong rebel choppers, many aspects 
 of the game have been improved. A whole raft of weapons from the previous game are available for 
 use, with a fair amount of new ones to boot. The graphical quality of the multiplayer game is now 
 on par with that of the single-player game, with full lighting effects and anti-aliasing - something 
 which was noticeably vacant from the jungle maps in the previous game. The co-op campaign is now 
 longer and you are encouraged to complete every objective with achievements for perfectly completing 
 all six of the missions and the campaign as a whole.
  
  On the whole, GRAW 2 is a solid experience which will provide unlimited hours of fun and action 
 with the variety of multiplayer features and a solid, graphically impressive campaign. One of the 
 best games for the 360 since the first GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT-KING92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is not the best, but one of the best. Call of duty has better gameplay. This game has 
 alot of cool enviorments and weapons, i recommend it to any 3rd person shooter fan. You cannot 
 play unless you complete all the practice activities. Its good teamwork and good strategy to be 
 the best. I am stuck on the part when you have to protect the tanks while you are in the hellicopter 
 using the minigun. Overall this gamme is okay i dont like it that much, im much of more a racing 
 game freak. But i beat every racing and shooting game i get in about a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Militarymayne
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The single player game picks up where GRAW left off same guy same game plan witch in all honesty 
 is alittle boring. the graphics just like GRAW there are great explosions excellent lighting effects 
 great model detail. the story IS getting alittle stale seeming that your back in the same area 
 pretty much doing the same thing. personally this game took about 1 day on medium difficulty but 
 trust me it does put up a challenge. the problem i have with this game is that the bullets seem 
 slow. its a nice effect that you se the trail it leaves in the air but it will give you the distinct 
 feeling that it takes way too long to get there. now multiplayer is where this game shines and 
 with the graphics update from the first one to make multiplayer look as good as single player is 
 great. theres a nice selection of weapons to please anyone who likes to have a large selection 
 at thier fingertips. theres still one thing that really annoys me is that when they reload you 
 dont see the clip come out and for a game that prides itself on realism that really gets too me. 
 but with everything this game has to offer it is deffinitly worth your time even if you dont have 
 xbox live but it definitly helps the life of this game if you do. so in closing. great grahics 
 great gameplay some really minor things might bug you but not enough to ruin the game. check it 
 out and you might love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin this review by saying that I have literally been chomping at the bit for this game 
 almost since the first one came out. I preordered it months in advance and couldn't wait to pop 
 it in the old Xbox and fire it up. In many ways, I was very impressed with the game. Still, though, 
 the same problems the first GRAW suffered from are here again, and even more annoying (if that's 
 even possible) .
  
  I will start off with the graphics. To put it simply, they are amazing. This is easily one of the 
 best looking games on the 360, especially playing it on a good high definition TV. The details 
 in the environments are exquisite, right down to the individual blades of grass swaying in the 
 wind or the puffs of dirt and dust when a bullet tears into the wall next to you. The lighting 
 effects are probably the best I have ever seen in a game, with the sunlight gleaing through smokey 
 skies and fire light from destroyed cars and burned out buildings flickering across your character. 
 The character models look great, although I did think that Scott Mitchell, your character, looked 
 a little goofy and over-the-top with his bike-type helmet and sunglasses. The rest of the characters 
 in the single player game do look a little cliche (the typical bandana-wearing gunner being a good 
 example) , but the real brilliance in the models shines in the multiplayer suite. These characters 
 look and move as realistically as any real soldiers I have ever seen (and I have seen more than 
 a few over the last couple of years) . The multiplayer maps look fantastic, with plenty of foliage 
 to hide in and intricately detailed towns to hunt each other in. The particle effects are also 
 top notch, with explosions hurling debris and dust into the air and the hud blinking out when a 
 grenade goes off near you. Overally, this part of the game is simply incredible.
  
  Now, how is the sound? Well, it's great too. The sound of bullets ripping through the air by your 
 head is enough to make you hit the deck in your living room and the sound of actually taking a 
 bullet is appropriately sickening. The dying screams of your friends in mulitplayer permeate the 
 air and bullets slam against concrete walls and rocks or tear through blades of grass above your 
 head. In the down time, you can your chracter panting after running across an open field, the water 
 moving beneath your feet on certain multiplayer maps, birds and/or crickets chirp in the background, 
 and the wind whistles gently through the trees. All in all, the sound is incredible, and really 
 adds a lot of life to the game. Now for the really important part of the game, the gameplay itself. 
 The single player campaign is phenomenal, delivering some of the most intense action sequences 
 I have ever seen and really getting your palms sweaty. The missions are fairly well varied, ranging 
 from retrieval missions to holding a position against a ridiculous number of enemies. Those of 
 you who frequently play tactical shooters will want to play the campaign on hard, easy and medium 
 don't deliver much challenge at all. But regardless of what difficulty you play on, the campaign 
 is outstanding. The multiplayer is also great, but this is where GRAW 2 really comes up short. 
 I was so happy when I first looked at the game, which deliver a stunning 18 maps (19 with Nowhere) , 
 several of which feature alternate weather or time of day availabel to change up the gameplay a 
 bit. As I said above, it looks great, and the map design is really inspired with the exception 
 of a few simplistic, overplayed, and frustrating maps, most notably Headquarters. The weapon selection 
 is also massive, even more so than the first GRAW, and each one feels and sounds different. The 
 gameplay is great too; you have to work with your team to win the match and there is a heavy emphasis 
 on moving slowly and planning each move as opposed to running around wildly shooting at people 
 (which will, inevitably, lead to you being destroyed by several people at once) , which is how this 
 type of game should be played. But as great as all that is, Ubisoft really screwed up by not fixing 
 the originals flaws.
  
  For instance, spawn killing is still rampant in GRAW 2. Just because they can no longer shoot you 
 instantly when you spawn doesn't mean that they will not camp it from every angle with a long range 
 weapon, leading to many a frustrating, controller throwing match. Ubisoft said they had fixed this 
 problem, but they clearly have not. Note to you Ubi: Spawn killing is not fun for either side and 
 completely ruins the realism of the game. TAKE IT OUT. R6 managed to fix the issue pretty well, 
 but apparently not GRAW 2. Also, the teams are now entirely random to prevent stacking in ranked 
 games, which is great, but the rank system is still based almost entirely on your team's performance 
 and not yours as an individual. What this means is that you could be randomly assigned to 4 people 
 who have never played the game, and even though you go 23 and 5 your team loses. This results in 
 YOU losing points and having to win several games to make up for it. The rank system here feels 
 horribly flawed and dated, and I just can't over how ridiculous it is that teams are random but 
 the outcome still negatively affects your rank no matter how well you play. Add to this the fact 
 that many rooms boot anyone under 4, so until you manage to get your rank up, you will have a lot 
 of trouble finding games. All of these flaws were should have been fixed after the first GRAW, 
 but Ubisoft apparently didn't think it was necesaary, resulting in an experience that feels dated 
 and is often very frustrating.
  
  Aside from those flaws, however, GRAW 2 is still a fantastic game and worth a purchase from anyone 
 who likes tactical shooters and at least a rental from anyone who hasn't tried a serious shooter 
 yet. Here's hoping Ubi actually fixes the issues for the next installment instead of just touching 
 up the peripheral stuff, though, or I may have to give up on my beloved Ghost Recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 has shown great improvements over GRAW. Grahpics are better and sahding; but that is the 
 cover, underneth lies a greater surprise. Gameplay is 2x and over better then GRAW. Your team is 
 no longerf completly stupid, they do have some smarts. You can now see what they see by holding 
 down the Right Bumber. Easyer to command because of the Rigth Bumber function. The achievements 
 are no longer ridculously scored. For example in GRAW it had 2,8,32 point achievments and so on. 
 Strange numebrs, GRAW 2 has fixed this and no longer has the silly achievements like Climb to the 
 top of the universal leader board. 5 Points Multi-player is fun and addictive. A Must have for 
 a Tom Clancy fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The game is GRAW 2. I am sure that every one has tryed Graw 1, and in GRAW 2 its the same controls 
 just way better all the way around. This game has the best Graphics that I have ever seen on any 
 Xbox 360 game. If you are thinking of buying the game just get it for how good the graphics are 
 even if you are not in HD there still good. This is way better to me than THe 1st GRAW. why? You 
 might say. The story in this game is alot better, with alot more things going on. The 2 war heads 
 you are trying to get with you almost being killed. The story takes you on both sides of the border. 
 The guns they have so many you cant just pick one. The new things you get to controll with the 
 new crosscom. Than the mp comes in. Talk about one of the best. You get to do all the good things 
 from graw 1 but with new guns and levels and at different times in the day. This game is super 
 short but has a story line that is worth playing. I give Graw 2 a 9.8 just cuz it is that good. 
 The mp makes up for all the things missing in the main story. Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The Ghost Recon series really hit its high mark with GRAW on the Xbox 360. Amazing graphics, great 
 gameplay, and fantastic online setup.
  
  Now with just barely a year from the original, we get an expansion, oh wait, I mean a sequel. The 
 game is barely a minimal improvement over the original. The most notable differences is the expanded 
 online options and more polished graphics. The game takes place exactly where the first one left 
 off. The setting my be different, Texas (last year it was Mexico) but it looks exactly the same. 
 I felt that this game is a complete rehash of last year's title. One thing I was hoping was the 
 ability to take cover online, but that was too much of a enhancement that I guess needs to wait 
 till GRAW 3 next year. I would have thought that the AI would have been tweaked a little bit but 
 your teammates are still as smart as those bushes you find in the levels. Speaking of bushes, why 
 can't your player step over a one foot bush? After experiencing the great Rainbow Six Vegas, I 
 was hoping for a better title, but instead we get a $60 expansion. By no means is this a bad game, 
 its just that for the most part, all there additions/upgrades could have been done with downloadable 
 content or even an online update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  because you'll find a pretty great one here. IGN has said that GRAW offered a wow factor because 
 it was such an accomplishment over other games to that date, and GRAW 2 was more of an extention 
 than a sequel. I agree, it's not a huge leap over last years offering, but there are some wonderful 
 improvements. The first that you'll notice are the graphics, which are definately better than the 
 last. The only area that this dosen't transfer to is when you're riding shotgun in the Humvee, 
 the charachter riding next to you looks like he belongs on the PS2. But you're not riding too many 
 times, so it's really just an afterthought. One of the other features now added in this go 'round 
 is the ability to switch to the view of whatever support option you use, i. e.: UAV drone, Apache, 
 other Ghosts, Mexican rebels, and from that vantage point you can determine what to make that support 
 option/person do. Yeah, I think it's pretty safe to say that I love this new feature. The explosions, 
 yeah, wow. You won't find any better than this. The size, the surrounding effect, the particles 
 flying around.... it's jaw-dropping. That's all I have to say about that. The one other thing I 
 notice about the single player campaign is that it feels... different. Almost like someone else 
 other than Ubisoft developed the game. It's not bad, it's not better, it's just different. It's 
 a pretty decent campaign, and like IGN says, the voice acting is really nothing spectacular. Now 
 the multiplayer is where this thing is going to shine with most gamers. With the massive amount 
 of charachter design options, numerous game modes, and clan support, multiplayer is shaping up 
 to be pretty damn fantastic. My only nitpicking bug about the multiplayer is why the hell haven't 
 they included the cover option in it?? I figured after last years effort, they would have gotten 
 wise and realized that people want that. Look at Rainbow Six Vegas, the cover option was flawless. 
 But, none of the complaints I've listed should detract anyone from buying the game. If you like 
 tactical shooters, and you've played the first game, then you should be very impressed with this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donrajon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  First of all i have to say i dont get to finish a lot of the games i buy. So when i get a game 
 that keeps me involved so long that i really dont want it to end, i have to applaud the developers. 
 I played the original GRAW but i never fininshed it. it was a great game but the action seemed 
 slow down. The action in GRAW 2 was more top of the line, and more exciting. I was hooked till 
 the end. The graphics are incredible, and the gameplay is likewise. The developer did a good job 
 of pacing the story so that you are very excited till the end. I promise you'll be dissapointed 
 that the game eventually ends. The online is now there and the coop missions. This game doesnt 
 lack modes. I am going to be one of the first to get GRAW 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiplayboy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  If you buy GRAW 2 it wont amaze you like it did with last year's edition ,only because GRAW 1 was 
 the first on the next-gen systems for the Xbox 360. The Singleplayer is short with a decent story 
 that brings along some polishment on its graphics and cross cam. The reason I said in some respect 
 to why this game is better than its first version is for a few things. The Multiplayer from GRAW 
 2 on Xbox live is by far the best. It offers six deep co-op missions that offer primary and secondary 
 objectives that creates alot of enjoyment. And oh yea the game server has improved quite a bit. 
 Theres a new support of Clans, where you can make up logos and have clan matches. The only thing 
 that I can say negative thing about the multiplayer is that it still does not permit the same cover 
 system as the single-player campaign. I find it a bit odd considering Rainbow Six Vegas brought 
 its cover system into the Multiplayer. Ubisoft may not of hit a homerun this time but its still 
 brings alot of good things to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armadragon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  ghost recon advanced warfighter 2 is a tactical shooter for the xbox 360. i got it yesterday and 
 let me tell you this game got me pumped! everything that was good in the original just got better. 
 don't believe me?
  
  graphics:10-the graphics are amazing. evrything looks realistic, especially the explosions. once 
 again showing the awesome proccesing power of thexbox 360.
  
  gameplay:9-the gameplay from graw1got even better. now when your teammates are in recon mode they 
 can scan the area for enemies and let you know where they are. also, when they go into assault 
 mode, by holding the RB button, you can see from a teammates point of view. and as a bonus you 
 can target which enemies you want them to attack. now when you use support (whether it be the uav, etc) 
 you can also see from the support's point of view. besides that same stuff from the original GRAW. 
 and new weapons. som snipe, some explode, ALL KILL. sound:10 everything in the game sounds as realistic 
 as they look. when something explodes, it sounds like a real explosion. voice work sounds good 
 too.
  
  value:9-this game will keep you going long after you beat the campaign mode.
  
  overall:9.3- if you played the original GRAW, like the tom clancy games or just like shooters, 
 read: YOU GOTTA CHECK THIS ONE OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxorator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  You could call me a GRAW fan boy, so you might expect my review of the latest Tom Clancy video 
 game to be well rather predictable. Thats fair enough, but the latest incarnation of the Ghost 
 series must be doing something right to counter my fickle attitude towards modern games. The secret 
 ingredient which GRAW 2 has that other games lack is attention to detail. Its very easy to get 
 caught up in the mission of Americas fighting spear. The excellent production values immerse you 
 in a war that never becomes confusing due to excellent controls and clever squad AI. GRAW 2 expands 
 on the excellent work achieved in the original GRAW. The graphics have been sharpened with new 
 explosive effects, sharper textures, smoother animations, and redesigned smoke and lighting system. 
 You cant help to be amazed by the visceral carnage all around Scott Mitchell. You will find yourself 
 stopping just to move the camera around to see the sights of the war torn world. One annoyance 
 I have with the graphic engine are the bullet trails from your primary weapon. Not only are they 
 unrealistic they are frustrating over used and detract from the overall pragmatic feel of the games 
 engine. You might expect impressive visuals after the high benchmark set from the first game, so 
 its best to concentrate on the overall game play improvements to judge real development. The squad 
 AI in the original game was lacking at best. The new Parisian developers of GRAW 2 decided an upgrade 
 here was vital to take the series forward. Thankfully the overall intelligence of your team mates 
 has been improved significantly. They are now a real asset in your fight against the rebel Mexicans, 
 and you'll find yourself calling on them on many occasions. They automatically find good firing 
 locations and cover, and target enemies logically. Completing the game on the hardest difficultly 
 is made a lot easier with your intelligent brothers in arms by your side. If you have played the 
 original GRAW you will find controlling your squad and Scott very straight forward. The interface 
 has been streamlined and is a lot less cluttered than before. Clever AI frees you up to concentrate 
 on the drive forward. Unfortunately if you are a new comer to the series, you might find the learning 
 curve rather steep. Unlike most shooting games GRAW 2 has a lot of depth to the game play. You 
 will often find yourself controlling a small army by yourself, with tanks, helicopters, fighter 
 bombers and soldiers all under your command in real time. But with an intuitive and concise training 
 level you should be fighting like a real commando in no time. A seasoned GRAW warrior can easily 
 complete the game on the hardest difficulty in less than 8 hours. This is unfortunate as you feel 
 GRAW 2 is only getting started when its really winding down. The ending is disappointing and left 
 me wanting for more. Fortunately there is more, a lot more. GRAW 2s deep and involving multiplayer 
 system has developed on the sound foundations set by all the Ghost Recon games. You will find solo 
 game modes, team death matches, co-operative play, online campaigns and more, so youre bound to 
 find something to interest you. I have found hardly any lag in most of the online games I have 
 played, but the original issue of connections failing before the game starts is still a problem 
 here. Hopefully this will be addressed in a future patch. As a single player gamer more than a 
 multiplayer, some of the new improvements to GRAW 2s online suite are lost on me. I have been 
 told that the spawn system is much improved to stop campers, and various other enhancements have 
 been introduced that more seasoned multiplayer gamers will more than likely infuse about.
  
  As a complete package GRAW 2 is a major step forward from the original GRAW. Its only been 
 a year since we last stepped foot in the sun baked streets of Mexico; this might explained the 
 highly polished but short single player portion. But I am thankfully for the quick sequel turnaround. 
 GRAW 2 is my favourite game and I highly recommend it to anyone with a 360. Role on the GRAW 3! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarbyXCrash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are the first thing I noticed. Flying in a blackhawk helicopter over the bombed-out 
 city of Juarez, columns of smoke rose from the rubble below as the sun refracted through their 
 clouds, which dispersed and blew as the rotors of the chopper generated wind around them. The pops 
 of sporadic gunfire could be heard in the distance as my general briefed my through my technologically 
 advance hud. Suffice it to say, i had a semi before i was even on the ground.
  
  Once there, i was awestruck at the fluidity of the environment. Debris floated around the streets 
 as i slid for cover behind the shell of a car, my feet kicking up dust around me. Calling in my 
 UAV, i got an aerial view of my surroundings and marked the enemies closest to me. A group of three 
 stood together 40 meters off, and from my SCAR mounted grenade launcher flew a high explosive shell 
 that send them flying. Immediately the field was lit up by tracer round hissing past me as i advanced 
 for further cover. One by one, i outsmarted and eliminated my assailants, and continued my mission.
 
  
  Amazingly, this intensity continues throughout the single player game, which compensates for its 
 relatively short duration. In a few words, this game is amazing. It is impressive and way more 
 than what i expected. However, with some solid time put it, it can be exhausted with a rent. There 
 are qualities about it which make me want to own it, but not for $60.
  
  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 - 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Graw 2 technically is not a new game. Rather it is Graw 1.25 to 1.5. It has a whole new campaign 
 that take place shortly after Graw's. You never really know who your fighting, but that they are 
 Mexicans. As much as the game boasts, you never truly fight in the United States (I believe 1 mission 
 is but its practically like mexico so...) . Like the original Graw the city's appear always abandoned 
 for some reason amd the plot is stupid. The game continues to have problems with connection issues 
 where everyone in a multiplayer game is kicked out of the room. There is delay in gunfire, you 
 cannot play with friends in ranked matches (random teams, but i geuss thats what the clan support 
 is for) , and of course it lacks a cover system (i don't know why, really stupid) .
  
  On the up side the game does support Clans fully. There is tons of multiplayer options, and this 
 time around the achievements are all gainable. If you loved Graw one or missed out on it and are 
 interested, heres your chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  GRAW was a great game and the 2nd installment improves a lot on the original game. One thing thats 
 different about GRAW 2 is the all new cross com system. This gives you total control of your teammates 
 as you fight through beautifully detailed cities and mountains. GRAW 2 also fetures a great cover 
 system that rivals Gears of wars cover system. The multiplayer is AMAZING and it has tons of cool 
 clan support and new weapons and game modes for u to play with. GRAW 2 is the bast tactical shooter 
 for the 360 so far and the immersive campaign and great multiplayer make this game a must have 
 for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played Ghost Recon before? More importantly, have you ever played Ghost Recon: Advanced 
 Warfighter before? If your answer is yes , then the game might be sort of a deja vu to fans of 
 the series, but if not, you're in for a blast.
  
  GRAW 2 continues the stealthy, tactical, intelligent shooting game that Tom Clancy invented so 
 many years ago. Unfortunately, the newest installment in the series is more of a bland one, offering 
 nothing more than its prequel, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, did. While most Ghost Recons offered 
 many more features in between releases, the newest installment in the series feels more of an expansion 
 pack than a brand new game, and most people might not want to spend that $60 on a game that's got 
 a new campaign.
  One thing that fans of the series will be happy to hear is the strength and customization of the 
 multiplayer of the game. Once again, the multiplayer offers countless numbers of different options 
 and tweaks to your liking, offering many different game modes for different tastes. However, the 
 multiplayer is absolutely NO improvement in terms of customization than its prequel, GRAW, did. 
 The game retains the same multiplayer lobby and engine system, offering nothing new except a new 
 multiplayer lobby skin and new maps. The glitches that plagued GRAW's multiplayer (servers kicking 
 people out) even retain in this game! This is a big disappointment because the maps, too, are more 
 urban-based and less varying, offering a damped-down multiplayer experience.
  
  Luckily, the singleplayer experience has been improved this time. Although not many features have 
 been added, the overall feel, simplicity and functionality of the cross-com and Narcom have improved 
 over last time. The game is so similar to the previous Ghost Recon that you will not have to relearn 
 how to function the cross-com, and to add, the terms and overall complexity of the game have been 
 eased down. The difficulty of this game is disappointingly low. The previous GRAW offered a challenge 
 for veterans and masters of the game, with the Realistic difficulty killing you in a single round. 
 This time around, the game is much more easier and forgiving, allowing you to virtually pass through 
 the entire Campaign without dying. The game requires two rounds this time to kill you instead of 
 one (fundamentally, enemies must hit you twice to kill you now, instead of once, and the ability 
 to heal yourself with a M. U. L. E. or a medic makes the entire game much easier) . The game adds a 
 better feel to the cross-com, and offers MUCH more weapons and features, such as the M. U. L. E. (a 
 self-driving, mini-APC with weapons and health!) and the new ZEUS-T2 (an 84-mm rocket launcher 
 that you can guide by moving around your screen!) . The campaign is new and fresh, and it offers 
 much replayability. The story of the game is also more apparent now, instead of the what was the 
 storyline in this game, again? -feeling in the first GRAW. Some parts are cheesy, but the cheesiness 
 shouldn't bother people too much, as the rest of the game makes up for it.
  
  The graphics have improved in the singleplayer, offering slick graphics that compete with Gears 
 of War. The real-time weather effects, real-time day-and-night cycle, real-time particle effects, 
 HDR lighting, real-time shading technology, high-res textures and real-time lighting and reflections 
 offer one of the best, if not, the best graphics on the Xbox 360 so far. This pertains mostly to 
 the singleplayer, however, because the multiplayer section of the game STILL uses the multiplayer 
 graphics engine as GRAW (although the real-time shading on the character models does look impressive 
 in the multiplayer section of the game, too) . Explosion also look pretty in GRAW 2.
  
  Speaking of explosions, the top-notch, AAA-sound in GRAW 2 has improved again. The surround sound 
 offers slightly-high-grade quality in the multiplayer section of the game, but the game boasts 
 pretty sound effects and explosions in the singleplayer.
  
  In conclusion, GRAW 2 was a game that hit-and-miss-AAA-rank because of its sheer similarities with 
 the first GRAW multiplayer. The game does aim high and Ubisoft did have good intentions with this 
 game, but Ubisoft probably would've just been better off migrating the Campaign of GRAW 2 with 
 GRAW and releasing the multiplayer maps via Downloadable Content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Action games exploit dubious what-if scenarios by turning them into gamesultranationalists in 
 Moscow rebuild the Iron Curtain, Kazakhstans destabilized by a Pakistani warlord, rebel insurgents 
 attack a North American summit in Mexico and drive the presidents of both the U. S. and Mexico into 
 hiding. Add Mexico invades the U. S. to that list of near-future paranoid fantasies and you have 
 the premise for Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, a dolled up sequel that tries so hard to be 
 intuitive it virtually plays itself.
  
  In fact GRAW2 could almost be a dummies version of GRAW, swollen with so many high-tech death-dealing 
 extras and set against such ridiculously underpowered dim-bulb A. I. combatants that its more like 
 a dippy third-person shooter than a pensive tactical action gamble. Yeah, we get that in pitched 
 combat with all its modern toys, the U. S. cleans up, butnot to put too fine a point on itwhats 
 fun about shooting fish in a barrel?
  
  Down Mexico Way
  
  Fresh off GRAWs Mexico City fiasco, youre back as Captain (wheres this guys promotion?) Scott 
 Mitchell, leader of an elite team of ghosts, i. e. special ops riflemen, grenadiers, gunners, 
 marksmen, and medics (if youve played GRAW, note the new classes) . Its 2014 and Mexicos embroiled 
 in a civil war between loyalists and rebel insurgents thats bled across the Rio Grande, turning 
 the desert and mountain border areas of Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua and El Paso, Texas into a deadly 
 free-fire zone. 12 missions comprise a three-act 72 hour span in which youll help the loyalists 
 thwart those rebels by satchel charging anti-air targets, rescuing hostages, counter-sniping, neutralizing 
 dozens of hostile strongpoints, thumping tanks and other AVs with rocket launchers, scuttling fleeing 
 vehicles for extra points, and fielding the occasional solo sortie with limited or malfunctioning 
 gear.
  
  The hoopla this time (aside from a satisfying visual upgrade) is the games improved heads-up display 
 or Cross-Com 2.0, now offering window or full-screen visual squad feeds from which you can issue 
 attack and move orders directly. Weapons are easier to swap as well: just pair the B button with 
 a d-pad tap. You also get a mobile M. U. L. E., basically a squat little ATV drone that follows you 
 around and replaces GRAWs gamey static ammo stations for anywhere-you-go first aid, reloads, or 
 weapon trades. All told, think of GRAW2 as more angles, more firepower, and more opportunities 
 than ever to trigger visually stunning kabooms, which is great news if youre big on metric tons 
 of billowing smoke and ballooning explosions with cool flaring squibs. For the rest, brace for 
 disappointment, because GRAW2 pops its tactical clutch and throws the gearshift in reverse.
  
  I See You
  
  Imagine a game with two sets of flaws, one set masking the other, and you 
 get the original GRAW with its judiciously apportioned support tools designed to make you actually 
 work your zones, along with an interface just clumsy enough to guarantee youd take a beating from 
 that games pitiable drones. Now keep the interface but add a couple billion dollars worth of 
 cutting edge taxpayer toys (27 new sidearms, assault weapons, and rifles) that amount to battlefield 
 omnipotence, and you expose the originals second carryover flaw: crappy A. I., which sad to say 
 and for all this sequels improved visual splendor, makes GRAW2 a tactically sleepy cakewalk.
 
  
  For starters, the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) you only dinked with in GRAW is back, and in practically 
 every mission, offering unprecedented battlefield visibility. Hold your controllers right bumper 
 to get a first-person hover-view, then thumbstick your way around to mark-off targets like cruising 
 cardboard cutouts on a firing range. With foreknowledge of everyones positions, each mission becomes 
 a facile scoot-and-shoot. Peek, then cap the strutting, ditzy bad guy, who if you miss will only 
 warn some of his buddies.
  
  And boy, are they dumb. So they throw a few more grenades and try (with all the subtlety of lunging, 
 gun-flailing mannequins) to flank you. So what? At least in GRAW their tendency to entrench made 
 head-on assaults difficult. Here their feeble attempts to flank or retreat simply expose them to 
 lethal fire, like fish inokay, you get it. Or take two insurgents crouched behind a car: the one 
 closest to you wont just peer out ala Rainbow Six Vegas, hell expose his entire body to take 
 the shot. Youll point (vaguelythe auto-aims infinitely forgiving) , fire, and drop him, then 
 instead of staying down or sprinting for better cover, his buddy will slide into place and do precisely 
 the same thing. Crank things up to hard and these guys do more damagewhich is precisely the sort 
 of give the worker-bees bigger bullets trick that been a crutch for crummy A. I. for years. If 
 this is supposed to be vastly improved A. I., someone check my meds, because with the difficulty 
 cranked, I still breezed right through GRAW2s perfunctory (10 hours, if that) campaign.
  
  The Good
  
  At least they got the squad A. I. right. In addition to chatting smarter (theyll 
 rattle off directions and specific enemy locations now) , theyll also use cover more intelligently. 
 Tell them to attack, and instead of charging with their backsides in the wind, theyll probe more 
 expansivelyeven back up hundreds of feet before engaging the enemy. The only downsides the fact 
 that youre still limited to attack/move or stay by me, which means theyre only ever capable 
 of rushing (never crawling or slinking) toward their intended destinations. Were way overdue for 
 this series to let us issue direct commands to individual squad members, or split up teams in more 
 ways than this awkward 3-on-1 business.
  
  But okay, special kudos to the design team for including six extra co-op missions (theyre set 
 in Panama, notably more difficult, and a blast to tackle with pals) . As well, some terrific multiplayer 
 maps, each packing computer A. I. with an actual pulse. Which would of course be hotter if you werent 
 already planning to play online or shoulder-to-shoulder against live humans anyway. Multiplayer 
 fans should also be pleased to note Ubisoft fixed spawning (it now occurs in broad areas, not fixed 
 points) and tacked on a few seconds of invulnerability after re-spawn to thwart camp teams.
  
  Still its not quite enough to bless GRAW2 with more than average-plus marks. In fact the question 
 youll want to ask as you make your own pre-buy pros and cons list, is whether this sounds like 
 a full-bodied sequelor just a $60 up-tweaked mission pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 takes place in the distant future, 2013-2014, Mexico. You have 
 three days, and you were never there.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. It is better that Gears in my opinion. The environments 
 and character models are very detailed, from moving blades of grass, to huge explosions caused 
 by your recent Air Strike.
  
  The sound is, as well, top notch. I would have given it too a perfect score, but often it is hard 
 to hear the voices over the firing and explosions.
  
  Single Player: Holds alot of twists as the plot develops. The over-all game is somewhat short, 
 and can be beaten in about 5 to 6 hours. But there are modes of difficulty too. Even on elevated 
 risk, this game is not that chalenging (untill the last few levels) .
  
  Multi player: Completely amazing and addicting. There are numerous modes of play, as you and your 
 friends coordinate attacks against the opponent. With territory, objective, elimination all with 
 solo, team options; co-op against cpu, campaign, and more, this will keep you busy.
  
  Over all, the achievements are fun to get, and the game is fun and addicting. Any gamer with a 
 360 may want to pick this game up.
  
  9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Let's start of with the single player mode. It's definitely better than GRAW 1's single player 
 mode. For one thing, your teammates don't want to get shot. They're still mostly dependant on what 
 you tell them to do, but they know when they need to take cover. It's also a fairly easy game as 
 long as you play it using the first 2 levels of difficulty. You can pretty much know that your're 
 going to get through most of the levels without dying. Going along with the easy part, GRAW 2 is 
 also pretty short. A casual gamer should be able to beat it in 1-2 days. The single player mode 
 does have its highlights though. For example, on a few levels, you'll be assisted by a tank or 
 a hellicopter. Yes, you can make things go boom. And, there's a special sniper rifle that can shoot 
 through walls. Using the night vision is pretty cool, but GRAW 2 only has 1 or 2 levels where you 
 need to use it. The graphics are some of the best on 360 too. It rally cool to take cover on the 
 corner of a wall and watch your enemy's bullets fly by. Plus, if you beat a coupole of levels you'll 
 unlock a couple music videos. Including Gimme Danger by The Stooges. XBOX live is really what makes 
 it worthbuying though. It's Live is probably the best on 360. There is no flaw in it.
  So, rent it if you don't have live, buy it if you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is the sequal to the shooter of year last year GRAW . This game epands on the tom clancey's 
 series in the ghost recon series. Its a great addition to the series and is an awesome shooter 
 on-and-off line multiplayer. The graphics are perfect with deep detail in character models, gun 
 models and in the envirement. Explosions are beautifull and make you want to blow up enemy vehicles 
 that much more! The only thing is the envirements that you get to play in, desert, desert, city, 
 city, desert and so on. Yea there are deserts and cities in the mexican landscape but they could 
 have thrown in some diversity. The campaign however can get a little boring and there are acheivemnts 
 for beating the game on all three difficulties although you just wont want to after playing it 
 once and MAYBE twice The plot is once again problems with the US and meico and you ll be serving 
 your guns all around mexico and central america. Your Cap. Scott Micheal (like all the other games) . 
 you get a highly trained elite squad that is trained for stealth and head-on fighting. Thats why 
 when commanding your squad you can put on stealth or assault orders. Stealth commands the ghosts 
 to not fire despite the fact they have a visiual and scout of ahead, its kinda a recon mode if 
 you will, although your ghost will fire back if fired upon. Assault is when your facing multiple 
 targets that have already spotted you and are preparing to fire or already firing, this is more 
 of a going into the belly off the beaste mode, and your allies open fire when they have a visual. 
 There are a variety of weapons, rifles, machine guns, snipers and etc. w/ a variety of shot types 
 (burst, automatic or single shot) and the different shot types even effect your acuracy which really 
 ads realism to the game. Also your healthe is limited and you have an optional medic which can 
 heal you or teamates but you can also heal teamates just not yourself. You of course direct where 
 your ghosts go and how they do it.
  
  Game vehicles are awesome..... vehicles in this game are VERY AWESOME. You can control recon droids, 
 weapon shipment drones, helicopter machine guns and much more. These vehicles can play a key role 
 in the games strategy but somtimes its hard to monuver them or tell them where eactly you want 
 them to go. Although they are still fun to control and play around with in campaign and multiplayer.
 
  
  The game was many of the same features its predicessor (GRAW) same cross-com many of the smae characters, 
 guns and story line which isn't a bad thing but I guess it can get a little, little old but its 
 not that bid of a deal. But really its a great game and a must buy for many xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dapmediainc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  GRAW is one of those games you can just sit down and have lots of fun with. We all know, hes in 
 Mexico again facing the rebels once again, but some people might think that gets old. It does not.
 
  
  GRAW for the 360 is a superb title. The Unreal engine, show of the horsepower on the 360 with smooth 
 ease. Ubisoft just needs to push the console just a little for a perfect 10. Also, in order for 
 the perfect 10, Mexico is a big city and Im still wondering, WHERE ARE ALL THE PEOPLE. Maybe this 
 was never thought of, since they where having way to much fun creating the game.
  
  The next installment needs to be over in Iraq or somewhere in the Middle _East hunting The #1 most 
 wanted man, and make it REAL HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is PERFECT. There is no game that is like this one. The single player is short but makes 
 it easy for achievements. There is 3 types of hard. Low, Normal, high risk. I did it on Normal 
 first but most did it on hard so they only have to beat it once. I am like at 975 for points and 
 i dont play that much so that shows easy points compared to the first GRAW. on line has got so 
 many more maps then befor. thet even brought the map Nowhere to GRAW2. They have more guns then 
 befor. and more pistols too. Graphics are amazing. in single player it is like a fast pace time. 
 if you spend a lot of time on one map in sngle player the time will move on. So if you start in 
 the day time, there is a chance you would end up in night time when you were finished with the 
 mission. Unlike the first one wind changes every thing. a smoke will go the way that teh wind is 
 going. so you might have to lead the wind when you toss smoke. you have a medic in the single player 
 to help you go through it which this i why the game was so much easyer. Online if you get shot 
 you could still be alive and a team mate may help you back to your feet. this is a great game and 
 any one is says anything bad about it, well that person must be a some one that hates shooting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: all-star16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is Great! If you liked any of the other Ghost Recon 
 games you will love this one. It works well at a tactical shooter with great graphics and is an 
 overall great game. The weapons were cool and the experience was fun. Like the other games in the 
 series you have a lot of hi-tech equipment and everything worked well. The multi player was good 
 and is one of the better looking 360 games. Everything came together well and the story mode isn't 
 too short and the game has a great co-op. GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAJA_RAMEEZ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  i, ve taken a sniper, s aim at (tom clancys- ghost recon advanced warfighter 2) the newest intallment 
 in squad-based warfare from publisher (ubisoft) and a sequel to the last years best game it, s the 
 definate step up from the original-and that, s saying alot. the game has a refined interface, even 
 better graphics and an engaging multiplayer expe- rience that balances out the extremely short 
 single- player mode. called (GRAW 2) in short. this new title (Rated, E) picks up in the year 2014 with 
 capt. scott mitchell he leads the us militarys elite ghost reconunit and arives at fort bliss, texas 
 near El paso, just in time to deal with a civil war in mexico that threatens to boil over into united 
 states. Many of exciting thing i found this more exciting that, you, ll have to make some basic desicions 
 before each game . who do u want to accompany you on the battlefield. in the single player mode, you 
 will be the one giving orders with a few well considered button presses GRAPHICS the game packs 
 detailed sharp graphics with explosions that fill the screen and outdoor environments acroos central 
 america that come alive with realistically rendered buildings trees, vehicles. fans of original game 
 will love this sequel. SOUND the sound is also just great the sound of the fast air waves its so 
 real also the sound of the bullets fire and the bullets droppind on the ground the explosion and 
 1 more impresive work in sound is that u can hear the team talking to each wother clearly it maked 
 me feel like a soldier my self for a moment. LIFSPAN you, ll never put the controller down if ur 
 playing multiplayer or on xbox live . its that simple. OVERALL run to the store and get ur self 
 a copy of this game for for ps3 owners just a little wait and then u all will be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series. It has Good MP, great story, and really cool guns. This is 
 definetly a must have. If you played the first version of GRAW then you'll like this even more, 
 as it has improve some aspects of the first version. The games is very fast paced, full of action. 
 The only downside i saw to the game is that sometimes the intro to the levels are a little on the 
 long side, and you can't skip it. But it's essential as it gives you a background on what's going 
 on. The online game play is even better, as there are a variety of gamestyles that you can play, 
 so that you dont get bored too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JarHead1985
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This is definetly a must have. If you played the first version of GRAW then you'll like this even 
 more, as it has improve some aspects of the first version. The games is very fast paced, full of 
 action. The only downside i saw to the game is that sometimes the intro to the levels are a little 
 on the long side, and you can't skip it. But it's essential as it gives you a background on what's 
 going on. The online game play is even better, as there are a variety of gamestyles that you can 
 play, so that you dont get bored too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Last year the Xbox 360 got its first must have game Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter and almost 
 a year later a sequal has been released and while it may not improve the gameplay as much as it 
 should it is still well-worth your hard earned cash.
  GRAW 2 takes place immediately after the events of GRAW. You jump into Scott Mitchells boots to 
 take omand of the elite ghost squad the day after GRAW took place. With the rebels leader exterminated 
 and the football back in allied hands the rebels are on their last leg and have started an all 
 out assault on the US border. You begin to combat this advance in Juarez, Mexico just south of 
 the US border up to southern parts of Texas. You find out early on that nuclear weapons that went 
 missing years ago may have made it into the US making the situation much more threatening than 
 it once was.
  When GRAW launched last year it brought many new things to the series, the most noticeable being 
 the crosscom. This is probably the biggest change to the game that any vet from the first GRAW 
 will feel while playing through this game. New features to the crosscom make it seem more full-fledged 
 and thought out then it did last year with the added ability to enter your allies view full screen. 
 Also added is the ability to command Mexican loyalists and air strikes during certain parts of 
 the campaign. While this campaign may be much shorter than its predecessors it is also tougher 
 and offers up many more challenges. Another thing this game vastly improves on is the graphics, 
 with dynamic weather, lighting and many other options this is sure to also be a very visually appealing 
 experience. While the single player may be great what kept people playing this game through the 
 summer was its incredible multiplayer which has returned with the revamped crosscom and over 60 
 weapons to boot. Also coming with these new features are new maps and gametypes. The maps this 
 time around are designed with the new game in mind and easily blow GRAWs maps out of the water. 
 They range from a long lagoon to an abandoned fort and most offer up two different times of day 
 the map can be played. Also updated this year due to player response is the spawning system. Last 
 year there were players who would sit in your spawn waiting for you to appear before putting a 
 bullet in your head which, for some, ruined the gameplay. Now that Ubisoft has realized there mistake 
 they have added a new spawning system that respawns you in a safe zone when people are scoping 
 out your spawn. This system is amazing, when it works. It only changes your spawn if there are 
 enemies actually in your spawn, meaning that one can stand 20 feet away and still get cheap easy 
 kills. Overall this game is well worth the money despite its few innovations and short campaign. 
 This is a must have for anyone with a 360 and live though for people without live you may want 
 to consider renting the game instead of shelling out 60 bucks.
  
  Run Down
  +Incredible multiplayer
  +Beautiful grapics
  +Explosive single player
  -Thats incredibly 
 short
  -Inovative Spawning system
  isnt very innovative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkANDWander
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the most realistic front line combat simulator out there. It is a great game. 
 It has all of the essentials: good graphics, good sound and voice acting, good controls, extremely 
 realistic, and multiplayer. In fact the only thing this game needs is length. I beat the story 
 in four days. When considering this game you must consider the multiplayer though. It is great! 
 Except for the fact that in multiplayer you cant take cover. Over all the game is worth the money 
 just because of the amazing story mode. This game has the most realistic AI and Graphics ever! 
 And the story itself is verry well thought of. Once again the only problems is that it was not 
 long enuff and oh and once my team mate got stuck inside a wall and i had to restart from the last 
 save. Unless your a collector of the series rent it first. And with that I am off. I hope you agree 
 with my review now go get 'em soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoikC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  It's been quite a while since I've been as addicted to a game so much that I occasionally dream 
 about it. Not since Oblivion have I been so fixed on playing a game for hours on end. Not even 
 with the amazing Gears of War.
  
  GRAW 2 is the game that's done it again. Not only is it significantly better than the original 
 GRAW, but it manages to have a far better Multiplayer than Gears of War.
  
  Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay
  The controls are almost unchanged from the original game, 
 and I see that as a good thing. The original used all of the controls that a tactical shooter should 
 use, and GRAW 2 fine-tuned them to give you an even better gaming experience.
  The medic is finally here, and he will save you from many restarts when you have him with you. 
 Also, he can fight fairly well, too.
  CFV (command full view) is a brilliant addition to the control scheme, and it makes winning battles 
 so much easier and cooler when you see what your allies see.
  In GRAW 2, your ghosts aren't brain dead, so you can actually expect them to take cover when they 
 need to and shoot the guy you tell them to shoot.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are HOT. I mean, I loved Gears of War's graphics to death, but the way 
 they did the explosions and lighting in GRAW 2 is just so... brilliant. It's a noticible step up 
 from the original, and for that, I applaud Ubisoft. Keep the wicked cool explosions coming!
  
  Sound
  If there is a weak part of the game, it's in the voice acting. General Keating feels 
 the need to yell your orders at you, Scott Mitchell sounds like he has a frog in his throat, and 
 the Ghosts tend to repeat the same thing three times in a two minute battle. Other than that, the 
 game's sound is amazing. Explosions sound stupidly cool, gunfire sounds realistic, and the vehicles 
 sound as they would if it was real.
  
  Value
  If you don't have Xbox Live, you may want to rent it, since it's short Single-Player Campaign alone 
 isn't worth buying it for alone. The story is paper-thin, and the campaign lasts no more than 8 
 hours on the hardest difficulty for semi-experienced players. If you DO have Live, then this is 
 a MUST-BUY. The Multiplayer is the best of any Xbox 360 game to date, and is endlessly customizable 
 so you'll never play the same way twice (a la Gears of War) . The Multiplayer also has 6 new Co-op 
 missions that are stupidly fun when you play with 16 people. My only concerns for MP is that the 
 footstep sounds suck, and my guy feels like he's riding a bike, not running.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, and is by far the best Ghost Recon game in the series. Perhaps 
 the best Clancy game of all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guinessbonez
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  OK GRAW2 is an all around good game and will no doubt please anyone new to the franchise. But those 
 of us who have been playing since the first Ghost Recon might be disappointed at the new style 
 of the single player.
  
  GRAPHICS-Ok this game improves on the single player graphics buy adding a new smoke effect and 
 adding more detailed character models. But the multi-player is were the most improvement visually 
 will be found unlike the first GRAW were the graphics looked completly different from the single 
 player. GRAW2 trys to mimic the single players graphics and it succedes in the sense that the game 
 looks alot better but it still dosent look like the spectacular single player. But it still outshines 
 alot of other games in the graphics department.
  
  Sound-More the same as the original GRAW but thats not a bad thing.
  
  Gameplay-Ok heres were 
 the fans of the original Ghost Recon might get dissapointed. The game is no longer about finding 
 the high ground and sniping your enemies from a distance 1 by 1. Now its all about the game throwing 
 waves of enemies at you while advance through the level and expect alot of over the top explosions 
 and just mayhem in the single player. Which would be cool if they didnt make the easy enough for 
 a 5 year old and it dosent really help when you can beat the game in around 6 hours even if your 
 new to the GRAW series.
  
  Multi-player-OK its more of the same as the original GRAW but your getting alot more bang for your 
 buck well over 12 maps tons of co-op modes, clan support and a pretty decent ranking system to reward 
 the dedicated players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorntexan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  The latest entry to the Tom Clancy universe is somewhat a disappointment. I truly enjoy playing 
 all the Ghost Recon games and was eagerly awaiting the release of GRAW 2. When I began to play 
 the game I noticed the new additions to the crosscom and weapons and equipment upgades. Unfortunately 
 I completed the game in three nights. I am an old school gamer who still judges a game for it's 
 campaign and single player modes. The online and multiplayer options are great for those who enjoy 
 it, but I feel that a game should have a long single player mode. This is the purpose of the game. 
 As far as I am concerned GRAW 2 was a really cool looking and fun experience with good multiplayer 
 play capability. I look forward to the next installment, hopefully it will have a campaign worthy 
 of carrying the name Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvandingo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Its the 360's flag-ship title's time for a sequel, how have things moved on? to be honest not much 
 has changed for GRAW 2. You now can switch between each of your squads cameras on the cross com 
 and use it to issue orders alot more effectively when thay are a good distance from your own character, there 
 is also a new vehicle in the mule that can be used as a moblie ammo dump these are not a great 
 leap from the original hence the short period between this game and the first, but if it aint broke 
 dont fix it.
  The single player game still has the great gameplay of the first and seems to have bigger playing 
 areas tha the first letting you try different routes to complete the missions.
  Grahics are still a delight to see and the soundtrack is fantastic.
  The only thing is that the 
 single player is far too short giving you just enough to make it worth a sequel but no more.
  Muli-player is fantastic as with the first game and some new game modes have been added. The co-op 
 mode is great just dont expect to be playing the campaign mode with a friend because as with the 
 first muli-player is diffrent to single player, eg, there is no pushing your character onto cover 
 as in the single player campaign.
  A great game let down by how short single player is, is there any chance in the future we can play 
 a real co-op as in gears of war? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmswps2002
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Other than the cover system and aiming in online play stinks its overall a good game but needs 
 some improvement. You do get tired of dropping out of a game because if a person cannot hold 16 
 in a room you might as well forget it. Great graphics, excellent sound, and good healthy long simngle 
 player. ONline play again doesnt get my heart pumping like rainbow but I understand they are trying 
 to seperate the two. I think you should be able to throw grenades on the run as well as switch 
 weapons a little faster. Iknow i have submitted more cons than pros because what I have posted 
 are its only flaws that irratated me. Definately a game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 had a tough time holding peoples attention in the many weeks following its launch. 
 While games like Full Auto and Dead or Alive 4 came out they did little to hold much attention. 
 But then March rolled around and Ubisoft released Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, which became 
 what many considered the first truly next generation experience. Its been one year, and Ubisoft 
 has the sequel already on store shelves and theres only one question left to ask: Does it live 
 up to the high expectations?
  
  Captain Scott Mitchell had his work cut out for him in the first Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, 
 but he hasnt been given much time to recuperate. Scott is sent back into the battlefield almost 
 instantaneously, and things arent going to be any easier this time around. Fortunately for our 
 brave protagonist, hes given some extra support on a few of his latest missions. Not only that, 
 but Scott has even more control over his support thanks to some new features added to his Cross-Com 
 system.
  
  Youll still have command over your three-man supporting Ghost squad, but you can look through 
 their eyes-as well as those of any other support you have by holding down the right bumper. So, 
 what kind of new support will you have access to this time around you ask? Well, for starters, 
 youll be able to command APCs, tanks, choppers, a MULE-a small vehicle that carries weapons, 
 ammunition and other supplies-and even order the occasional air-strike. Controlling this extra 
 support may take some time to get used to, but once you do, you could potentially wind up completing 
 a mission without firing a single shot yourself.
  
  Sometimes youll have control over three types of support, which can make things a bit convoluted 
 when trying to decide just how to tackle certain courses of action. But learning to utilize every 
 bit of support youre given is what Ghost Recon is all about. So with a few runs through a certain 
 mission using multiple support should all become second-nature. Like its predecessor, Advanced 
 Warfighter 2 relies heavily on scripted moments and use of certain artillery at the right time 
 is still something players will need to abide by in many situations. Fortunately, these scripted 
 moments tend to offer very rewarding results, especially when youre able to adjust and execute 
 at the right time.
  
  Outside of the extra support granted, Advanced Warfighter plays almost exactly like its predecessor 
 in typical sequel fashion. This is of course a good thing as the core gameplay in GRAW was very 
 solid. Taking cover and firing at the right moment is still essential to your survival, so you 
 may want to think twice about simply running around in the open blind-firing. The action in GRAW 
 was top-notch, and GRAW2 takes it to a whole new level by offering larger, more explosive battles. 
 There are a few moments in the game in which youll need to take out what seems like an army of 
 soldiers. These instances are among the games most satisfying moments, which are very many. Oh, 
 and yes, there are still the moments in which youll get to shoot out of a chopper with a chaingun, 
 and these feel just as awesome as ever.
  
  Perhaps the single attribute that stood out the most in the first Advanced Warfighter was the phenomenal 
 visuals. And, as expected, GRAW2 looks even better than its predecessor, though not significantly. 
 The environments are all rendered with incredible detail and tend to look almost photorealistic. 
 Character models also look impressive for-the-most-part, with the small exception of a few rugged 
 details when you get an up-close look at some of them. There are little to no framerate issues 
 or even pop-ins, which is definitely a nice touch. But like its predecessor, the best part about 
 the visuals in GRAW2 are the explosions, which look even more amazing than before. Gears of War 
 and Motorstorm may be the best-looking games out there, but no other game has better-looking explosions 
 than GRAW2.
  
  Like the visuals, the sound and audio in GRAW2 is better than that of its predecessor, but by only 
 so much. The voiceovers for-the-most-part are believable and each characters voice tone fits appropriately 
 with the present situation. GRAW2s soundtrack doesnt stray too far away from its predecessor, 
 sharing the almost exact same main theme. Fortunately, the few alterations done to the soundtrack 
 all help the game sound even better, with a more epic score to fit with the tone of the game. As 
 for the audio and sound effects, they still remain the highlight of GRAW2s overall sound; with 
 some of the strongest and crisp sound effects ever heard in a game to date.
  
  Really, just about every aspect to GRAW2s campaign is better than that of its predecessor, from 
 the visuals, to the sound, to the gameplay and the action. About the only two areas that the games 
 single-player itself falls short is with its story and length. The game isnt terribly long; it 
 can be completed in about ten hours by the average gamer, even shorter by veterans of the genre 
 and/or series. As for the story, its about what youd expect from a game inspired by Tom Clancy. 
 It essentially has you trying to maintain control of the Mexican rebels and try to prevent them 
 from committing any possible acts that may danger the United States.
  
  Beyond the games short but sweet campaign is the offline and online multiplayer, which are functional 
 but nothing truly special. The visuals in GRAW2s multiplayer match those of its single-player 
 for-the-most-part, though the character models still seem lacking in detail. Like its predecessor, 
 you still cant take cover in the multiplayer at all and youll need to play in first-person without 
 seeing your weapon when playing offline. There are multiple options to play through the game online, 
 ranging from solo and team deathmatches, several variants of cooperative play and so forth. Its 
 all pretty standard stuff and not much other than the several given options set it apart from other 
 online multiplayer games.
  
  How well youll connect to certain matches may depend on your internet connection, as I rarely 
 managed to get into a lobby and even then, I still never got to experience a match with any more 
 than eight players. The entertainment youll get out of the multiplayer also depends, considering 
 the action can get pretty tense. Although, with how you can be killed almost instantly, its definitely 
 not meant for everyones tastes. Its enjoyable, but for someone like me who was expecting a more 
 enhanced multiplayer experience, it doesnt manage to do too much beyond being just barely entertaining.
 
  
  As a whole, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is a worthy follow-up to its predecessor and definitely 
 a game well worth checking out. The game has an improved audio and visual presentation as well 
 as enhanced gameplay and an overall better campaign. However, with the still lackluster multiplayer 
 and the single-player being disappointingly short, its hard to recommend this game past a good 
 rental. If you enjoyed the previous Advanced Warfighter, then you owe it to yourself to give GRAW2 
 a go, especially if you were actually fond of the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai8ers4lyfe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, the multiplayer is tight, and the campaign's not so bad. The graphics for 
 this game are great and, but the graphics are great for every other xbox 360 game. The only thing 
 i thought was gay about this game was that out of all the people they chose Mexicans to have the 
 nucluer weapons, seriously when are mexicans going to have nucleur weapons, they mow lawns for a 
 living, well at least i do, if they can't even produce clean water, then how the he11 are they 
 going to make nucluer weapons. Anyways other than that this game was fun, especially on Xbox live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is nice offline to me and real cool. The nline ain't that great, and the achivements 
 are harder to unlock too. To me this game is better offline than it is online but that's just my 
 opinion. I played it offline more than anything and the marketplace just keeps flooding you with 
 new thngs to use it's overwhelming. Unlike the last GRAW it has some differences, but the gameplay 
 is tpe the same. It's shorter than the normal version but it's still amazing. When you're online 
 it's cool but you can't do things you do offline, like is Vegas you can do everything you do offline. 
 This game is a nice realistic game and is great to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wh1te_m4trix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  One word: Awesome.
  
  The gameplay is stunning. The storyline will keep you in your couch until you finish the game, 
 its non-stop action from beginning to end. The Multiplayer has a huge library of weapons to please 
 everyone's need for killing. The AI got a huge improvement. The snipers are as deadly as if you 
 were using them and the soldiers react to the environment around them. I haven't found any weird 
 glitches so far which makes it even better. One of the only problems I found is that the squad 
 doesn't react to your orders sometimes. The multiplayer includes new modes such as the one featured 
 on the demo: Takedown. The coop is great, the AI is as intelligent as the one on the single player. 
 This game has revolutionized the tactical shooter genre. Ubisoft is on a killing spree right now 
 with excellent games out there such as : GRAW 2, Rainbow Six: Vegas, Splinter Cell: Double Agent 
 and Rayman: Raving Rabbits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  GRAW, the original brought the Ghost Recon Series back on point and showed that next-gen games, 
 were definitely going to kick hard. GRAW 1 did show this and helped create an example to more games 
 to come. One year later, in this daring fairytale, there is already a whole new game out on store 
 shelves, but is it really that new? Find out in this review.
  
  Gameplay -
  
  If you've played GRAW 1 then this is clearly the same. If you haven't well, this game doesn't really 
 need to played with it's predessor. It's pretty easy to get used to it, but no matter what your 
 still going to enjoy it if you didn't play the first one. There is still lots and lots of guns 
 in the game, making it more exciting. The first game had about 50+ guns. This game it has 60+ guns, 
 and they are probably gonna add more soon enough. When your playing through the main campaign, 
 you'll have sucky weapons at first, but when you unlock the more destructive ones, you'll probably 
 never use the beginning weapons ever again.
  
  The main campaign may end up being pretty short, but multiplayer will keep you playing. They've 
 added a bunch more modes, adding to a total of 15+ modes with others you can make yourself. There 
 is a handful of maps, all new, but one downloadable one. Each map you can change the day, into 
 night, sunrise, etc. It's pretty nice to seem some levels in the dark, as it makes it just more 
 exciting.
  
  There is a whole new Co-op Campaign, totaling to six new missions. From the last GRAW, each mission 
 could be played with up to 16 players. Same thing goes here with up to sixteen players again, but 
 this time the missions are much longer and harder than GRAW 1's four missions. I only wish when 
 people create Co-op Campaign Games, that they turned on FF, if your allowed to. I'm not even sure 
 if you can as it is a problem to get shot by another playing during Co-op and not to respawn.
 
  
  Graphics -
  
  They've updated the graphics a little better than before, making it look much sharper and clean. 
 The shades are much better and playing certain levels at night, having the moon glow on the water, 
 makes it look absolutly amazing.
  
  Sound -
  
  Seems like the same music over and over, Seems like the same music over and over, Seems like the 
 same music over and over... you get what I mean. It seems they didn't really change the music, but 
 you can always just put on an MP3, or whatever. So it doesn't really stop you. Sometimes the music 
 just disappears for a few seconds, then comes back, or never returns at all.
  
  Value -
  
  The regular campaign can last you 6 to 8 hours on the easiest difficulty, 8 to 10 on the normal, 
 and 10 to 12 on the hardest, so it's much shorter than the last game, but much more easier to get 
 into. Multiplayer will keep you going for awhile, until you get all the achievements, which won't 
 take to long to get if you just play it for a couple days. The hardest achievements might be 60 
 minute defending, getting 500 kills, etc. None of them are impossible to get, just takes a good 
 amount of time.
  
  Bottomline -
  
  The game is still fun, but it just feels the same as other games. Hopefully that doesn't stop you 
 from playing GRAW 1.5... er.... GRAW 2.
  
  Thank you for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is just great. The singleplayer is dramatic when it needs to be, and pure adrenaline every 
 other second. It gives you a realistic storyline, and futuristic gadgets you could actually see 
 being used in the future battlefields. You can find all of that in the first one, but what you 
 can't find is the small things they did to improve the gameplay from the first one. They took a 
 lot of the tricks from Rainbow Six Vegas, like the easy to use squad control, and the taking cover. 
 The graphics are tweaked and more importantly more optimized, with better performance all around. 
 The over-the-shoulder derived from some of the popular games like Gears of War, as well as its 
 predecessor, Ghost Recon 2, is a nice touch. The new gadgetry is well done, and suprisingly doesn't 
 feel overdone. They added a few new vehicle control features other than just the UAV. All of them 
 so far have been just as helpful in their own way, and implemented in a very stylish fashion, as 
 to not damage the integrity of the gameplay by jampacking the game with un-needed features.
  
  The multiplayer is very nice, especially if you are comparing it to the other options you have 
 when choosing a shooter on XBOX360 to play online. It throws in just enough tactics by giving you 
 nearly perfect maps. While there are a few dudds in the lineup, the maps they have given you to 
 play on are generally well crafted, and made to utilize squad movement and tactics like flanking 
 and decoy fire. You'll find the best gaming experience in the Ranked matches, as most of the player 
 matches are filled with people with 2-3 people playing on the same xbox, and its restrictions are 
 pretty harsh and tends to take away from it all. I suggest staying away from Player Matches unless 
 you have friends over to play with. Ranked is the way to go and you get the true MP experience 
 from it. Everyone is a step above what you'll find in non-ranked. They give you a few features 
 like there is a point between dying and being alive that you get shot, but not enough to kill you 
 totally and you roll around writhing in pain, at this point your teammates can heal you back to 
 life if they can get there in time before you bleed out, or get finished off. It's a nice feature, 
 and the fact that you don't have to pick a medic class to be able to do this is refreshing.
  
  All in all the game experience is more than solid, its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was released for the Xbox 360, it made gamers drool from 
 it's beautiful graphics, intense gameplay, and realistic tactical feel. Along with that, it delivered 
 a multiplayer mode that stood above any other that was released in that time frame. GRAW2 improves 
 on this, and in more ways than one.
  
  It doesn't matter where you start, because both areas of the game just shines brightly. The single 
 player picks up exactly where you left off in GRAW. The rebel leader has been killed, and NAJSA 
 (North American Joint Secruity Agreement) has yet to be signed. That's when you're put right back 
 into the boots of Captain Scott Mitchell who is thrown right back into the fray when it becomes 
 clear that rebels still have posession of nuclear weapons. The game has you travelling back and 
 forth across the US/Mexican border in Juarez, El Paso, and even areas just around them.
  
  The graphics are always a high point in the GRAW games, and GRAW2 just improves slightly on this. 
 Explosions, as always, are extremely satisfying when the particle and bloom effects are put to 
 use. One of the high points to this is the Blackhawk sequences, when you first see the mexican 
 city of Juarez, and it is pretty obvious that it's a warzone, considering the flames rising from 
 the city, and the giant cloud of smoke on the other side of town.
  
  Gameplay remains largely unchanged. You can still zoom in, precision target, switch weapons the 
 same, and switch views of the sides on the fly. One new feature is the updated Cross-com. With 
 this, you have much more control over support like your UAV or Mule, where you can actually move 
 them yourself. By simply holding the left sholder button, you can even see what your Ghosts see, 
 over their shoulders, in a full screen view. Apart from that, almost every gameplay element is 
 intact. If it ain't broken, don't fix it.
  
  Sound of course is much more improved on in this installment. The music is much more intense to 
 fit any mood, and mostly changes on the fly depending on the situation. The only downside is that 
 the ending music is too loud when trying to listen to the conversation between Captain Mitchell 
 and the General during the last moments of the game, so it makes it difficult to hear during one 
 of the most intense and climatic moments in the game. Voice acting is at it's peak, though it's 
 sometimes easy to see that the General is usually off sync when talking through Cross-com. The 
 multiplayer component, from what i've heard, is largely improved on. One neat quirk, is that if 
 you have a Rainbow Six: Vegas or Splinter Cell: Double Agent save on your hard drive, then it'll 
 unlock neat headgear from that game.
  
  Overall, GRAW2 is a worthy buy for those wanting to immerse themselves into tactical shooters, 
 or aching to see the ending to the story arc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  pros; the multiplayer is incredibly varied, clan system works well, the different classes are varied 
 and play differently, the new wounded but not dead system is a nice addition
  cons; the single player campaign is very short
  
  Graphics:
  pros; these are probably the 
 best graphics in a shooter yet, the explosions are amazing
  cons; not much environmental destruction available Sound:
  pros; the guns all sound realistic, 
 explosions are also very realistic sounding
  cons; your teammates say the same annoying things over and over in single player (i shot them once 
 because they got on my nerve)
  
  Value:
  Real Price: $60 Value Price (the price it should be) : $50
  
  Rent, Buy, Wait, or Don't Bother?
 
  Rent if you don't have xbox live, buy or wait if you do have xbox live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prate20
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  A great game, short story yes, but if you have xbox live this game is two in one for you. The campaign 
 is a good (although short) , and I love the way you can actually use cover in this game and really 
 take advantage of your surroundings and actually get in fire fights. The AI is better than before, 
 but still very managable for any gamer. The graphics are second to none, they are absolutely gorgeous. 
 Multiplayer is also very good, lots of game modes to choose from and the maps are very well balanced 
 and they look absolutely amazing. This is a great game for anyone who has an 360 to atleast rent, 
 and for anyone who likes shooters, this is for you. Don't believe the bad reviews on this from 
 people, this is by no means a rambo game you need to be smart, but its not at a snails pace. This 
 is another reason for anyone to get a 360. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SiiLeNCE-
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This review is probably going to be very controversial; but I stand by my opinion. Perhaps I'm 
 just not the right audience for this game; but I thought it was horrible.
  
  Sure the graphics are pretty; but when half the levels are deserted and take place in the most 
 random and horrible places it doesn't really do anything to help its case. If it's not in a desert 
 it's in some city that's been cut-and-past'ed from any other game in it's genre. The sound is pretty 
 much on the same level. There's good sound-effects and voice-overs, but if you get lucky enough 
 to experience background music for the 3 times it's in the game it will burn your ears.
  
  The gameplay is where I really lost it. The entire game flow is just ridiculous; I mean I'm constantly 
 being told exactly what to do and where to go and it leaves almost no freedom in mission completion. 
 Even if you walk off the given path you'll get shot at twice as hard, and sometimes the mission 
 will fail altogether. The game is also way more complicated than it has to be. There's a thousand 
 tiny arrows on the screen, the maps are so unhelpful and pointless it doesn't do anything except 
 confuse you more, I can never understand what I'm supposed to be doing, the controls are complicated 
 and clunky; it's all incredibly stupid. The text size is so microscopic it's retarded, and there 
 are way too many sub-menus. The game even advances slowly and has dull animations; meaning if you 
 combine this with the fact that you never know where you're supposed to go it makes the game so 
 boring and frustrating that it becomes unplayable within minutes.
  
  Overall, this game just sucks *ss. Although I will admit it has a lot of deep multi-player options 
 and will appeal to hardcore tactical shooter fans a lot; it's not worth the time to trudge through 
 the repeditive, slow, frustrating, boring, and confusing parts; which is pretty much the rest of 
 it. Avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taki_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  im pretty sure the ps3 single player will be better but of course online will be great on the 360 
 and ps3's will be less intense because of how many ps3's sold. But its a good ass game i want it 
 for ps3, and my friend wont buy it because he only will play project gotham racing.... why idk but 
 this is a must buy for 360 owners im not one but i got my ps3 and im good with it just need games!!!!!!! 
 and also is this game being sued?? i heard that in the mexico part there is some racist stuff??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omrikk87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  graphics:
  simply perfect , every map gives a sense to the true feeling in to it.
  
  even though the models of the characters them self , kinnda sloppy , the environment, , weapons 
 , explosions , and everything alse looks good.
  
  sound:
  
  solid and nice dubbing in single-player , not to much in multi-player but , very nice effects overall.
 
  
  value:
  like i said , single is way shorter then you want (even though the 1st was the same) , the multiplayer 
 is just addictive and big time , one of the best mp games ive played anywhere , good choices in 
 multiplayer:
  
  few of the most better modes:
  
  team elimination:
  LMS- last man standing :
  team based game , same for counter strike , when each team respawn 
 one time , and wait for the first team to eliminate all enemies \time runs out.
  
  SharpShooter:
  first team to 50 , wins , kinnda like saints row's Team gangsta brawl , very nice 
 and fluind mode.
  
  Officer :
  forgot the official name for it , but its a team based game , when is sort of captain thing, when 
 you get randomly , a player in your team and theirs , just kill the officer , and get points , 
 time limit+score (how much officers you killed) =win.
  
  campain:
  co-op campain , when you need to eliminate enemies all over the map , and stop the threat ,each 
 map different objectives , very nice and cool , nice achievements for it as well.
  
  co-op elimination:
  same as campain , but here , its just killing all A. I enemies all over the 
 map , very nice , and very very fun , even though its quite easy.
  
  GRAW2 is a great game , multiplay cant be better , good graphics , good sound , amazing value to 
 the game with an addictive co-ops modes , and campains , 2 bad the single-player campain is quite 
 short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 picks off right where the original left off. It does seem like much hasn't changed, however 
 you'll notice lil things throughout the game that has been fixed. Though it supports a much shorter 
 campaign, the storyline is much improved. On top of that, the graphics have been upgraded on not 
 only the single player, but also on the multiplayer. Now the multiplayer's graphics don't look 
 drastically downgraded. The graphics are indeed gorgeous by every means. The lighting is simply 
 stunning. All the original controls are there, so you can pick it up right from the get go. And 
 now the AI is alot better. Team mates dont run in front of you that much anymore, plus the enemies 
 make much better use of cover. The difficulty has also been improved upon, making it more user 
 friendly (not so many snipers on the roof getting headshots on you) . During the single player campaign, 
 you control alot more vehicles than the first. From helicopters, APCs, to tanks, its all there. 
 But why couldn't it be in a different country other than Mexico? Main reason to get the game though 
 is the same reason as the first; multiplayer. As with the first it offers extremely addicting online 
 play. But how come Ubisoft can't seem to fix their servers? It seems everyone you play with can't 
 support a full 16 player match without having like 5 people get booted. One of the same problems 
 the first GRAW faced. But don't be fooled by everyone calling it GRAW 1.5. Its worth buying due 
 to its addicting online play and satisfying campaign mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adstaryoung
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Not enough enemy to shoot, not hard enough... I only died a few times on the hardest setting, looks 
 like they tried to make the game look great compromising game play. Anybody want to buy my copy, 
 as I'm going back to the original xbox GR2. Also, the guns sound like water pistols... come on, 
 how can this be going backwards? Not enough enemy to shoot, not hard enough... I only died a few 
 times on the hardest setting, looks like they tried to make the game look great compromising game 
 play. Anybody want to buy my copy, as I'm going back to the original xbox GR2. Also, the guns sound 
 like water pistols... come on, how can this be going backwards? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauromb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Hey, play this game is fantastic, very much action, very adicitve, realistic, fun, is great, exciting!!! 
 i recommend it!!!! good look
  
  Sorry for my english!!
  
  ex celente excelente excelente excelente excelente excelente excelente ex celente excelente excelente 
 excelente excelente excelente excele nte excelente excelente excelente excelente e xcelente exce 
 lente excel ente excelente excelente excelente excelente ex celente exc elente excele nte excelente 
 excelente excelente excelente exc elente ex celente excelen te excelente excelente excelente excelente 
 exce lente e xcelente excele nte excelente excelente excelente excelente excele nte excele nte 
 exce lente excelente excelente excelente excelente excelen te excele nte exce lente excelente excelente 
 excelente excelente excelent e excelente exce lente 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolobus11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I will start off this review by saying that it will be split into parts.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay mechanics didn't stray far from the first Advanced Warfighter. But that is not a bad 
 thing at all. The controls feel tight and spot on. You can look all the way, or slightly peek up 
 or around a wall. You can aim with some accuracy, or precision aim for more. Some guns have scopes 
 for even more accuracy. The games guns feel and handle pretty realistically. A nice amount of recoil. 
 The shells seem to stay on the ground also. Now for the bad. Whenever I seem to want to take cover, 
 I can't. The sliding when you crouch when you run is unnecessary sometimes, and it has gotten me 
 killed quite a few times. To end this section on a good note, the guns are really balanced. It 
 doesn't feel cheap when you get killed.
  
  Graphics
  If you go into this game expecting a huge leap from the first Advanced Warfighter graphics, you 
 will be disappointed. There are some improvements. The lighting is improved. So are some of the 
 textures. The explosions are improved also. But the game still looks amazing, rivaling that of 
 Gears of War sometimes.
  
  Sound
  What can I say about the sound? Of the guns I have heard being shot, they sound spot on in this 
 game. The explosions are very nice and so are the guns. The heartbeat when you go down is a very 
 nice effect also. There are some bad sounds here and there, but nothing that you will really notice.
 
  
  Value
  This game's value is through the roof, if you have live. If you don't have Xbox Live, you will 
 get maybe 10 hours out of this game unless you are a hardcore Ghost Recon fan. For your single 
 player needs, you will have a short campaign at your disposal. The campaign is very fun though, 
 fun enough to replay on higher difficulties. You also have quick missions, which are kind of like 
 the single player missions but quicker. If you have Xbox Live, there are many, many things to do. 
 You have the online campaign returning and better than ever. You also have a hefty amount of game 
 modes, some returning, some making their first appearance. Many of the new ones are fun. Team elimination 
 still reigns as the supreme mode. The modes are also much more customizable this time around. The 
 achievements will also have you coming back to this game.
  
  Time for the conclusion folks. This game is worth picking up whether you are a Ghost Recon veteran 
 or a new recruit. The controls are spot on, graphics fine tuned, and online is spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden-Yuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 expands on the first one adding another thrilling campain mode for you to follow. Yep its 
 shorter this time around but by no means worse the new cross-com 2.0 allows new features not seen 
 in GRAW. On its own the campain is an addition to GRAW but this game really shines when you play 
 multiplayer. Everything about it is better than the original. GRAW 2 has more modes, guns, maps, 
 greater character customization and a 50% bigger coop campain. With the addition of achieveable 
 achievements this game beats GRAW hands down. You dont need to have played GRAW to get into this, 
 but i feel this title will appeal more to the GRAW veterans out there. Roll on GRAW 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is an overall great game . The graphics are great and the gameplay is just as good . The 
 single player campaign is pretty decent , but with some downsides , like some messed up controls 
 and i tried the demo of GRAW 2 and it is pretty good , but the controls keep getting me killed, 
 even tho i am a really good gamer , but still provides several hours of fun . The online multiplayer 
 is great . The large selection of game modes can provide hours of online gaming . The large selection 
 of weapons is also a a big change . The online maps are very detailed and very fun to play on . 
 This game is generally fun and a great game to play . It is a great shooter , especially online 
 . I recommend it to anyone who enjoys shooters , online or off. THIS IS A MUST BUY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is one of the best games the Xbox 360 has to offer as of right 
 now, with some substantial improvements over its predecessor, G. R. A. W 2 delivers a superb and thrilling 
 game.
  
  The gameplay has not changed from G. R. A. W, you'll start off doing training, for you veterans there 
 is an option to skip the training, but you'll miss out of some achievement points. I still feel 
 that the training is a little long, but no biggy. You'll realize that the plot is very basic, a 
 nuke is stolen and is near the border of the United States, and you must go and stop it. One of 
 the large improvements in G. R. A. W 2 is the Crosscom, you are now able to view it in full screen 
 by holding down the right bumper. With this, you can contol your UAV, your ghosts, or any vehicles. 
 Using it to control helicopters is kick-ass. The awesome helicopter sequence is once again in G. R. A. W 
 2 where you get to be a gunner on the blackhawk, and you get to do it multiple times as well. My 
 only complaint is that the campaign will only last you a mere 5 to 8 hours, even though it's very 
 fun and thrilling, it is far too short.
  
  The graphics have gotten an upgrade from G. R. A. W, lighting and effects is amazing, and teh detail 
 in Captain Mitchell is superb. The huge scale is still there, you'll be looking out of your blackhawk 
 seeing the Mexican city of Jauez on fire and under attack. The urban environments are spectacular, 
 and the dust effects in the desert is superb as well. You'll see many different lighting, and the 
 horrid night vision from G. R. A. W. has been thankfully removed and replaced. The graphics in multiplayer 
 are thankfully almost on par with the single player, since in G. R. A. W, the graphics in multiplayer 
 were not as good as the single player. Everything looks visually stunning and amazing.
  
  The sound in G. R. A. W 2 is just as superb as G. R. A. W. The voice acting is great, although you'll 
 hear some cheesy lines such as I have no name, I'm a Ghost. Even though there are some cheesy lines 
 like that, everything is great. The sound effects from gunfire, vehicles and the environment is 
 also amazing, especially if you listen to it in 5.1 surround sound.
  
  The mutliplayer portion has got a huge upgrade from G. R. A. W. It now boasts a 50% larger co-op campaign 
 and has lots of multiplayer maps to go crazy with. The huge amount of customization is also a huge 
 plus, I haven't seen this much customization since Halo 2. Overall, an amazing and superb game 
 for the Xbox 360. Even though the single player is short, the multiplayer will keep you playing 
 for many months till the next blockbuster arrives. I highly recommend this game if you are into 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomassacre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The game has a totally sweet multiplayer but the 1 player mode is lacking in length and playability 
 in my opinion. The multiplayer is totally immersive and fun to play with any number of people. 
 The msoke effects are still totally sweet. The gameplay is better in 1 player than the first but 
 is still lacking. The new control for the drones is completely redesigned and awesome because it 
 makes certain parts and aspects of the game much easier. The biggest problem is that the single 
 player mode is too short and could be a lot more innovative for what year the game takes place 
 in. The first one had a longer but worse 1p mode and needed to be worked on, and now they worked 
 on that the 1p mode is shorter and needs to be worked on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. Given that the single player is kinda short and kinda easy. The co-op campaings 
 make up for it. If you have a lot of good frineds on XBL like I do this game gold (assuming you 
 are also like me and can get them all to buy the same games) . The graphics are great but, you can 
 see that they had to hold back a bit to have multiplayer up to par with single player. The sound 
 is great and enviromental effects are neat too. I can recall throwing the a smoke grenade infront 
 of a APC. As I ran to the front to take it out the wind kicked up and blew the smoke away and took 
 my cover. Needless to say I was plow over and my friends just watched and laugh. It was quiet funny.
 
  
  Also on a side note none of the icon are requirde to be achieved in ranked matches only player 
 matches. For those of you that don't like to hassle with the trueskill geeks that think single 
 player ranks mean something. Do to all the padders/boosters FPS leaderboards are a lie for the 
 most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is an overall great game. The graphics are great and the gameplay is just as good. The single 
 player campaign is not the best ever, but still provides several hours of fun. The online multiplayer 
 is great. The large selection of game modes and game mode variants can provide for hours and hours 
 of online gaming. The large selection of weapons is also a plus. The online maps are very detailed 
 and very fun to play. The clan system is also a great innovation. This game is generally fun and 
 a great game to play. It is a great shooter, especially online. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys 
 shooters, online or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nativegamr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  I found the game too short. Thats alot of change to part with for such a short game. But I liked 
 the graphics and the game play. I did not care for the switching of units you controlled. It gets 
 a little confusing in the heat of battle, but thats probably just me. But overall i liked the game. 
 Have not played much of the multi player, but what I have I enjoyed it. I just wish I had rented 
 it before I bought it. I think I would have waited. Do not know what else there is to say about 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamTino024
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Amazing! I actually think the graphics are a little better than those of Gears of War. 
 The character detail of Capt. Mitchel, as well as his teammates, was superb. The environment was 
 also beautiful. Buildings and cars and foliage all looked very real. The explosions were the best 
 part. They were the prettiest I've ever seen in a game. The high range dynamic lighting of the 
 sun worked well to create realistic lighting and time-of-day effects, especially in the chopper 
 rides when you look out at distant scenery... the smoke and fire in those shots look awesome.
  SOUND: The sound was very realistic. Gunshots sounded great, and you can even hear the bullets 
 ping if you shoot metal. Explosions sounded great to match their awesome look. Even the character 
 voices were good... they didn't seem cheesy at all.
  GAMEPLAY: I loved the control scheme for all the different tactical options. It was very easy to 
 get used to, and was very intuitive as well. The cover mechanic wasn't a fluid as that of Gears 
 of War, but it still worked well when you needed to be in cover. The best part was getting a full 
 screen view of your teammates/support vehicles. This helped immensely in designating targets for 
 them to shoot at, and was just plain cool to get the first person view of the chopper or tank shooting 
 at its targets.
  VALUE: I beat the game on easy in about 5 hours, which is way too short when considering that most 
 games are 10-15 hours long. I wasn't thrilled about paying $60 for a 5 hour game, so I traded two 
 of my old games for it at GameStop. I would recommend doing the same if you have the opportunity 
 to. OVERALL: Amazing game... definitely worth playing. Just be prepared for a short single player 
 campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  In GRAW 2 you take on the role of Captain Scott Mitchell again and it's up to you and your fellow 
 Ghosts to supress a Mexican civil war that spills over onto United States soil.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much from the original GRAW to GRAW 2. So anyone who has played the 
 first GRAW will have little to no learning curve at all. There are a few new weapons, your fireteam 
 has the new style of camo that the U. S. military is using and there is now a medic class which 
 is nice since he can heal you and your fireteam. The best improvment by far to GRAW 2 is the Cross 
 Com 2.0. For me the cross com video feed in the first GRAW wasn't all that useful. Being able to 
 see what another fireteam or support vehicle is looking at is a nice feature but only being given 
 a small 2 by 2 picture on my 27 tv to look at doesn't work. Cross Com 2.0 solves that problem and 
 works great. Now when you have a fireteam, support vehicle, or UAV drone selected if you hold down 
 the right bumper you get a full screen picture of what they are seeing. This works really well 
 when using the drone as you will get to see your enemy and his surroundings. You can also move 
 the drone from your tactical map and it will mark your enemy in a red diamond like in the first 
 GRAW.
  
  When using this feature with a fireteam or support vehicle you can issue orders to move and attack. 
 For example, during one mission I had a fireteam and a Bradley support vehicle at my disposal. 
 There was a enemy strongpoint at a 4-way intersection of a street. I hid behind a building and 
 moved my fireteam to cover that was in front of the enemy position. I had them start to fire on 
 the enemy. I then moved my Bradley to the enemy's right flank and put them in a crossfire. I did 
 all of this from the saftey of cover and took out the enemy with no trouble at all. This new video 
 feed feature is awesome and works great.
  
  The graphics in GRAW 2 are prettty much the same as the first GRAW. There are a few updates with 
 lighting effects but overall it's the same great looking graphics.
  
  All of the sound effects and background music sound like they were used over from the first GRAW. 
 The original voice actors used for Scott Mitchell and General Keating return and give good performances, 
 Keating lines are a little over the top but in a good, funny kind of way.
  
  I'm a fan of the Ghost Recon series and I wasn't let down by GRAW 2. Yeah the single player campaign 
 was short but it was a lot of fun to play. Hopefully if there's a GRAW 3 they will put more time 
 into making a longer single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikekare79
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  If you have a 360, get this game. If you don't have a 360, get one, then start this paragraph over. 
 Seriously, the only downside is that the single player could have been longer BUT the local and 
 online multiplayer is awesome and the AI adapts. If you live with roommates, get four controllers 
 and just go to town. Seriously fun game that will show off your HD TV with it's improved graphics 
 and much better control system. I finally feel like I have control over my team, allowing me to 
 better coordinate attacks, such as ambushing the enemy. Nothing is cooler than an ambush hehe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papitovelez
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  El juego esta super, con unas Graficas mejoradas que la primera parte y el resto pues tiene que 
 vivirlo. Lo unico que fallaron es en hacerlo corto, pero vale la pena el juego $$$. Hay buena Accion 
 en todo el juego y pues se lo recomiendo a todos los fan de XBOX 360. Esto es un juego de Coleccion 
 no para llevarlo en Trade-in en EB Games, si no para que este al lado de la consola junto a Gears 
 Of Wars.
  
  Haora solo hay que esperar el juego Assassin Creed y veremos aver de que esta hecha la consola.
 
  
  Waldy de Puerto Rico, Sabana Grande 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was one of the best games to appear on the Xbox 360 
 and earned my vote for best looking 360 game. This year Ubisoft has has released the sequel to 
 that outstanding game. The sequel takes you to the streets of Juarez trying to locate nuclear arms. 
 The graphics have been updated and look even better than before. The sound quality is good with 
 excellent musical scores, but the gun sound effects do not give you the impact that you want. The 
 gameplay has been improved offering you an incredibly realistic look at modern infantry combat. 
 The only problem is that since the gameplay is improved, you'll be disappointed when the campaign 
 comes to a close. The campaign is bone dry offering only 3 single player acts. Although the bulk 
 of the tactical experience can be found in the robust online options and there are plenty of achievements 
 to keep you busy online for several weeks. Overall it is a step up from last years in almost every 
 way, but unfortunately it is just too short to get a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  First, I'd like to let everyone know that this is my 200th game review on Gamespot. That is quite 
 a milestone if I don't say so myself. I'm sure my 300th review isn't too far away, but I'm psyched 
 to have written so many and to have most of them recomended by many people. Thanks everyone. Now, 
 back to our regularly scheduled GRAW2 review...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good: Outstanding visuals and sound, solid gameplay, arcady yet tactical at the same time, 
 online co-op for up to 16 players.
  
  The Bad: Not as good as Rainbow Six: Vegas, not much has changed from the original GRAW.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  G. R. A. W. was the first major killer APP the Xbox 360 had in it's fairly short lifespan. Now, less 
 than a year after the original game came out, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 has 
 been released and is at least as good, if not better, than the original. You play once again as 
 Captain Scott Mitchell of the Ghosts, who is sent south of the border in Mexico to stop a war from 
 going nuclear. If you liked the original G. R. A. W. you'll probably like this one. The gameplay is 
 identical to the original, which makes G. R. A. W. 2 feel more like G. R. A. W. 1.5. You are forced to 
 go lone wolf several times during the campaign, which means that you have to know the basics before 
 going online. Fortunately there is a 5 level tutorial with achievements for perfecting each section, 
 so you might as well learn how to play the game.
  
  The graphics are definately in the top 5 as far as best looking games the 360 has to offer. It 
 even looks better than the original G. R. A. W. and possably even Oblivion. The voice acting and sound 
 effects are also outstanding, which has been a mainstay for all Tom Clancy games. One thing that 
 gamers will realize is that G. R. A. W.2 doesn't exactly know if it wants to be an arcady shooter, 
 or a tactical, squad based shooter. Both can be said of the campaign, which is all I have played 
 so far. The campaign is great, but the main reason the first G. R. A. W. was so successful was because 
 of the online. Fortunately, there are plenty of new modes in G. R. A. W.2 as well as co-op for up 
 to 16 players. Make sure you get all of the basics down pact before going online, because the skilled 
 G. R. A. W. players love n00bs for breakfast...
  
  Overall, G. R. A. W.2 is an outstanding game that is definately worth playing and/or buying for tactical 
 shooter fans.
  
  Gameplay: It plays just like the original, which isn't a bad thing...
  
  Graphics: The visuals are amazing and some of the best the 360 has to offer.
  
  Sound: 
 Sound effects and voice acting are also amazing, which is expected from a Tom Clancy Game.
  
  Value: It's a fully priced 360 game, but it's worth the asking price if you need some new tricks 
 with your G. R. A. W.
  
  Final Thoughts: No more tacos for you!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If you haven't read all 200 of my reviews. You should get started now and maybe you'll be done 
 in 4 hours or so...
  
  Thanks for recomending my reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyMonkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Now before I give my review for GRAW2, I have to say that I completely gave up on the first GRAW. 
 I just didn't like it as much as this one, so I can't say anything about the Storyline so far. 
 All I know is that you seemed to have accomplished a great task in the first GRAW. Also, I DO NOT 
 remember the HUD from the first GRAW, as well as the weapon inventory, command icons, et cetera. 
 So excuse anything I say about GRAW2's HUD that remains the same as the it's first.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 I will layout this review in categories since I am to lazy to write a novel sizer.
  
  THE GRAPHICS - 8/10
  
  The graphics 
 in the game are fairly similar to that of the first GRAW, but with a few tweaks. Buildings and 
 foliage look quite convincing, and dynamic lighting is good looking. There's also some nice depth 
 perception, for instance, desert areas have sand being blown from the wind, somewhat disorientating 
 your view.
  Objects also cast shadows when positioned in a certain light source.
  
  The character, vehicular and weapon detail are all quite realistic. The guns do a reasonable amount 
 of damage, and just look plain cool. The vehicles are also very nice, for example, riding in a 
 vehicle is very much a realistic ride, not to mention you can look around inside to observe the 
 nearby environment. Even some simple touches make the game's vehicles realistic. The Humvee have 
 mud coated windows, partially cleaned by the windshield wipers. Choppers have a detailed interior, 
 as well as open doors, allowing you to watch your surroundings go speeding by.
  
  The level design is also very nice, consisting of many natural surroundings, as well as man made. 
 You will experience different elevations AND multiple paths to choose from to get to your destination.
 
  
  SOUND - 8/10
  The sounds in GRAW2 are also amazing. You WILL find it very vital to listen to your squad mates, 
 for they will give you Intel on nearby enemies you have yet to encounter.
  
  The weapons all have different sounds. And they all seem to fit the weapon perfectly. The sounds 
 of battle are quite impressive as you and your squad suppress some enemies.
  
  The voice acting in the game is above average, no character in the game will sound like they were 
 voiced by some stranger on the streets. They won't sound expressionless or too expressional, and 
 they will change in mood when the situation gets dangerous.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY - 7/10
  
  Similar to the first GRAW, GRAW2 has the same control layout as the first, you still use the directional 
 pad to command your squad, or whatever unit you currently have available to you.
  
  The missions do get a tad bit boring and/or repetitive at times, but is usually made up for with 
 a brand new mission that still follows along with the game's plot.
  
  OVERALL - 7/10
  
  GRAW2 overall is a great game worth purchasing, with many great moments in the game. And for all 
 fans of Ghost Recon, GRAW2 is a must play.
  
  (Note: I did not review the multi player being yet to try it. There are also a few other touches 
 in the game that I COULD talk about, but I don't want to make this review any longer than it is. 
 Thanks much.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL13NK1LL3R
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  the single player is kinda short like 8 to 10 hours but the storyline is amazing! their ai is still 
 dumb like the last graw and it seems it got more easier to find enemies which kinda feel like cheating 
 but oh well.. the graphics are oh my god!!! lets move on to multiplayer... the grapics are not 
 downgrade for mulitplayer which is a huge plus!! the co-op is really fun but challenging when u 
 have 10 to 16 players cause when u shoot at something, one of your players could go right front 
 of u and get killed.. or when somebody throw granade, u could kill up to alot of your own players. 
 theres 6 co-op missions to do and to beat them all could last u up to 2 days if u have really good 
 people.. multiplayer has clan which is amazing cause none of the games dont have clan support since 
 halo2! theres attack and defend and team territories, team elimination, elimination, and couple 
 others but i forgot haha sryy...
  
  overall its a must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  i personally loved graw and i am starting to fall in love with the newest addition to the series. 
 they didn't change to much from the original game ( a lot of sequels could learn from this) . they 
 basically gave the graphics a face lift, making character models and explosions more realistic. 
 the single player was almost ridiculously short but fun and the achievements might keep you playing 
 the single player missions. if you don't have live i would say you are missing out on about 85% 
 of what this game has to offer. the multiplayer has so many options between solo, co-op, and team 
 play. they have elimination, objective, and territory just to name a few, oh and by the way those 
 game types have more options to give the gamer freedom to play a game the way they want to. the 
 co-op campaign gives you 6 new maps to conquer and they exceed the fun factor of the original graw's 
 co-op missions (i didn't think that was possible) . all and all graw's single player was a lot more 
 fun but the multiplayer goes to graw2 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmudbug
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and does not take long to get used too playing. I have never been a real 
 big fan of tactical shooters and the only one I have played before now was the earlyer ghost recon 
 island something or other for the old xbox. That game was way too complicated to be much fun to 
 me as you had to spend most of your time in the map to control your squad. So i skipped the first 
 GRAW because of the bad impression of tactical shooters i had. Well I tried the demo for GRAW 2 
 one day when there was not much else to do and i had a little fun playing the multiplayer. I was 
 on the fence about buying this game but i gave in a picked up because the multiplayer seemed fun. 
 When i got home and played the single player for about an hour i was hooked. This game is intense. 
 This game has action that should make anyone happy. The single player game is the most fun I've 
 had sence GOW, heck I would even say i had more fun with this game. The controls are really easy 
 to learn and all the diffrent things you get to use are cool. It took about 20 mins to fully grasp 
 the controls but once you've figured them out they are so easy to use from moveing your troops, 
 changeing weapons, even changeing how you fire your gun. I like the two diffrentent zooms (the 
 left trigger and the click on the right thumb stick) . Multiplayer is good and had alot of modes 
 to play around in so it does not get old very fast. only things i wish they did was allow you to 
 use walls and cover in multiplayer like you do in singleplayer, and also that you could play the 
 single player portion co-op (maybe you can but i missed where to do it) . Otherwise this game was 
 well worth the buy for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentleslegend
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good compared to the already sweet graw . the story line was good but like 
 all games could have been better simply by being longer. the first day i played it, i beat it in 
 about 5 hrs. i beat it on nornal but literally went through the game with no problem at all. the 
 online maps are really good and the experience is awsom .. this game was almost as good as i expected 
 it to be . the overall gameplay is great but as addicting as multiplayer is , the online play somewhat 
 isnt as accurate as it should be, just like graw . other than that, i love this game and n e one 
 who likes ghost recon will love this game also . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fathomglow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  There is already a plethora of reviews out for GRAW 2 so I wont bother to rehash any of them. My 
 review will however be a comparitive review focussing on the changes and improvements to the game 
 in comparison to its predecessor and how it has improved or hurt the game. Graphics
  
  When GRAW first came out on the Xbox 360, it was graphically revolutionary and set the bar for 
 most games to come after. With its semingly expansive levels, flashy effects and lighting it was 
 certainly a crowd pleaser. While GRAW 2 may not have such a dramatic impact, its graphic improvements 
 are quite notable. The first improvement is the character models; your ghosts are now more detailed 
 than ever and subtle differences in their appearance, gear and loadout give a deeper sense of variety 
 to your team. The NPC's that you encounter throughout the single player campaign have also had 
 overhauls, albiet not quite as sharp as your team. Your enemies however, seem to have only been 
 marginally improved, and this becomes apparent when you give a close inspection to one of your 
 victims. This isn't much of a detractor to the game however, since if your close enough to notice 
 the graphics improvments on your enemies, your probably dead. The enviroments also have gotten 
 a graphics improvement. The most significant is lighting. Gone is the hazy yellow bleed that seems 
 to have been overdone in GRAW and now there is a much more color balanced aura to everything. The 
 subtle differences in lighting as you go from stage to stage also helps further immerse the player 
 in the game. Improvements to the effects throughout the game are also easilly recognizable the 
 first time something explodes. Explosions are beautiful to look at, and the game shamelessly puts 
 you near many of them to show off. Overall, the graphical improvements in GRAW 2 are notable and 
 certainly deliver graphics that are on par with the series reputation.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Several gameplay mechanics have been tweaked in GRAW 2 to improve upon its predecessor. Some are 
 small and minute, others more noticable. The first change is in the cross com systems ability to 
 see through your support units in first person view. This allows for two very distinct changes 
 in gameplay. The first is the way in which the UAV works. Now instead of looking for targets on 
 its own, you must now manually visually scan the area through the UAV camera and paint targets 
 in your HUD. The second is the way in which support units can be controlled. You can now control 
 your team as well as tanks, strikers and air support through their camera. This allows you to move 
 your support units to positions that you may not have line of sight to yourself. Your support units 
 have also undergone changes. Aside from the notable graphical and control changes to your team, 
 the AI now has small tweaks. The first is your teams ability to call out targets. When they spot 
 threats, they will now call out the targets, how many there are and the position. This begins as 
 a novelty feature but in later stages can be quite an asset. Mechanized support has undergone a 
 few changes. The Striker and Abrams return much in the same way as GRAW, and aside from the improved 
 first person control, remain unchanged. Air support has however had some additions. The Apache 
 has largely been removed and replaced with the Little Bird and the new Air Strike support unit. 
 The little bird itself is rather disapointing. Its less powerful than the Apache, takes much less 
 damage and has a tendancy to be spotted and shot down by the enemy even when its hovering blocks 
 away. On higher difficulty levels, the Little Bird will mostly be kept in the sidelines or shot 
 down early on as you use it to scout. The Air Strike remains the only real addition to your air 
 power. Though sparinly used, its one of the most graphically jaw dropping support units. After 
 you indicate a target, a jet will swoop down and drop bombs on the target, creating quite a beautiful 
 explosion. There have been many comments on how GRAW 2 is nothing more than an expansion pack to 
 GRAW, a sort of GRAW 2.0. I for one dont find this to be an insult to the game. GRAW was a great 
 game and GRAW 2 only helps to improve the game and hopefully set the bar to future Ghost Recon 
 tittles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  OK, yes, this game is shorter than most, and it's definitely a drawback. I finished the single 
 player in just under 4 hours on guarded risk (normal difficulty.) I'd have really liked to have 
 waited another few months so Ubisoft could have tacked on a few more missions. BUT . . . this game 
 is truly something different, despite what some reviewers are reporting. I'll get the graphics 
 review right out of the way: GRAW 2 is probably the best looking Xbox 360 title available (Gears 
 of War is a very close second!) . The lighting, environments, character models, weapons . . . all 
 are top-notch. The look and feel of being outside in real-time Mexico should set a new standard 
 for how games going forward need to be developed. The dynamic lighting and ever present feel of 
 real time passing are a thing of beauty. No longer are you stuck in day or night missions. Time 
 actually passes and you can see it as you're moving along the mission. it's very impressive, if 
 maybe a little too fast. The sun does seem to rise a bit quickly, but when Ubisoft has something 
 this amazing on its hands, why not show it off? I guarantee you won't get through this without 
 once thinking, Wow, I've never seen that before! Now I'll admit, I have a 32 flat-panel LCD HD 
 1080i television, so maybe my review is biased, but there are moments when I feel like I'm looking 
 at real-time video of mountains and sky and wind. And the character models look just as good, though 
 they could use a little touch-up (their lips don't move when they talk on the battle field and 
 though Mitchell looks practically life-like, the others are slightly less detailed.) As for game 
 play, everything is improved. Movement, cover mechanics, squad control . . . and the beautiful 
 view of looking through the eyes of a squad mate or the camera on the UAV or tank or helicopter! 
 This alone makes such a difference, completely changing the way you play. Also, for a better realism 
 effect, I turned off the Intel so the screen doesn't pop up with little red diamonds. I always 
 felt that gave me too much of an edge, and seemed sort of unfair, though perhaps it is a real technology 
 that the military is investing in. Either way, without it, there is at times a very real sense 
 of chaos, as gunfights become nothing but clouds of swirling dust with smoke-trailing tracer fire 
 and explosions. Best of all, your squad are very much a part of that fight. They take cover and 
 perform well; they shout out enemy positions and expect leadership. It's very compelling, and when 
 you have control of your squad, a tank, and a helicopter, you feel like someone with a lot of responsibility 
 needing to make the right decisions right away or people die.
  This time, there isn't a lot of silly dialog; the battles feel and sound genuine. Granted, the 
 enemy taunts sometimes get redundant, and I was ready to pop my commanding officer with the butt 
 of my rifle after his nearly continuous barrage of Failure is not and option! babble, but all that 
 can be forgiven in light of the outstanding presentation. Multiplayer is really where it's at though! 
 No, we still don't have the cover mechanic, but the maps are absolutely gorgeous, and filled with 
 so many options for play, it's hard not to make the comparison to Rainbow Six Vegas (perhaps the 
 best game yet on the 360) .
  The complaints about this game feeling like an expansion pack may have some merit, but if you went 
 back and replayed the original GRAW and then this one, the differences are immense, and though 
 very short, GRAW 2 delivers exactly what it claims. The more I play this game the less it feels 
 like a game than a brilliantly produced battle simulation. Rent or buy, you won't be disappointed.
 
  I'm already waiting for GRAW 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sativafriend
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  when i first heard they were launching GRAW2 , i got very exited, but that exitement last for just 
 a few days!!!, as soon has i got my hands on it i realised that this game had a severe malfunction, 
 it just wouldn't stop FREEZING or JAMMING!!!! this occurres to me every time i play the game.
 
  i even get to thought the problem was from my 360, but i confirmed that the problem was from the 
 game since every other game i have works just fine, excluding Rainbow six, that freezes some times, 
 but not has much as GRAW2. I Also realised that both RAINBOW 6 and GRAW2 uses the same software 
 (DEMONWARE) , every other Ubisoft game that i own that doesn't uses (DEMONWARE) WORKS JUST FINE.
 
  i hope that UBISOFT admits this problem, and do every thing they can do fix it, or they are going 
 to start getting SUED!!!!!!
  All of my friends that Own GRAW2 are having the same problem, so i'm definitely not the only one!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopykilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I didn't care much for the first graw, but this sequel definitely improves their 
 overall quality by leaps and bounds. I say overall quality, because the only revolutionary gameplay 
 change made is a marginal improvement in the enemy AI and a vast improvement in the friendly AI. 
 That said, there really weren't very many aspects of the first game that didn't feel fresh and 
 ambitious. The level of polish in this game was actually pretty surprising to me, as at home i 
 just play on a 4:3 aspect lo-def tv. The biggest graphical improvement is definitely the lighting 
 effects in the game. There isn't too much glare from the sun unless there should be, for example, 
 in the first mission as you are training and learning the basic mechanics and some of the differences 
 in this game, the heat rising off the desert floor is so intense i had troubles spotting the enemies 
 on the roofs. The part of the game that has gotten the most love is most definitely the multiplayer. 
 This should be no surprise to fans of the series, as this has long been a favorite part of the 
 game. GRAW 2 is definitely a good benchmark for military squad based shooters, even though it doesn't 
 exactly redefine the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost-of-shadow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't think anyone had much doubt that GRAW 2 would be a good game, at least equal to if not 
 better than the first. The fact is, it IS better that the first. Let's start with the graphics. 
 In the first GRAW I found the glare of the sun to be a little annoying. In this game, I find nothing 
 annoying. If you thought smoke grenades and explosions were great in the original, wait til you 
 see these! I was laughing out loud each time I took my Zeus and blew the crap out of artillery. 
 The speed of the explosions and flames in this game is very realistic. Much more like what it would 
 actually be like in the scenario. Yes, GRAW 2 succeeds in even better graphics than the first, 
 from character detail, video feeds being real people, cities, explosions, shadows -- evrything 
 is near-perfect. It's truly a joy to play. The new CFV feature which lets you take control of the 
 camera from your support's point of view is incredible. You can take the point of view of the camera 
 from your team-mates perspective, or any of your support machines -and not only watch from their 
 eyes, but also command them to move and fight. Nice touch. The online multiplayer is awesome. No 
 glitches I could find, huge maps and really well done all around. The campaign mode is fun as well, 
 with a better story line than the first, even though it is a continuation from it. I was playing 
 GRAW 2 and my girlfriend, who is not a fan of war shooters, walked in and said 'Holy Crap - that 
 looks so real'. She only said that about two other games I've played - Rainbow 6 Vegas and Gears 
 Of War. So you know this game is up there with those. GRAW 2 is a sold addition to the best of 
 the 360 titles so far. And if IGN gives it less than a 9 I will stop reading their reviews with 
 any degree of seriousness. Buy this game. Period. THIS GAME LOOKS AWESOME WITHOUT HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2531bel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  What are you really buying:
  
  1 - A Very Verrrrrrrrry short (you can do it in less than 10 hours) solo game.
  2 - Multiplayer; 
 - Could have been a patch to graw 1 - Additional multiplayer maps - Too bad it doesn't recognize 
 Graw 1 maps
  
  Although multiplayer could be fun, and it was during the first week, by the second week the clans 
 were comming back to dominate player matches. Don't expect much change from the spawn camping that 
 was present in GRAW 1. Although spawn points seem to be changing, you find that the spawn area 
 is so small you are back with the frustrations you found in GRAW 1.
  
  Don't believe all the hype printed in OXM and other magazines. Yes the graphics are better. Yes 
 they fixed some of the issues with Graw 1. Yes the MP offers more modes and options. Having said 
 that it could be wiser to buy Graw 1, add chapter 2. Now with all the clans playing Graw 2, you 
 would probably star having fun playing Graw 1 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  The original GRAW for the 360 proved just how awesome a 3rd person next gen shooter could be so 
 it's not all surprising that ubisoft as come out with a sequal. Staying pretty close to GRAW formaula, 
 GRAW 2 improves on a few things like AI, environments and the new wide screen perspective of team 
 mates and the UAV drone. You are once again in a mexican war zone playing as Scott Mitchel, captain 
 of a four man squad known as the ghosts. the story isn't the reason why you would play this game 
 and when it comes to tom clancy games it usually never is.
  
  Gameplay has improved a little over the original but not a great deal. The game sticks pretty close 
 to the other game so veteans will be able to jump right into the game and blast mexican rebels 
 with ease. The cover system is still intact so walk up to a wall or any sort of cover and Mitchel 
 should be able to attach himself to it. When behind cover you can blind fire or pop out to aim. 
 Taking cover is very important as you can't regenerate health. In fact 3 shots is enough to kill 
 you or 1 shot if the rebel got a headshot on you. However a new element in the gameplay is medkits 
 that the medic in your squad carries. He's not much of a fighter due to his weapon of choice but 
 you can have him patch you or your team mates up.
  
  A new element in GRAW 2 is widescreen cross com. Holding down the right bumper when your team mates 
 are in your cross com will put the camera into their perspective. From there you can order them 
 to attack a particular target. If the UAV drone is in your crosscom then you'll have full control 
 over it, moving it around the area to sweep for rebel sentries so you'll know exactly what's up 
 ahead so you can plan your attack. This is defintely a more helpful addtion to GRAW 2 as the drone 
 was hardly useful in GRAW.
  
  Scott has all the other basic commando moves too. He can crouch or go prone to become less of a 
 target. Clicking in the right stick will aim scoped weapons. The right trigger is to fire and the 
 left is like a lock-on but it's only useful for wepons with no scopes. The Y button is context 
 sensitive wo things like getting out of cover, planting a C4 or picking up an eemy weapon.
  
  The graphics aren't that much improved upon GRAW but they still lookfatastic, a real eye candy 
 for anyone with a high definition. Mitchel sports a new look with a different style helmet and 
 uniform that's used more for out door desert environments. That's definatley the different kind 
 of environment rather than the empty suburban streets of Mexico. When riding the MG on the gunship, 
 the whole place looks excellent, the draw distance is superb and firing that MG at vehicles and 
 watcing the gigantic satisfying explosion and the way the enemies drop down and die from you shooting 
 them, the graphics is definatley pushed for realism.
  
  The sound is cool also. Hearing the rebels scream out in their native language when being attacked 
 or the way Mitchell orders his team around in a given situation such as if no one is aware of your 
 presence then Mitchel will whsper or hell if the action heats up. The gunfire sounds a bit more 
 realistic and the grunt of Mitchell as he gets hit by a bullet and just all the screaming from 
 your team mates and the enemy in a fire fight all comes together to make GRAW 2 more realistic.
 
  
  The campaign is definatley shorter in this one. It was a bit disappointing to see that I could 
 beat this game in less than a week when the originl took me awhile. Still for all you multiplayr 
 nuts, GRAW 2 offers more guns than GRAW's multplayer but I haven't really played the multiplayer. 
 So is GRAW 2 a worthy sequal, for me it's yes and I had fun playing it and getting into all the 
 intense action and the action will more than satisfy the tactical shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trystkl1826
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game was one of the best treats to awesomeness I've had in a long time (at least in 
 gaming) . The control was glued to my hand the moment I began the training course in campaign mode. 
 Brilliant graphics, attention grabbing story line, brilliant play on the emotions. I was angry 
 at the rebels when riding through Juarez and Texas, anxious to get to and complete the next missions 
 and relieved that, somehow, the main character was still alive at he end of the story. This game 
 is playable several times over because it also draws on the emotion of wanting to perfect your 
 movement through the story. The controls are not difficult. When putting together several moves 
 at the same time, movement of the main character becomes pretty fluid. Nonstop action to include 
 the in story videos, gave the game a realistic feel. In the sense that you are never really standing 
 still (unless you choose to) . Once your feet touch the ground it's go time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  If you played GRAW then this game is twenty times better. I was unsure about buying a duplicate 
 of something else I already played and enjoyed and wondered how it could get any better. This game 
 truly brings the Next Gen out of the Xbox 360. The graphics are AMAZING with the intense dust storms 
 that blow making it seem as if your in the Baja Desert in real time. The game producers did an 
 outstanding job of keeping the controls to the gadgets mapped similar to that of GRAW. People have 
 complained about commanding and controlling multiple assets, and how busy it is. Well this game 
 makes you work through situations instead of allowing you to run and gun in an unrealistic manner. 
 This game is being played by U. S. Marines and Soldiers in the U. S. Army. Bring your warfare tactics 
 or stay away from this shooter. This is a thinking gamers game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good!
  - Big improvement from the first game.
  - Campaign is jam packed with action, almost every corner has a new fight.
  - The graphics are 
 much improved, everything has detail.
  - Multilayer is a step forward.
  - The co-op campaign is improved upon.
  - Sam Mitchell is back.
  
  The Bad!
  - The campaign 
 should have been longer.
  - Sometimes your squad does not listen to your commands.
  - Online has some network problems.
  - Online still does not have as good graphics as the campaign. 
 Check this game out right now if you are into tactical shooters or a fan of shooters at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The updated cross-com system, the very impressive visuals and sound, sticks to a successful 
 formula, multiplayer modes to die for 
  
  The Bad: Singleplayer is just way too short and not as challenging as before, and it's only a one 
 man experience
  
  When I first saw this game I very sceptical and really not all that impressed from what I saw to 
 be honest as it looked to be the same game over again basicly, and that singleplayer Demo that 
 Ubisoft put out on the marketplace did not help too much either is it suffered from slow-downs, 
 and graphical problems as some objects were even missing textures, also it wasn't all that fun 
 to play and it ended once it finally let's say began, but oh well it was a demo what can you except? 
 Still Ubisoft would probably been better off not releasing this demo. Later though once it got 
 close to release I saw that it got a bunch of very promising reviews and that the fact that I did 
 love the first game so much. It was actually the first game that showed what next-gen is all about 
 and made me feel that the my decision of getting a 360 was a correct one. So I decided to but all 
 my bad thougts aside and give this game a try, and well... I'm glad I did.
  
  Sure I was indeed right as it's ver much like the first game and it you don't get the same wow! 
 feeling that you got from playing the first game though it comes close and that it's very much 
 like the first game isn't all that bad afterall either since it was so darn good. Not everything 
 is the same though, take your cross-com for example as it has gotten some few nice upgrades. Now 
 you can command your squad and allied vehicles trough their perspective in full screen and after 
 you gotten familar doing it for a few hours you will start to ask yourself why the hell wasn't 
 this in the first game!? , as it gives the combat a better flow to it and a deeper tactical overall 
 structure and since it is a tactical shooter after all this feature is very welcome. Another new 
 addition is that you can now bring a medic along in your squad that can heal both you and your 
 teamates when needed, though he carries a limited amount of medpacks so you can't abuse it too 
 much. A new controlable vehicle is the Mule that you can collect weapons and ammo from, and direct 
 it by pointing at the environment or in full screen, you can even use it as mobile cover though 
 after it has taken some rounds it will brake so you have to rely on the normal cover again. You 
 also have a nice set of new weapons, the bazooka had ben replaced my a small homing missile launcher 
 witch makes it easier to take out moving targets as long you constatnly keep the aim at them until 
 the hit. Also the AI of your squad has improved as they call out enemy positions and intelligently 
 position themselves behind cover. There is a downside to all this though as you now have all this 
 set of tools, and that you can get back to full health when needed makes the game abit too easy, 
 the rebels you're fighting basicly doesn't stand a chance and therefore the game feels a bit unbalanced 
 and not as challenging as before, newcomers won't complain but guys like me that likes a good challenge 
 I find it a bit annoying of how easy you can progress in this game therefor I recommend not playing 
 trough it on the new easy mode unless you're totally unfamillar with these type of games then you 
 might be best of playing on that difficulty, to all you others though at least play it trough on 
 medium.
  
  The graphics are very impressive it's on par with the first game and in some cases it looks even 
 better than that, especially the explosions as they make you think that Ubisoft must have spent 
 months to learn what an actual explosion looks like as I have never seen such good explotions in 
 a video game since Lost Planet came out, another game with really good looking explosions. The 
 game also looks impressive overall, so It's real eye-candy we're talking about here and it's defiantly 
 one of the very best looking games you can find on the system, If I'm going to have to complain 
 on something though I will say the game looks a bit to gray-looking and more detail could have 
 been put into the environments other than that though It's a sweet, sweet looking game.
  
  The sound is is just as impressive, with great sound effects like all the bullets passing by and 
 again... the explosions. it also have really well composed music that really succeeds to suck you 
 in and immerse you in to the experince. The voiceacting is decent aswell, except maby not the one 
 from your General as he at times sound a bit cheesy , almost like a parody wich feels abit odd 
 in some situations of the game but it's fine the most of time like the rest of the sound of this 
 game.
  
  While the singleplayer campaign in GRAW 2 is better than the one in the last game as it's alot 
 better structured it also quite a bit shorter, when playing on easy you can blast trough it as 
 fast as 5 hours witch is just way to short, and you can only play trough the campaign by yourself, 
 meaning no co-op wich to me felt like a natural step to do in a sequel of this genre and seeing 
 games as Gears of War and Rainbow Six: Vegas pulling it off it kinda hurts the value quite a bit. 
 What makes up for it though is the superb multiplayer made by Red Storm. You have both cooperative 
 and competitive modes, like a seperate co-op campaign, team elimination etc. with up to 16 players. 
 but now you may think didn't the first game have all that? , yeah that's correct it did but the 
 difference now is that you have more maps, you can set night or day on each and everyone of them, 
 there is a new hellicopter hunting mode that can be vastly entertaining, and not to forget clan-support 
 making this game one of the very best multiplayer games out for the 360. Only thing missing is 
 a good cover system, sure without it it becomes more action oriented, but looking around corners 
 and such sometimes feels more clunky than it should and seeing games as Rainbow Six: Vegas pulling 
 it off nicely so can GRAW in multiplayer.
  
  So overall GRAW 2 is a worthy sequel, a bit too short but very fun to play and fans of the first 
 game or fans of other tactical shooter shall give it a try, and if you also happen be really into 
 online play, then don't hesitate this game is for you.
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox-Elite
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Despite its short yet very lush new additions to the single player Story, GRAW2 is worth a rent 
 or borrowing from your friend.
  There's no use in saying What's different to the last one? and trying to bash it, its just GRAW, 
 a tactical shooter, what is there to improve from the last one which actually paved the yellow 
 brick road for the Next-Gen's sudden expansion in tactical shooters?.
  It's older brother game GRAW1 had almost nothing wrong with it, leaving nothing to be fixed.
 
  
  Anyway, the gameplay is superb, if you were to play the 2nd GRAW and the 1st GRAW, there wouldn't 
 be very much difference which arguably is a good thing or rather a you either love it or hate it 
 
  Again you have your own speciality don't you? Are you a Grenadier? A Sniper? Rifleman or the kind 
 of guy who likes to blow a rebel back into the dark ages with an M60 portable machine gun?
  All the classes are back and with a slightly wider choice of weaponry to suit you and your tasks.
 
  You will face the same sort of enemy vehicles, Panhards and APCs to tanks and attack choppers, 
 nothing is indestructible and with the right weapons and the right tactics, you can have an enemy 
 tank with it's turret 30ft in the sky and its crew; dead in their tracks.
  So gameplay is more or less the same, again, I will say, it is an either you will love it or hate 
 it type of game due to it being the same sort of play style and there not being much to improve 
 on.
  Oh and the gruelling sniper alley mission? from GRAW1? remember it? there was snipers all over 
 the rooftops, well thats been taken into account by Ubisoft, they've gotten rid of it altogether.
 
  The Multiplayer is slightly better than the last, it certainly looks allot better but is ever 
 so slightly harder as you will notice if you are an experienced player.
  Its AI is certainly improved, enemies will slide across the floor when diving, they will look for 
 somewhere to hide and will stay quiet when prone and ready to sneak in.
  If you are planning on getting XBOX LIVE aren't so sure about WHEN to get XBOX LIVE, now is the 
 time to get it!
  
  GRAW2 will probably have some of the BEST graphics you will see on the XBOX360 console.
  Hollywood 
 special effects have been added for maximum realism.
  You can almost smell the gunsmoke from the grenades you throw because it looks that real.
  A 
 gameplay related fact that ties in with the graphics is that you can actually be blinded by your 
 own actions, if you blow away a tank so hard its almost in the stone age, you will see the smoke 
 from the explosion which was powerful enough to do that.
  Gunfire will blind you, bullets will fly and explosions will rock the ground, all is very well 
 tuned so that you will feel it differently depending on where you are and how far away you are...
 
  
  The sounds of battle and the fog of war in GRAW2 are simply spectacular.
  Choppers and tanks, machine guns and bombs... All have their own unique sound, explosions will 
 echo and AI will react to it!
  Its all very well timed, so when you fire, you will hear the gunfire, you will hear that your MG21 
 is roaring and mowing down them rebels or you will hear that sleek silent whoosh of the silenced 
 snipers now available in the game, and again, AI will react to that, or should I say... not react 
 to that?
  Yes, silenced weapons are actually incredibly devastating if you can use them at the right time 
 and with the right tactics, the enemy won't know his patrol buddy is actually lying in a red puddle 
 behind him until he joins him; on the floor...
  
  The Value overall is not outstanding and neither is it below a good standard, if you've played 
 GRAW1 and you liked it, you'll know that somewhere in your heart theres a star that shines for 
 GRAW2...
  If for you it was Love on first play with GRAW1 then be warned, this game isn't much better, the 
 thing is, the game wasn't broken in the first place so there was nothing to improve... which does 
 give an almost dragging feel to it at times and a very short story mode doesn't help much either.
 
  Still, this game is worth a try, borrow it, get it second hand or wait for the price to drop, 
 its not worth the full price unless you're a fan of the series who can actually deny and face that 
 the game isn't the supernatural GRAW1 standard we had on the early days of the 360's release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  if you enjoyed the first GRAW, you will really enjoy the second. The single player portion is amazing, 
 just very short (id say 6-7 hours) ... there are WOW moments and the AI is a lot smarter than before. 
 The multiplayer is great, but 3x the amount of maps from the pervious game... and they're also bigger 
 and better. The visuals have been improved over the original (regarding online) and the gameplay 
 is as good as before. It does seem like a 1.5 more than a sequel... but its still amazing and enough 
 content to warrent $50.
  
  pros
  -great single player, hard mode is definitely worth going through 2nd time
  -tons of new maps, 
 with alternate light settings -visuals improved for online
  -coop online works very well, as well as missions
  
  cons
  -single player very short
  -online 
 hasnt changed much (is it bad?... you decide)
  -still no cover system online
  -feels more like GRAW1.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought the inital GRAW and fell in love with it, however for me after playing Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 GRAW1 and GRAW2 seem week by comparison for many reasons. multiplayer/co-op is interesting enough 
 but not realistic to me. In rainbow Six, every kill, every shot mattered, where in GRAW2 it just 
 seems that your killing usless dummies to move from point A to point B. The weapons are awsome 
 but not exciting enough visually, or auditorally, The sounds are weak, and muffled to the point 
 that your wondering no matter what weapon you choose, just ssems to be sounding like the previous 
 one you just had. Missions are exciting enough even with a half ass story behind them. Overall, 
 if you want to see the next level, Get VEGAS its much better overall then GRAW2, eventhough Clancy 
 created both, to me there is one clear winner at this point! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWelsh24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The single player in this game does a good job of displaying some powerful next gen graphics but 
 ultimately falls short with story and A. I. The gameplay is very similar but the implementation 
 of the full screen cross-com is innovative and adds variety to the gameplay allowing players to 
 send teammates to fight or simply do it yourself. Multiplayer is the best out of any Ghost Recon 
 game ever. Graphics are incredible, with the particle effects and lighitng. Large array of weapons 
 to choose from and a staggering amount of multiplayer maps to duke it out on. The maps themselves 
 are rendered beautifully and are the most believable and provide many different styles of combat. 
 On the whole the multiplayer alone is reason enough to pick up the game and if ur board with that 
 then you can play some single player to supplement it. Honestly I can't reitterate enough just 
 how great the mulltiplayer is, seriously, buy the game just for that, its that good!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Kev
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off, the graphics are amazing and hardly anyother game can exeed the graphics of 
 this game, the lighting is perfect, the characters look perfect and many other things look outstanding, 
 also the sound in the game is brilliant, from tense music whist your carefully searching for the 
 enemy to the sound of the gun which makes you feel like you are really there, the gameplay is also 
 really good but you cant help think that if you could be a bit more mobile and be able to jump 
 or roll whilst standing, or be able to blind fire then the game could have better but it still 
 great, the multiplayer is also great, exactly what you would expect from GRAW2, and finally, the 
 story is just brialliant, it might be a bit shorter then the previous game but it full of twists 
 and turns which really make the game exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FergieCR123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2, is very good game. The single player is fun, multiplayer is great, and the graphics are 
 AMAZING. The training is a lot funner than GRAW, and the first mission is totally sweet. The taking 
 cover and fire would seem a lot like Gears of War, but it's not. Different mechanics, but both 
 are very fun, one thing that Gears of War has over this game, is that the cover shooting was carried 
 over to multiplayer. That is my biggest complaint about this game, there was no cover and fire 
 in Multiplayer. The single player campaign is short, but less frustrating than GRAW. The graphics 
 are better than GRAW, and overall, it looks very nice. Multiplayer is very fun, but there are some 
 problems that bring this games score down a little (otherwise, it would of had a perfect 10) . Problems 
 are finding games, staying in games, and not having cover shooting. While most of those are fixable 
 with a patch, they are not in it right now, when I'm reviewing the game, and I can't review on 
 prediction. Overall, worth the money if you own live, rent it if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinKuei_warrior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon to me has always been that game that id say, meh ill rent it some other day, But when 
 i played this game today, i was instantly hooked! it was much of a third person and wasnt a first 
 person. it was a second person shooter to me!
  
  the guns were cool to work with. im more a handgun user than an SMG, so i used a pistol for the more 
 closer kills. The Sniper Rifle was cool in this game because it could shoot through thin walls!! most 
 games you would have to wait for the enemy to pop out from where hes hiding from, but at least in 
 this game if the wall is thin enough you could shoot that hiding enemy!!! awesome!
  
  That Robo-storage thingy was pretty useful. id be aiming a gun at some guy, but id have an empty 
 clip. lucky for me that the storage heals you and lets u change your weapons. pretty awesome.
  
  the Graphics for the game was Really well made. From vehicles to weapons, The graphics didnt 
 look too boxy, let alone cheap looking. the environment looked awesome too. you can see the wind whistling 
 buy, the heat from a desert area rising, etc.
  
  PLAY THE GAME! YOU WONT REGRET IT! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearsDeuce
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  There are certainly more exciting parts in the campaign's but it's way too short and too easy. 
 If you tried, you could beat it in one sitting depending on how much you let video games consume 
 your life. It's not bad, but it's not over the top either. And in the grand tradition of game makers, 
 they try too hard to sound cool and military with the speech by characters and over-emphazise word 
 like Boo-Coo and acronyms like FUBAR . Anyone who's seen enough military movies (i. e. Full Metal 
 Jacket and Saving Private Ryan for these two examples alone) should have an idea. It just sounds 
 stupid and any member of the military or anyone who's around it will see how corny it is. But at 
 the same time there has to some kind of trade off: The military is good at what they do, game makers 
 are (usually) good at what they do... case in point, America's Army, made by the military and terrible. 
 GRAW 2, made by Ubisoft and others, and corny on the military speech. Maybe they should use military 
 liaisons for that as well instead of just tactics. Not the best, but still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inge_carina
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Could have been a great game, but it freezes all the time in the campaign. I suspect Ubisoft has 
 engine problems. Other than that, it is the best Ghost Recon installment so far. Missions are mostly 
 fun and varied, albeit some are ridiculously easy. Multiplayer is even better, and very enjoyable. 
 But it is hard to be happy with it when the game hard freezes a couple of time every time I play 
 it, and I have to revert back to the last save point. I am hoping Ubisoft will admit there is a 
 problem, and come out with a patch soon. I have heard that other Ubisoft titles have the same issue. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the first GRAW I felt like the 2nd GRAW would be amazing ,but I didn't get exactly 
 that. in GRAW 2 you're back in Mexico and here to stay. The single-player takes place all over Mexico 
 ,but at points in online you'll feel like you're nowhere near Mexico. Anyway, the Campaign this 
 time around is a little but shorter ,but who's to say you can't do it over on the next difficulty? At 
 points the single-player will keep you hooked and you wont stop playing it and that's where the 
 shortness of the game shows. You'll surely see some minor improvements from the previous titles 
 Campaign ,but very minor. The only flaw I have with the single-player (besides the shortness of it) 
 would have to be the squad. You direct them to a place and they'll listen ,but it'd be A LOT easier 
 if they followed you instead of you having to always direct them. Online play is probably the most 
 improved. With more map (including a GRAW 1 classic brought back) , better co-op, more challenging co-op, more 
 fleshed-out modes, and CTF actually feels like CTF except with a GRAW touch added. The game has some 
 really squad-based moments and some very crappy moments. MY only advice to someone willing to get 
 the game... DON'T BE A GRENADIER. Why you ask? Because in, almost, every match No Launchers is turned 
 on which prevents you of using the mortar fire gun. The graphics are much more enhanced from the 
 first GRAW and the sound is better than ever! With sounds that make you think a real explosion happened! 
 My advice to anyway who's a fan of 3rd person shooters or you just love Ghost Recon GET THIS GAME. 
 The score may not make you think ,but it's fantastic. That's why I give GRAW 2 for the Xbox 360 
 9.1 stupid Mexican rebels out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gHoStLyEyEs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy brought some good games, they are all practiclly editors choice awards, this guys good. 
 Now he brings a sequal to the game of the year? good choice? or bad? in this case good. This game 
 has some of the best controls all year stepping up to Gears, the good thing is too, is that they 
 kept the controls from the old game. The sound of this game is brilliant and it has been in all 
 the tom clancy games. The buy though is what keeps it from a 10 because the story here is very 
 thin like Gears and Splinter Cell but you gotta love it. The game ends abruptly and very odd like 
 the origianal and so this doesnt actually feel like a real sequel it just is like a prettier and 
 more polished expansion pack. The graphics in this game are gorgeous and they are very well lit 
 and the smoke and the flames are very or to realistic. Overall this game has some good things and 
 bad The thing is the games short story keeps it from a 10 (sad) . But, Everything good keeps this 
 game from the pits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darhlife1220
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Totalmente mejor que GRAW podria ser el unico juego que se pudiera comparar con GOW. El Cross-Com 
 es mucho mejor, el sistema tactico inmejorable, las graficas impresionantes. El cambio de dia y 
 noche me dejo impactado el ver como el sol o la luna se mueven cuando estoy jugando, las sombras 
 impecables. El error fue el modo multijugador y la duracioon de la campa&ntilde; a. El modo multijugador 
 esta escaso comparado con GRAW y la campa&ntilde; a solo tiene 3 actos. Lo unico es que cada acto 
 dura como 2 horas. La historia es impresionante, no solo por que pasan cosas inesperadas sino porque 
 el desarrollo es muy bueno. Tambien algo bueno y nuevo fueron los medicos ya que te curan por completo. 
 Si te gustan los shooters y un buen desarrollo este juego es para ti. Es unico, te combiene comprarlo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt_brown
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  the game was amazing and the comands you can give and what vehicils you can take over you self 
 was just frige'n sweet. The way you can move around while your guys does stuff for you or how you 
 can call in air strikes and see the strike from the planes or your squad's or another vehicale 
 is just SWEET!!!!!!!!!!. The wepons also ROCK!!!. The way you can shoot throught walls and biulding 
 and 2 or 3 people with one shoot out of a sniper rifle is just amzing. The other cool feture is 
 the recon drone that flys around is prety useful in a tight sicuashion. Like sopoze you were traped 
 behind a wall with some rebels shooting at you and you don't know were they are, you could just 
 use the drone to find them for you with out endangering you or your team mates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game is so awesome! I cant believe the graphics and the day and night sequence. They also had 
 great shadowing. The shadows move the same way as the sun. They really did their homework with this 
 one. I am a fan of games that have good reality features and this game has to many reality feature 
 to count. This game is definently better than Ghost recon Advanced war fighter 1. This is a fantastic 
 looking game and a great game. If you liked GRAW 1 then you most definently will love GRAW2. This 
 game is so action packed that it will keep you awake even when your half asleep. This game gets 
 a 9.8 for great graphics, great gameplay and its awesome reality features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theworldsbest1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Graw 2, an amazing game for the xbox 360, definatly proff of next generation performance. In the 
 single player, graw 2 definatly shows you some amazing performance, and the futuristic aspect of 
 war, which i found to be realy keen to my intrest.
  
  But the multplayer, as every other ghost recon, had a horrible looking multiplayer... ide like 
 to see my gun, not have me blinded to it. I find that retarted. So of course, every grame has its 
 flaws, but dont let this take you down, it is a great game, and the online multiplayer is much 
 better then the lan multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonknightx0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Graw 2, an amazing game for the xbox 360, definatly proff of next generation performance. In the 
 single player, graw 2 definatly shows you some amazing performance, and the futuristic aspect of 
 war, which i found to be realy keen to my intrest.
  
  But the multplayer, as every other ghost recon, had a horrible looking multiplayer... ide like 
 to see my gun, not have me blinded to it. I find that retarted. So of course, every grame has its 
 flaws, but dont let this take you down, it is a great game, and the online multiplayer is much 
 better then the lan multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  If you read my Rainbow six review, you will know that I had to trade that in, in order to get this 
 little gem. It was worth it. The campaigne is well cool, the voice acting is not bad, and the multiplayer........... 
 fantastic. You will love this game. You can pick people off from a distance with really good assault 
 rifle scopes, and grenade throwing is the best grenade throwing in the game world. They have great 
 range. I once threw one over a small mountain on the lagoon level, and killed the entire enemy 
 team without knowing 100% that they were there at all! So many guns to choose from. I recommend 
 new commers start with the SCAR, or the Carbine. Great range. It has enough magazine capacity to 
 take out 5 to 6 guys. I think thats good for one reload. The Drone. It will seem confusing at first, 
 but you figure out how to look where it is in the sky when it see's an enemy or enemies, and you 
 plan how you can sneak into that area and kill them. Plus you will know if they move because the 
 drone can follow them if you figure out how to control it. It's just a great game. Well worth the 
 $60 that it's currently priced at. Whats keeping it from getting the big 10 from me? Minor things. 
 I hate waiting in a room because you missed the start of the game. That can take forever. I don't 
 like how in campaigne, it's hard to control your team, and lastly, I don't like the fact that you 
 can only be in one clan. With these minor problems aside, it's a great addition to any gamers collection. 
 I haven't played it for very long yet, but I intend to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  graw 2 is not all that it has been hyped up to be. the single player campaign is very short, graphics 
 aren't really improved, and multiplayer is not much different, though they try to deceive you by 
 giving you more multiplayer options . if you want a good tactical game, i would recommend r6 vegas, 
 it's a lot more exciting . i've also been confused at many of the multiplayer hosts in graw 2. 
 a room will fill up with 8, 10, 12 people and the host will do nothing except chat with his buddies 
 in the lobby for 10, 20, 30 minutes or so. i've owned this game for 2 days and have never spent 
 so much wasteful time waiting on the host to launch the game. hell, if you've played cod3, it takes 
 forever just to get into a lobby and the host will launch it in a jiffy. speaking of the lobby, 
 another thing about graw 2 that sucks is that if you die, join, or are eliminated from a multiplayer 
 map, you have to hang out in the lobby forever as opposed to having a view from the battlefield. 
 that sucks. on the other hand, graw 2 is still a great game, which means that it's fun overall. 
 graw 2 also does an awesome job with the weapon power distribution. in other words, an assault 
 rifle will act as an assault rifle, a shotgun will act as a shotgun, and a sniper rifle will act 
 as a sniper rifle. r6 vegas failed in this area due to the facts that you could snipe someone 100 
 yards away with a shotgun or you could shoot someone 5 times 100 yards away with a sniper rifle 
 and it wouldn't kill them. too bad you can't incorporate the strengths from both games into one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmlevi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i have been reading other peoples reviews, and alot are saying its like Graw 1.5... seriously 
 its so much more than that. Yes the one player is a bit shorter than the last one but there is 
 so much more advanced war fighting you can do! Im not gonna spoil it for those who have not played 
 but the new things you can use to your advantage are very creative! Props to the game creators! 
 Not to mention the online play is sooo much better! I dont know how this was ranked below a 9 because 
 its just as good as the first, if not better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frilok
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  First off, I think the game is waaaay too overrated. If you played the Socom series for the PS2, 
 its old news and nothing new. I gave the game the benefit of the doubt and attempted to play if 
 for a couple of days, but just keep losing interest. The only thing it has that makes it worth 
 buying is the graphics and the choice of guns if your an old Socom Veteran, other than that... 
 If you never played Socom, it's definately worth getting. The single player wasn't all that great, 
 but the multiplayer was the Make or Break factor for this game. I'm not saying Socom was the best 
 game out, or better than this game, its just to me, like it says in the headline, Been there, done 
 that . There were a few other factors of the whole Sniper give away thing in the multiplayer that 
 made the game so frustrating. If your looking for realism, this isnt the place to find it. If you 
 like Arcade style military shooters, you'll love this game. *Angry Gamers* If you happen to dislike 
 this review, its just my opinion, don't take it personally, its only a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooshoo543
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  this is better than the first, more deeper storyline, beautiful graphics, and all out great multiplayer 
 fun. this is truly one of the best xbox 360 games out today. its story mode puts you in a more 
 comfterable sitting as CPT. Mitchell and the explosions in the game are enjoyable to watch. the 
 multiplayer is even more addicting to play with new weapons, and the refined features that make 
 it easier for gamers that dosnt know about the series to get into. the single player is enjoyable 
 to play through and the music is well orchestrated with dramatic music for fire-fights, and victory 
 music after completing a mission. To sum it up, it is pretty awesome in total. Therefore Ghost 
 recon advanced warfighter 2 ( Or GRAW 2) is a must own for all and you will not be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Okay to started out the graphics is the Best looking I have ever see in a Ghost Recon game...
 
  
  The gameplay is just amzaing, Its so easy to beat this game. Thats why I like it so much. But I 
 think it too easy for me I beat this game on the hard's difficulty you can get this game on, and 
 its still easy to beat.. I beat it in 3 hours...
  
  Now for the sound. The sound was really perfect .. It sounded like I was shooting off a real gun. 
 ever thing from the sound from the game and the muisc was perfect...
  
  The online was the best out of the hole game 16 players online want els could you ask for. That 
 is perfect online for me.
  
  So over alll this game is a superb... Oh ever as a 360 must pick this game up it worth the cash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is somewhat the same as the first one. Only differance is the use of the vehicals. It is 
 still a fun game to play but when I try to use my team...... it takes them a long time to do one 
 thing. I hate it when it takes them forever to regroup when i asked them to. Or when I tell them 
 to take out a few enemies. In Vagas I never had to worry about that..... I didn't have to kill 
 all the enemies myself. In GRAW 2 most of the time I have to.... all they do is complain about 
 not having a shot and wanting to move to a new location. At times it gets very annoying especially 
 when they end up getting killed. I mean all in all GRAW 2 is a good game and I will recommand it 
 to anyone but just the controling of your team sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  This game is so much more in-depth. In terms of the online play. The visuals and lighting in the 
 levels. The much easier campagin. &amp; The assortment of online weapon's, character classes, character 
 helmet alternates, to the multi-player map's.
  
  They also offer an online exclusive map from the first G. R. A. W.
  Also. If you have played Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent. You can transfer data from that game over to G. R. A. W. 2 and unlock more! alternate 
 helmet's for online!
  
  Overall this game is just amazing. I play it for hours and hours and keep craving more!
  
  
 If you love FPS's and are heavily into Army Artillery.
  
  Buy G. R. A. W. 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belcaster234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is GREAT... you can play this all day long and never get bored of this game... x-box 
 live is good but you can't take cover so its hard to survive.. multiplayer is real good... when 
 you play the quick missions you have a lot of fun... campain is preety good but not better than 
 GRAW 1... This has a way better multiplayer than almost any game out right now... its a good game 
 so if you dont got it get because it is worth the $60.. i reccommend getting x-box live for this 
 game because it is way more fun playin with other people that by yourself... YOU MUST GET THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozonekiss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  MUCH BETTER THAN GRAW 1 GRAPHICALLY AND THE MUTLIPLAYER MAPS LOOK GREAT AND ARE BETTER DESIGNED... AND 
 THERE ARE LITTLE THINGS LIKE THE HELICOPTER VIBRATION ON YOUR CONTROLLER.... SUBTLE AND REALISTIC.... THIS 
 IS A GREAT GAME, WHY DID GAMESPOT GIVE IT A LOWER SCORE THAT GRAW 1 WHEN THEY ADMIT ITS A VAST 
 IMPROVEMENT???
  THE MULTIPLAYER SERVER WAS A JOKE ON GRAW 1, SO FAR ITS BETTER ON GRAW 2... SO FAR.
  RECOMMEND 
 FOR GRAW 3 MAKING A RANK OPTION FOR ROOMS BECUASE YOU GET BOOTED IF YOU ARE A LOWER LEVER ALL THE 
 TIME.. THIS WAY YOU COULD LOCK OUT PEEPS WITH LOWER RANK, OR MAKE A ANY RANK OK ROOM... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  hrm.. what can i say.. reminds me of the 1st graw but shorter. I mean.. what happend here?? did UBISOFT's 
 Budget run out when it came to producing this game or what? I mean the mechanics are the same... much 
 less the combat system... its like the first one. Again, in the middle of a firefight.. when one 
 has to switch off the sniper scope.. rather than hitting a button to COMPLETELY.. turn off the scope 
 so to speak, one would have to cycle through all the magnifications to get out of snipe mode OR... switch 
 from sniper to side arm. Sheez .. by the time you're done.. ur guaranteed a HEAD SHOT.. OR AT LEAST 
 A DOUBLE TAP IN THE CHEST FROM THE BAD GUYZ... and thats IN-COVER TOO.. Gah! LOL.. The only improvement 
 that i saw was the NIGHT VISION effect... well done UBISOFT when it comes to the visuals!! ok.. heres 
 the rundown..
  
  1. GAMEPLAY... EH..1st graw blues: slow weapon cycles/ reload times, scope mag switch.. god i hate 
 it. LOL.. mag x1, x2, x3.. then OFF . OR, sniper mode.. then.. oh yeh.. switch off to the pistol.. which 
 doesnt do any good specially if ur in the middle of a firefight...9mm against 7.62's or 50cals.. pls..
 
  
  2. GRAPHICS... good job UBISOFT!! if there's ANYTHING you folks deserve credit on.. its the NIGHT 
 VISION!! The 1st graws a JOKE... hazy green with bright yellows... nice effect... reminds me of a 
 hallucinogenic effect.. when the narcotic pain meds kick in LOL.
  
  3. SOUND... GOOD JOB. NO COMPLAINTS THERE... 4. VALUE.. TRADE IN SPECIAL AT EB GAMES... hrmm.. GOD 
 OF WAR 2 .. sounds nice.
  
  5. TILT.. guyz n gals.. if ur gona amp up the firefight.. at least make the cover system accurate 
 and make the main character move a lil faster.. LOL. Go play rainbow six vegas or gears of war.. then... hopefuly 
 try n match the character speeds for better reaction time.. its bad enuf.. your weapon cycling system 
 sucks.. sigh.. lol give us the consumers a break will ya!! lol....
  
  To sum it all up... eitherway i had fun even though it took me 4 days to solve this game.. on guarded 
 risk.. cuz i knew.. low risk is laughable just like this whole game.
  
  ... woulda been nice if ya kept the same visuals but used the UNREAL Engine. i bet it would of made 
 for a well IMPROVED GAME!!. oh yeh... next time.. choose a better country .. something politically 
 sound like korea or afghanistan.. i felt like a border patrol agent . lol.. nukes in mexico.. hrmm. 
 Taquitos... anyone? LMAO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  In the first GRAW, on the PC version, there was only one difficulty.... extremely difficult. It 
 wasn't as bad on the 360 though. In GRAW there were several bugs in the friendly AI system, but 
 the enemy AI worked great, a little too great actually. It was still a decent game for the 360 
 though, and I wanted to see ubisoft make a second GRAW, in hope that it would be less frustrating 
 and bugged. Finnaly, Ubisoft and Demonware finished developing GRAW2 and released it to the electronics 
 department's of Wal-Marts everywhere. I was eager to get the game and play it on my computer, but 
 much to my dismay I learned that it would not be available until June 5. Still, I wanted to play 
 the game, so I bought it and went right to my 360 to try it out. I was caught off guard when the 
 first mission started and the game was in the 3rd person view, because I am used to playing 1st 
 person shooters on the PC. Aside from that, the game has a few very usefull updates from its preceding 
 game, such as a difficulty selector. I cannot say how overjoyed I was at seeing a low-risk option. 
 If I had to play the game on the same difficulty as on the pc GRAW, I would have just returned 
 it. The HUD and crosscom have had a few tweaks, and you can now choose your teammates. The UAV 
 drone is easier to control then ever before, much like your teammates. Giving orders to them is 
 as simple as pointing at a location to move or at an enemy and pressing up on the D pad . It even 
 lets you change your squad's rules of engagement! You can order them to have weapons free, in which 
 they will shoot any enemy they see, or you can put them in recon, which forces them to hold fire 
 and stay quiet. These rules of engagement can be used to surprise and take down the enemies quick. 
 Another great improvement is the AI system. The Ghost's AI is much better now, and is equal to 
 the enemy's. The environment plays a role in almost every situation in the game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sto1c-1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Campaign:
  -CrossCom- The Crosscom 2.0 is excellent. The abilities to see what your team is seeing full screen, 
 and direct them while looking through their eyes allows for some interesting gameplay. I really 
 enjoy the single player in this game because of the features stated above. I try to do most of 
 the campaign work myself, but it often comes in handy to have your team do the grunt work for you. 
 -General Storyline- The general story line is excellent. It seems farely well thought out, and 
 is quite interesting. Some of the characters lines are a little messed up, but you can easilly 
 get used to it. The main problem that I have with the storyline is with the videos that keep poping 
 into your hud. The characters motions are often out of sync with their words, which makes for some 
 rather ugly videos. -Weapons- Here is where GRAW sets itself appart from most of the other games 
 out there. There are simply so many choices as far as weapons. Even in campaign, there are quite 
 a few choices ranging from sniper rifles to automatic rifles. However, it would be nice if all 
 of the campaign weapons were available in multiplayer, and visa-versa. Multiplayer:
  -Maps- The maps are amazing. The amount of graphic detail and work that has gone into these maps 
 really shows. The maps are very well done both graphically and tactically. Many of the maps provide 
 interesting tactical options for the player. There is a great amount of diversity in how these 
 maps can be palyed. While this is to be expected to some extent, it was very well done in GRAW 
 2. -Weapons- As I said before, the choices of weapons really sets GRAW 2 appart from the competition. 
 I have always been frustrated with the poor weapons choices in other games. In GRAW 2, I have no 
 problem finding a weapon that I am good with. -Gameplay- In the end, it all comes down to this. 
 Personally, I enjoy it. However, there are some issues with spawn camping. I don't think they will 
 ever manage to get rid of that. The multiplayer gameplay is not as tactical as you might think. 
 It ends up being much more Halo style. This is rather dissapointing. Most people go running around 
 with fully automatic rifles spraying rounds everywhere. However, this seem to completely dissapear 
 in objective games. It's in the objective games that it becomes really competative. -Clan Support- 
 The clan support for GRAW 2 is good, but could be improved. The clans are there, and their basic 
 features are excellent. However, clan matches need to be ranked. If this game is to ever become 
 a trully tactical shooter, it must become very much clan centered. Over all, the game is excellent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZOSO_360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  GRAW on the 360 totally transformed my gaming experience, it got me the majority of people on my 
 friends list that I regularly play with and not buying GRAW2 when it came out just wasn't an option, 
 despite what I'd heard about it just being the same game. Whilst it is very very similar I will 
 say the following things about GRAW2:
  
  The graphics are simply incredible, like nothing I've seen on the 360. The lighting effects are 
 stunning and make Gears Of War look last gen. It helps if you're running it through a HDTV connected 
 with a VGA lead as this improves the clarity and the effects by at LEAST 50%, its gorgeous.
  
  I've never been a massive fan of the single player gameon GRAW, multiplayer is what its all 
 about for me and you wont be disappointed, the multiplayer is HUGE!
  
  There are 6 really big co op missions and if you have a good connection like I do it really is 
 fantastic running around with 7 of your pals blowing up tanks and all sorts of stuff.
  
  There are 18 multiplayer maps, around 5 or six of them where you can change the weather/lighting 
 too.
  
  There are some small maps included suitable for 4 - 8 players which is really cool as you end up 
 with loads of action rather than running round for ages not seeing anybody.
  
  New features wise there's not a lot, the main one for multiplayer at least is when you're hit but 
 dont die you fall to the floor and can call for help from team mates who come to heal you. The 
 graphics when this happens are stunning, you're lay on the floor looking at the sun coming through 
 the trees, trees swaying in the wind and you can move the camera about your immediate vicinity 
 to look for teammates to help you, you can also see that sniper lurking that took you out waiting 
 to pick off your team mate as he leans over you!
  
  The explosions have been revamped here too, grenades now look and sound a lot better and all of 
 the vehicles on the maps can be blown up.
  
  A couple of things have disappointed me concerning the multiplayer and I'm sure I'm not alone. 
 Firstly there is clan support which is great, I've got a clan of about 10 pals and you can very 
 easily set up matches against other clans however there is no ranking system for clans or individuals 
 within those clans. Nothing. It would have been nice to at the very least had WON DREW LOST statistics 
 and wouldn't have been that difficult to do. This makes the clan feature a little hollow and I 
 would imagine it not getting used as much as it should.
  
  The second gripe I have is with regards to the achievements in the game....... far too easy and 
 not varied enough. For instance you get achievements for reachin 50, 150, 300 and 500 kills in 
 multiplayer. If you play the multiplayer regularly you'll have all of those in a couple of days 
 tops and EVERYBODY has them. It doesnt really feel like a big achievement. Why not have 100, 500, 
 1000, 5000, 10000 that would have been far better.
  
  The other gripe is the fact that you STILL cant invite your mates to ranked games, so what if they're 
 your mates? People are always going to boost, there will always be ways to boost but it seems like 
 those who want to play ranked together, of which there are loads, are punished because of the actions 
 of others. I for one play a LOT better with my mates as we all talk to each other, its frustrating 
 ending up on a randomised team with 7 strangers who dont talk and just run around a map like they're 
 playing solo.
  This frustration could have been countered with ranked clan matches.
  
  I've not spent agreat deal of time with the single player mode, I finished the first act on 'elevated 
 risk' the hardest setting and it wasn't too challenging, I think i'd done it in just over an hour. 
 There are ONLY three acts so I'm imagining it's not a very long single player game. It looks A 
 LOT better than the single player on GRAW and your team mates AI has thankfully improved a lot. 
 They will shout out things like 'Over there, behind the red car' to point out enemies, which is 
 really cool. Other than that it's more of the same really, but not much more!
  
  If you dont have XBOX live (and why wouldn't you?) this is probably not worth buying but if you 
 do, get ready for the most fun you can have with your clothes on!
  
  All in all this is a better game than GRAW, the graphics are better, the sound is better, but it 
 just needs a teeny tiny bit of polishing on the points I mentioned. If you have some friends round 
 and want to show off your 360 look no further than GRAW2 it'll have them gawping with amazement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Well after reading some peoples reviews on graw 2 I was starting to get worried. Regardless, I 
 went ahead and bought it and was glad I did. To me its really not that much shorter than the first 
 graw because it seems a little more difficult and intense (which is good) . Graphics are better, 
 more guns, improved control/views of the uav and squadmates, great looking explosions. I havent 
 really got into the multiplayer yet but what I saw looked good. Should keep me busy for as long 
 as the first one. Dont be fooled into thinking this is just some weak expansion pack wannabe or 
 something. Yeah it is similar to the first, but you know if somethings not broke dont fix it. If 
 you loved graw 1 you'll love this one as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanroxors
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  On the original Xbox, I loved Ghost Recon 2. It not only had a wonderful shooting formula for a 
 flawless online experience, it had the best maps I had ever seen in an online Shooter. The expansive 
 and rural maps provided the player with a sense of mystery and hide and seek type of game-play. 
 When I played G. R. A. W. I liked it but my fear of Ghost Recon moving away from it's roots had been 
 confirmed......
  
  Parts of the single Player were great, but when it came to the multiplayer the game just didn't 
 have the quality maps I loved so dearly before in Ghost Recon 2. Ladies and Gentlemen, I am very 
 very and yes again VERY proud to say they got it right in G. R. A. W. 2. The maps are once again the 
 best maps I have ever seen in an online shooter and on top of that, this game's single player is 
 beyond top-notch, it is pure gold.
  
  If you like shooters, get this game as soon as possible, simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: openpablohoney
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is short on the single player campaign mode. Although the graphics are more polished with 
 some extra vehicles thrown in to the mix it felt as if was missing something. It does have a couple 
 of good action missions but fails to follow through on some of the other ones giving it an uneven 
 feel to it. Despite all of the negative stuff the positive features like awesome sound, graphics, 
 and multi player options make you forget that you spent $60 for it. After playing the regular level 
 you should go back and play it on the hardest level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrotherBacon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was surprised when I heard that GRAW 2 was already done, less than a year after 
 the original game. However, based on my appreciation for the first game, I was more than happy 
 to pick up the sequel. And I'm happy I did! Don't let the early release dissuade you from checking 
 out the quality of this game. The end result is more than solid.
  
  To say GRAW 2 has good graphics is an understatement. The new lighting system is impressive, and 
 the overall look of the game is much sharper than before. There is some fantastic scenery in the 
 game, and sometimes you will find yourself enthralled by the little graphical bells and whistles 
 here and there, such as the live TV broadcasts that take place in your Humvee or Black Hawk Helicopter. 
 The textures, wind effects and explosions all have been upgraded, and they look phenomenal.
  
  Sound is also very good in the game. Not only do your guns sound and look realistic, but your 
 A. I. squad buddies now speak up a lot more. And most of the time, they actually have useful information 
 to report, such as pointing out the bad guys standing next to the truck across the street. These 
 subtle additions really boost the credibility of the game's atmosphere, and pull you into the action.
 
  
  There are some new additions to GRAW 2, primarily the new MULE ground resupply car and the use 
 of a medic. While the MULE is cool the first time you see it, it really doesn't add anything to 
 the core gameplay of the game. It serves the same purpose as the resupply truck from the last game, 
 except that it can follow you around. It would have been much more interesting if the MULE actually 
 had turrets or some other offensive capabilities. While the MULE is a mixed addition to the game, 
 medics are quite useful, even though they decrease the game's difficultly substantially in comparison 
 to the first GRAW.
  
  The Cross-com system has also been updated, and the changes are mostly for the better. Now you 
 can look through your A. I. buddies helmut camera to see what he's seeing. This adds to your overall 
 grasp of the battlefield and improves your situational awareness, as you would expect it to do. 
 The use of overhead drones is also much improved. You can now get a real-time satellite view of 
 the battlefield, which is much more fun and interesting to use than those in the first game. It's 
 too bad; however, that the game doesn't develop other uses for the drones. It would have been great 
 to have the option of using predator drones capable of firing Hellfire missiles as well. Maybe 
 that'll be added to the next sequel.
  
  In terms of level design, there are some truly great missions in the game. You will distinctly 
 remember your favorites, such as a night-time Black Hawk raid on a Mexican army base in the middle 
 of a rainstorm. The environmental and lighting effects will wow you. Unfortunately, it's a shorter 
 game than its predecessor, and it feels like it's over sooner than you think.
  
  But then there's the multiplayer, and thankfully, the online options provide an impressive amount 
 of replay value. There are many customizeable game types this time around, and to the designer's 
 credit, the graphics look just as good in multiplayer as they do in single player, which is quite 
 an accomplishment.
  
  I'll go ahead and say it: if you liked GRAW, go ahead and buy GRAW 2, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostse7en
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game because I've been a fan of the GR series since its conception on the XBox 
 and GRAW for the 360 was awesome. The games atmosphere is simply stunning. The feeling of time 
 in-game and having all the shadows, even the smoke made the game feel even more realistic than 
 the first. Your team is a alot smarter this time around but still make the same IA mistakes. If 
 you order them to attack head on, your team simply gets up out of their cover an shoot the living 
 crap out of the enemy more often than not, rarely hit anything and ends up on the ground asking 
 for medical attention. Usually you have to do all the killing, but your team is better used by 
 flanking the enemy or cover fire, distracting the enemies while you sneak along behind and take 
 them out of their misery. The new MULE and Crosscom 2.0 technology makes this a much more bearable 
 game than the first. The MULE is a roving rallypoint to reload and used as cover in the barren 
 desert where there isn't anything worthy enough to even stop BB's let alone 5.56 and 7.62 rounds. 
 Being able to see full screen while using the crosscom makes it easy to command your team without 
 having to worry if they have enough cover just by using the map as in GRAW. Theres also a sequence 
 where you can't rely on your Crosscom or your drone to point out enemies by the all familiar 'red 
 diamond'. CPT Mitchell loses his helmet and you'll have to engage using real world tactics by locating 
 muzzle flashes ahead of you and fire at anything that lights up. The game is relentlessly fun but 
 way too short probably three-quarters then length of GRAW. On to the Multiplayer....... If youv'e 
 played GRAW then you'll feel at home I don't know how many new maps exclusive with this game and 
 some rehashes on the older ones. I'm pretty sure you'll rarely get tired with MP unless you're 
 in a clan that hosts and takes advantage of the 'better spawn point' on each map. It occasionally 
 happens. Also be prepared for very quiet rooms, not too many discuss tactics like in RSV also if 
 they talk, they talk a lot of smack. There were quite a few games in MP since I purchased it that 
 fell into rooms with guys talking about hate on minorities but trying to rationalize that it isn't 
 hate but merely the truth and many many druggies and wanna-be gangsters. More stereotyping than 
 telling the truth. Made me sick, so I just lowered the mic volume to 0 finished the game and put 
 them on my avoid list. Easy as that. Don't get offended by online tough guys because they know 
 it's the only safe haven they have to talk smack about people and if they were ever caught saying 
 that in public in front of many people they talk about they wouldn't see the light of day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNIPER-CAZ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 takes place in between the border of U. S. A and Mexico. you will be doing all your missions 
 in this general area where Mexico has taken control of nuclear weapons. The single player campaign 
 is designed for you to take control of the technology you posses to grant you superiority over 
 the battle field. With new weapons, gadgets and team members Mitchell is ready for part 2 in this 
 extremely fun game. Graphics in this game can almost be compared to Gears of War, its gameplay 
 is highly addictive, seing as you have any option you want to succesfully complete the mission 
 at hand. We have seen great games run on multiplayer and yet agian Graw 2 Doesnt fall short in 
 this important catagory. WIth realistic gameplay and team based tactics to claim a win this game 
 is all together impressive. Summary, Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott_michal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 has the perfect balance between graphics, gameplay, sound, and tilt!
  I admit the SP story mode ends too quickly but its still damn good. To the graphics and sound real 
 life pales in comparison! Not to mention the multiplayer experience is one of the best in the world. Second 
 only to Halo's multiplayer. In SP this game delivers top notch tactical shooting action and in multiplayer 
 its just downright fun even though you cant take cover. This is everything GRAW fans have been waiting 
 for and more! For example the utterly amazing visuals of GRAW are back. In fact here a lot better 
 in GRAW 2.
  I feel that these gamespot editors did a bad job rating this game. It seems like the fact it was 
 short really must have pissed then off because they rated it WAY to low. If you are a fan of tactical 
 shooters than GRAW2 is a must have! thanx for your time I hope you didnt get too bored now get 
 off your pc and start playing GRAW 2 and you dont have buy it right NOW! Thats a direct order! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbkwolverine
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  With all games, there is an element of dissatisfaction, be it the controls, gameplay, graphics 
 or multiplayer, someone will have a negative thing to say about it. With GRAW2, the only thing 
 that lets it down is the single player game. On the hardest difficulty, I managed to complete it 
 in roughly 5-6 hours. Dont get me wrong, the game has an element of replayability, mainly to get 
 those achievements you might of missed in the game. My favourite part of the single player game 
 is you are about to leave the area in a gunship when all of a sudden, it blows up and leaves you 
 stranded where you are will hundreds of enemies descending on your position and helicopters pinning 
 you down with gunfire, you cant pop you head over the wall as dozens of guns are trained on your 
 head.
  GRAW2 has taken some of the gripes gamers had from GRAW and polished the game into a well rounded 
 experience. The multiplayer aspect is very enjoyable, get yourself and a few mates and try to storm 
 the enemy stronghold. One level in particular finds you having to go to two points on the map and 
 downloading information simultaneously, failure to do so will result in game over!
  I think this game will make it to the 2007s top ten. A must buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djrmc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Not much has changed since the last GRAW. The single player mode is still about the same with the 
 enviroments in the level looking almost exactly like the ones from the first one. The A. I. is a 
 little bit smarter with your teamates actually telling you were the enemy is at when they are nearby. 
 I wouldn't suggest buying this game but renting sounds good if you are into online multiplayer. 
 You can actually get wouded and then call out for help for another teamate online to heal you which 
 I think is a pretty cool thing to do almost like in gears of war. If you were a major GRAW fan 
 you won't be dissapointed but if you are the average shooter fan then I suggest not wasting any 
 money on this to buy but only rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  As I said, I never played the first Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. In fact, before GRAW 2, the 
 only other Ghost Recon experience was when I rented the first one a few years ago. I was thoroughly 
 disappointed by it. Then I saw that the first GRAW was such a success (sadly it was the only first 
 next-gen Tom Clancy I didn't get, I got Rainbow Six Vegas and Splinter Cell) , so I was nice to 
 my mom for a while and she bought the game for me. I'm glad she did. I have had a ball.
  
  Here is a recap of my time with GRAW 2 so far.
  
  I popped in the game as soon as I got home, 
 my internet was down so I couldn't get on XBOX Live. I decided to play single player. As Captain 
 Scott Mitchell, I sat in a jeep being driven by a nerdy private who was marveling over a recently 
 completed mission. As all cut scenes in the game, it was interactive in that you can look anywhere 
 you want, I looked out at the beautiful Mexican Desert. I was blown away by the graphics.
  
  After the cut scene, I was thrown into training, which each section ending with me in someway 
 killing a group of Hispanic rebels. Once training was done, the first mission started. Fighting 
 rebels in the streets using some awesome technology, with squadmates or alone, was awesome. Then 
 I unlocked the sniper, I had some real fun. The graphics are mind boggling only seconded in my 
 game collection to Gears of War. It sounds great too, from the thousands of bullets wizzing past 
 your head to squadmates crying out for help after being shot down by a sniper in need of a medic. 
 Then there is multiplayer. I finally got live working. There are some great modes in multiplayer. 
 From fighting a free for all, to a king of the hill style match, to fighting non-stop for a half 
 hour, multiplayer is great. The levels are huge, and I mean huge, making any Gears of War levels 
 looking so small its sad. With up to 16 people playing at a time, the action never stops. And I've 
 made fast friends and found myself in a clan.
  
  All of this in my first 3 days of playing, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the first sequel in the GRAW franchise. This game may feel a bit too much like the first 
 game for some people, but I for one couldn't be happier. This game, like most games, has it's strengths 
 and weaknesses. Therefor, I'm going to use the classic breakdown method to review this game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 - Make no mistake, this game is gorgeous. Everything from the futuristic weapon 
 designs right down to the small scenic texture make this a solid looking title.
  
  Sound: 8/10 - This is my only beef with this game. Sometimes when there's a lot of action taking 
 place, there are instances when you can't even hear your own gun firing. And hearing the rebels 
 yell out something from a mile away, and have it sound like they're right behind you can become 
 a bit annoying aswell. But thankfully the single player makes up for this area of the game. The 
 stunning helicopter sound effects, each guns unique firing sound, and stellar voice-overs (especially 
 for Mitchell) all comprise a memorable experience.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - As always, this is what sets Tom Clancy games apart from it's competitors. Make 
 no mistake, this game is not geared towards the casual gamer. Squad communication online is essential 
 for achieving certain primary and secondary objectives. You have the standard positions (standing, 
 crouched and prone) as the first game, but in a surprising twist, they removed the ability to take 
 cover in the online portion of the game. You can combat the rebel forces on easy difficult, which 
 makes them sitting ducks. Or, like most, you may prefer to sink your teeth into a harder experience. 
 Well, this game has got you covered. On the hardest difficulty, the enemy AI is, at times, frustrating. 
 The enemies rarely miss, so the element of surprise is your best friend.
  
  Overall: 9.2/10 - This isn't a title you should pass up. If you at any time thought about buying 
 this title, than you should buy it. My hat's off to the crews at Ubisoft and Demon Ware. Here's 
 to GRAW 3! =-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairyassapeman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great graphics, sound, and gameplay. Single player campaign is fun, but short. Multiplayer 
 is awesome. Nothing Beats GRAW 2 Co-op. Lots of player customization for multiplayer.
  
  Bad: Single Player campaign not long enough. GRAW 2 still has the gunride sequences. GRAW 2 is 
 better than GRAW 1. I have GRAW, GRAW 2, and Rainbow Six Vegas, and GRAW 2 is the most fun multiplayer. 
 GRAW 2 is definitely better than Gears of War, but unfortunately won't get the same kind of accolades 
 or popularity. If you don't have Xbox Live Gold, GRAW 2 is still worth getting. You can play splitscreen 
 or with a system link. Splitscreen co-op with a friend is good fun.
  
  If you don't have this already, what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxSteveHxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 surprised me A LOT! The online multi-player is amazing. I was really stunned when I saw 
 how many maps they actually put in the game then to see Embassy and the FAMAS back! I was very 
 happy. The game overall is excellent from the Multi-player to Campaign I love every second of it. 
 GRAW 2 Has that Recon feelAnd I mean Old Recon. GRAW In my opinion was horrible I played it 
 for a week and gave it up but GRAW 2 I cant get enough of. The thing with GRAW I really liked 
 was the Graphics and I thought they couldnt get any better then that. I was wrong Ubisoft has 
 yet again blown me away with their amazing Graphics. Bottom line is GRAW 2 is an excellent game 
 and I recommend it for anyone looking seeking an intense military shooter for with Online and off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft has managed to squeeze out this sequel in just 12 months. Does it deliver enough improvements 
 to justify a further &pound;40 outlay?
  
  On first inspection the answer is yes. The original GRAW, although critically received, did suffer 
 from a couple of significant problems:
  
  - The single player campaign was very challenging for most players, and GRAW featured a much higher 
 trade-in rate than many early games as some players found it too frustrating.
  - The multiplayer felt like a different game, lacking the graphical flare or feel of the single 
 player game.
  
  GRAW2 definitely rectifies both of these issues but it is at the expense of longevity.
  
  The 
 single player game now features:
  + a superior CrossCom, giving greater tactical control of your units, including the new Mule (a 
 mobile weapons cache)
  + you now have the ability to get one of your squad to heal you (thus making the campaign move 
 forgiving)
  + a low-risk campaign mode for casual players
  + more varied out door environments
  + slightly more fluid movement and animations
  
  Combined 
 these new features really do significantly improve the GRAW2 single player game and make it much 
 more fun, and less of a sniper trawl. However, the single-player game is now significantly shorter 
 than GRAW, and capable players will charge through on the default risk setting in 4-5 hours.
  
  The multiplayer has also been significantly improved with equivalent visuals and movements 
 (to the single player game) and a much better designed co-op. However, as with GRAW, the multiplayer 
 still feels like a different game. The cover mechanic, so important in the single player, is still 
 a glaring omission and the controls in multiplayer still feel slower and unresponsive.
  
  Many of the game modes are still brutally unforgiving. The fast &amp; frantic deathmatch modes 
 can become quite frustrating especially given the low rate of turn accompanied by one-shot-kills. 
 The many no respawn modes can also test your patience if you are unlucky enough to be hit at 
 the beginning of each round.
  
  I still find the multiplayer gameplay in GRAW2 suits a particular type of player, and the many 
 complex game modes and configurable settings confuse and bemuse the casual gamer. GRAW2 multiplayer 
 is definitely suited to the more professional and competitive players who can take it very seriously 
  try a Ranked Match and youll find out for yourself.
  
  Graphically, GRAW2 looks fantastic. I did notice some cheesy draw distance when riding in the 4x4, 
 but on the whole the textures, backgrounds and animations are beautiful. Even multiplayer looks 
 great now.
  
  The graphics are sometimes so good that unit camouflage makes it very hard to make out your targets, 
 particularly in multiplayer, (if not for the CrossCom) against the backgrounds.
  
  The game audio and sound effects are also on a par with the original GRAWs high standards. In 
 the games extra menu you can even lighten to the rather warmongering soundtrack.
  
  The shorter campaign mode obviously makes GRAW2 difficult to recommend if you just plan on playing 
 the single player game. Having said that, it is a lot more enjoyable than GRAW so it may be worth 
 trading GRAW for GRAW2 if you have it.
  
  To get the most value from GRAW2 you do have to embrace the multiplayer, which may not be everyones 
 cup of tea. I remain unconvinced by the multiplayer, but so far I have only played ranked matches 
 with real jarhead types, so I may change my mind over time.
  
  The achievements are nicely distributed between the single player and multiplayer, but dont anticipate 
 getting more than 250 if you dont embrace the full GRAW2 experience.
  
  Overall, I believe GRAW2 to be an enjoyable and worth sequel that carries enough improvements to 
 justify a purchase, whilst still carrying a number of features and flaws that make GRAW2 fall short 
 of the classic it should be.
  
  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Value 7
  Tilt 7
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  ---
  For reference, scores for GRAW 1 were
  
  Gameplay 7
  Graphics 
 9
  Sound 9
  Value 8
  Tilt 7
  
  Overall 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alby1481
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Supped up G. R. A. W.
  
  Sticks to the original story line of G. R. A. W. The game's performance is an example of perfect teamwork 
 of game developers. Worth mentioning that the game was developed by international team, US &amp; 
 France. Futuristic but sticks to realism. Those who enjoy playing realistic games will definitely 
 find it quite entertaining and challenging at various difficulty levels. Plenty of action personalities, 
 combat kits, intelligence gathering sources, tools of trade and vehicles to go around with, will 
 definitely keep the player busy through out the game. Unlike Battlefield 2: MC multiplayer mode 
 is one of its kind and on my point of view is some what little more difficult, however that changes 
 after some game time. Though the game generated some controversial criticism of its plot, story 
 line and location of the events that take place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  I dont know where to begin on this title. I loved the first one so much that when Rainbow 6 Vegas 
 came out I almost ignored it completely. This one however is causing me to invest huge amounts 
 of time and attention. The detail is unparalleled. I love the new visual style. The in-game menus 
 are familiar with a new finish about them. All the buttons are where I remember them and still 
 function with the preciseness I remember. Just off Jump Street I havent played the single player 
 missions (I will very soon) the multiplayer is where Ive been spending my time.. and a very large 
 portion of it. The maps are large and the environments look wonderful. Its all kind of like Da 
 Ja Vu. Like Ive been here but not really. The improved enemy A. I. stands out really fast as I 
 was quick to learn in a multiplayer co-op mission, the enemy is relentless and will try very hard 
 to kill you ASAP. Even after your down the enemy will try very hard to get to your injured body 
 and pop a final cap in your carcass. I thought that the inclusion of smart A. I was going to kick 
 ass but it just kicks YOUR ass. I mean those guys are heartless. (lol) wait I mean for real they 
 are out to gun you down, ok like they hate you. I dont know, just looks like the enemy is mad 
 at something that happened last game and the have a grudge out for any ghost out on the field. 
 I played Ghost for the past year and had never seen such merciless action on a ghost. They will 
 shot you down just to bait other players in to help you. And if it looks like no-one responds to 
 your help cries they will walk up on you very calm like and shoot you in the face. Needles to say 
 very fun game. Hands down just as fun as the last installment if not leaps and bounds better &amp; 
 more challenging. I was never a real fan of the Tom Clancy series of games but after the last 3 
 games I've seen on 360 (ghost, rainbow &amp; graw2) Im a fan of the tactical shooters him and 
 his team create. They have unmatched realism and an air of challenge that doesnt fade if you know 
 a particular level or sanario, it just dosent get boring no matter how many times we run it. The 
 sound is impeccable as weve come to expect. Over all stupendous game, a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Good : Graphics, some levels are great looking.
  
  Bad : Mitchell's new helmet looks stupid, teammates still useless. Short campaign. They removed 
 APC rides, and switched them for some half-baked Jeep sequeneces. What the hell were they thinking 
 ?
  
  
  
  The original GRAW came out a year ago on the 360, and offered us a wonderful view on how war could 
 be in a near future. It gave us the opportunity to toy with some high tech gadgets, weapons and 
 outfit.
  
  The graphics amazed all of us, and the game seemed perfect for its genre. The hazy sun of mexico 
 reflecting on it's tall buildings, urban warfare to its maximum.
  
  Now we get to try the sequel of the game, and I must say, it's quite disapointing.
  
  Graphics 
 : The graphics are pretty great. Unfortunatly, they tend to look less better than GRAW1 since the 
 action doesnt take place in Mexico City, but more in rocky areas and such. When you reload a gun, 
 you don't see the clip going in and out, wich is very dumb.
  
  Gameplay : The cover system is okay, but not as good as in Gears. After GRAW1, I hoped they would 
 revamp it a little, to make it feel less clunky. Sometimes Mitchell will get off the wall, or simply 
 won't get into cover. The game is pretty basic, its an arcade shooter at its best. There is still 
 no feel on any on the weapons you're using, wich makes them all the same in a way.
  
  Sound : Pretty good, but the voice acting is bad. Cheesy lines, irritating and annoying US general 
 yelling and barfing on the radio gets old pretty fast.
  
  Value : The game's campaing isn't as fun as in GRAW1, the mission are quite uninspired, and the 
 game can be completed within 4 or 5 hours. The online might be interesting for tactical shooting 
 players, but otherwise it's unatractive due to its lack of innovation in gameplay.
  
  Tilt : I loved GRAW1, but I think Ubi proves once more that they cannot do any sequels worth of 
 its name. They produced too many Splinter Cells, only 2 of them were good. PoP 2 and 3 weren't 
 that good, and Far Cry's are getting dumber and dumber. This one is no exeption.
  
  On a final word, I wish they didn't rush the game's developpement, it seems like a half baked product, 
 and more like an expansion pack than a full game. There is no interesting gameplay features offered, 
 and the game is way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I'm so sorry.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  My old review sits below as a tombstone to my idiocy.
  
  The DLC of recent weeks has elevatedd 
 this game to a true classic. Is there anything this game DOESN't have!?!
  
  I've ammended my score now.
  
  I repent. Forgive me GRAW!
  
  OLDREVIEW:
  
  There seems 
 to be a growing forgiveness amongst gamers for pretty games. The original GRAW was a pretty clunky 
 and average shooter that only really shone due to no real competition on the field, but since then 
 the goalposts have been moved greatly. The Wii and PS3 have shown their lacklustre opening hands 
 but the 360 has come along leaps and bounds, both in terms of gameplay, graphics, sonics and most 
 importantly creativity.
  And thats where this game falls flat on its face. Its pretty, it makes big noises, it distracts 
 you by making it seem that you are in control of others. But it doesn't take much to realise how 
 linear and devoid of crativity it is. Its dull. Dulldulldull.
  Online it improves hugley , particularly in co-op, but if you own a smattering of the best the 
 360 has to offer you will soon realise the vacuity of it all.
  The only reason to buy it is if your mates are blindly forking out 40 for the latest and supposedly 
 greatest (well, most hyped) and you know they'll be online with it everynight.... otherwise, there 
 are WAY better options out there.
  Such a shame, the Ghost Recon series used to be a bastion of tactical shooters. Now its another 
 big, loud arcade game lost in a sea of averageness. Don't let UBI get away with laziness like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  It wouldnt have taken a rocket scientist or a forum guru to figure out that this game was going 
 to receive a fair amount of attention upon it release, in fact it seemed on the day of its release 
 about 70% of my friends list seemed to be playing it all night long. GRAW 2 is a solid game and 
 a complete joy to play through for anyone thats into their shooters, but it has to be said there 
 is nothing innovative or ground-breaking here that really sets itself apart from other good games 
 from the Tom Clancy franchise such as Las Vegas. The controls are for the most part pretty smooth 
 but the cover system can sometimes feel a little bit awkward or clumsy, especially when compared 
 to the smooth and reliable cover system of Rainbow 6 Las Vegas. For me the real strength of GRAW2 
 lies within its level design and the intense and memorable skirmishes littered thought-out the 
 campaign mode. I havent had much time to explore the multiplayer content but from what Ive seen 
 so far it seems decent enough, I played some of the co-op missions with a friend and discovered 
 it lacked the cover system, I actually found this quite annoying as it does make the game noticeably 
 harder and I cant see any need for this to be missing other than plain laziness. When all is said 
 and done GRAW 2 is a very enjoyable experience and well worth a look for anyone that feels at home 
 with a SCAR-H assault rifle in their grubby mitts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game from the start. The get go if you will. The graphics are just absolutely amazing (especially 
 on a 720p HDTV) . It's not the fact that you get to kill Mexicans on this game that I like it, it's 
 so much more that you can do to the Mexicans. Call in airstrikes, move teammates into better positions, 
 control tanks and helicopters. You will love this game. Well, you should if you liked the original, 
 are a fan of Rainbow Six or the like and Splinter Cell. Tom Clancy certainly has outdone himself. 
 The only thing that isn't really good about this game is MP. Granted they have improved on that 
 alot but you still can't take cover on walls in MP. Only other thing about MP is the shadows. Everything 
 else is fine. Now, to AI. Most of the AI in this game is pure next (current) -gen. However, if you 
 team is being flanked, they won't move away. Enemy AI is fairly good. They will take cover if being 
 shot at, take advantages of high ground and work together. Not much more I can say about this, 
 it's alot of fun and you will surely enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billydakid2k3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  since Socom CA... and this game blows Socom outa the water. First of all my biggest prob with GRAW 
 1 was the fact you couldnt jump, and when GRAW 2 came out, i was mad because you still could not 
 jump... but i talked to alota people in the army, and they told me that with all that gear you carry 
 you really cant jump. Now with that said... the online multiplayer for this game is the best ive 
 seen in any game of its nature. the offline could have been longer, but the Visuals are the best 
 i have ever seen in any game on the 360, IMO, GeoW visuals are amazing but i love my shooters to 
 be as real as possible. GRAW 2 is simply amazing, a must buy for all Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Notnick_jr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Overall, not a bad game. Ubi has inproved on almost everything. Almost. Game play is defentally 
 the down slauter of the game. IT S VERY SHORT!!!!! If you are looking for a 10+ hour game, this 
 one is not the one for you (I would say Rainbow Six Vegas) Graphics, they have been upgraded... 
 Is it just me or does the capitan look not as good as GRAW 1? Ah well, although in my book he does 
 look a little worse, the surroundings are amazing!!! Everything looks very real!!! Oh, and the 
 explosions are AMAZING!!!!!! Is it just me or does the driver of the Hum V ,when you are in the 
 passenger seat, look like a manakin... Sound, it sounds just like GRAW, which is great but... Value, 
 Multi player is awsome!!!!! And finally Tilt, it has upgraded greatly! The Crosscom when you can 
 see what your guys are see is AMAZING!!!!!! Like everyone is saying, it is just a upgrade, and 
 it is. I wouldn't say it is 1.5, I would say it is about 1.3 Ubisoft needs to spend just a little 
 more time on 3 or they might start loosing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steesprinter
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Campaign: Personally, i love the campaign the most. The graphics, the sound effects, and the gameplay 
 is where the game truely shines. Machine guns never sounded better. But the on thing that makes 
 me crazy is that the campaign is too short! I was expecting a nice, long, extensive single player 
 like GRAW 1, but noooo, it happens that the campaign in Graw 2 is only 3 acts long, which isnt 
 even close to being as long as GRAW 1.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is quite enjoyable. There are so many more weapons added to GRAW 2 
 than there were in the first game and maps never looked better with realistic lighter and spectacular 
 graphics. The explosions also got improved, with actual flame in them. Not like GRAW 1 multiplayer, 
 when there's only a puff of smoke after tossing a frag, or launching a rocket. The multiplayer 
 campaign is also very interesting, allowing you to continue on your gaming after beating the singe 
 player missions. Overall, the multiplayer is nicely polished with new customizations for your face, 
 such as a balaclava- to a full-face gas mask. There are also facial customizations that you can 
 UNLOCK too!
  
  All in all, the game is absolutley brilliant and, by far, outgoes its predacessors.
  
  Final 
 rating: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phenix_down
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  When first hearing this game was less than a month away, I was skeptical of Ubisoft might be taking 
 one of their prized series and turning it into a cash cow. Arriving almost a year to the date after 
 GRAW 1, it seemed to me that they would not be able to push out the same quality game in that time 
 as the first. I willingly downloaded the single player demo to realize title was a very polished 
 and satisfying playing experience. the cover system, visuals, and enemy AI all received a much 
 apprecieated face lift to further tweak the game (as well as some other tweaks that only further 
 enhance the gameplay) . I was impressed of the turnout of the final package as soon as I fired up 
 the first level of the single-player game. the dust effects, and new lighting system were a nice 
 touch and adds depth and a sense of passing time to the game. The gameplay, though an improvement 
 over GRAW 1, didn't bring anything new to the table and instead involved the same thing as the 
 first game, fire large machine gun out of helicopter, solo missions, and tactical missions with 
 lots of squads to control . I would have liked to see some new gameplay modes such as maybe controlling 
 a tank among others. So if your not already tired of this genre you'll enjoy this game, it plays 
 it safe when it comes to the gameplay. Also the single player mode is over quite fast, totaling 
 for me just over 8 hours. The online play makes up for this with the Co-op story, and very customizable 
 team and solo matches, just wish you wouldn' t have to stare at the some peoples' GammerTags while 
 waiting for the match to end (And the multiplayer visuals are enhanced as well) . It's Story doesn't 
 loose out on it's scale as a massive tale, large environments and detailed settings keep up with 
 the quality that we all expect from the Ghost Recon series, the presentation is top notch. Overall 
 if your looking for the complete package as to what to expect out of your 360, look no where else 
 (except maybe Gears of War =) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyjrad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  GRAW was the best game yet to come out on the X360, before Gears of War came out. Now with more 
 improvements, more equipment, more elements, and more tactical destruction, GRAW 2 is the best 
 thing to come out to start off a new year. The campaign takes you through Mexican cities, like 
 Juarez, to the US border itself, trying to bring down the rebellion uprising. If GRAW 2 was a TV 
 show, it would be called 72 instead of 24.
  
  Gameplay: Intense shooting with more strategic tactics to use, GRAW 2 combines these elements into 
 a fantastic shooter. The only regret is that the single-player action won't last very long. The 
 multiplayer, however, makes up for that.
  
  Graphics: A huge improvement to its precessor. Ubisoft integrates realistic enviroments with wonderful 
 weather effects, massive explosions, and resembling charcter detail.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are top notch, with excellent voice acting and big exploding sounds and great 
 bullet firing sounds.
  
  Value: Just like GRAW itself, this will make anyone play, even five years ago.
  
  Tilt: The 
 only regret that I have is that the single-player campaign is very short in one play-through. The 
 story keeps you guessing what will happen.
  
  GRAW 2 is the game to beat for now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS THE PERFECT MILITARY SHOOTER
  
  This game is a huge leap in next gen. This game is not as greaet as Gears of War, but it's really, 
 really close since GRAW influenced alot to Gears. GRAW 2 is primarly just like the first Ghost 
 Recon Advanced WArfighter, but has many upgrades such as the Cross Com 2.0, a larger variety of 
 weapons, more objects and people to control, better A. I. of course, and alot of other things. The 
 main change I liked the most was the Multiplayer. The multiplayer in the first GRAW wasnt that 
 bad.... or good. It got really old once you defeated the game. In GRAW 2, (opinion) if you defeat 
 the game, it never gets old! (I beat it) The multiplayer has great maps and is really, really, 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excalceo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I followed this game since i first heard news about it (I'd say about three months ago) and I was 
 skeptical at first. I've played the first GRAW and loved every minute of it, and I followed the 
 Ghost Recon series since its humble beginnings. This one was amazing, best so far in my opinion. 
 The visuals seemed to be considerably turned up a few notches, whether it was the lighting, upgraded 
 textures, or the first time you laid eyes upon the Juarez horizon while sitting in the Blackhawk. 
 Not to mention one seemingly unimportant factor... explosions. I could feel every explosion and 
 the sight was no less disappointing either, no longer would one see a fireball pass through a solid 
 cave wall, that fireball will travel out either entrance of said cave. Everything seemed as nice 
 and polished as the first game should've been.
  
  I found myself many the time throwing my controller in a fit of rage when my squadmates ran out 
 in front of mine or the enemy's line of fire, and I'm happy to say GRAW 2 fixed that. Your squadmates 
 not only seem smarter this time around, but really... pretty damn competent. When presented with 
 a bad line of sight, one or two of them would move to a better position. When targets are spotted, 
 they not only report how many but exactly where they were. Needless to say, my controller will 
 suffer less this time around.
  
  As good as the single player was , the multiplayer was so much more sweet. With 18 maps plus one 
 exclusive map, a retooled respawn system, the incorporation of clans, and the ability to revive 
 fallen teammates one of the best online experiences on the 360 just got better. Every map was different 
 and innovative (besides Nowhere and Rocky Cove, which were practically remakes of last year) , and 
 the new shiny lighting looked just as good in multiplayer as it did in singleplayer. My only complaints 
 about the game's great online mode was that the clan interface still seems to have some problems 
 and I wish there was away to break off from reviving a teammate if it seemed like both of your 
 lives were in danger, many the time I was being a good Samaritan when an opposing member came right 
 in front of us and took us both out. But with those being my only complaints, I am very pleased 
 with Ubisoft's new showing on Xbox Live.
  
  As much as i love this game, it does not come with out some fault. With things like a few random 
 freezes, bugs, and glitches it can distract from the experience, not to mention it feels like a 
 glorified expansion at times, and the dialogue was uninspiringly bad (i. e. I have no name... I'm 
 a Ghost ) . The story is pretty straight-forward and and kind of short too.
  
  Overall this is a great improvement over last year's showing with a few minor setbacks I'd sy any 
 Ghost Recon fan should own this. And for those who are new to Ghost Recon... I'd say you can go 
 ahead and skip the first GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlacKJaCK2290
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Even though the general feel of this game is more like an expansion to the first game its still 
 a excellent experience. It takes what GRAW1 was, a fantastic game and improves on it in almost 
 every way. The Graphics are more polished this time around as is the general production of the 
 game. However Ubisoft did skimp on a few things, mostly the menu setup is identical to the previous 
 game. A minor problem but still a showing of slacking off. There isn't really much to say about 
 the game, if you liked the first on you will love this one. However don't go in expecting a full 
 2.0 version of GRAW because its not here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejok3r
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign... much to say about that. Haven't bothered to play it, but I do hear 
 it is quite short, yet sweet. I will get around to play it sometime in the future. I am quite absorbed 
 by the online multiplayer. The maps are beautiful, and there is a vast array of game types available. 
 There is strategy both in the tactical and strategic sense. You have to think, communicate, and 
 be aware of your status. You can't just run around like in Gears of War or halo. This game is for 
 the patient, and intelligent. It is the most realistic combat game available at this time. The 
 graphics are beautiful. The gameplay is the only thing that I have a bit of disappointment with. 
 It is more realistic than the previous GRAW. When running, and hitting the crouch button, you slide. 
 It is difficult to maneuver. You have to be fully aware of your character's speed and reaction 
 time. Once again, it is more realistic, which is good, but it presents problems. The only other 
 problem presented with GRAW 2 is lagging. It doesn't lag as bad as the first GRAW, but lagging 
 presents itself about 25% of the time when playing online. Sometimes you will drop, sometimes you 
 will shoot at a person lagging, and they won't die when they should. They then shoot you once, 
 and you're dead. You get whipped for no reason. It sucks when it happens. It is a problem, but 
 it isn't significant enough or frequent enough for me to not play. This is a great game. I advise 
 anyone on a playstation 3 (whenever it comes out) to get it, and anyone with a 360 must get it 
 as well, if they desire a game with incredible depth to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana918
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing GRAW2 for a couple hours i can saftey say that this is the best GRAW yet. Yea it 
 may be similar to the last but the step up in graphics are stunning, especially the attention to 
 detail. When i first started play there was a point in the game where i was behind a wall and thought 
 i was getting shot at by 2 different enemies, but to my surprise it was the same bullet ricoching 
 off a wall. It's this kind of attention to detail that really caught my eye. It's the little things 
 like that and the shading of the sun hitting the enviornemnt that really make this game great, 
 along with, of course, the new addtions such as the Mule, AirStrikes and the redone Cross-Com system. 
 It's the same great gameplay that i expected only a little better, and the revamped multiplayer 
 is fantastic. No more spawn killing makes it a truely all-around great game. If u liked GRAW then 
 u will definitly love GRAW2. GO BUY THIS GAME NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I love to play the Splinter Cell games (played all) and I still believe Gears of War will remain 
 for quite a while the benchmark for the Xbox 360. But since I got GRAW 2 I just can't stop playing 
 it. Why? For me it's the first GRAW game (I didn't played the first one) , so I'm not looking at 
 it as a extension pack . The sound just supports great the intense action in the story mode and 
 to control your fellow ghost's, tanks, jets and helicopter is awesome. For me this game is worth 
 every penny. The multi player mode is huge, intense, but the creme de la creme is the co-op missions. 
 You will love them. See you on-line! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preswicken
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  indeed cool... except the fact that i went and got all used to the rainbow six: vegas controls... 
 took me about an hour to get totally used to the graw 2 controls. i would recommend this game to 
 mexicants .. lol.. jk. check this one out y-all. and i love the tracers following the flying bullets.. 
 the realism and A. I is awsome as well. i enjoyed the parts where we needed to look through our 
 team mates cams... to defeat the enemies. even the drones have improved where as we can use those 
 cams to scan the grounds better. oh and the online play is superior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was a great game when it launched last year. It had good graphics 
 and revolutionary gameplay. So how do you add to an already good game? The answer is to give it 
 a new graphical touch and a few tweaks to the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: fans of the original GRAW will get a sense of deja vu with the control scheme. In other 
 words, its great! If you're not familiar to the original, you will have a major learning curve 
 to overcome. Every button the controller is used to its full effect throughout the whole game. 
 The only new additions that are brought in is a full screen CrossCom camera, done by pressing RB, 
 a roll you can do while strafing, and using an Apache helicopter and fighter jets to call in airstrikes. 
 The main thing that differentiates GWAW 2 from GRAW is that the sequel gives you more chances to 
 use airstrikes and using the chain gun on the side of the Blackhawk. Ubisoft even revamped your 
 squad's A. I. to where they are actually smart. In a big firefight and need a rebel's position, 
 your teammates will say something to the effect of, Hostel behind fountain or I count two by the 
 brown car. It actually works well, and your team is always using descriptive phrases. You even 
 have over 30 guns to use in the campaign. Overall, the gameplay feels tighter and more responsive
 
  
  Graphics: updated, thats the only word you can use. The original set the bar for graphics last 
 year, and this one only updated them to look sharper. You have improved lighting, sharper character 
 models, and now, better smoke and fire effects. I can't begin to count how many times my jaws dropped 
 after blowing up an enemy tank! Besides these, not much has changed. Sound: great! Every gun, yell, 
 and explosion has a loud boom to it. I have never before heard better sound mixing in a game. The 
 original GRAW had problems with sounds fading when new sounds came in. This one has everything 
 going on at one time, making this my favorite sounding game yet. If you want the full effect, hook 
 up some surround sound speakers and a sub woofer and you will feel like you are actually on a battlefield. 
 Value: depends on if you like the single player campaign, or if you play the game online. My friends 
 say the online is great, so I assume its good. The only gripe I have is that the single player 
 campaign is short, around eight hours, and that is has a rather disappointing ending. All I'm going 
 to say is that a plot for GRAW 3 is probably in the works because of the cliffhanger ending. In 
 my opinion, GRAW 2 is better package than GRAW because of the updates, but you will have to try 
 it out and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3Beast
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Graw 2 is really good in graphics and single player, but it lacks where it is most important, the 
 MULTIPLAYER. The multplayer is still the same as the first one it still has that retarded view 
 of the crosshair, its so stupid. yeah the graphics are still good but just that just made me rate 
 it like a 7.5-8 from a 9.5-10. the storyline is great. but the multiplayer is just where it hurts.
 
  
  this thing has to be atleast 100 words long so i'll keep talking on..... well at least you can play 
 this game until shadowrun or unreal tournament three... it just a time consumer for the games to 
 come. but this not one of my games on the top of the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yugor1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Well, its' now time for GRAW2. And lets just 
  
  Ubisoft has another great game under its belt, and one that will be played for a long, long time. 
 (Or at least until the next Ghost Recon)
  
  To start out with, the sound fits perfectly. Every gun, explosion, battle chatter, motion and background 
 music is the abosulte pinnacle of sound in a game. You'll think you're actually there half the 
 time.
  
  The graphics are supremely awesome, and even better than those of the first game. The onylt hings 
 you'll ever notice is the odd huh?' when something doesn't look right, but then you'll be made 
 to forget it by an explosion of some kind.
  
  The gameplay is much improved from the first, must noticably so in the single player, where it 
 feels like the tactical shooter it is. The story, while it has been done before, allows for the 
 perfect setting for your Ghost skills, and the application of said skills.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer is the one place whre the gameplay incurs a hit. After playing the singleplayer 
 campagin, you'll go to the multiplayer section and you may think you've put in Ghost Recon: The 
 Halo Years. The multiplayer feels like an odd combination of Ghost Recon, RS: Vegas and Halo (the 
 orginal) . It so very different from the single player that it takes awhile getting used to, but 
 it is fun once you adjust to it.
  
  Bottom Line: BUY. THIS. GAME. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The XBOX 360 continues to pump out some of the most amazing games. I'm so glad to be a gamer in 
 this day and time. G. R. A. W. 2 is a monumental achievement in my opinion. At one point in the multiplayer 
 game I was playing today, I just had to stop and admire the beauty of the oceanside. Over my microphone 
 on my headset I was saying, oh my god this is amazing. I've heard the single player is short but 
 I'm having a freaking ball. I seriously was starting to feel like I was in a real battle. Hands-down, 
 no comparison, this is THE ABSOLUTE MOST REALISTIC MILITARY SHOOTER EVER MADE. I can honestly say 
 that. You can smell the gunsmoke. Even the music is perfect. Everything just seems perfect in this 
 game. It's been so long since I've played the first one I can't even remember if it was this good. 
 However, I do have a Hi-Def TV nowadays and it makes all the difference too. The controls are pretty 
 easy to figure out. There's alot of options at your command. At times you have teammates in single-player..... these 
 are members of the Ghost Team. But sometimes you'll be going solo. You have a little flying saucer 
 that can fly over enemy territory and you can see from it's point of view. I just remembered also 
 (and I've been forgetting to use it) but you can switch to your teammates point of view as you're 
 telling them where to go then instantly switch back to yourself by releasing right bumper. I can't 
 say enough about this game. I wish I had the words to describe this thing. It really blows my mind. 
 Anyone that has an XBOX 360 owes it to themselves to play this. Trust me, you don't want to miss 
 this one. Oh by the way, play it on the hardest difficulty in single player. It's not that hard 
 and you get ALL the achievements for the rookie and medium difficulties as well when you get an 
 achievement for a level. Game on, gamers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunaJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  First i would like to say that i really love this game. I think that the graw franchise is one 
 of the best there is is. I will also state that this game did not even come out an entire year 
 later. This makes it mostly the same, because of the lack of developement time. The new cross-com 
 features are all fun and usefull, now if you hold down the right bumper the cross-com takes up 
 the whole screen. You can also directly control the mule and drone this way. The enemies are much 
 smarter now. I did not see them desperate for cover in the last game. In this one thety will sprint 
 twards it. They will also flank you. You squad, at leat takes cover now. I will say that the graphics 
 have improved a little. This review is only on the single player. The multi player may balance 
 it out but it is still a great game, I only wish that the price were lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarGameJunkie
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a good, but not great game. The plot is extremely satisfying and a welcome finish to 
 Mexican civil war that began in the first game. You're sent in (again) as CAPT Scott Mitchell, 
 head of the Ghosts, to accomplish a variety of missions and help Mexican loyalists put down the 
 rebellion and keep the rebels from unleashing a nuke on the U. S. The visuals in the single player 
 campaign are outstanding. The addition of dynamic lighting affects really adds to the realism. 
 During missions you'll go from night to early morning as the action progresses, just like in real 
 combat. The enemy and friendly AI is also improved this game. Your enemies will team up to attack 
 you and use cover very well. This is also a welcome addition to the game, as the enemy AI in GRAW 
 wasn't always all that impressive. I also did not experience teammates that got in the way of my 
 firing positions as in GRAW and in the demo for this game. In only one place did I see a glitch 
 where one of my teammates rifle pointed through a wall. The major complaint I have with this game 
 is that it's just too short. Before I knew it, the game was over. The plot could have been padded 
 just a bit more in order to add an hour or two of gameplay I think. Also, the achievements are 
 incredibly heavily weighted to the online aspect of the game, which is unfair to gamers who do 
 not have access to online play or do not like to play online. I hope the developers of GRAW don't 
 forget about the single player aspect of their game in future versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  but there is one bad thing about the multiplayer. if the match get full of players or the player 
 limit goes above 10, every one in the match gets kicked out automatically. so you need to fix that 
 glitch on the next patch. because its kind of hard to play the multiplayer when everyone gets kicked 
 automatically as soon as the match starts. FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX 
 THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! 
 FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! FIX THIS GLITCH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  i wont say too much of what other have said already but if you really REALLY loved playing GRAW1... 
 you wont BUY GRAW2... maybe just rent it i am a singleplayer freak more then MP and it was really 
 really short... the first one took me about... 15-20 hours and this one took me 5-10 like wow.... 
 only thing good about it is what most have said... explosions graphics (ingame) as for voice acting 
 cutscenes they arent that good like the first i think they should have put more time into this 
 one then just pulling off an EA BATTLEFIELD make a game and straight away create a new one thats 
 even better... if they EVER make a number 3? id say work on it and focus alot more on it then the 
 2nd
  
  ( (not a terrible game but not worth the money its worth a 5 day rent for 3 bucks... atleast where 
 i go and get games) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 offers action packed moments, and fun exciting gameplay. When 
 I first started playing the first level, I was actually doubting this game. But as soon as I played 
 the next few levels, I was immediately hooked on this game. The graphics of Ciudad De Juarez, and 
 it's huge wide open view, with the cinematic, climatic music in the background, while in a helo, 
 made me feel as if I were in that same Helo with Captain Mitchell. (And I do not even have hd tv!!) 
 The game is everything I heard about from the diaries, to the good ol' friends on xbox live, and 
 much, much more. The leaves of a plant, shine when in the sun, and become very opaque. The light 
 changes, sunrise to day, to sunset to night and all over again. The self creating shadows, the 
 shadows cast by certain objects and how some are stronger or lighter than others depending on the 
 elevation, and the distance. The gameplay, the new Achievement Statistic menu, the smoothness of 
 the game, all make this a fun, action packed game for all gamers. Whether you are a hardcore fan 
 of the series, a first timer, or even a recreational gamer, you will love this game. I feel there 
 is absolutely no need to rent this to try it out. Buy IT! ESPECIALLY IF YOU HAVE XBOX LIVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a great game, let's get this straight. It kept the same formula of intense game play 
 with challenging tactical decision makings, ontop of excellent presentation, both graphically and 
 sound, GRAWS continues the draw-cards of GRAW. However, it is just way too short. To spend AUD 
 $115 dollars on a game that only offers you 8+ hrs of gameplay is simply not worth it. Other's 
 argue that it's the multi-player gaming that makes it a good game, that imply that everyone owns 
 Xbox360 has live subscription. For those who has Live, it makes a excellent gaming experience. 
 Furthermore, the new cross-com2 and other gadgets are welcome, but does not neccessarily make the 
 game better. GRAW2 stay true of the phase if it aint broke, dont fix it . Nothing new here people, 
 unless you like GRAW, just move along. Go pick-up GOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Campaign
  
  When I started playing the GRAW 2 , the only thing that bugged me was the lip-syncing, and it took 
 me awhile to notce that everyhing else in the game was absolutely perfect, the graphics are better, 
 the cover system works better, and the AI is smarter
  
  Campaign Upsides: Fun, Great graphics, cool weapons, and the updated AI, no bugs or glitches
 
  Campaign Let downs: Short Campaign and bad Lip-syncing
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the GRAW games has always lacked the Graphics and gameplay that it's 
 singleplayer gameplay has, but with the release of GRAW 2 the graphics have come up to par with 
 the singleplayer. Another cool thing is the ability to customize your character, you can make them 
 male or female, with so many different head gear options, and the ability to pick the default weapon 
 for each class. Another upgraded feature is the coop campaign which is now longer, and much more 
 intense. Some issues I noticed were the First-person view that comes with splitscreen mode, and 
 the lack of a cover system online, which many people would like to see fixed.
  
  Multiplayer Upsides: Graphics are up to par, more fun, new weapons
  Let Downs: Cover system (or 
 lack thereof) , first person view in splitscreen, helicopters (not really a problem, but they are 
 nearly impossible to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Bagala
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game is such an improvement from the original GRAW. It feels like i am actually there or in 
 a movie theater. It has an excellent presentation and vastley improved graphics. The singleplayer 
 is so tense and i feel like i am actually in the battle fighting to survive. The AI have been bump 
 ump a bit and they havent run out in the open and gotten shot yet. The sound quality is excellent 
 and the music is twice as good as the first game. On the multiplayer side things are going great. 
 Alot of improvements and many more wepons. Also there are alot of bonus content and unlockables 
 in the game and there is also a way to check your stats for singleplayer and multiplayer. Overall, 
 i give this game a 10. This is by far the best game out this year and is a must be, even if you 
 own the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox-360-Gamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  this game takes off with a lot of action throughout the whole game. single player was well made, 
 awesome graphics and gameplay. also its very addictive to play. this game would've gotten a 10 
 if it had a longer campaign. but just like that it was over before you know it. you also get some 
 cool new features, like music videos, attire from vegas and double agent to wear in multi-player. 
 online should definitely make up for its short single player. although it was kinda short, there 
 were 13 levels in all which isn't too bad. so if you were undecided about this game, don't be! 
 I was when I bought it, but all that went away as soon as I started to play the game. So far best 
 360 game I've played, along with Vegas that is right up there as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Having played the demo friday afternoon i dashed to my local store and picked up a copy of this 
 fantastic game.
  
  Im not going to compare this game to GOW but suffice to say i found the single player campaign 
 to be more rewarding and fantastic to look at, alot more so than GOW in my opinion.
  
  The whole single player campaign takes around 5-7 hours to complete which was a little dissapointing 
 as it left me wanting more.
  
  The firefights are intense, the explosions awesome, lots going on and the cover system is great, 
 popping your head up from cover to take a look at the battlefield has never looked so cool. The 
 missions are more fun than the first GRAW and seem to flow a little better.
  
  Team mates seem almost like an afterthought as they hardly progress stat wise throughout the campaign 
 and if they die they are right back with you at the next mission. They also dont have the best 
 aim in the world meaning you end up doing most of the takedown work yourself. The use of vehicles 
 is pretty good giving you support from APC's, M1A1's, Apache's and fighters and they really are 
 quite fun and sometimes become available just when you think your going to be overrun making for 
 some great set pieces.
  
  The graphics are awesome and if your looking for a showboat for your X360 look no further. Nuff 
 said. Sound is awesome and if you have a 5.1 system you will really notice the difference. Just 
 wish i had a HD TV :-)
  
  So, multiplayer..... well im a little dissapointed. The multiplayer experience is quite different 
 from single player. They have changed the physics of the game to make it more arcade style. You 
 no longer move at realistic speeds, instead you zip about the place like youve had too many cans 
 of redbull. You cannot go behind cover. You cannot aim then look down the sight, you have to do 
 it seperately. There are lots of game modes to play in and that adds alot of replayablity to the 
 game. The action is fast paced but i honestly preferred the single player style. The camera does 
 not shake when you run about or take fire like in single player. I guess the developers could not 
 push the machine hard enough to implement it into a 16 player deathmatch but then again they managed 
 it in GOW, although that was only 8 players. The graphics have not been dumbed down for multiplayer 
 so expect the same awesome visuals.
  
  If you dont have Xbox live, rent the game, dont buy it as you will get through the single player 
 before your 2 day rental time runs out.
  
  So in review, great single player experience with awesome sound and graphics, over a little too 
 soon. Multiplayer will suit most gamers and has lots of variety even if they have dumbed it down, 
 which is dissapointing and my only niggle with the game.
  
  The best allround X360 shooter so far? I think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapstickick12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 Review (Xbox 360)
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Last year Ubisoft raised 
 the bar to a new level for shooters with Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) . Ubisoft took the 
 time and made GRAW one of the greatest action games in history. Also, GRAW won numerious of Game 
 of The Year Awards. What made GRAW so different than other action games in 2006? Well the first 
 thing everyone noticed was the graphics. Ubisoft also took the same amount of time and effort that 
 they did on the graphics and made the gameplay nothing short of spectacular. However, for every 
 great game, there must be a better sequel.... Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 (GRAW2) proves 
 that statement.
  
  The very first thing you will notice about GRAW2 is the graphics. If you thought GRAW1's graphics 
 was taking the Xbox 360 to the limit.... You gotta see this. The very first thing I noticed about 
 the largely improved graphics is that you can actually see the stitching in your soldier's camo. 
 That just blew me away. The second thing I noticed is that you can actually see the velcro on his 
 backpack. That is what I call mind blowing for a video game. The face animations to not only your 
 soldier, but also to your teammates and the enemies are absolutley lifelike. The guns look very 
 real and the vehicles are vey detailed. The explosions to the game is deffidently worth saying 
 something about. As a Game Programmer, I have no idea how Ubisoft made the explosions so real. 
 For one of the earlier missions in the game (and one of the most memorable also) , you and your 
 team are running across this construction site while there is mortor fire at your location. I was 
 running near a cement truck and then..... BOOM! Litterally the truck turned into debris and it 
 went up in flames. I almost sh*t myself. Then I noticed pieces of the truck was everywhere in the 
 construction site.
  
  If you played the first GRAW you would notice the the Single Player and the Multiplayer graphics 
 were completley different. In GRAW2 that still is the case. The multiplayer graphics deffidently 
 got a HUGE overhaul from last years game though which is very nice. The textures are much smoother 
 and the scenary is very pretty. A few graphical blemishes are noticable on the clothing however.
 
  
  In GRAW2's campaign, the US and Mexico is in big war. The Mexican government is trying to make 
 nuclear weapons and guess what..... The ghosts are called into action. GRAW2 is relitevly a short 
 game. Clocking in under six hours on the default difficulty setting. A longer single player would 
 of been better but oh well. The character that you play is named Captain Scott Mitchel. Mitchel 
 is a guy that doesnt ask questions and uses his gun as all the answers.
  
  GRAW2's Single Player gameplay is the best ever in any type of shooter. The covering system is 
 back from last year but it is mildly improved. Mitchel goes up to cover much faster this time around. 
 There are TONS of memorable moments in the game. From being stripped down to almost nothing to 
 getting all the firepower in the world. Your teammates AI is greatly improved also. For the most 
 part they know what to do but occasionally you will see them get in the line of fire and not use 
 cover. But Ubisoft did improve them alot from last years game. For example in GRAW2, I was slowly 
 walking down a very quiet street and then I hear one of my teammates say AMBUSH! my whole team 
 dropped what they were doing and ran to the nearest cover and started to lay down covering fire 
 while I got settled in.
  
  The Cross-Com got a big improvement in GRAW2. In the Single Player, you can hold the Right Bumper 
 at any given time and you can see what your teammates are doing. You can also give commands in 
 the Cross-Com camera also. This feature also effects the drone and any type of support you have. 
 If you select the drone and hold the Right Bumper you can control where your drone can go. Its 
 an easier way for a tactical standpoint thats why Ubisoft put it in this year.
  
  Also, Ubisoft improved the Cross-Com in the multiplayer. Once your in a game, hold the Right Bumper 
 and it will go into a first person perspective for the player that you are on. You can scroll through 
 the living players with the left and right directional buttons. The improved Cross-Com for the 
 multiplayer was deffidently needed.
  
  The sound to this game is remarkable. Tons of chit-chat on the radio from command and your teammates. 
 If you have your teammates at hold fire, you hear them whispering while at fire at will, you hear 
 them shouting. General Keating is still a d*ckhead. haha. The music to the game is really spot 
 on. The GRAW2 music is slightly different than last years. This time around it has a mexican twist 
 to it which sounds really cool. The gun sounds and explosions are spot and. The voice acting for 
 everyone is awesome.
  
  The multiplayer in GRAW1 was absolutely amazing and in GRAW2 it exceeds that. In GRAW2, you have 
 much more outfits to customize your guy and theres a lot of new features. The biggest change which 
 the fans asked for is clan support. Yes there is clan support in GRAW2. To be honest, GRAW2 has 
 one of the best clan features that I have seen in any type of online game. You have the basic leader 
 and then the leader can assign roles for the clan members. The higher rankings in the clan is allowed 
 to search for clan matches and invite people in the clan. Did you just say clan matches? Yes I 
 did. GRAW2 has a clan match options right in the game so you dont need to go to any third party 
 site or anything like that.
  
  The multiplayer in GRAW2 goes up to 16 players either on Xbox Live or System Link and up to 4 players 
 splitscreen. Now the 16 player matches is where the game hurts. In the 16 player matches, there 
 is alot of framerate problems, lag issues, and being booted. The framerate to the 16 player matches 
 drops almost to nothing at times. Especially if players are using grenade launchers and rocket 
 launchers. The lag is horendus and being booted is a must. At least 2 players get booted almost 
 every game. You can prevent these issues if the host makes the game for under 16 players. 14 players 
 still has these same issues but its less frequent. 12 players and under is the way to go. I havent 
 seen any type of slowdown or lag or anything for that matter with 12 player rooms.
  
  Now the multiplayer options havent really changed much. You still have 20+ game modes to choose 
 from. Here is the more popular gametypes: Team Sharpshooter, Takedown, Siege, Team Territory, and 
 Last Man Standing. GRAW2 does have a Co Op campagin which is completely different from the Single 
 Player.
  
  So does GRAW2 live up to the hype? Yes it deffidently does. If you are still skeptical about buying 
 GRAW2, at least go on the Xbox Live Marketplace and download the Single Player and the Multiplayer 
 demos to check them out for yourself.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay- 9.5.... Calling the 
 gameplay astonishing is a HUGE understatement.
  
  Sound- 9.5.... Absoluetley amazing. The chit-chat from your teammates feels like you are really 
 in the war.
  
  Graphics- 9.... The Single Player graphics are unbelievable. The Multiplayer still needs a little 
 work but its still very nice.
  
  Replay- 9.... The amazing multiplayer is back in GRAW2 with some new tweaks. Single Player is very 
 short which hurts.
  
  Overall (Not Average) - 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game takes GRAW and filters out the best stuff while adding needed, and smart, little tid 
 bits. GRAW 2 is a step above GRAW and is just a stellar game!
  
  Gameplay: Same as GRAW but as they say, if it ain't broke, don't fix it! There are a few minor 
 tweaks here and there that make the game even more smooth and enjoyable so that's a huge plus.
 
  
  Graphics: Multiplayer looks AWESOME!!! That is the first thing I did when I got the game and I 
 was just sucked in to how nice the levels looked and the detail is just sick! Single player has 
 great graphics like it did before so nothing bad there.
  
  Audio: Spot on like all Ubisoft shooters are. I love the way the guns sound and hearing the chatter 
 of the enemy is great.
  
  Overall this is a very solid step forward for the Ghost Recon franchise and it takes all the good 
 from GRAW and then cranks it up a notch. If GRAW goes up to 10, GRAW 2 definetly goes up to 11 
 (Spinal Tap reference) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skippington
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  You'd be crazy to argue with the graphics and sound in this game. If you play it on the system 
 it was designed for, its absolutely breathtaking. I've never seen anything quite like it. The AI 
 is relatively good in the single player campaign and the story line works. (Why Mexico? Is everybody 
 afriad to take on our real enemy? Enough beating up on Mexicans all ready)
  
  When the glamour of the graphics and sound wear off you are left simply playing a so so game. Moving 
 around in the world often feels clunky and GRAW 2's cover system is a joke. Moving into and out 
 of cover is very notchy and often frustrating when the computer decides you want cover when you 
 don't or you get stuck in cover. While the weapons are great, they are slow to aim and the reloading 
 visuals seem to be an afterthought. Oh yea, and Mitchell throws grenades like a girl. Ubi soft 
 did a great job almost making this the best game ever. Had Rainbow Six Vegas's gameplay and cover 
 system not changed everything, this would be a 10 all around. Maybe the designers should play a 
 little R6 before making GRAW 3. Seems they forgot that you actually have to move the thumbsticks 
 around once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is my Favorite game over all. I played the first till it wouldnt load anymore that 
 was like 3 weeks b4 this one came out. 
  
  The Good
  
  Graphics: 10 best i've seen far as realism. people would say no! Gears Of War is ( I love gears) 
 but no not as realism they look big bulky clay things with tons of Detail. Which is cool but not 
 super real.
  But What has the most Amazing look and sound is the EXPLOSIONS they look great.
  
  Gameplay: 
 The gamplay is amazing single player and Multiplayer. The game has really been upgraded on the 
 Online side, you can heal your teammates if they are down. More gamemodes and Co-Op missions, more 
 customization in the multiplay as well.
  
  Sound: All the guns have a difrent sound they sound like the real guns and they're very well done.
 
  
  Ok Now For The BAD
  
  You can't get against the wall in multiplayer. Thats it, but you can lean around the corner. 
 
  
  
  I recomend this game to all Military Gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prioritymail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When I saw how fast Ubisoft churnned out this title, I was skeptical. I am a fan of the Ghost Recon 
 series and own GRAW 1, so I just had to get this one too.
  I was expecting to be underwhelmed because of the closeness of the releases of both GRAWs and it 
 got me thinking of Call of Duty 3 all over again.
  I first went online and beat all of the online campaign with others and I couldnt have been happier 
 with the greater challenge it gave me over the co-op campaign from GRAW 1 and I was happy with 
 the new weapons. (Rx4 Storm all the way)
  
  Then; I started the single player.
  OMG. This is where you do a double-take, the graphics are so life-like that I was sweating from 
 the Mexican heat. At the end of the first Act, at the part where I got to call a jet to air strike 
 on a tank that was 100 ft in front of me I just fell in love. The explosion effects where of the 
 big-budget-hollywood kind. It was so nice that I just turned off my 360 right afterward so I could 
 do it again.
  
  Among the other improvements that I found nice are the:
  -clan support (ala halo2)
  -full screen cross-com (single and multiplayer)
  -fun achievements
 
  -good combination of small and large multiplayer maps (all in lush detail) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomNemesis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  GRAW was one of the best games of 2006, and the 360 version was by far one of the games you would 
 want to buy first when getting a 360. Now, GRAW 2 has been released just a year after the original, 
 and luckily, the good just got better for the series.
  
  First of all, the Single-Player Campaign, though shorter, does feel a lot more fun and better to 
 play. With desperate hold-out situations, addictive helicopter firefights and the sheer fun of 
 ordering your support around, you'll feel straight in the middle of a battlefield. The Crosscom 
 now also gives you the chance to see the battle through the eyes of your support, fomr soldiers, 
 drones to tanks and choppers, you can see what they're doing and give orders through this view. 
 This really gives you the edge of an effective firefight without having to really stick your head 
 out and risk being shot.
  
  A new array of weapons gives a lot more interest in the replayability of the game, including new 
 sub-machine guns as side arms (only deatured in the GRAW 1 PC Version) and new weapons such as 
 an automatic Grenade Launcher, you'll find it a lot of fun to replay levels thinking 'What if I 
 used this weapon here?'. All in all the Single Player part of GRAW 2 pumps some adrenaline into 
 you for sure, but it is still quite short in length, thus the Achievements are more multiplayer 
 focused.
  
  As for multiplayer, it's been tweaked to night-on perfection. Although you still can't use cover 
 in multiplayer, the new multiplayer content is so big than you won't care about having to stand 
 openly to fight. A wide new range of maps, increasingly addictive Co-op missions, and a wide range 
 of weapons make sure Multiplayer is all it's cracked up to be. Better still, you won't be killed 
 straight away sometimes too, when you are hit, but not killed, you may go into a critical state 
 meaning you roll about until you die or are helped by a friend. This really adds to the tension 
 as you sprint to a teamate, or shout into your microphone that you're dying out there, expect some 
 dramatic sequences with this.
  
  The Co-op missions are really quite replayable, you can go through once with all-guns blazing, 
 or go through with stealth, and coordination. The mission changes as you use each tactic, making 
 it worth going through agian. Achievements are quite simple to earn, most of them involve killing 
 so many of this, or completing that, with a bit or work it isn't a problem.
  
  So, the final word is, an excellent, replayable game, though a short and relatively small SIngle-player, 
 you'll get a massive, fun multiplayer that'll last for a good while. Not recommened for those who 
 aren't on Live Gold of course, but it's still worth a good play if you like Tactical Shooters/Modern 
 Warfare games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8tball99nyr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Its still a great game even thought it is almost identical as the first one. The first one i enjoyed 
 every well and this one is just as good but with a extremely short single player. Multiplayer is 
 still fully improved with new features and cool new options. There is also new weapons, better 
 graphix, and a couple of small things hear and there. but over all its the same game. If you did 
 not own the first one. Pick this one up. If you do own the first one and your obsessed with the 
 multiplayer , pick it up. Thx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghrecon02
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a fun game, but it feels like an update to the GRAW series rather than a new game. There 
 are some new features but most are so small that they could have been in download content. That 
 said, the online coop is the best campaign since the series started to be developed by Ubisoft's 
 Paris studio. That is only because the games coop is made by the good fellows at Redstorm, the 
 company that developed the original ghost recon games. The campaign still has really slow aimer 
 sensitivity, which leaves you feeling like a drunk soldier, rather than an advanced one. The multiplayer 
 is fun, but it is mostly just a bunch of new maps and modes with the same basic game since Ghost 
 recon 2 for the xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anxiety6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  the game spot review board is a little tarted on some side i shall say and need to learn how to 
 judge the games on how there really presented the graphics are better then the graw the original 
 and the multiplayer is way better .... so i dont know why the game is downrated to a 8.7 becuase 
 it is short the gears of war game is short and that got a 9.6 ... gamespot needs to hire diffrent 
 reviewers becuase they dont know how to do a good job becuase that makes people think the game 
 is not good when it is so it wouldnt sell right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfredowatt
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  To the last one, but as the game progresses you find yourself looking a new items and different 
 senerios that werent on the last production. in essence its a new game with a half different look. 
 Personally speaking i give them good review for keeping the mayority of all the controls and actions 
 same and no new ones to learn. It makes a huge difference once you want to jump in a new game that 
 the you already know know the controls, you can enjoy it from the get go as suppose to having to 
 re-learn and miss out on the first 2 hours of play for some crappy setup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolspikes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is visualy stunning, yet still gives the same great game play from the first, the game also 
 introduces a couple of new weapons into the game play. What i love most about this game is the 
 the online play with countless gameplay combinations, over all a great game yet from what i hear 
 short, that may be GRAW 2's only flaw, you start out the game going lonewolf, now to me that is 
 cool i love the lonewolf levels. GRAW 2 stays as gritty and realisic as most games can get, i would 
 have to recommend this game to buy if u have xbox live, but if u dont just rent it unless u are 
 some hard core tomclancy game collector 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf_storm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, ignore the sony fanboys who dont actually have this game, you can tell which ones 
 they are by the low scores of under 7.
  
  The original GRAW was a masterpiece, and this is no addon or upgrade.
  
  The multiplayer for 
 starters is far superior, not only do you have more modes, a free exclusive map for download nowhere 
 but you also have decent clan support for anyone wishing to start their own clan.
  
  If you havent played GRAW, the graphics are simply breathtaking, right from the beautiful sunsets 
 to the dusty mountains. The game also runs at a superb pace, no slowdown or pop-ups at all (DId 
 you hear that sony fanboys, Call of duty 3 on PS3 ring any bells ? )
  
  I dont understand the negative people with their comments of &pound;60 for an expansion, this is 
 not an expansion, ok the single player campaign is shorter, but the multiplayer is far superior 
 in every way, also the co-op missions now support upto 16 players.
  
  If your new to GRAW, i would reccomend you grab a copy of the first GRAW, you can get the special 
 edition version for around &pound;25-30, if you really enjoy it then definitely go for GRAW2.
 
  
  My only small gripes would be the shorter campaign and the completely pointless special weapon 
 , which is the Famas, can only be used in quick mission mode, and the code is hardly unique, its 
 just a name you type in.
  
  For us british chaps you can pickup GRAW2 for &pound;39.99, poor old americans eh having to pay 
 $60, my heart bleeds for them it really does.
  
  Look forward to killing you all online... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  I just bought the game a few days ago. It didn't deliver the hype factor like I was expecting. 
 Although, it is a very good tactical shooter, the missions are somewhat light on content. I am 
 also playing Rainbow Six Vegas, which in my opinion, is much better in the fun factor than this 
 game. You play Scott Mitchell, leading a team of Ghosts through various regions in Mexico.
  The main jest of the game is battling civil uproar south of the border, and breach of the newly 
 constructed border wall. The theme is good, but character controls are somewhat awkward when crouching 
 behind walls, etc. The explosion effects and smoke are really good, as well as the scenery detail.
 
  I think the game is good over all, but its not worth the 59.99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canlase
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  All I can say is, I can't stop playing this game. I'm just into the single player and haven't tried 
 multi player yet. But boy oh boy, I haven't been excited with a game for some time now. The game 
 makes you feel you are really in the fight and the controls and AI are so much improved from the 
 first version. I like this even better than gears and I'm sure I'm going to play this over and 
 over again. It feels too easy though unlike the first one. I'll try a harder setting after I complete 
 the one I'm playing. Hope the next one will give more challenge.
  
  Can't wait to finish work and go home and play again. Need to practice cause I'm sure this will 
 be a big hit in Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluntObject
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I first have to say that GRAW2, overall, is a very good game. But there are some areas that left 
 me with some mixed reactions. I found the cut scenes looked more like GRAW on the original Xbox 
 (the helicopters flight mechanics just didn't look right) instead of the new and improved next 
 gen GRAW2 on the 360. Mitchell's voice over/voice acting is poor (the voice sounded like it was 
 from a low budget action flick from the 80s) . The general is annoying. And again, the cut scenes 
 looked awful. As for valuecompared to games like Gears of War or Elder Scrolls IV: OblivionI 
 found the game's length of play was a real letdown (all had a $60 price point upon hitting the 
 shelves) . On the good GRAW2 has excellent graphics during play (how about those explosions?) , which 
 is more important than great graphics for a cut scene (I guess) . The new battlefield toys almost 
 make taking down the enemy as easy as finishing the game within five hours (back to that short 
 game length) . I also liked the [somewhat] improved AI as it related to the other team members. 
 Still, as any control freak well knows, if you want something done it's quicker to do it yourself 
 (art imitates life - even in GRAW2) . I heard my sniper yell, I haven't got a shot! over and over 
 again as I attempted to get her to take down an enemy soldier. It's hard to find good middle managers. 
 So ol' Mitchell had to step in, like any good leader, and do the dirty work (even the medic didn't 
 seem overly concerned about doing his job) . Rent GRAW2. Buy GRAW2. I think overall it will be a 
 good game to have in your library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was surprised when I heard that GRAW 2 was already done, less than a year after 
 the original game. However, based on my appreciation for the first game, I was more than happy 
 to pick up the sequel. And I'm happy I did! Don't let the early release dissuade you from checking 
 out the quality of this game. The end result is more than solid.
  
  To say GRAW 2 has good graphics is an understatement. The new lighting system is impressive, and 
 the overall look of the game is much sharper than before. There is some fantastic scenery in the 
 game, and sometimes you will find yourself enthralled by the little graphical bells and whistles 
 here and there, such as the live TV broadcasts that take place in your Humvee or Black Hawk Helicopter. 
 The textures, wind effects and explosions all have been upgraded, and they look phenomenal.
  
  Sound is also very good in the game. Not only do your guns sound and look realistic, but your 
 A. I. squad buddies now speak up a lot more. And most of the time, they actually have useful information 
 to report, such as pointing out the bad guys standing next to the truck across the street. These 
 subtle additions really boost the credibility of the game's atmosphere, and pull you into the action.
 
  
  There are some new additions to GRAW 2, primarily the new MULE ground resupply car and the use 
 of a medic. While the MULE is cool the first time you see it, it really doesn't add anything to 
 the core gameplay of the game. It serves the same purpose as the resupply truck from the last game, 
 except that it can follow you around. It would have been much more interesting if the MULE actually 
 had turrets or some other offensive capabilities. While the MULE is a mixed addition to the game, 
 medics are quite useful, even though they decrease the game's difficultly substantially in comparison 
 to the first GRAW.
  
  The Cross-com system has also been updated, and the changes are mostly for the better. Now you 
 can look through your A. I. buddies helmut camera to see what he's seeing. This adds to your overall 
 grasp of the battlefield and improves your situational awareness, as you would expect it to do. 
 The use of overhead drones is also much improved. You can now get a real-time satellite view of 
 the battlefield, which is much more fun and interesting to use than those in the first game. It's 
 too bad; however, that the game doesn't develop other uses for the drones. It would have been great 
 to have the option of using predator drones capable of firing Hellfire missiles as well. Maybe 
 that'll be added to the next sequel.
  
  In terms of level design, there are some truly great missions in the game. You will distinctly 
 remember your favorites, such as a night-time Black Hawk raid on a Mexican army base in the middle 
 of a rainstorm. The environmental and lighting effects will wow you. Unfortunately, it's a shorter 
 game than its predecessor, and it feels like it's over sooner than you think.
  
  But then there's the multiplayer, and thankfully, the online options provide an impressive amount 
 of replay value. There are many customizeable game types this time around, and to the designer's 
 credit, the graphics look just as good in multiplayer as they do in single player, which is quite 
 an accomplishment.
  
  I'll go ahead and say it: if you liked GRAW, go ahead and buy GRAW 2. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The online is so much better in GRAW 2, let me start by saying that the graphics have been improved 
 ALOT, all the weather effects, the lighting effects and shadows are all done so extremely well 
 and improved apon from the first GRAW. I also just LOVE the maps! There are so many and some are 
 MASSIVE, while a few are smaller, i really can not get enough of this game over xbox live..... 
 WE HAVE A NEW ONLINE KING PEOPLE!!!!
  
  While the singleplayer is basically the same as the last GRAW, thats not really a problem for me 
 as i loved the singleplayer in the first GRAW, the way it pulls you in while you are playing, with 
 surround sound blasting up loud, the singleplayer is once again a fun romp. But as others will 
 say, the bread and butter for GRAW2 is on xbox live. All the mods, all the inprovement with the 
 graphics and effects, to the way they fixed the spawn killing problesm from the first GRAW.
  
  The sound is also improved over the first one, and the new drone abilitys are sweet to. All 
 in all this is a fantastic online game and to me it looks like we have a new online king on xbox 
 live (passing vegas) .
  
  SO in the end, if you are looking for an amazing online game and a fun singleplayer game then go 
 get this! The online is some of hte most addicting i have ever played on a console or on PC.
  THIS GAME OWNS PEOPLE!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyTSJ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  I played GRAW to death so the fact that GRAW2 just arrived is awesome. My one and only single criticism 
 is the shortness of the campaign mode - I love playing both online and offline, it's both as opposed 
 to one or the other for me. Everything aside from that is just perfect. They've added much more 
 to what was already an awesome multiplayer online experience. The addition of clubs/clans is another 
 great move.
  
  The environments are where GRAW 2 really stands out over the first GRAW on Xbox 360. The dynamic 
 lighting, the buildings, everything is just sweet to look at. Great eye candy with a totally real 
 feel.
  
  Nice job Ubi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaxams
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. Unlike the first GRAW, this game has a great SP. It takes a few things from 
 the original GRs such as controlling multiple squads, and more open ended missions, and blends 
 them nicely with exciting and frantic shootouts. This is by far, one of the best games availible 
 today SP wise even with it being a tad short (7-8hrs) . MP wise, its more of the same with improved 
 map design and a system that helps with spawn camping. They also decided to include the Embassy 
 map from GR1 for some nostalgic value. Overall, this game is packed with value and is, to put it 
 bluntly, amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmad_the_man
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Oh My God. This game eclipses the first in every possible way. It is amazing, everything about 
 it is amazing. The gameplay is top notch; one of the best tactical shooters ever made. you could 
 now switch weapons much quicker than in the first game, which is amazing. Also controlling your 
 team-mates is much more fluid this time around. This is due to the fact that you could control 
 them from their perspectives, and control them accordingly. The cross-com is also much more satisfying, 
 as you could make out everything; you could see all the details, for as mentioned before, you could 
 go to first person perspective. The air raids are also amazing, albeit their brief appearance. 
 The medic is also useful many times. The final two levels are especially amazing. The graphics 
 are a thing to marvel at. The only game with better graphics is the perfect Gears of War. The explosions 
 are especially satisfying, and the bullet waves look extremely cool. The sound is also a blast 
 to listen to, as now your team-mates yell helpful info such as the position of enemies. I finished 
 the whole campaign, yesterday, in the night, and in the morning, and it is decent in length. It 
 took me seven and a half hours to finish. I have yet to try the multiplayer, but if it is like 
 the rest of the game, it should be perfect. I simply could not recommend this enough. Go buy this 
 now, or you would be missing out on one hell of an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  I will just base my review for ppl who have played GRAW, sorry.
  
  The Imrpovments:
  (SinglePlayer)
  Levels are now more open and vast than those in GRAW for the PC! And the fact 
 you get to lead two fireteams and a buttload of support elements adds for some intense situations. 
 Also, on most levels the objectives being so far apart and the enemy numbers compared to GRAW's 
 really make for replayability. The fact you can go on hundreds of rooftops and in subways and so 
 on brings the enviroments to life!
  Graphics have been improved but building colors are sometime off, between-level character faces 
 look wierd &amp; some rock textures look low resolution compared to all other textures around them. 
 Trees now catch on fire, explosions have been tweaked with explosion smoke being replaced almost 
 completley with a vast amount of sparks and they burn for alot longer now. Not to mention the addition 
 of blood effects!
  Movement is alot faster and the roll move when running sideways is nice for dodging rounds.
  
 The story &amp; level settings really give off a Gritty, Dirty, Black-Ops feel that spec forces 
 might actualy bee in, not to mention the story is pretty believable with political BS on news broadcasts, 
 despite a few loopholes.
  The orchestral-like music score for ingame is very beautiful, I didnt care much for the metal/punk-rock 
 theme in GRAW, this feels alot like Tears of The Sun or something.
  Being able to select fireteam members, a greater abundance of weapons and the very detailed and 
 interesting Stats page that overrules GRAW's all add a different approach for playing the game 
 over and over.
  Finally the AI... Now GRAW's sucked, we all know it was decent but really drained tactical gameplay 
 from situations in the campaign. GRAW2's friendly AI has been 'somewhat' improved. The team members 
 still fall out of cover but only when new enemies approach from a new direction, the shift position 
 to lay down fire in that new enemy position so the remainder of the fireteam isnt hurt but sometimes 
 (since they can get sloppy at accuracy at longer distances) they end up getting shot or downed. 
 Dont give too many orders to quick or they will get seperated and dissoriented and enemies will 
 walk right past them. They also use to get caught up alot, they still do but about 10x less often 
 (happened to me twice during my enite fire campaign run-through) . The enemy AI is better, their 
 shots are about the same accuracy but now they really concentrate on squad tactics. The friendly 
 sniper seems to do alot better as well.
  
  Still Crap:
  The 'fire-on' orders need to be a little different as you can be ordering teammates to take cover 
 but accidently order them to fire on an enemy position.
  The friendly AI doesnt take out enemies at a distance in a speedy manner and they gltch and dont 
 fire on enemies real close, they just fall back.
  Lastly, support elements say the same thing way too often.
  
  (MP)
  I dont play online or 
 LAN but I do play coop alone or with a friend in splitscreen so I tested out local MP on two maps 
 and heres my review of MP thus far.
  
  Imrpovments:
  Explosions are more realistic and you can blow up cars with firearms now.
  Pistols dont feel 
 like paintball guns, they feel more realistic.
  Their seems to be some sort of ranking system for on and offline play as a Private ensignia appears 
 next to your character when you first sign into MP.
  Shadows are very nice along with improved graphics. And the day/night effects are simply beautiful 
 to watch.
  You slide when running and crouching, much like in SP.
  Their is more of a character customization than in GRAW.
  Levels seem about the same size as 
 the large ones in GRAW but now they feel alive as you have bridges, enterable buildings, balconies 
 and so on.
  The coop is much more customizable with helos, ai difficulty, numbers &amp; such. The weapons also 
 recoil more and have more accuracy and impacts have more blood splatter.
  The MP and SP game seem to be running on the same graphics settings as GRAW seemed like two totally 
 different engines.
  
  Still Crap:
  The MP framerate gets a little choppy, it doesnt ever increase or decrease but it seems to be running 
 at less-than-smooth.
  No option for MP cover system or teammates with orders.
  
  Overall:
  Well there you have it! A solid, vastly imrpoved singleplayer that leaves little to 
 complain about and an ambixous MP suite add up to a great tactical shooter. GRAW was great but 
 GRAW2 nearly perfected it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt222_us
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  graw 2 is not all that it has been hyped up to be. the single player campaign is very short, graphics 
 aren't really improved, and multiplayer is not much different, though they try to deceive you by 
 giving you more multiplayer options . if you want a good tactical game, i would recommend r6 vegas, 
 it's a lot more exciting . i've also been confused at many of the multiplayer hosts in graw 2. 
 a room will fill up with 8, 10, 12 people and the host will do nothing except chat with his buddies 
 in the lobby for 10, 20, 30 minutes or so. i've owned this game for 2 days and have never spent 
 so much wasteful time waiting on the host to launch the game. hell, if you've played cod3, it takes 
 forever just to get into a lobby and the host will launch it in a jiffy. speaking of the lobby, 
 another thing about graw 2 that sucks is that if you die, join, or are eliminated from a multiplayer 
 map, you have to hang out in the lobby forever as opposed to having a view from the battlefield. 
 that sucks. on the other hand, graw 2 is still a great game, which means that it's fun overall. 
 graw 2 also does an awesome job with the weapon power distribution. in other words, an assault 
 rifle will act as an assault rifle, a shotgun will act as a shotgun, and a sniper rifle will act 
 as a sniper rifle. r6 vegas failed in this area due to the facts that you could snipe someone 100 
 yards away with a shotgun or you could shoot someone 5 times 100 yards away with a sniper rifle 
 and it wouldn't kill them. too bad you can't incorporate the strengths from both games into one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I cannot put this game down. This is one great thrill ride. If you have any negative issues with 
 this game you should not have a pulse. This game is one of the most exciting games introduced in 
 the next-gen era. The graphics make your hair stand on-end. The exposions are movie quality. The 
 ability to switch hud views are a genius creation. I can go on and on and on, but my hands will 
 get tired.
  
  This game could be sold for $100 and be woth every penny and more. It is an awesome gaming experience 
 that will stay with me for a long time.
  
  Thank You UBI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Simply put this game is fantastic on many levels. I have seen some pretty low reviews on this that 
 are, in my judgment, way off the mark. Ok writing game reviews is a democracy and people can like 
 or dislike a game but no way this game warrants anything below an 8,0 and that is stretching it 
 quite a bit on the downside. Not sure what people are looking for.... but if you liked GRAW then 
 how could you not like this? It is as good as or surpasses the first GRAW in every way. It is games 
 like this and Rainbow Six Vegas, Gears of War etc. that have finally convinced me that the consoles 
 are better gaming platforms than the PC. This is a taught third person tactical shooter. The story 
 line is engaging and the use of the MULE is really neat. Graphically the game is way at the top. 
 The quality of the set from a graphical perspective can make or break a game. This was one of the 
 awesome aspects of Gears of War. Buy this game it is an instant classic that you will want to be 
 part of your library. Do not believe tha naysayers they have an agenda and an axe to grind... what 
 that is I can't imagine.... huuuuuah ... lock and load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anstar97
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  great multiplayer check excellent campaign check this game is so awsome the campaign continues 
 from cpt. mitchells experience in mexico and belive me if your a fan of explosions this will definetly 
 deliver bam bam bam !!! Anyways the team is smarter than last years game and enemy ai well since 
 im a vet at this game there always stupid but they have done some clever things that i havent seen 
 them do there is fighter jets as new support and its estedicly amzing to see them fire one of there 
 missles. multiplayer well except fo some minor adjustments and clan support the m player seems same 
 thing as the original witch is just the way we like it this game is a good expansion pack well 
 thats what it should of been 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  the GRAW game style and topic was never my favourite. I bought the first one because it looked 
 really good, and even now 1 year later it is still on the top 10 list. The game was fun enough, 
 and the challenges were good, but the team effort was an issue. As stated by the lone hunter there 
 is no 'team' in 'Me, Myself and I'.
  I like to sneak, hunt and make psychedelic art using the brain of my opponent and a H&amp; K PSG-1. 
 We all have soft spot in our lives. Graphically this game is really good, sound is good, all good. 
 team part not so, and all thise changed in GRAW2. Graphics are slightly better (only slightly) , 
 sound is good, but team play has changed. That part is a lot better, more intuitive, and a lot 
 better to control. Yes, overall, this game is even better then an already excellent good previous 
 part.
  
  I am still not willing to share my hunting trophy, but controlling them and sending them to safe 
 spots while i do the cleaning has improved.
  
  The one part in gameplay that is now even better is to plan with the sun in your eyes. That part 
 is now challenging, which adds to realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roll_tide_l
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is everything you could want from a GRAW sequel. It fixes some of the problems with the 
 first game, Plus it gives you plenty of what you loved with the first GRAW. Yes it is some what 
 like the first but sometimes more is good and it has enough good quality's to make it a great game 
 in its own right, If you enjoyed the original GRAW, then l would say you will definitely enjoy 
 GRAW 2
  
  Thats pretty much my view on the SP alone. With my limited MP experience with the game I would 
 say it also looks very promising I would defiantly recommend purchasing this title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackal7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Was playing R6: Las Vegas until this one showed up.... and bam, instant addiction and gratification. 
 Met expectations and then some. It runs circles around the prequel. The gameplay is delightful 
 and graphics are phenomenal; especially if you run the game on HDTV. The sound score and effects 
 do the game serious justice; it immerses you into the game. More user friendly than Gears of War 
 and the learning curve is much more tolerant. Right now, the number one game in the genre. This 
 can become a great benchmark for Halo 3. Anything less than this performance, consider it a failure.
 
  
  Money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wake78
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  zeke74 if you don't like military shooters then don't but the game, its not like you couldnt tell 
 it was a military shooter from the box art, or any of the screenshots. Anyway this game is awsome, 
 I played GRAW1 from beginning to end, and I'm not really into multiplayer games but this one got 
 my addiction going. One thing I am amazed about is the explosions, Ubisoft nailed it in this game, 
 they don't look CG at all, plus the sound added in is just amazing. New MP maps, weapons, overall 
 graphics, how can you not get this game. If you love GRAW1 then you will definitely love GRAW2 
 !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artcantravel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  The realm of tactical first person shooters is elevated to a new level with Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2. This game play, graphics, and sound draw the player into the Mexican conflict. Bullets 
 fly and your teammates will yell non stop during the battles. The in game graphics are stunning. 
 The textures on the soldiers as well as the environment bring the game that much closer to looking 
 like real life. Fabulous explosions leave the player eyeing up the next possible grenade or air 
 strike target. The AI has also been upgraded from the last Ghost Recon. They will do a better job 
 of finding cover and working as a team, while they try to flank you. This can make solo missions 
 particularly difficult. Observing the flow of the battle will become just as important as actually 
 neutralizing the enemy. The run and gun style found in other shooters will only result in one dead 
 Captain Mitchell. If you liked G. R. A. W or Rainbow Six, this one is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macual
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Man that was a question that I posed to my friends last night, playing online campaign mode. That 
 was pretty impressive. I kept hearing Oh my goodness this is the best game ever.... I am more conservative 
 than that. But I must admit, this game is fun. The AI is really nice.. And since I have become 
 an Achievement whore, this game is fun as all get out. The graphics are great. And while I still 
 didn't get any achievements. It is not the games' fault. AI is great. Graphics are alright. But 
 you don't need great graphics when you have Enemy's laying down with dead bodies. MAN that is good 
 stuff.. SMART too.. Man I really enjoyed my first day of playing this game. I must say that I don't 
 like the fact that ranked mode you can't play with your friends. It seems that teams are random. 
 I don't know if that is a good thing or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusExMathias
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  The latest installment of the Ghost Recon series has delivered.
  Here is a brief synopsis of what I've noticed.
  
  Pros:
   The graphics are much improved: 
 blowing dust; smoke effects; lighting; explosions; new enhanced vision looks really cool
   Something that, as a grenadier, I love: Grenadiers can once again carry a pistol, and selecting 
 the launcher is the same as selecting between fire modes on your rifle.
   New move! In the Single player campaign, in addition to the ability to dive to ones knees, ones 
 character can now dive to the side when at a full forward run.
   Great online co-op missions. The new levels seem fairly large and have somewhat varying terrain 
 and environments from one end of the map to the other.
   The ability to sometimes heal a downed teammate adds a new level to the gameplay, having to take 
 out the nearby enemies before your teammate bleeds out.
   Being able to hold down the RB and see  full screen  what your teammates or drone is seeing 
 is a great addition.
  
  Cons:
   They took out voice commands from the single-player campaign. I liked being able to yell at my 
 AI. Not a big deal, though, since it never seemed to work very consistently any way. :P
   Slightly glitchy multiplayer lobbies.  Lobby seemed to crash somewhat frequently at the beginning 
 of the evening.
   Slightly glitchy interface. I was setting up a lobby when I accidentally accepted a game invite. 
 I backed out of the character selection screen and there was a confirmation message that would 
 not go away, preventing me from doing anything. Selecting Accept or Cancel did nothing. I had 
 to reboot to solve the problem.
   Occasional sound problems. I was in a firefight while playing co-op, when some enemy soldiers 
 started yelling right behind me. I whipped around to find nothing. It was the sound of the enemies 
 that I had been shooting at many yards in front of me, but the surround sound was telling me that 
 they were almost right behind me.
  
  Overall:
  Despite the few problems with the lobbies and sound I really like the newest incarnation of this 
 series. Definitely almost worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: americanistanra
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  I love that you can take control of your teammates again. This makes the single player worth playing 
 again. Take that with the controls of the drones and you have the ability to mount great offensive 
 strikes. I own all of the recons except the first GRAW, and this one may be the best. The multiplayer 
 maps are intense and the game can again call itself Ghost Recon. They have added plenty of multiplayer 
 modes and brought back clan support. It was a nice touch to let us shoot down enemy drones as well 
 as the ability to heal one another. Before I played, i wished they would have added Rainbows cover 
 system. Now i see how the system hinders action and Recon forces fun multiplayer battles. If you 
 liked the first Recons, but you were disappointed with the newer versions, this may be the game 
 to bring you back to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwileyjr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  I'm am really amazed with the game. I'm actually contemplating buying the $1.500 Plasma screen 
 I've been eying just to truley enjoy the game. Graphics and gameplay are so much better than the 
 first. The explosions are better than anything I've ever seen in a game and and being able to view 
 your crosscom full screen is also a very welcome addition. I haven't played much multiplayer yet 
 but what I have played just feels weird. A whole different feel (for me) than the first. Maybe 
 after a couple more days playing I'll get used to it.
  Even if you didn't play the first one you should still go out and give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gr8gambino
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Wow, I have only played this game for an hour and I freaking love it. Really love the new cross 
 com system. A must buy. I love the new additions and achievements that they have placed. It appears 
 as if there is a lot of replay value associated with this game. Heck, I maybe even play this on 
 XBOX live. Now my question is, why in the heck does my review text have to be at least a hundred 
 words long. Now I just have to babble to make up the space. Still not a hundred words. Maybe now 
 it is, lets see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CoMBaT-
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - If you've played and liked the first GRAW, you'll like this one, I loved the first one, 
 felt as realistic as can be done on current generation systems, this one makes a few small changes, 
 mainly to movement ( Sadly from what I see there are no sensitivity adjustment settings though 
 ) .
  
  I'm playing on the hardest difficulty, its quite a thrill having G36 (which I don't believe really 
 is a G36K, its really the G36E) assault rifles being fired at you from every angle, yet somehow, 
 with technology that will actually exist one day, being able to defeat these overwhelming odds 
 if you have common sense and skill.
  
  Lots of new weapons too, including a SIG556 ( Yay) , while it isn't named the SIG556, I KNOW IT 
 IS, I've seen the picture on their site dozens of times, i have it memorized! Tons of prototype 
 weapons too, and some that probably don't exist, even in prototype phases.
  
  Graphics - Some of the best on the 360 right now, if not the best, its hard to compare it to GOW, 
 because GOW seems to have tons more polygons, but, GRAW 2 has better textures in my opinion, at 
 least on the main characters like Scott.
  
  The explosions are friggen insanely real in most instances, giving you even more immersion into 
 this hostile enviroment it tries to paint, and succeeds very well.
  
  The lighting, and blur effects are ultra-realistic for this generation of systems, the blur effects 
 are a little over-done though to be honest, but nonetheless it looks great.
  
  Sound - In my opinion one of the best parts of this already great game, without the sound this 
 game has it would be nothing, sound is key, its something that makes you an unstoppable juggernaut, 
 or someone that walks out into the middle of the street thinking no ones there...
  
  Nothings like suddenly hearing There! Thats their leader! then bam... your heroic attempt at saving 
 the world is ended by a coward hiding on a roof top, hopefully you don't make the mistake of just 
 sitting there, but if you do, the second time you WILL learn to move your butt instantly or, you're 
 dead, again, quite simple, intelligence defeats cowards.
  
  Gun fire, explosions, everything sounds like it should, matching up to the graphics in realism.
 
  
  Only real problem I have with this game, is yet again, the multiplayer, which Ubisoft has completely 
 ruined for me.
  
  Played Rainbow Six Vegas? Love taking cover in multiplayer? Can't do that here, yet again, if you're 
 looking for multiplayer fun and thats a nessecary feature for you, this isn't your game most likely.
 
  
  The single player experiences alone in my opinion are worth $60 though, Vegas's single players 
 good but... GRAW 2's singleplayer seems like the 24 of videogames for me right now ( Although in 
 reality nothing can compare to 24, sorry Ubisoft )
  
  Its kinda short, but like 24, the season has to end sometime, or, in this case, the game.
  
 
  9.9 - Single Player
  
  7.0 - Multiplayer ( Honestly, if anyone at Ubisoft reads this, please give the people that buy 
 your games what they want, add a cover feature in the next Ghost Recon's multiplayer, you'll have 
 many more copies ordered ) -CoMBaT- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  I don't understand how people call this game an expansion only of graw1.5 It has the same basic 
 fundamentals of the first with new:
  
  Multiplayer maps
  Guns
  Full Single player campaign
  Full Co-op campaign
  Tons of new abilities in single player
 
  Updated graphics
  better sound
  etc...!!
  
  All that plus more equals New bigger better Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter!!!
  
  Single player 
 is loads of fun so far. Haven't really checked out everything multiplayer has to offer, but from 
 the little I did do I can easily see a difference from the first one. Graphics are excellent. I'm 
 playing on a HD TV by the way. Explosions are great, the whole day change is great, and it just 
 looks like a better game.
  
  Sound is awesome! Playing on a 5.1 surround sound.
  
  If you liked the first one I say get this one without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infidelcastro
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think it was going to be this good. But wow. Let me tell you. If you like Rainbow Six 
 Vegas and Ghost Recon and can't make up your mind which to play, this game has both elements. Graphics 
 - A BIG IMPROVEMENT! Polished. They paid attention to the detail last year, but this one, they 
 addressed the graphics department like as if it was the most important thing on their list. From 
 the clothes, guns, background, explosions, it is almost way too real. And speaking of, when you're 
 player gets near an explosion, watch the expression and action on your player. It's exactly what 
 you would do in that situation. This game is simply eye candy. Especially going into your teammate 
 mode where you press the right bumper and it switches to your teammates view. Awesome. Sound - 
 I have a home theater and I hook this game up with Dolby Surround, and Geez! The explosions sound 
 very real, so do the guns. The enemies react to your whereabouts my yelling at their comrades to 
 get you or flank you, etc etc, in spanish. So do your players. It's very chaotic at times when 
 you hear gunshots and explosions everywhere, and a man down. The sound fits the scene, that's all 
 I have to say about that.
  
  Playability - They really did a fantastic job on the player movements and gameplay. Tons of fun. 
 The players now move like how actual humans would move in combat. I mean, they moved realistically 
 last year, but this year is different. I don't know why, it just is. They had added some stuff 
 to this years GWAR like teammate view, medic ( You can now heal players, how much fun is that online?) , 
 control armed vehicles, etc etc. There's too much to list. Bottom Line - GET THIS GAME. YOU WILL 
 REGRET IT IF YOU DON'T. It's an awesome game and games like this need to be bought to support the 
 company to make more games like these. I will guarantee you this, you'll have hours of fun, maybe 
 days, months. I went online and I was the only person on there. I hope that will change by tomorrow 
 because I need my GWAR online fix. This game is pure fun and near flawless.
  
  Only complain I have is your teammates are still kinda stupid. You direct them to a destination 
 and they end up going somewhere else. But this happened only couple times. Other than that, this 
 game is near flawless. WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. 2 is a very good sequel one that is not to be missed by any shooter fan. G. R. A. W. was 
 such a technical achievement that any sequel would never be as good or surpase it, right? One thing 
 maybe true, G. R. A. W 2 technically speaking does not surpase the original G. R. A. W. on the WOW factor 
 but indeed it suprasses G. R. A. W with its staying power. I say staying power meaning you just cant 
 put this game down. The graphics keep your eyes locked and the some what short single player game 
 keeps you playing. And the multiplayer will keep you coming back for more. Do yourself a favor 
 and dont pass on this one. This game is a must buy for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Is it a new GRAW? Yes.
  
  Does it feel like a sequel?
  
  Yes.
  
  Is it worth the money?
  
  Hmm, if you have extra money to spend and do not mind bending over 
 to Ubi Soft for more dry humping, yes otherwise, no. If I love GRAW, so much that I spent the points 
 on the GRAW upgrade/mappack/expansion, should I get GRAW 2?
  
  I guess, to bad those points do not get transferred or get credited back to you. Feels like the 
 1200 point GRAW upgrade from last June was really worth it...
  
  What is the game like, how does it play, what are the graphics like, how good does it sound, and 
 what is the multiplayer like questions can all be answered with one comment. If you have played 
 GRAW, GRAW 2 is not much different and if not go read any review on it, GRAW 2 is not much different.
 
  
  Personally I am starting to dislike Ubi Soft. GRAW 2 is just not what it should be, compared to 
 what it could have been. I bought it and will enjoy playing it regardless. But, I will not be buying 
 any upgrades/mappacks/expansions unless it really delivers some REAL content. They could have changed 
 the label, made an expansion with this game, and no one would have known it was a sequel. It does 
 expand the multiplayer game with new modes and maps, but Ubi Soft could have done that with an 
 expansion.
  
  If you have money to burn, go ahead and pick GRAW 2 up, you will be happy. Otherwise save your 
 money for Guitar Hero 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  That's exactly what it feels like even thou there's some new little features in this game it feels 
 like a lot of same thing of what we got in the first Advanced Warfighter. Scott Mitchell is back 
 and he's not taking any breaks from stopping terrorist in Mexico. .
  
  One thing I'm going to say is that tutorial it's deeper this year compare to last year's ghost 
 recon tutorial. You'll also be happy to find out you get 5 different achievements depending on 
 how well you did on the training tutorial. Most of the features are the same so you'll feel right 
 at home as far as the controls are involved. .
  
  One of the new features you have in Ghost Recon 2 is being able to watch your soldier's vision 
 cam from there point of view. You can also command them to attack from watching from their vision 
 cam which is a very cool new feature. While you stay in hidden location you can send your ghost 
 team ahead and command them.
  
  Multiplayer is back as usual with co-op on and off line and system link. Even thou this game feels 
 like an expansion pack it's still a pretty solid game just like some other shooters that are out. 
 If you're a fan of the series you won't be disappoint but if you're money is tight rent it first 
 before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkc124
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best of tom clancy. The ai is much improved and it makes you feel like ur a real 
 advanced war fighter. the gameplay is the same except for new guns and airstrikes. graphics are 
 really good just like the 1st one. the sound is really good and plays alot better. i like being 
 in the helocopter and just offloading on terrorists with the machine gun and blowing stuff up. 
 mulitplayer is really fun like the 1st installment. theres other ways to customize ur avatar like 
 putting on armor equipping guns kind of just like rainbow six vegas but in 2014 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me open by saying i just got on the Xbox 360 train back in December 2006. My 1st game was GRAW. 
 I fell in love with that game. For 2 weeks, i couldn't put it down. The multiplayer, while fun, 
 never really hooked me but i still found it a worthy stand in for games like CSS. Fast-foward to 
 today. I pop this game my 360 and it appears to be business as usual. The menu's, music, and style 
 of the game are all standard issue and are nearly identical to last year. Then i get into the game. 
 The graphical detail and gameplay tweaks kick you straight in the face during the 1st level off 
 this game. Although the 1st level of the game is a training mission, it's tolerable because of 
 the mini challenges they give you during the course of the level. This level also does a much better 
 job at preparing you for the game than last year's did. All said, i racked up about 50 achievement 
 points doing the training level, i'd say that's incentive to stomach a few refresher tips. The 
 game is broken up into 3 Acts. I'm knee deep in the 1st as i write this but from what i've seen 
 so far, this game is great. Missions and the environments vary nicely from level to level. The 
 1st couple levels put you on a mountain side in the desert and dump you into a city engulf in conflict 
 by the 3rd. My jaw hit the floor on when i saw GRAW and GRAW 2 is no exception. Those expecting 
 a complete overhaul of the GRAW formula will be crying into their security blankies tonight. Ubisoft, 
 exercising the if it ain't broke, don't fix it thought process have put many of the things that 
 worked for GRAW into GRAW 2. Gone are the scrolling menus and in are the quickselect button and 
 stick menus (a la Rainbow Six: Vegas) . My favorite thing, the little effects that make the game 
 seem more tangible. The much hyped graphical improvements definitely made an impression on me. 
 The smoke and dust effects, the light occlusion, and improved explosion and physics effects are 
 all strung together to make this game (for lack of a better term) f'ing cool. Little things like 
 blowing something up in a tunnel or cave only to see the smoke and dust come shooting out the openings 
 will make you laugh will kind of a sadistic joy. You'll be pumped at the idea of having to destroy 
 things like some sort of cracked out Navy Seal demo expert once you see the explosion effects in 
 this game. The singleplayer demo doesn't do the game justice. You have to play the finished product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clanbong
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about GRAW2, Over the last couple weeks I have been playing GRAW1 and once I 
 got my HD big screen I was really impressed with the character models... I mean you could even 
 see the stitching on the uniforms! But when I put in GRAW2 the textures on Mitchell were very blurry 
 and muddy looking. Another gripe I have would be the in-comm briefings, let me explain... It is 
 like watching a bad Chinese movie. The voice sync is way off and really takes the realism down 
 a notch. Now the good stuff, I really like the weather and time of day effects, that adds a whole 
 new immersion to the game. The sound is very good and the environments seem to show the most improvement 
 graphically. The gameplay is basically the same as GRAW1 with a few added features. To me this 
 game feels more like a very good expansion rather than the next in the series of GRAW. Though I 
 am only lending my opinion on the single player aspect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  First things first: this is NOT simply an expansion pack, as some reviewers have said. No, this 
 is much more than that. Although the core of the game will be familiar to fans of the Tom Clancy 
 series, and the gameplay continues the Ghost Recon legacy, this is the most polished, sophisticated 
 and perhaps enjoyable iteration yet.
  
  Polished is an excellent way to describe it. From the graphics to the sound to the gameplay, lots 
 of little tweaks make a big difference. We get a solid game on steroids and, in my opinion, the 
 result is quite good.
  
  The graphics are simply stunning. For those who like the more Halo-esque graphics of games like 
 Gears of War, the ultra-realistic settings, environments, characters, and explosions of GRAW 2 
 might not seem so incredible. But for those of us interested in an immersing and engaging visual 
 experience, GRAW 2 delivers without a doubt. The original GRAW was praised for its visuals and 
 its environments and -- like most elements of the game -- GRAW 2 has improved on the original.
  
  I wasn't expecting a whole lot from the sound of the game, other than the standards we've come 
 to expect. I was pleasantly surprised by the extra touches here. From the soft pattering of falling 
 rocks and pebbles, to the occasional ominous rattle of a Diamondback hidden in the underbrush, 
 GRAW 2's sound complements the graphics perfectly. Even the weather and atmosphere seem much more 
 a part of the game this time around, in part thanks to the sound design. Play this game with the 
 volume up!
  
  The gameplay elements are also polished. It's hard to improve on an already impressive game engine, 
 but GRAW 2 does it in just the right ways. From the improved Crosscom to the more intuitive use 
 of support vehicles, GRAW 2 seems a bit more friendly from a player standpoint: more forgiving 
 and more intuitive.
  
  It's hard to find much to criticize about this game. Some of the levels seem a bit truncated, but 
 that has as much to do with the vast environment and the illusion of open playability as it does 
 with the actual level design. Some players have already complained about this game being more of 
 an expansion than a full game in its own right. I disagree.
  
  For those of us who have long been fans of the various Tom Clancy games, and particularly those 
 who enjoyed the original GRAW, this is a must buy. For those interested in a remarkably immersing 
 experience, and who like to fire off a few rounds now and then, this is a game worth checking out.
 
  
  There isn't a whole lot that's new in GRAW 2, but the elements of the game which have received 
 attention all show it, and the game as a whole stands as a strong contender in the XBox 360 lineup. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red47
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is such an improvement from the original GRAW. It feels like i am actually there or in 
 a movie theater. It has an excellent presentation and vastley improved graphics. The singleplayer 
 is so tense and i feel like i am actually in the battle fighting to survive. The AI have been bump 
 ump a bit and they havent run out in the open and gotten shot yet. The sound quality is excellent 
 and the music is twice as good as the first game. On the multiplayer side things are going great. 
 Alot of improvements and many more wepons. Also there are alot of bonus content and unlockables 
 in the game and there is also a way to check your stats for singleplayer and multiplayer. Overall, 
 i give this game a 10. This is by far the best game out this year and is a must be, even if you 
 own the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z075056
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Graw 2 builds on the first installment of the game by doing the following:
  
  1) Way better graphics/ enviornments
  2) Awesome cross com feature
  3) Many more new weapons
 
  4) Advanced AI
  
  This game is just amazing when compared to the first graw. I see a lot of people comparing it R6. 
 Why? They are two different games and I love them both. R6 is an amazing game online, but it is 
 not a tactical shooter. Graw makes you use your team in the single player and staying alive is 
 hard to do! This is by far the best game and way more then just a 60 dollar patch . I have not 
 tried online yet, but am sure it will be nothing short of amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raidder
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Better controls and lighting (without the glare) makes this game stand out in a series that has 
 already made a name for itself and is setting high benchmarks for what the 360 lineup has to offer 
 at this time. The next gen systems are allowing the game developers to keep uping the realism and 
 the enjoyment of playing these games. I think Ubisoft is taking it in the right direction. The 
 games AI is much smarter this time around and the Explosions, lighting and general attention to 
 detail just keeps getting better. Being a former Tank Commander thats a plus! Keep it up... Allons 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  ... GRAW 2 is still a very polished and complete game. You can't fault Ubisoft for wanting to capitalize 
 on the success of the original GRAW, but trying to churn out a follow-up within a year probably 
 wasn't necessary. There's really nothing fresh about this title, but to a certain extent it bears 
 enough finetuning (the CrossCom revamping was a good idea and has been executed well, to be sure) 
 to justify playing.
  
  Just keep in mind that last year, GRAW earned a 9.2 from Gamespot and a perfect 10 for its visual 
 content. Since just about all of us have played Gears of War, we're going to be a little jaded 
 now. It's still a damn sharp game from an eye candy standpoint, and textures and enemy soldiers 
 seem to bear more detail.
  
  GRAW 2 does continue to impress in its attention to detail: the masterful control scheme is generally 
 the same, the array of weapons and other toys is unsurpassed, and the tactical elements aren't 
 overbearing to deter the shooter fan. In other words, everything GRAW did so well in March 2006 
 is being done again in March 2007.
  
  If you aren't familiar with the Ghost Recon series at all, and you've got a 360, go pick up the 
 original for $30. But if you relished the first title's single-player and multiplayer modes, and 
 were ready for more, there's nothing fundamentally wrong with GRAW 2 whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhatRuOn
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  If you've never played GRAW1 then this game is for you. If you own or have owned GRAW1 then GRAW2 
 offers absolutely nothing new short of a couple new maps. Unfortunately they even kept the same 
 setting... desert. They've moved the story from Mexico into Texas. So you'll be roaming through 
 the same corridors you were roaming last year. They were out of place for a Ghost Recon game last 
 year, and they still are. If you are a Ghost Recon vet, and you like the gameplay from the older 
 GRs you will NOT enjoy this game. These two games don't deserve the Ghost Recon title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brizofwar
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  This is an expansion pack that is it. The 2 may deceive some of you but try to look at what is 
 really offered. In another review I have seen Written here, a person said the graphics with the 
 new dynamic lighting make this a classic in itself. Is that all it takes to make a great game these 
 days, no. Graphics are a major part these days, however to settle for graphics update alone is 
 not right. For 60 dollars I better get more than a pretty pic and 1 or 2 new gimmicks. You still 
 cant blind fire like you can in Rainbow Six Vegas. The cover system is not good and the fact that 
 a bush will stop you in your tracks and any wall over two inches is unclimbable really puts me 
 off this one. If you are looking for a good shooter that packs some realism, do your self a favor 
 and pick up Rainbow Six Vegas. Great expansion pack UBI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel_0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Definitely better than GRAW 1 and is extremely exiting (off line and on line) . I think this is 
 one of the best games for xbox 360 right now. Great grafics, you feel inside the game wiht the 
 sound, spectacular light effects make this game an amazing experience.
  
  If have been waiting this game for a time and what you see on the demo is not the complete impression 
 you get when you play the game complete. However, if you did not like GRAW 1 I think this is not 
 your game because this game is great compared with this but is not so different to make you change 
 your opinion about GRAW 1.
  
  If you like GRAW 1, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronprill
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  This game has it all everything you need to feel your in the game. This game is the best Tom Clancy 
 game yet. The visuals are amazing and the combat makes you feel like your on the field. 10 out 
 of 10 for this one buy it, don't rent, buy it. It is the best warfare game out on the market yet. 
 The sound effects for the weapons are so realistic the multiplayer has improved a tiny bit that's 
 the only put down but otherwise this game rocks. The game is solid improved and the gameplay is 
 so amazing the field tactics are awesome that you use. This is amazing, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdfontanini
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  You can't get any better than this. Graphics are amazing, gameplay is amazing. Totally submerges 
 me. The Best Game Available for the 360. New dynamic lighting and shadowing make this game in a 
 class by itself. 10 out a 10. No other game comes close to this. A tactical shooter that takes 
 more than just running around with a shotgun, ie GOW. Ubisoft outdoes itself time and time again. 
 I am simply amazed. Maps are truely original and make for hours of playing time. I can definately 
 say I'll be spending the next four months exclusively playing this game. A challenge that keeps 
 you wanting more everytime you shut off your box. Thanks Ubisoft for spending the time and effort 
 to making such a high caliber game. Gamertag: WISEGUY GANGSTR. I'll be in the top rankings in no 
 time at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXl_Element_lXx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  OMG ! This game is wat i been waitinf for ! its AWSOME ! Graw 2 is the best. Its graphics are perfect. 
 Its Gameplay is even better. The Cross-com is so much bettter then wat it was for Graw 1. I luv 
 this game and i think i will even play it more then GOW ! The Gameplay is the best its tactical 
 shotting is the best. With all different Class Like Auto Man , Rifle Man , Sniper AND THE NEW MEDIC 
 ! Which changes how the game is play online wit teamwork and being able to get healed ! If yu are 
 a shotter fan this is a MUST MUST HAVE ! Go out and buy it as soon as yu can. Its worth the 60$ 
 and it will be a great game. All i will hope is that they do the same as they did wit Graw 2 and 
 put some AWSOME Graw 2 DownLoads like NEW MAPS n NEW GUN. This is the game i been waitn for to 
 take over my GOW Life. I been playn gow since it came out and now i think it might just go in the 
 closet so i can play SOME GRAW 2 !
  
  ITS THE BEST !!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattpoulin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  this is ths second game of the graw serie and it's more beautiful than the
  first one and realistic!! When you play the game in 1080i-1080P average
  and crank up your home 
 theater at the top it's the war !Very nice sound, like
  explosion ,gun and voice take you in the game! If you want a tactical game
  ,buy this one!!! is 
 a great great game!!! But if you don't like the style of the
  gameplay try it and sure you want to buy it after playing a couple of hour!
  It's not all to 
 run and gunning all the guy in this game, you must stay alive
  and take your team squade at the right place if you want to win!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethross
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  GRAW series once again pushed the boundaries of the Xbox 360 and shows us what the console can 
 rearly do, I should know as I've got extra cooling in my Xbox 360 and this game has made it the 
 hottest reading yet. So prepare your self good ventilation for a blast of a time.
  I have yet to touch on the online multiplayer , but from the options I've seen it's varied and 
 has enough to keep you busy till the next release. Clan options are what you would expect to see 
 from an Xbox 360 title getting help from the clan base of Halo 3.
  The single seems a lot shorter than GRAWs last outing but a lot more fun and less fustrating. The 
 visuals are mind blowing, just remember to use HDTV if you have one which I luckaly do, as it's 
 essential to see it's glory.
  Though this does'nt use the full screen on my setup which is a shame and gives me a letter box 
 effect, but this does'nt spoil the game one bit.
  The musical score is perfectly timed and which unlockable music videos this is a sure hit.
  Sound 
 effects are a great part of this game and adds a whole extra sense to you.
  
  A must for all Xbox 360 owners, surely this springs top hit. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
