-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's HAWX
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tomclancyshawx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic planes and environments.
 Great, action-packed dogfighting.
 Believable audio really enhances the experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limited multiplayer modes.
 Ground textures look ugly up close.
 Planes all handle similarly.
 Friendly AI isn't great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 561 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: Flight Action
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This arcade-style aerial-combat game has plenty to offer those flying solo, but it doesn't offer 
 much in the way of competitive multiplayer content. 

  After tackling squad-based third-person combat in Ghost Recon, stealth action in Splinter Cell, 
 and strategy in EndWar, Ubisoft's Tom Clancy brand takes to the skies in HAWX (High Altitude Warfare -- Experimental) . 
 The game features intense dogfights, gorgeous scenery and planes, and an instantly accessible, 
 arcade-style air combat experience. Multiplayer options are limited, and different planes don't 
 offer as much variety as they should, but HAWX lives up to the quality of the brand and is a good 
 aerial-combat game in its own right.  

           HAWX's enhanced-reality system helps you shake missile locks and target enemy aces.   
    

  HAWX follows the story of the titular squadron and its leader, Major David Crenshaw. After you're 
 transferred to HAWX as squadron leader, the group is disbanded by the US Air Force in 2014, following 
 events in the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter games. (You get the cool task of rescuing Captain 
 Mitchell and the Ghosts in the first mission of the game.) After this, Crenshaw joins Artemis, 
 a private military contractor that works both for corporations and the Brazilian government. Artemis 
 attacks US forces, causing Crenshaw to have a change of heart and goes back to what he does best: 
 defending the US against hostile forces, namely Artemis. HAWX's story, like those in other Tom 
 Clancy games, is presented via cutscenes, radio chatter, and video updates. The story is largely 
 inconsequential, but it sets the scene well enough for your numerous engagements and keeps the 
 game moving along at a brisk pace.  

  HAWX is instantly accessible and is a lot of fun to pick up and play in short bursts. The controls 
 are uncomplicated and work well enough that even issuing orders to wingmen during a dogfight is 
 easily accomplished. One of the major gameplay innovations in HAWX is the Enhanced Reality System. 
 ERS is essentially a series of gates projected onto your heads-up display that, when you fly through 
 them successfully, let you shake missile locks or catch up to challenging enemies. For example, 
 in one mission ERS helps you fly a predetermined course to avoid radar detection, which in turn 
 lets you knock out a base's air-defence grid. There are a number of scenarios in which ERS proves 
 useful, but thankfully it's not a system that you can use as a crutch to get you through every 
 single mission.  

  The ERS definitely makes portions of HAWX significantly easier than they would be without it, so 
 for the experienced pilots among you, there's an option to fly with all of the assistance turned 
 off. Unlike similar options in racing games, the assistance option can be toggled on the fly by 
 double-tapping one of the triggers. When flying without assistance, you can perform sharper turns 
 to avoid missile locks, but you're more susceptible to stalling if you brake too hard. In this 
 mode, the camera angle switches to a wider view of the landscape, which affords you a better view 
 of your current target and incoming missiles. However, because the camera is constantly moving, 
 it can be a bit disorienting and makes controlling your plane even more difficult. HAWX's gameplay 
 is fast-paced, frantic, and ultimately satisfying. It's easy to get swept up in the tense saga 
 while dogfighting over famous cities and picturesque landscapes, and there's enough variety in 
 the missions that the action never gets stale. Dogfights are nothing like bombing runs, and escorting 
 a friendly VIP is a quite different challenge compared to defending a base. There are 19 missions 
 in the single-player campaign, spanning multiple continents that you'll visit both in daylight 
 and at night. Locales include famous city skylines such as Washington, Tokyo, and Rio de Janeiro, 
 as well as remote areas in Nevada and the Magellan Strait.  

           There's only one competitive multiplayer mode, but it's a lot of fun.      

  HAWX 
 is an arcade-style game rather than a simulation at its heart, which is why your payload can include 
 upward of 100 missiles for each mission. As you progress through the story, the odds against you 
 become increasingly steep, as enemy aircraft are joined by ground and naval forces and antiair 
 defences become more common. Thankfully, you have a large and varied arsenal at your disposal that 
 includes long- and short-range missiles, antiground "dumb" bombs, cannons, rocket pods, and countermeasures. 
 Though it would be unrealistic for a small, single-seater jet to carry that much firepower in real 
 life, it's a triumph of gameplay over realism that in HAWX you can stay in the heat of battles 
 without ever needing to land and resupply.  

  HAWX rewards you with dozens of unlockables throughout its campaign. Licensed planes include the 
 iconic F-22 Raptor, the stealthy F-117 Nighthawk, the devastating A-10A Thunderbolt II, and other 
 models from the likes of MiG, Eurofighter, and Saab. There appears to be no shortage of variety 
 in the hangar, but the handling of the planes doesn't change much when you move between cockpits, 
 which is disappointing. Despite the fact that HAWX is set in the future, you earn your stripes 
 flying older fighter jets before being allowed into the cockpits of more modern aircraft in later 
 missions. Despite the High Altitude Warfare -- Experimental acronym in the title, there are no experimental 
 fighters in the game, and most of the warfare takes place just a few thousand feet above ground. 
 That doesn't make the game any less enjoyable, though, and flying over famous landmarks in an F-22 
 without having to worry about throttle gauges and limited ammunition is a real treat.  

  Many of HAWX's missions group you with a pair of wingmen. You can order your comrades to attack 
 targets or to concentrate on defending you, but they're not always reliable and you certainly shouldn't 
 expect them to get much done without your help. At best, they'll destroy the occasional enemy unit, 
 but you still have to do the majority of the work in each mission. You can also fly with your friends 
 in the four-player cooperative mode, which definitely makes the campaign more rewarding. You can 
 drop in or out of an existing co-op game at any time, and though the gameplay remains the same, 
 it's much more rewarding to devise strategies and coordinate with real people than it is with AI 
 wingmen.  

  HAWX's competitive multiplayer offering is also fun, but it's limited to just one eight-player 
 Team Deathmatch mode. Multiplayer battles take place in a good selection of 19 maps based on those 
 from the campaign missions, and it's far more satisfying to take down a human opponent than it 
 is an AI pilot. Furthermore, if you string together a number of kills in succession then you gain 
 access to special abilities such as an enemy-stalling EMP blast, which is a nice touch.  

           Missions take you to varied locations all over the globe.      

  From a distance, 
 the environments -- which are created with real satellite data -- look beautiful. Natural landscapes 
 and expanses of water are incredibly lifelike, and city skylines are nicely detailed. But if you 
 fly too low, the illusion is shattered. Trees look rough and pixelated, and Chicago's skyline might 
 as well be a collection of cardboard boxes on close inspection. The planes are the game's stars, 
 and each one is modelled realistically with great attention to detail. Light bounces off of wings, 
 afterburners glow with blistering heat, missiles launch in clouds of smoke, and explosions serve 
 as a gorgeous reminder of just how much power you have at your command. The frame rate occasionally 
 takes a hit when there's a lot of action onscreen, but for the most part the engine holds up extremely 
 well. Realistic sound effects add a great deal to the presentation; slow jet burns give way to 
 intense growls as your speed increases, and the various beeps and buzzes associated with missile 
 locks really add to the feeling of being an ace pilot.  

  Tom Clancy's HAWX is a rewarding arcade aerial-combat experience that looks and sounds every bit 
 as good as it plays. The controls, and in particular the ERS innovation, make dogfighting in iconic 
 planes over famous cities as accessible as it is enjoyable. It's unfortunate that the multiplayer 
 options are so limited and that the various aircraft all feel very similar to fly, but there's 
 lots of fun to be had here for novices and top guns alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mikeian2014
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  HAWX is a game that is alright but not one I would buy it is fine in the first couple of missions 
 till it gets repetitive! I mean the same thing protect the bomber protect the bomber. So in the 
 end you will do the same mission like 6 times. Plus the game recommends a jet you should take. 
 I didn't like this because I just hate being told what to do so I always pick something else! So 
 me being the guy that usually rents first but lately has been buying I bought this game first because 
 of the cover..... yeah stupid right! Well there are cool weapon packages to the game so it's not 
 all bad. There's a wide assortment of jets and fighters to! Don't get me wrong there's alot this 
 game can offer in jets and weapons but the missions bring this game down and the heads up display 
 is worthless (at least to me) . So this is mainly my review of this game not much to say for a game 
 like this that lacks depth. Most good games have depth just to name a few fallout 3, oblivion, 
 and mercenaries 2. All of these games have the depth that HAWX doesn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jords321
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's HAWX is a very good game in my opinion, the planes look and act very realistic and 
 the citys look quite good, however when you fly close to the ground or the buildings you can see 
 the shabby textures. The 4-player co-op campaign is a good idea especially with the points system 
 as you can see who is getting the most kills, also players can play at different difficulties. 
 Overall i would rate the campiagn 9.5/10.
  But i havent mentioned multiplayer yet. Multiplayer is 8 player team deathmatches. It has a few 
 modes but most people only ever play dogfight who restrics your movements to a small area of the 
 map. Also the missiles have a small problem, they only lock onto the back of the plane, i have 
 seen missiles go stright towards a planes front then pull up at the last second to hit the rear 
 and miss. Also a few glitches like being able to get under the sea is a problem and i hope a patch 
 will fix this. One thing remaining is the ranking system, you earn xp for kills or doing challenges 
 in campaign or online. Once you get to rank 30 it gets quite hard to rank up as you already have 
 done most of the challenges.
  My final score 8/10 could use a few improvements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evratto
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  Unlike AC6 this is an ARCADE flight combat game, and this is where all the differences of opinion, 
 all disappointments and controversy generated around the game when the demo came out. Almost without 
 simulation capabilities can be considered as the best arcade air combat game to date. 
  
  I personally consider it a must own for those who like air combat fighters . 
  
  Must point 
 out that the game in its first chapters may seem chaotic and a badly done copy of AC6, but later 
 youll discover that it is better than what it really demonstrates... with the unlocked aircrafts 
 start to perceive a nice sensation of Flight plus a devastating capacity of destruction of some 
 models such as the A-10 .. and by the fourth mission discovers the great advantage of the "assist" 
 off "or third person view that is very good innovation for air combat games that improved my appreciation 
 of the game, from regular to good immediately.
  
  
  Campaign
  Short for my taste. The game consists of 19 missions, beating each unlock new planes and weapons 
 to these aircraft that can load 3 different types of weapons and flares. You can unlock up to 36 
 aircraft including the two who are now free in the bazaar, there are models and their variants 
 such as the TYPHOON *, the F117, F14, F15, * FA18 * FA18E Superhornet *, F16, F2, F20 , F22, F5, 
 the F35, Rafale C *, MIG-21, MIG-25, * MIG29, MIG33, * Mirages *, A10 *, the SAAB DRAKE, SU25, 
 SU27, the amazing YF12A, YF17, A6, A7, Harrier, EA6B Prowler, EF 117 Raven. (* I believe in best 
 for combat) . 
  
  Visuals 
  The camera is great when you're out of the cockpit and can see the plane, including 360 degrees, 
 Excellent graphics in terms of deployment of weapons, smoke from the missile explosions in front 
 of you, clouds, light art and reflections. The view from above the ground is amazing it seems to 
 be flying over Google Earth ... but when one approaches to the ground or sea the texture is not 
 the best. Although the cities above seems extraordinary and almost unbeatable have the same defect 
 with a close look. 
  
  Innovation 
  Have innovated over other games. Tom Clancy launches its first air combat game but comparing it 
 to the best competitor AC6 highlights the "assist off" that is a distant view of the third person 
 of the plane that lets you locate enemies and perform extreme maneuvers for a short time because 
 you will be lost on the map with ease, I think they have forced a bit in this of only be able to 
 make the hard maneuvers in this view requires practice to master it soon enough. The flare is 
 also a good addition to the combat. 
  
  Story 
  The nice thing about history is that it hasnt any cutscenes throughout the game. Any information 
 is given in the form of news in a corner while the mission unfolds. 
  The plot concerns the war between USA and Artemis Global Security, a group of mercenaries and private 
 military defense with great offensive war power. Artemis is the "good" at first and to defend U. S. 
 allies such as Brazil which has a war with a country named la Trinidad then you will be transferred 
 to the U. S. NAVY and then to the USAF to fight against La Trinidad and Artemis Global Security... 
 
  
  Music 
  Typical of Tom Clancy, in my opinion: lower the volume to zero. 
  
  Online 
  There are Coop and team battles. Confused by times can lose chat and in complex missions 
 can lose the line. 
  
  Gameplay 
  Pretty good, targeted enemies are well defined, both in soil on land or sea, it is easy to change 
 the target of the enemy, all the buttons are well located and quite logical, for example, accelerating 
 and braking on the trigger , firing in A and B. When the task required to define ground areas or 
 territories appear kinda edges of some particular color, red (problem) , green (all is ok) or blue 
 depending of the case ... 
  
  
  Score: 7 
  
  It's a good game, recommended especially for those who are still waiting for the AC7 and want some 
 air fighting action .  always surrounded by lots of events, explosions, chases, enemies by air 
 sea and land, you must order your squad in the attack as a defense in desired goals, you need quite 
 some tactics and strategy to solve a mission. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: but_chik13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I really do not understand why people are slamming this game. Its a decent title, same fun factor 
 as Ace Combat. True, sound FX may be found wanting but story is decent and good god finally the 
 pilot talks. Voice acting is what is expected on a Clancy game which is to say great. 
  
  Now lets cut it up. On the replay sometimes the explosions all of a sudden seems two dimensional 
 especially when you slow it down, anybody else notices this? but the lighting in your plane, your 
 gauges, the contrails, and your afterburners looks phenomenal. Controls, i am still getting used 
 to it, after clocking 100 hours++ in AC6 you really cant blame me. Planes do not handle much different, 
 that much is true, there was almost no difference between the f-14, f-15 and the Foxbat, my theory 
 is if your going to generalize the handling of a car or a plane or a boat couldnt you atleast make 
 it good? but still you would not mind it. 
  
  People keep saying its not realistic... you should really read the genre. Im giving it an 8.5 coz 
 of the sound, explosion and lack of a skirmish flight. which i believe is something these types 
 of games should have to increase replay value for offline players (remember psi-ops? how awesome 
 was that?) . anyway those are my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixbaby44
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  In the near future setting of H. A. W. X, (high altitude warfare: xperimental) you fight in a war 
 with mexican rebels from a different perspective than most action games give you. There is a better 
 variety of missions than other flying games, and the graphics look great. The controls are perfectly 
 set up to the 360 controller, and the combat is both accessible and immensly satisfying. There 
 are a few problems though, like the mission structure. The missions are lengthy, but only have 
 1 or 2 checkpoints in them. You can't save midway and continue later either, which sucks. Multiplayer 
 is fun, but doesn't bring anything new to the table besides fighting in the skies. Nevertheless, 
 H. A. W. X is a very immersive game that is well worth the 60$ price of addmission. you get realistic 
 plane handling, great graphics and good mission variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddie92hg
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong this is a "good" game. But compared to Ace Combat 6 (and yes I HAVE to make 
 the comparison because AC6 is considered the best flight sims to date) this is a terrible game. 
 First off, graphics.. The graphics for this game make the planes feel like plastic aircraft, the 
 scenery is very plain with not much detail. This is '09 already good graphics shouldn't be too 
 hard to ask of right? Considering AC6 came out in '07 and has jaw dropping effects. Oh and did 
 anyone notice... no cut scenes what so ever? The co-op sounded like an amazing idea (I was looking 
 forward to it ALOT) but it failed when many people ran into achievement glitches and only the host 
 would get achievements. Making all the achievements for this game glitched unless you did something 
 unorthodox to fix them. Loading times as well, I'm not one to complain about long load times but 
 when AC6 has like 5 sec loading times for the entire level and looks amazing while HAWX has constant 
 loads.. then yea HAWX fails there again. Not to mention the load screens would sometimes freeze 
 or get you disconnected from a multiplayer session. The 50 aircraft sounded really nice as well, 
 but when you compromise on graphics it does no good to have that many. All in all the only thing 
 I'll find myself going back to HAWX for is the multiplayer, its really enjoyable with many different 
 aspects to approach your opponents with. Definitely worth a rental to try it out, but I'll be sticking 
 to my AC6 campaign while HAWX keeps me busy online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebvan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Going into HAWX, I was pretty excited. A couple weeks ago the demo came out and me and runeofred 
 tore it up. I'd have to say though after playing the game, I was a little let down. I'm not saying 
 its a flawed game or anything, but ya know the reason you quite didn't fully enjoy Assassin's Creed 
 (well besides the ending) ... ya thats the same reason you won't fully enjoy this game. Great graphics, 
 cool gameplay, but just too damn repetitive.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are top notch like any other Tom Clancy game. The environment 
 is detailed nicely and each plane has it's own unique look. Explosions and inside of the cockpits 
 are all great too. I can't really think of too much to say that was bad about the graphics, so 
 I won't!
  
  Sound - Same with graphics. Everything is presented well.
  
  Gameplay - IMO, I thought the controls were great. I know flight sim enthusiasts aren't going to 
 fall in love with these arcade-ish style flight controls, but I liked them just fine. This is one 
 of those games with a very quick learning curve, and perhaps too quick. Maybe the biggest thing 
 which made me believe this game might not be worth the buy though is difficulty. I thought it was 
 incredibly easy. I started the game in Elite mode (the hardest mode) , continued to play it on Elite 
 mode, and beat the game within 2 days (or about 10 hours of gameplay) . Above anything else, this 
 is the one reason I would not buy this game (but would gladly rent it) . Also, each mission seems 
 to be too much like the other. I know it's kind of hard for an air-combat game to reinvent the 
 wheel with each level, but something different from fly around and killing enemies would be nice. 
 And this is coming from a gamer whose favorite genre is racing, so I have a high tolerance for 
 doingVERY repetitive levels.
  
  I also should mention that the CRAZY TRIANGLE SYSTEM (try to bear with me being overly technical) 
 is pretty nifty too. At any time when your getting chased down you can press a button which shows 
 the ideal path to evade missiles, or hit certain ground targets.
  
  Story - Very surprising for this genre (but not surprising for a Tom Clancy game) , this game actually 
 has a good story. You start off as a pilot for a PMC, sh*t goes down, you become a pilot for the 
 US. I don't want to spoil much but you'll be surprised in how much you enjoy the story.
  
  Features - I'll be honest, I didn't play any multiplayer. When I played this game over my break 
 my internet was cruddy and I could never connect to a server. I imagine though that the multiplayer 
 adds a good deal of replay value to this game. There is a ranking system which feels very similar 
 to Rainbow Six Vegas 2. I also have to say, I like that games are letting you track your exact 
 stats more and more.
  
  Overall - Although I wouldn't buy this game, I definitely was glad I played it. I know some people 
 have a little more free cash to spend than others, but if I were to spend my cash on a game, I 
 wouldn't buy this one. If I can beat the EXPERT mode in 10 hours, without even being a big flight-sim 
 enthusiast, I can't imagine how fast people who enjoy this genre would tear this game up. Everything 
 looks, sounds, and controls great... but its the same looks, sounds, and controls constantly for 
 10 hours in a row.
  
  MY VERDICT: Rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  UbiSoft has done an impressive job with their latest stint from the Tom Clancy universe. HAWX offers 
 a lot of fun and senseless carnage for action aficionados, but don't expect a great deal of depth 
 to this game or you'll be sorely disappointed.
  
  You and your rag tag team of ace fighter pilots start the game working for the U. S. Air Force before 
 joining the Artemis Corporation; a global defense organization for hire. As you complete missions 
 for a variety of different countries and factions, your contracts become increasingly dangerous. 
 In short, after a few missions, you will find yourself involved in the world's most heated conflicts 
 (or rather, Tom Clancy's most heated conflicts) . There surprisingly is a plot twist, though you 
 don't need to involve yourself in the story at any point. It's mostly there to give you a pretext 
 to doing a lot of the things you'll be doing throughout the game, and it serves this purpose well.
 
  
  The graphics in HAWX are exceptionally good. The planes are nicely detailed and look appropriately 
 fearsome. The environments are beautiful, and your HUD is simple and easy to read in a moment's 
 glance. The planes come apart nicely when you blow them up, though the explosions themselves can 
 sometimes be underwhelming. The sound is just good as if not better; all of your mission objectives 
 and orders to your wingman are delivered with great voice acting. The machine guns sound menacing, 
 and you'll no doubt enjoy hearing the descending whine of free-ball bombs before they obliterate 
 everything below you.
  
  The interesting addition to HAWX is the assistance-off mode, which essentially strips you of the 
 limitations present while it's on. While assistance is off, you have a scaled back third person 
 perspective of your plane. This means you can see a LOT more around you, and affords you the opportunity 
 to keep visual contact with your targets as they do their best to get away from you. The game also 
 uses a waypoint system that will prompt you at different times depending on what you're doing. 
 For example, when targeted by a missile, activating the ERS system shows a path that, when followed, 
 will shake the enemy bogey off your tail. Other times, the system will guide you to very hard to 
 reach targets that are only open to attack from a very particular angle. The campaign puts this 
 to good use. You will regularly have to take out targets that require strategic thinking and smart 
 use of the ERS for an opening.
  
  The campaign itself will last you a while. 19 missions at roughly 10 to 15 minutes make for a decently 
 long single player experience. Your goals will range from protecting the U. S. fleet to escorting 
 Air Force One. A lot of the time you will also have to run air support for ground troops. In fact, 
 quite a number of times you fight on the same battlefield as Captain Mitchell of Ghost Recon fame. 
 Your objectives also frequently change, so there's rarely a dull moment where you're simply flying 
 around waiting for something to happen. Which is good, because the unrelenting pace of the game 
 is a big reason why it's so fun.
  
  Completing the campaign and playing multiplayer both award you points to level up, so it's not 
 a bad idea to run through the story mode before you test your skills online. There are dozens of 
 different planes, and each one has a variety of different weapon load outs which also need to be 
 unlocked. These different configurations usually just reflect different styles of play. Each plane 
 will have its own repertoire of ground suppression, air support, long range, dog fighting, and 
 several others that equip you differently depending on how you want to approach the game. Admittedly, 
 it would have been nice if the game allowed you to equip your own weapons but you'll rarely ever 
 feel restricted by the presets.
  
  There's a decent multiplayer component here. You can play the entire campaign cooperatively online, 
 which make the missions a lot more fun (particularly when you have a team that communicates) . It 
 can be fun deliberating strategies before jumping into the next battle. There's also a team death 
 match mode, which is pretty self explanatory. You get extra points for killing the top ranking 
 pilot on the other team, and when you get a high enough streak you can impose a variety of different 
 advantages or disadvantages on your team or the other, including jamming, restricting the enemy 
 to using only guns, and altitude restrictions for the other team (quickly destroying any unfriendly 
 planes above 3,500 feet) .
  
  This certainly isn't a simulator, as most of the planes you play with don't handle differently, 
 can take an unrealistic amount of damage and pack way more firepower than their real world counterparts. 
 You'll notice the different speed from plane to plane though. The F22 Raptor covers an amazing 
 amount of distance per second compared to, say, the Harrier. The game could have done a better 
 job eliciting a sense of speed, though the lack of realism also adds to the game's simple pick 
 up and play feel. It certainly wouldn't be as fun as it is without over a hundred missiles at your 
 disposal at the default difficulty.
  
  If you take the game for what it is, and don't expect a realistic combat flight simulator, you'll 
 undoubtedly have fun with HAWX. It's got a decent story with a solid presentation and plenty of 
 action-packed gameplay. Despite the lack of depth, this is an incredibly fun game to play that 
 any arcade action flight fan should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurninNitrous
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating H. A. W. X. ever since I heard about its street date over Summer 2008. As 
 a hardcore Ace Combat fan and a Tom Clancy fanatic, I was excited to see a new flight sim that 
 could ACTUALLY BE GOOD! I wasn't let down either!
  
  Ubisoft did a great job with rendering the graphics for each plane and the environment. There is 
 a very expansive list of planes to choose from, along with a variety of weapons kits for each plane. 
 The in-depth ranking system (which works in Campaign as well as Multiplayer) makes it enjoyable 
 to keep playing to unlock new planes, weapons, skins, and maps. The multiplayer is very fast-paced 
 and addictive to anyone who knows how to handle an aircraft and, therefore, may not be suitable 
 for beginners. And to top everything off, Ubisoft introduced the revolutionary OFF flight mode, 
 turning off the "limiters" in the aircraft and allowing them to perform maneuvers that would tear 
 a real plane to pieces.
  
  There are a few flaws in the realism. Many of the aircraft don't stall out when you hit the air 
 brakes (when not in OFF mode) and the OFF mode is obviously unrealistic, however fun.
  
  Overall, I think Tom Clancy's H. A. W. X. is a step in the right directions, accomplishing things 
 that other American flight sims have only dreamed of. This game is definitely worth the money and 
 I would recommend it to everyone to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBaron76
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The bad news is, that which differentiates it from AC6 really sucks. The assistance off mode is 
 terrible and it's the source of many experience points that I will not attempt to acquire because 
 it's just no fun. Another bad in my opinion is that a huge amount of XP are gained through multiplayer 
 accomplishments, and there is only one multiplayer mode. 
  
  The story is more interesting than that of AC6, if you're a fan of Tom Clancy type storylines. 
 The environments are spectacular and the gameplay is rather easy to catch on to, as long as you 
 don't aspire to do assistance off mode or enhanced reality system (ERS) , and you're not expecting 
 airplanes to behave like airplanes. ERS can be an interesting challenge, but I would quickly trade 
 that feature with a cockpit view including a HUD.
  
  My assessment is that the developers tried very hard to break into a genre where it is very difficult 
 to be unique, and they've done a good job of making a jet game that's fun to play and graphically 
 impressive. But, the features that set it apart are pretty awful, and compared to other games of 
 the genre (I've unfortunately bought them all for the X360) , this has been the biggest waste of 
 funds so far. That's only because it is no better than similar games of years before, and we all 
 expect progress, right?! I like it, but it's a pain in the a** to pay the same price for lateral 
 movement. My advice to friends and family is to borrow, rent, or wait for it to appear in bargain 
 bin. But play it for sure if you get the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombermanator
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most enjoyable arcade flight games I have ever played. I stress that it is an 
 arcade title. If a game is released on a console, its not a "sim." Sims require a keyboard and 
 joystick. I can't understand people who bash this game for being unrealistic, then go and praise 
 Ace Combat. This game is not about realism, the reason there is so many planes is not so they can 
 feel all that different, but because they can perform different rolls. I don't have much else to 
 say about this game that has not already been said, other than don't listen to the haters who say 
 the stalls don't look real. Have you ever played in expert mode. If you have you might change your 
 mind. Stalls are realistic and very disappointing when they occur, unlike in normal mode, when 
 stalls are dramatic, falling out of the sky at mach 1.5 occurrences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  If you like eye candy and arcade games then this game is passable. If you want something that is 
 anywhere close to realistic, stay away. The graphics in HAWKS is pretty good for a console game. 
 Aircraft look realatively realistic as does the terrian. Where things begin to break down are in 
 the gameplay elements. That is not to say that they can't be somewhat fun for a while. 
  
  Gameplay takes on the form of so many other console flight sims in that it just feels like an old 
 fashioned arcaded shooter from the 80's and 90's. There is no realistic flight models here. Jets 
 can perform some amazing, and very unrealistic manuvers. While this makes the game "play" so you 
 can compete against the AI, it just doesn't feel as it should. Pilots that know what a stall is 
 in real life will be pretty disappointed with the stalls in this game. Yes, it was designed to 
 be accessible to all players but boy is it far from the realistic norm. Stalls don't look natural 
 now is recovery anywhere near what they should be. 
  
  While you can have a good time if you totally suspend your belief in the flight model. You will 
 probably get bored due to the lack of any real variety. You get the standard "intercept", "bomb" 
 and "do both" type missions. After you do each a couple of times the only thing that might be different 
 is the terrian. Just not enough there to keep you interested.
  
  Bottom line.... fly away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCrusader
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  I loved the single player, which I immediately started on the elite difficulty. The difficulties 
 only affect the amount of missiles/bombs your plane carries, and the amount of damage your plane 
 takes. The game starts off fairly simple with the missions you are required to do, but the later 
 missions can become extremely hectic. I largely blamed this on the games AI, who aren't very helpful. 
 They have two settings, attack and defend. Setting them on defend seemed to be fly in formation 
 behind me. Attack is slightly more useful, since when on this setting their fighters magically 
 start flying twice as any plane in the game. They attack the target you had selected when you issued 
 the order, their missiles do half the damage of the missiles the player fires (for the average 
 plane, it takes 2 hits from the player and 4 from the AI) , and on top of this after the target 
 they just fly around occasionally attacking something.
  
  Now on to the coop, which is the same as the single player but instead of dumb AI, you get another 
 player making strategy to accomplishing the missions possible.
  
  Finally the multiplayer which is limited to 4 vs 4 team death match so far. The different rule 
 sets for this make the matches vary, although in my opinion the creators made the F-22 too powerful 
 compared to the other planes. I say this because looking at the other planes, there are perks that 
 are on each plane, and most planes get between 1 to 3 perks. The F-22 however has 6 and most are 
 extremely good ones for verses. This leads to most of the online matches I have been in have been 
 in have at least three people flying the F-22. The other frustrating part of multiplayer is when 
 you have someone in the match who is lagging. This is annoying in most games, but in this game 
 it feels like playing against a cheater. Their symbol on the HUD appears flying all over the screen 
 making it impossible to lock on to them or ever see their plane, basically making them invincible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockZillaX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  I have been eagerly waiting for this to come out for many months. I ignored the pre concerns I 
 had because I love flight games so very much and thought from the demo that it wasn't half bad... 
 Its just a shame that the game is so simplistic in so many areas.. If only there had been fuel, 
 take-offs and landings, a more intricate and comprehensive wingman cover, attack and defence system. 
 As it stands its a very pretty but simple, short game with very little substance. Also would have 
 been nice if all the planes were noticeably different in their handling and somewhat diverse in 
 their weaknesses and attributes. This could have had a brilliant and interesting vital effect on 
 strategy.
  
  Oh well it was not to be..
  
  Do you think the developers just prior to releasing the code to press compared their game to the 
 likes of Ace Combat or its PC counterparts and really thought whether they had successfully explored 
 and accomplished a game that pushed the boundaries of what has been before on the next generation 
 consoles and achieved a game in line with what they had promised us the game would feature whilst 
 they were in development?
  
  I don't mean to bag the development team because regardless it is still a good game, but it is 
 not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkiwild1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Playing co-op only the host will receive achievements and get the recommended aircraft and weapons 
 for that mission. The other players are left to pick from what ever aircraft and weapons packages 
 they have unlocked. This is the biggest bumbling I have ever seen in a game. The game is only half 
 complete.
  It is a blast to play and great scenery, but come on. Why have co-op if the other plays don't get 
 the same benefits and rewards as the host. I don't know how Ubisoft could miss this, perhaps they 
 will fix this in a future patch. I haven't completed the game but I do like the game play otherwise. 
 It seems rather easy at times and down right impossible at times. A good balance in my opinion. 
 Everyone I have played with online have mentioned the same dislike with the co-op blunder by Ubisoft 
 as I have mentioned. I would like a patch for this but don't expect one. I am sure this game will 
 fade away and Ubisoft will not have to patch their blunder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prkindrick
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  So I am going to start with my only real complaint about this game. It took WAY to long for a flight 
 game to become this good.
  
  The single player campaign is immersive, addictive, and wildly fun. You start on your first mission 
 and it is in an open space no worries of buildings or anything of that nature. Then next thing 
 you know you find your in a wild and fun dogfight over a very famous location.
  
  This game does have more to offer than just the single player campaign. It has an online variant 
 of a team deathmatch which is where this game gets very interesting. I will admit the multiplayer 
 has several flaws to it the major being if one of your teamates quit they cannot be replaced midgame. 
 Second some of the support rewards are a little over powered. The emp typically means certain death. 
 Lastly you will find yourself getting wildly frustrated if you find yourself alone in an arcade 
 version of the deathmatch. You will either be dodging missles or be slaughtered shortly after spawn.
 
  
  The plus sides of this multiplayer it is extremely competitive. Very rarely will you see a complete 
 landslide of a match. You will find yourself deeply satisfied when you see the text pop up on your 
 screen that you just killed the enemy teams ace pilot. The game variants are completely customizable, 
 you can have an all cannon match, you can have a close quarters combat. But the seemingly most 
 popular is just the standard deathmatch where you can fire missles without any worry of running 
 out.
  
  Basically to sum it up this game is a wonderfull experience that you will find yourself quickly 
 becoming addicted to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiSTfromHell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Tom Clancy games for as long as they've been on the market. The majority were 
 all hits with me, but there were some disappointments. I was skeptical at first. 
  
  I've played air combat and simulator games before, though not my favorite genre, they were decent 
 games. I enjoyed them, and that is what video games are about. However, I've read mixed reaction 
 regarding HAWX. I had some extra cash to spend so I picked this up on the release date. I am glad 
 I took the chance.
  
  With a large number of locations, aircraft, weaponry, technology, and mission scenarios I've got 
 the variety I like to have in games. The story line is well done, though somewhat unbelievable. 
 It does play on current events and politics, and that goes hand-in-hand with anything with Clancy's 
 name on it. Visually the game shines, though it has some rough spots. The controls are simple enough 
 to learn within an hour or two. The gameplay is where HAWX really performs. It's intense and addicting. 
 The online multiplayer is competitive and rewarding since the games features character progression 
 through challenges in both single and multiplayer. The co-op is awesome too. Sometimes we all need 
 help, and players are always a better option than AI.
  
  All together, HAWX is a tightly tuned game and experience. It should at least be rented first for 
 those who are skeptical. For those that love intense and competitive action it is a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyrator8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Well its a bit emm lacking in singleplayer the air combat is ok since the intercepting seems a 
 bit useless and the A. I never seems to actually purposeully dodge a rocket and even if they are 
 it still hits 75% of the time. I do like the fact that the more you play the more you get with 
 the XP bar unlocking new planes and weapons which makes you play more than 2 or 3 days if you don't 
 have xbox live this makes buying the game have more sense. Multiplayer is great with support abilities. But 
 then you have to have a way of comunicating if you are doing campain co-op as you have to decide 
 whos going to be ground supressing and whos going to be dog fighiting.
  Well to sum up A. I 4/10 Singleplayer 5/10 Multiplayer 8/10 and with these through my own special 
 method of calculating the score it is 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KC51167
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Hawx is a new breed of flight simulators. the control mechanics are fairly similar 
 to ace combat 6. the key feature that makes Hawx better than ace combat is the "OFF" mode. the 
 off mode enables you to control your aircraft freely, allowing you to perform death defining tricks 
 during a dog fight, which helps you big time. they are three modes in Hawx campaign, free flight, 
 and versus. campaign is like any basic story line you have objectives and if u don't carrying them 
 out you lose. but the storyline it self is very well thought of and brings you into the game slowly 
 but quickly. at first you play a little lock aim fire with some basic planes then your introduced 
 to Off mode. I feel the campaign could of been a little longer but its tom Clancy first flight 
 game so i guess they will build from it. another cool thing from campaign is that the time frame 
 that everything occurring follows with the time frame with endwar, also campaign is xboxlive coop 
 which is great if your stuck on a level. The second mode is free flight all this is a basic way 
 for you to improve your flight skills, really nothing else. Ubisoft should of allow you pick a 
 certain amount of enemy fighter jet so you could of have an A. I fun time. the last mode is versus 
 which is all Xbox Live. match's consist of a 4 on 4 dogfight. Hawx multiplayer mode is the games 
 life saver. especially since they have support element like emp strikes ,radar jamming, cannon 
 upgrades and much more. 2 words to say about online as wellNO LAG" which is great. another cool 
 thing about Hawx is the ranking system. the more mayhem you give to your enemies the more points 
 you achieve. the more points you achieve the more planes and upgrades you get. The graphics are 
 amazing. the planes look great the explosions are to die for. I am giving Tom Clancys Hawx a 9 
 because its new, great features awesome online. reminds me of a crimison sky with realizism, and 
 just start up fun. its a must buy. if you don't believe me download the demo! well if anybody does 
 get the game add me as a friend lets dogfight. KC On3 MaN ArMy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob_Job
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok so everyone is bashing this game cuz it is not a flight sim. Ubi themselces said it was not 
 a flight sim months before it was released. People say there is no sense of speed. How are you 
 to simulate speed with the ground thousands of feet below you? People say a rehash of AC6. ALL 
 JET GAMES ARE SIMILAR! I thought AC6 was decent till I beat it 2 hours in, hawx is just fun. And 
 for those of you who think Clancy makes these ur wrong, he just "informs" the developers. It is 
 fun, dont let anti arcade flight peoples make you think its bad. If you like flying jets and blowing 
 things up with a decent scenario, this is for you. 4 player co op can be damn fun, who can do this 
 or that. And the multiplayer, yes has been done, but is still fun. I do not understand why people 
 complain about the camera third person, I have found no issue with it. Its similar to blazing angels 
 only much easier to see what your doing. I guess people just complain about whatever they can. 
 If you dont think flying around in an F-22 Raptor shooting out foes and blowing up tanks pulling 
 off maneuvers that are near IMPOSSIBLE is fun then you shouldnt even bother, if its not your type 
 of game DON'T HATE IT cuz its not. I like sims but time and again its fun to play a "What if?" 
 Again it was not made to be realistic, they admitted it, so stop saying you dislike it because 
 its not realistic, do a little more research people!
  
  I enjoyed the game, because its fun. SO if you want a redefining Jet game, dont think this is it. 
 Why? Because you CANT redefine a jet game. Its either unrealistic or realistic. Sims are fun but 
 Id rather carry 300 missiles than haft to land after firing off 12. 
  
  The games fun, pick it up and enjoy it for what it is. Dont expect it to be something the developers 
 said it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsm164
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:43 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Tom Clancy was going to be behind a Flying game, I thought great! But after 
 putting some time behind the flight stick I am wondering what happened. The story is about the 
 government doing away with the Air Forces fight pilots, so you play as a pilot working for a private 
 contractor. Ok is you say so, wanted more substance there but heh, maybe there's a twist I have 
 yet to find. This game looks great, but is very very much like Ace Combat 6. The biggest difference 
 is the fact that you don't fly against some unknown enemy with massivly large aircraft. You do 
 fight in "real world" situations. I just don't see the major difference here, and quite honsetly 
 can't see the 60 bucks for a remake of Ace Combat 6. No great sense of speed, same old, same old 
 AC6. While I haven't tried multi-player yet, I hope that can boost my confidence in Mr. Clancy. 
 For now, spend 25 bucks and get Ace Combat 6 if you want to fly the wild blue yonder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Anime
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Well its not often i write reviews but i felt for this game it had to be done.
  
  Tom Clancy's HAWX is a game that has lost the magic that other tom clancy games like Ghost Recon 
 and Rainbow six los vegas share. The voice acting sounds very blah and with no sense of urgency 
 and the gameplay consists of you flying around in circle's from place to place attacking various 
 waves of ground/sea/ and air enemies.... oh and you can bomb stuff..... and "escort missions" 0_o 
 
  
  On the up side HAWX has a TON of jet fighters to choose from that are super realistic... just dont 
 pay attention to the surrounding areas and ground enemies very "water colour". Also the Multiplayer 
 only consists of either two player co-op on the campain or team deathmatch.... yay
  
  So all in all this came is defiantly a rental experience... not worth 60 bucks this game is just 
 an experiment.. the inevitable sequal will prolly be WAY better... maybe ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbans
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is not a sim. In fact, it is very similar in style and playability to Ace 
 Combat 6 (just not quite as good) . The graphics are excellent, and the sounds are decent. Jet sounds 
 were done better in AC6, but in HAWX, there are waaaaay more planes to choose from. For those of 
 you who have ever played AC6, this game should be a piece of cake. For those who haven't, well...... There's 
 the ERS. This little addition takes away the challenge of plotting a course to take out your next 
 target, and is a little cheap. Don't use this unless you absolutely have to, or you'll ruin a lot 
 of the fun in this game! Also, the sense of speed in the game is a little bit off. Simply put, 
 you hear a decent crack as you break the sound barrier, but you don't seem to lurch forward with 
 much vim and vigor. I think my old buick accelerated faster. But this is just a minor detail. The 
 controls are slick and responsive, the weapon loadouts are generous and do a nice job of making 
 enemies go boom. Explosions look and sound great. There's also a mode called "Off" which turns 
 off the computer system that basically makes an unstable airframe flyable. This allows you to pull 
 off crazy maneuvers, but with a much greater chance of stalling the aircraft. Great for evading 
 missiles but hardly necessary. In fact, when you go into "Off" mode, the camera switches to an 
 unintuitive target view of your plane from the side. This makes controlling your plane very difficult 
 and unwieldy, especially in a dogfight (or maybe I just haven't played with it enough) . Overall 
 however, this is an excellent first attempt for a jet sim from Ubisoft. It's almost as good as 
 AC6, and with some minor adjustments and some strategic tinkering, this game could even top it. 
 The use of real country names and places adds another dimension of realism, and the decent music 
 without the hokey little Japanese anime characters (and their inherent cheesy dialogue) is refreshing. 
 Can't wait for the next installment. Good job Ubisoft! Tremendous first effort! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shottasoul86
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  This is simply a great air plane game. And the fact that I'm saying this should count for something 
 because I don't play air plane games. Tom Clancy did great with this one. I love the inclusion 
 of voice command also. It makes me feel like I'm actually in the cockpit. The Co-op is also fun. 
 Me and my friends had fun playing online. I haven't played the Team Deathmatch yet but I'm sure 
 it will be great. I also like the aircraft they put in the game. I hope they add more as downloadable 
 content later. Also another this is, this game make you feel like you have full control of where 
 and how you want to fly. I really felt like a pilot. If the air force would let you fly with an 
 XBOX 360, controller I would so join. That's how good this game is. This is a definitely buy coming 
 from me. GET THIS GAME EVERYONE!!! It's well worth it. You won't be disappointed, I promise you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scubasteve465
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  This game definitely got a lot of flack before it came out. The demo changed some minds. But I 
 am blown away by the graffics and it actually has a story line and does not include "dancing with 
 the angels". Not that AC6 was bad but it makes the feel of the game way better if the countries 
 are real and have relevance. I played through 10 of the missions and played TDM. And I have gotta 
 say this game has real replay value. So to anyone on the fence, it's way better than the critics 
 say it is. Even with the assistance on-off modes, that didn't bother anyone I have talked to yet. 
 And actually once you get used to that weird 3rd person view it comes in handy in both campaign 
 and versus mode. And the plane selection is crazy too. They are 99% all real and no unrealistic 
 paint scemes that would call attention to you from unfreindlys like a pumpkin or christmas tree. 
 I do have to say I would have liked the option to land, they should have just made it a skipable 
 achievment, but other than that I give this game a 9.5. I can say this game will keep me busy till 
 Operation Flashpoint 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DenPacWOLF
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:59 am PT
Review:  If you were expecting a Tom Clancy semi-realistic tactictical game, this falls short. HAWX is a 
 pure arcade flight action shooter with limited strategic thinking or tactical planning to outplay 
 the AI. 
  
  The game lacks flight sim realism with over the top manevers, no high G blackouts, unlimited bullets 
 and an unrealitic amount of AA/AG payload. Some of the jets you can unlock are antiques like John 
 McCain's Vietnam Era F-4. 
  
  Not to say the game is bad, I enjoyed Ace Combat and this game plays like Ace Combat 6 but with 
 a Clancy story. Flight controls are easy and the game is fun to play. I liked the use of the "No 
 Assistance" mode. But I was expecting a Clancy game not an AC6.
  
  As an Air Force servicemember, I'm very meticulous when it comes to the military being translated 
 into Hollywood movies and games. The major turn off was the first mission.
  
  Apparently you start off as a US Air Force pilot, flying an F-18. THE F-18 IS A NAVAL/MARINE JET!!! 
 For a detailed writer like Tom Clancy the fact that the first mission involved a US Air Force jet 
 being an F-18 is just disappointing.
  
  Graphics = 8/10
  Gameplay = 9/10
  Reaslim = 3/10
  Storyline = 7/10
  
  If you are looking to raise your strategic/tactical awareness 
 in a flight sim. Don't go here. 
  
  If you are looking for a mindless shooter like AC6. This game is for you. 
  
  Rent it first 
 and wait for Splinter Cell: Conviction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsg1961
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game to some looks a lot like the Ace Combat series, dont worry about them people if there 
 the ones that are making your mind on this, this is a very addictive action packed game, like the 
 good Clancy games should be. This game lacks somewhat in the tactical field, but the action and 
 constant missile fire leaves you wanting more, not mentioning the "assistance off" mode, which 
 is a little unreal, but some of the maneuvers make this game one of a kind. Like most Clancy games, 
 this is a very difficult game at times, and you need to think to finish the level, there are also 
 many ways to reach the objectives, and the levels are long as well, making it frustrating at times, 
 and wanting to break your controller over your knee, but you will not leave the game for long or 
 at all and keep trying, which gives this game a 10, this is an awesome game and is definitely a 
 solid contender for game of the year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
