-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Proving Ground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tonyhawksprovingground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of goals of varying skill levels will keep completists very busy.
 New moves like the aggro kick and nail the grab bring something new to the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New nail the manual move feels half-baked.
 Rigger goals depend too heavily on a poor level editor.
 Little graphical glitches bring the look of the game down a bit.
 Seems to suffer from a handful of technical issues that make some goals harder than they should be.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 754 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Oct 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tony Hawk's Proving Ground gets most of the Tony Hawk formula down, but the parts that stray from 
 that formula are the parts that don't work out so well. 

  Not many franchises can say that they single-handedly launched a genre, but that's exactly what 
 Neversoft's Tony Hawk series did back in 1999. Annual sequels have come ever since, some of which 
 have made major changes to the skateboarding formula, while other have made minor adjustments. 
 This year's game, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground, starts with last year's game as a basic formula, 
 but shuffles around the goal structure and game progression. It's the same solid skating base that 
 the series has had all along, but a smattering of frustrating goals that feel like they're broken 
 and a heavier focus on using a bad level editor to place objects into the world gets in the way 
 and drags the entire experience down with it.  

           While there's plenty to do in Proving Ground, it's hard not to be a little disappointed 
 with the game's technical glitches.      

  Though past Hawk games have tried to bring all of its skating together using a story, Proving Ground 
 compartmentalizes its story by breaking it up into three distinct "lifestyles." You've got the 
 career path, where pro skaters like Arto Saari take you around and shoot skate videos with you. 
 Then there's the hardcore path, where guys like Mike Vallely and Dustin Dollin teach you the fine 
 arts of wearing jean jackets and how to properly knock over pedestrians. Lastly there's the "rigger" 
 path, where guys like Jeff King and Daewon Song turn Proving Ground into a puzzle game and have 
 you place or modify pieces around the environment and rig up some new trick lines. On top of all 
 that, there are plenty of other nondenominational chalk challenge goals, where you'll see marks 
 around the world that ask you to grind, manual, wallride, or leap from one mark to the next. Most 
 of the goals can be completed in three ways for three different difficulties, ranging once again 
 from amateur to sick.  

  From the three lifestyles, things are even further broken down into episodes, which usually focus 
 on one specific skater giving you a handful of different goals. Bob Burnquist's set of goals has 
 you learning some new tricks, then taking on competition skating. Bam Margera's goals focus more 
 on climbing than on actual skating, though you'll still have to skate around a bit to interrupt 
 the filming of his TV show. Lance Mountain shows up to show you how to carve bowls and slash grind, 
 two of the game's new control additions. When you complete all of the episodes in one lifestyle, 
 an "uber" challenge appears. Tying all of this together is a meter that fills up as you complete 
 goals, and each time it's full, your career advances, netting you a shoe sponsor, a signature board, 
 your own skate video, and so on. You'll eventually become successful enough to form a skate team, 
 and this in turn unlocks a new challenge. When you beat that -- a fairly trivial set of tasks in 
 the grand scheme of things -- the credits roll with no grand finale. It's possible to claim that 
 you "finished" Proving Ground with something like a 40 percent completion ranking, something that 
 will probably take most Tony Hawk veterans something like six hours to accomplish. Obviously, there's 
 more to do and see, like classic mode, high score runs, and a new dot-eating goal type called Hawk-Man, 
 though the quality of the goals is spotty.  

  The focus on rigging as a lifestyle means that a large chunk of the action is devoted to you using 
 a little world editor, where you can place your own rails, ramps, and other objects. This editor 
 is pretty bad, though, so it can be super frustrating to use. Furthermore, the goals that require 
 you to place your own objects usually aren't much fun, because it's stuff like creating long sets 
 of rails to move you from one checkpoint to the next without touching the ground. What's worse 
 is that other photo goals also use this editor to let you plop a camera down wherever you think 
 it will do the most good. It can be hard to determine if the camera's in the right spot. Camera 
 goals have another problem -- you actually have to take the photo yourself. Once you skate into frame, 
 the action slows down, effectively throwing off your timing if you're trying to land a trick at 
 the same time. Then, while all of that is going on, you need to push in the right stick to take 
 the picture. This leads to a whole lot of frustrating hand twisting. We also encountered at least 
 one goal where it felt like no matter where the camera was placed, it couldn't be placed low enough 
 to actually trigger the slow-motion photo-taking sequence while doing a required grind.  

           Rigging up rails and ramps would be better if the interface for doing so didn't make it 
 all feel like a chore.      

  While we're on the subject of goals that feel broken, one of the first goals you're given with 
 the mod tool, which can be used to alter objects already in the environment, has you trying to 
 mod a box that will lower a window-washing platform alongside a building. But every time you move 
 your little hammer over to the glowing, spinning hammer to activate it, your cursor drops below 
 the ledge. After minutes of careful pointer movement, we were able to negotiate what seems like 
 an entirely unintended challenge. With problems like these, just about anything that involves the 
 rigger menu feels totally sketchy, and it's a real shame that so much of the game is dependent 
 on it.     

  As in most years, there are a good number of differences in how you skate and what tricks you can 
 do. In addition to the bowl carving and slash grinds, the "nail the" system has been built out 
 to include slow-motion grabs and manuals, in addition to the flips-only nail the trick system that 
 was in Project 8. Nail the grab mode lets you grab the board with either hand and tweak it out 
 in any direction. You can also perform finger flips. All in all, it's neat, but it's a little weird 
 that you can't kick your legs out while grabbing to craft your own benihanas or something like 
 that. It comes off feeling a little limited. Nail the manual is a good idea with bad execution. 
 The concept is that you can hold down the right trigger and use the analog sticks to adjust your 
 board so that you land on one set of wheels. The problem is that the camera stays focused on your 
 board the whole time, so you have no idea which direction you're facing or what obstacles are in 
 your way. Also, the slow-motion manual controls feel overly sensitive, making something that's 
 almost automatic in full speed feel arcane and overly tricky in slow-mo. You'll also learn how 
 to aggro kick, which is a user-controlled push that gives you extra speed. It's a nice addition 
 that makes a good case for why the PlayStation 3 needs rumble controllers, because on the 360 the 
 controller shakes a bit when it's time to hit the button again to keep your speed up. On the PS3 
 you have to solely rely on the position of your skater's foot.  

           While you can still skate switch in this year's game, it feels like the skill penalty 
 for doing so has been removed.      

  All of this stuff carries over into the online mode, which lets up to eight players get into the 
 world and play a variety of well-worn game modes. This is new to the PS3, which didn't have any 
 online last year, but if you've been playing Tony Hawk for any length of time, this is familiar 
 territory. You can limit games to specific sections of the gameworld, play in your custom skate 
 lounge, or play in the entire gameworld, which is pretty large. A little too large to make games 
 like graffiti too exciting, since all eight players could be tagging pieces in different parts 
 of the environment and never see each other or attempt to steal pieces. The standard modes like 
 trick attack and combo mambo also appear, along with a handful of others, like walls, where your 
 skater spits out a  Tron -light-cycle-like wall behind him that other skaters need to avoid. If 
 you like, you can wager your bankroll in ranked matches, which is a surefire way to go broke, given 
 that the game's online mode seems to appeal most to veterans of the series, who will absolutely 
 tear you apart online.  

  Proving Ground looks better than Project 8, though they're similar-looking games from a technical 
 perspective. The larger visual difference comes from the environment itself. The game is meant 
 to reflect a piece of East Coast skating, and the gameworld comprises skate-friendly versions of 
 Washington DC, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. Much of the game has a dirty, urban look to it that 
 works pretty well. Some aspects, though, like the artifact-filled video footage that pops up whenever 
 you meet a pro skater, or the way the characters' mouths occasionally don't move when they speak 
 and look really weird when they  do  move, don't look so hot. There are also plenty of clipping 
 issues, where your skater's leg will pass right through a building when you're hanging from it, 
 or the way the "emo" haircut in the game passes right through your sunglasses. Stuff like this 
 makes it look more like a higher-resolution PlayStation 2 game.  

           Baltimore, DC, and Philly are tied together by a series of short bridges to create one 
 big world..      

  The game audio is fairly standard, with plenty of good skateboarding sounds, though a lot of it 
 feels recycled. There's a healthy amount of voice acting in the game, and most of it comes from 
 pro skaters, most of whom flatly deliver their lines and detract from the feel of the game. If 
 there were an award for skating's best voice actor, it would probably have to go to Mike Vallely, 
 who sounds genuinely tough and delivers his lines with more believability than the rest. The sound 
 is roughly the same between the PS3 and 360 versions, though the speech sounds a little tinny in 
 the PS3 version. The soundtrack is Neversoft's standard Tony Hawk formula, which seems to have 
 become: mix together a bunch of genres, include a Jurassic 5 song, include one or two random old 
 rap songs (Slick Rick's "Children's Story") , and include one older song that you probably haven't 
 thought about in quite some time (Folk Implosion's "Natural One") .  

  Perhaps that's the biggest problem with Proving Ground. While the surface and structure of the 
 game have seen more than enough changes to fill a bulleted list, the underlying gameplay and tasks 
 have been done better in previous entries in the series. If you're a fan of the series who has 
 been patiently waiting for Proving Ground, you'll probably find enough to keep you busy and keep 
 you mostly satisfied, but it's likely that you'll be at least a little disappointed with this year's 
 model.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  Tony hawk has been the revered skating series for years, until 2007, where a huge giant by the 
 name of skate, by blackbox, stomped it out. I bought this game a long time ago, before skate went 
 out. I thought it was seriously awesome, but I was wrong, as skate showed me. I know, this review 
 is not about Skate, but I am just showing my thought of this game. This game is glitchy, you could 
 get stuck between a rail and a wall, the story is pretty good, but waayy too easy. The soundtrack 
 is pure art, the graphics are great, but the point is that the game is too hyped up, when it is 
 not as great as it seems. The park creator mode is fun, rigging is awesome, character creation 
 is deep, but you don't feel anything even if you finish a 900 mctwist (which is way too easy) . 
 Skate has shown the gaming industry and people what skating, and a skating game, really should 
 be about, and the trick substance is minor. Cool features are not enough to spruce this game up. 
 Sorry, Tony Hawk, but you are POWNED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceferno
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  WOW! Why so hard? I never thought Tony Hawk was too easy. Maybe the hi-res version of THPS3 was, 
 but certainly not the rest. Ok, it's good to have challenge in your games, but when you play Proving 
 Ground, it really makes you wonder "What kind of challenge were Neversoft aiming for?"
  
  Firstly, I have to get this out of the way. There are two moves in the game which are never explained 
 to you. The Backflip/Frontflip and the Invert (aka: Lip Tricks) . To do a Backflip, you hold L-Trigger 
 whilst pressing Down on the directional controls. For Frontflip, it's obviously Up with the L-Trigger 
 held once again. Now, the Invert must be performed by holding R-Trigger and Y just before you hit 
 the place to start lipping from.
  
  This game starts off decently but gets very hard, very quickly. With most Tony Hawk games, obviously, 
 the Sick difficulty goals should be the hard ones, but sometimes in Proving Ground, even the Pro 
 goals are a pain in the rear to complete. In my opinion it's the difficulty that drags this game 
 down. But I suppose in today's generation of gaming, they want something a bit tougher. That's 
 something I've learned from the majority of the Xbox 360 library.
  
  So, difficulty aside, it is still a great Tony Hawk rendition. You have some nice updates and references 
 to older games such as the Arcade Machines from TH Underground 2, which contain the nostalgic Classic 
 Mode and some new modes too. There's Hi-Score Mode where you simply have to score big within a 
 time limit and Hawk-Man, a completely hyper mode where you have to collect 75 (or 30 for the Amateur 
 difficulty) coloured spheres!
  
  THPG has lots of challenges to complete. There are the actual goals which float around in the cities, 
 much like in Pro Skater 4 and you'll notice some mini-goals which are marked on the ground and 
 the walls. The mini-goals can be quite fun, but also quite frustrating at times, given the game's 
 difficulty. But some of the earlier ones you find hard you can eventually beat with advantages 
 such as the new moves you acquire and the pieces you're able to place in the level to help you 
 speed up. Which brings me onto the next topic...
  
  You can, for the first time ever in a Tony Hawk game, actually place Skate pieces in main levels! 
 This is a very useful feature to have and will help you overcome some of the harder goals like 
 I mentioned above. As you complete stories from specific Pros, you'll unlock more pieces to be 
 able to use in-game.
  
  So, that's some of the features of the game. There's also the "Nail The..." modes which are quite 
 annoying but basically, they allow you to perform extra tricks in slow motion (much like Focus 
 from American Wasteland) . It's a very hard game for Achievements so if you're after a lot of points, 
 you should be aware of that. Like I said, this game is a lot harder than the Tony Hawk games before 
 it, but if you coasted through those, you'll have minor problems with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Proving Ground looks like a mediocre skating game to begin with and by the time you 
 have finished it.. it doesn't seem much different. Looking at the Tony Hawk series' track record 
 you would definitely expect this game to be glitchy but I am sure that nobody expected it to be 
 as broken and buggy as it is. Almost every time I have played this game I have found myself having 
 to reset my console at least once.
  
  At first the gameplay seems confusing but once you get past the somewhat steep learning curve it 
 actually isn't all that bad. Which brings me to my next negative point. The difficulty of this 
 game. If you want a game in which you are going to simply cruise through on the lowest difficulty 
 setting then this is an excellent game for you. However if you want a game to challenge you on 
 the hardest difficulty and make you feel satisfied after completing then this most certainly is 
 not a good game for you. Sick is the hardest difficulty in this game and I can tell you..... it 
 should be renamed impossible. I am usually very good at Tony Hawk Games and I found it impossible 
 to finish all the goals on PRO (Medium Difficulty) Let alone sick!
  
  If I could offer you advice I would probably say don't buy this game but if you can get it for 
 under $25 then I would probably buy it. The game isn't terrible but it would certainly be a lie 
 if i said it was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polywoly9
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  love it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate even. (ends here)
  
  love it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to 
 date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date. love it its the best one to date.
 
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. 
 evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. 
 evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. 
 even
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to
  love it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. even love it its the best one 
 to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. 
 evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. evenlove it its the best one to date.
  could be better than skate. 
 even 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucamet85
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this right off. I am not one of those EA skate fanboys, who thinks that the Tony Hawk 
 games are the worst video games ever created. I loved and still love the Tony Hawk games. This 
 year however, THPG looked completely ridiculous as far as a skateboard simulator compared to EA 
 skate. That doesn't mean it's a bad game, just not as realistic. The gameplay in Tony Hawk is still 
 great and pretty easy to learn. However, this is probably not the Tony Hawk game for newcomers 
 to jump on. Most of the people who play Tony Hawk games have been playing them either since the 
 original, THPS2, or THPS3. All the combos and such are drilled so deep into their heads that they 
 don't even think about what tricks to do, they just do them. Any beginners to the series will struggle 
 immensely with this game, because even the Am difficulty on each challenge is an actual challenge. 
 The game's class system is a cool idea, but it's involvement in the game isn't as much as the Tony 
 Hawk people exaggerated it to be. Really the only thing the different classes do is open up different 
 sponsors. If you do mostly career stuff you will get sponsors like Element, Volcom, Plan B, etc.. 
 If you do hardcore you will get sponsors like Vans, Flip, Baker, etc. If you do rigger stuff you 
 will get sponsors like Almost and DVS. The only difference between sponsors is if you pick a company 
 as a sponsor you will unlock some new piece of equipment either a board or a t-shirt or jacket 
 that you wouldn't unlock until later on in the game. Really if you play through the game you end 
 up doing all of the classes anyway and then impressing all the pros so they join your team, then 
 making a video. The Tony Hawk people kind of lied when they said the ending of the game changes 
 based on what choices you make. You end up doing all the lifestyles, getting all the pros, and 
 making a video. Nail the trick is improved, but it is still not very realistic. I don't know whether 
 the intention was to make it pretty weird, but I always feel strange when I can ollie up in Nail 
 the Trick and do 5 kickflips. Nail the grab is a great new feature that compliments Nail the trick. 
 Nail the manual is pretty difficult due to the camera angle and really not very practical to use 
 while playing the game. The graphics are decent, but there are a lot of weird glitches. The voice 
 acting, terrible but that's because whoever writes the script for these things sucks. The video 
 editor is superior to Skate, but it goes to waste because you have to manually start video recording 
 something compared to in Skate where you are constantly being recorded. This is very frustrating 
 as sometimes you will do something totally awesome just out of nowhere, but it wasn't filmed. Overall, 
 this is a good Hawk game, but I think they tried to take this year's version in a more realistic 
 direction than previous years, which made them look second class compared to Skate's realism. I 
 know this sounds odd, but Tony Hawk needs to go back to what they did during the THUG games. EA 
 has them beat on realism. Tony Hawk will only survive if they go bigger and badder, because then 
 they will provide an alternative to the ultra realistic Skate world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghawk7
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Proving Ground is the 9th installment in the long-running Tony Hawk series. Over the 
 years we've seen countless changes in gameplay and upgrades all around -- some for the better, others 
 not so much. Even with that said, however, the series has brought us some satisfying moments with 
 each game. Tony Hawk's Proving Ground is no exception.
  
  Proving Ground's story features you, an unknown skater from the East Coast with some varied skills. 
 The pros take notice and you begin your own personal story as either a Career skater, Hardcore 
 skater, or a Rigger. Career skaters are featured on the covers of magazines and usually involve 
 filming a series of tricks in a certain area, or skating in competitions. Hardcore skaters skate 
 for no one but themselves, are a bit destructive, and won't let people stand in their way. Riggers 
 are able to take spots that look unskateable and transform them into skateable areas.
  
  The beginning of the game allows you to preview the type of play for all three categories. The 
 rigger missions, though fun at first, can get incredibly repetitive and less fun as the game goes 
 on. The hardcore and career missions are more typical of the series, and veteran players may find 
 them to be too easy.
  
  A new feature in Proving Ground is the Nail-the-Trick view. This takes the place of the focus mode 
 from previous titles. In Nail-the-Trick, you control the skaters feet and can do your own crazy 
 tricks. Unfortunately, this system seems like it could have used a bit more work and isn't as good 
 as it could be.
  
  The story mode in Proving Ground is short, much like American Wasteland. However, given you have 
 3 different paths to choose from, the game does have some replay value. Some missing features in 
 this game include 2-player split screen and free skate outside of career mode. Fortunately, the 
 online gaming portion is decent, though you can run into some crazy players at times (as with many 
 online games) .
  
  Overall, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground isn't a terrible game, but it doesn't do much to revolutionize 
 the series. With good visuals and an extensive world to play in, you can have a good time even 
 if you just wish to skate around.
  
  Gameplay - 7.5
  Graphics - 9.0
  Sound - 7.0
  Value - 6.5
  Tilt - 7.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game had some bad reviews from some people, but from me this is game is very well done, but 
 there are some issues with the game that I am very picky at.
  
  Gameplay - 8.5
  The controls are pretty much the same from the past games, except for some new features for the 
 controls which I would explain but most of them are explained in interviews with the makers, but 
 at least you can get on and off your board!
  
  Graphics - 8.1
  The graphics go for more of the realistic cartoon look, I enjoyed it though, but it just didn't 
 feel right for me, because I thought it should of went for more of a realistic look, but I enjoyed 
 it too.
  
  Sounds - 8.7
  The sounds were good, the liked the music for the most part though, just because I am not familiar 
 with the sounds and its something new for me, the skating sounds pretty real as well.
  
  Story - 8.5
  The story is pretty much anything you want to become, either a Career, Hardcore 
 or Rigger skater, but you'll find yourself playing all three, the game is pretty much you building 
 up your fame with the pro skaters. 
  
  Replay Value - 8.0
  The replay value is okay, but the world in Proving Ground is very small, smaller compared to EA's 
 Skate, but you could still replay it a few times after you finish Story Mode.
  
  Overall - 8.5
  This game is better than I thought it was, I really enjoyed it, in the end it 
 didn't disappoint me, now I'm hearing that the sequel "Tony Hawk's 10" is going for a more realistic 
 turn, which could be bad or good, but for now play Proving Ground and wait for news on the sequel!
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  It was a decision... Tony Hawk Proving Ground or EA skate. I chose this and I'm glad I did. I have 
 Skate now, and im not saying skate is bad im just saying... this is alot more fun. This is a fun 
 arcade like skating game worth every cent I paid.
  
  The graphics are... Average... They are good but not mind boggling like CoD4 or Oblivion.
  
 
  The gameplay is... Really Really Fun! Sure there are plenty of glitches but it doesnt effect your 
 enjoyment of the game.
  
  Sound/Music... Well, its sound nothing special. The songs are good though for the most part.
 
  
  Stuff to do- Tons
  
  This game is a lot of fun! with plenty of fun additions, and lots of things to do, i must disagree 
 with gamespot and say this is a great game. The glitches arent too bad. It is a worth addition 
 to the TONY HAWK library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  First things first, hmm.
  Well, I know. The Graphics. 
  There not very good, especially how this is about the 9-13th Tony Hawk game so far. You'd of thought 
 they could be better, but not too bad I guess.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10 
  
  
  Next up: gameplay! It's pretty addicting due to how easy it is to get a huge combo! Its the normal 
 controlls (press Y (xbox360) button to Grind etc, same for tricks and so on...) but it isnt too 
 bad I guess. And the online gameplay too, could be better but its pretty good I guess ;) 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  
  
  The music in the background is mainly Rock music. This, isnt very 
 good, because... IT GIVES YOU A HEADACHE! This is a huge let down. The music is all pretty loud 
 and punk/rocky sort'a so you ALWAYS have to turn the volume to near 0 so that you can give your 
 head a rest :s
  But the sound of tricks, grinding and stuff is ok I guess.
  
  Sound: 5/10 
  
  
  So, thats pretty much it.
  I would only really suggest buying it if you 
 are a good fan of the Tony Hawk Series.
  
  So, thats...
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Sound: 5/10
  
  There you are. Hope I helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: better-than-U
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I believe this game should of got 8.0 for many reasons.
  including the new atmosphere and graphics, new gameplay mechanics including bowl carving, nail the 
 grab/manual and three types of storyline...
  
  Here are the three types of story line which can all be played at the same time.
  Career: in 
 this story you focus on money, fame, sponsors etc
  you do things like photo shoots (grinding certain tricks down certains rails etc)
  for videos 
 you are doing long lines with specific spots and moves.
  and in competitions you do things like best combo, massive jumps/gaps
  2min runs etc...
  
 
  rigger: Probably the most dissapointing story line in the game but still fun
  at points... this focuses on things like placing rails in places etc and doing trick on/under/over 
 them.
  
  Hardcore: this is skating for fun kind of thing were knowone gets in your way and you will complete 
 missions such as clearing parks of trouble makers etc ...
  
  my favourite part to play would be career because you get to play on mega ramps etc...
  
  one 
 of my small problems with the game is somtimes how badly it tells you how to do goals (ie: hey kid! 
 crooked up this rail and when you almost get to the top nail the trick with one branch 180 and 
 then darkslide back down!)
  you do it and it somtimes doesnt notice?
  
  the city to skate in is the best of any tony hawk game buy far with tons of hidden gaps, mini parks 
 etc.
  
  I found project 8 to be much harder than all the other TH games and so is this balancing etc is 
 somtimes really difficullt compared to thug and america wasteland!
  
  in the end proving ground may be difficult to new people to the seires but for peole you have played 
 the game a good bit or non stop they will love it.
  
  
  (also i would like to add that this is the exact same review from my old profile) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sktseany
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know why Jeff has rates this game so low for Gamespot. 
  At first, when i purchased this game, i didn't think much of it as i simply couldn't be bothered 
 playing it as the ultimate CoD4 was too distracting.
  
  I eventually started getting into this game and have thoroughly enjoyed it and yes... im not new 
 to the TH series as everyone seems to be getting a little bit bored of the series. I can tell you 
 now that even though this game has its similarities to Project 8, Proving Ground has alot better 
 replay-value and is a very in-depth game.
  
  You start off with the Birdman himself and then you go off into a world of your own choosing what 
 kind of styles and skating career you want to do, or accordingly, just do whatever the heck you 
 wish!
  
  Unlike Skate, this has more of a story to it as well as a more fun one! The game also has alot 
 more 'real' professional skateboarders than EA Skate and alot bigger map that Project 8. There 
 is good customization in this game as you'd expect from a TH game. The graphics are good but not 
 perfect. I would imagine they are slightly better than Project 8's but not as good as EA Skate. 
 But the depth of the story and the well made cut-scenes make this game an absolute pleasure to 
 play! 
  
  Finally, in this short review, i'l sum this game up as 'a mediocre legend'.
  If you are into skateboarding or any extreme sports for all you adrenaline junkies out there, this 
 game is for you. However, if you are a skater yourself AND have been addicted the previous TH games 
 and starting to get a little bored, i recommend EA Skate as that will offer more realism and a 
 different style of play to this game. If you were/are an owner to the past 1-4 games of previous 
 TH games then this game will hook you and i guarantee it will live up to its cost. Im sure this 
 game will be cheap in some stores as it is way under-rated in my opinion.
  
  Gamerpoints:
  
  To achieve all the gamerpoints in THPG, its going to be extremely tricky as 
 it consists of completeing all SICK goals, PRO goals and AM goals. For roughly about 300 gamercore 
 points, youre looking at just completing all the story missions and objectives which are an absolute 
 joy to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parapraxis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Tony hawk's Proving grounds has quite a few new additions to it. Some of the new additions include: 
 'Nail the grab', 'Nail the manual', The ability to control your speed by kicking off harder, the 
 ability to tweak areas and add rails Quarter pipes and half pipes, a photo taking system that allows 
 you to take photo's of your skater while doing something 'Amazing', the ability to literally beat 
 the hell out of someone by smoking them as you ride by, and a new interface that makes for more 
 realistic game play. First things first, this addition to the Tony Hawk series took the 'Nail the 
 trick' from the previous and took it to the next level with 'Nail the Grab' and 'Nail the Manual'. 
 Nail the grab worked out great and it was a great way to compliment the 'Nail the Trick' feature. 
 However "Nail the Manual" was seemingly very flawed and unbalanced tedious and unnecessary at times. 
 The ability to ride faster by controlling the rhythm of your foot was a great addition that should 
 have been in the tony hawk series all along, not only does it allow for the player to get to where 
 they're going much faster but makes for a better experience while doing it. The ability to tweak 
 the area you're skating in is also a very cool addition that lets the player decide their own way 
 to get to where they're going and make an area a little bit more preferable. The photo taking aspect 
 had some real flaws such as when its involved in a goal your partner would run into you and you'd 
 make them fall or they'd make you fall and the physics of it just weren't to great. Sometimes once 
 you get into the line of the photo it became awkward to keep your balance because the angle is 
 completely different so you don't exactly know where you'll end up. Next is the ability to tackle 
 people as you skate, nothing really necessary for racking up points or anything of the like, but 
 definitely a nice change of pace from riding around and doing tricks, why not just completely smoke 
 an innocent passer by? Finally is the new interface. The new interface shows the player from a 
 closer up angle and it gives a really cool feel to it as well as your balance bars being just a 
 feint colored bar giving a more realistic look to it. All in all This tony hawk is a great addition 
 to the series and in the future if theres any more to come they certainly would work on the kinks 
 of the few aspects that were a little choppy, after all they're new aspects so they can't all be 
 perfect. It has just the right amount of the old traditional Tony Hawk's Pro Skater feel with some 
 cool new aspects to make it a great game. Contrary to most reviews the game is definitely worth 
 trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylea002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  Last year, when THPG was released, the skating game front was different, because there was a competitor 
 to Tony Hawk on the market. EA's skate brought realism to the table, and satisfied the hardcore 
 skating market, and those wanting a bit more realism from games.
  
  That seems to be the only reason that people say skate is better. "It has a realistic, innovative 
 control scheme." Sure, I played the demo, and the scheme was innovative, but the realism is all 
 too real some times, with the thousands of bail tries etc.
  
  Tony Hawk doesn't have all of that. I'm a bit annoyed about the grittier, more realistic take on 
 the series this year, as neversoft should stick to their guns. They have a fantastic ARCADE skating 
 game, they should make it like an ARCADE skating game. Sometimes, people don't want all the fuss 
 of constantly retrying on different spots, they just want to skate. 
  
  And contrary to popular belief, that is what this game is all about. The branching storyline is 
 nice, very nice, but it truly is just a fun way to level up your character to how you would like 
 to. Even more fun is taking your fully levelled character online, or making your own videos with 
 him/her, or setting the wildest combos ever.
  
  
  And that, is inherently fun. Just skating, not caring about the consequences, like bailing and 
 having to start the spot again. But when you get past that level of skill, there is a lot of depth: 
 combos go for miles, you don't just randomly press the directional pad and X, and you can make 
 awesome videos with your skater.
  
  With the branching storyline, there are 3 styles, and unfortunately, "rigger" is not good. Its 
 really not that fun, I can't do those goals, so I gave up. It didn't matter, I just carried on 
 skating. Its not that big of a deal given the choice in your style of play in this game - some 
 people may like rigger, some people may go online and battle for the biggest combos, and some people 
 may just skate and maybe make some vids. Its all up to you.
  
  The presentation of this game is pretty good, it has a distinct style, I only wish it was a more 
 colourful, more arcadey sense of style. The soundtrack is quite good, not up there with burnout 
 or GH3, but its good none the less. It would be a very bad thing if this wasn't the case due to 
 the way you edit videos to the beat of the music. Graphics are good, with a great draw distance, 
 but many glitches can get annoying. (My skaters emo hair and sunglasses) .
  
  So, its not realistic, you could argue it has no skill, but its deep, its got choice, and its just 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Kinda_Mad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge TH fan for years. But the series has been declining since THUG (THAW being it's 
 lowest point) . But finally here comes a good TH game!
  
  The gameplay is terrific and I like all the new moves that have been added in. In Project 8, I 
 felt that the skater was way to slow, but Proving Ground fixes this by adding the Aggro Kick.
 
  
  THPG also features the best story since THUG, keep in mind it's not great but it's way better than 
 both THUG2's and THAW's. I also enjoyed the 'YOU' characters personality alot more than I did the 
 other 'YOU' characters. The whole 'choose your own path' thing works I think, but not to it's full 
 potential and I felt that the Pro's guided your character in the story way to much.
  
  I also really enjoyed the photo taking/filming parts of the game. It took me awhile to get used 
 to taking a picture while at the same time doing trick, but I got used to it.
  
  Now if any of you guys at Neversoft are reading this than please, put Create-a-Goal back in the 
 TH games! I miss them so much!
  
  Overall, it's a good game but is easily overshadowed by 'skate.'. Neversoft better get it's grove 
 on if it wants to stay number one because unfortunately I think their days are numbered. I hope 
 I'm wrong..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun, don't get me wrong, but... well it didn't give me the satisfaction in Project 
 8 that I was looking for. Not only did insult my intelligence in game knowledge, but the fact of 
 the career choices between: Hard Core, Career, and Rigger just seemed very odd. It was my subconscious 
 that made everything seem easier than usual; I was replaying a mixture of THAW, and Project 8. 
 The game makes you do tedious quests for, my fav. Element sk8r, Mike Vallely, my 2nd fav. Flip 
 sk8r, Arto Saari, and some guy named ... something King, idc... Well anyway, once done murking 
 for them, you report, to what I feel as the biggest sellouts in sk8 history, yes I mean Tony Hawk. 
 What will he let you know? Well first off, he gives directions as if you just turned five and while 
 in NTT (Nail the Trick) , now if you're not familiar to Nail the Trick, it's in slow motion and it's 
 very sensitive to you're Joy Sticks. Aye, once he tortures you about tht, he gives you the option 
 to break your tele from anger. Cameras are made in this game so when you're in a trick or landing 
 a trick all you have to do is click the Right Thumb Stick, easy aye? Wrong, they make ye do tht 
 **** while in Nail the Trick mode, if they meant to make it hard, they did a good job, if not... 
 christ I hope they were high on something to not notice the difficultly on this... Once ye're done 
 with tht he sends you off into the world. After which it's like every THPS game, except... well 
 excpet the announce in you and the way you handle things. Apparently you're totally hard core one 
 way or another and have to show up EVERYONE. But, what is justice without crime? Well certainly 
 it's boring, b/c you get to learn Skate check, Arggo Kick, and Bowl Riding. Wow! It's almost like 
 they picked it right out of a Cereal Box! That was hardcore, maybe you could tell, Career has kinda 
 gay things that you already know... Like, Nail the Trick, didn't see that one coming, then Nail 
 the Grab and/or Manual. As fun and creative as tht sounds, it's not, it isn't, and it won't be. 
 Nail the grab has faulty functions tht continue to happen to me and my friend with Grab Transfer, 
 and Nail the Manual is just the cheapest way to show you how manuals work... Well than there's 
 Rigger mode... honestly, it's just move **** around. Yeah... that's new... Seeing's how create 
 a park is gone, you can create any Park, any where. Whoot!... Right? Nope... sorry... Well you 
 and move 'your' objects tht 'you' produce, but not anything thts just lying around for the taking... 
 The quests don't make much sense except maybe lance Mountain's and Stevie Williams'. I'm pretty 
 pleased with the new clothing though, I mean who isn't. And you can have your own chill pad to 
 sk8 any time! Yeah, that's awesome. It's be cooler if I could use the items... I can't... well... 
 But I can the TV on... I can't do tht either? Hmm... I'd recommend this game to hard core THPS 
 player's for some multi player fun in the sun. The Game is more the lines of how THAW was to THUG2 
 as this is to Project 8. Good for a Christmas gift, bad for a birthday gift of course tho... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I believe this game should of got 8.0 for many reasons.
  including the new atmosphere and graphics, new gameplay mechanics including bowl carving, nail the 
 grab/manual and three types of storyline...
  
  Here are the three types of story line which can all be played at the same time.
  Career: in 
 this story you focus on money, fame, sponsors etc
  you do things like photo shoots (grinding certain tricks down certains rails etc)
  for videos 
 you are doing long lines with specific spots and moves.
  and in competitions you do things like best combo, massive jumps/gaps
  2min runs etc...
  
 
  rigger: Probably the most dissapointing story line in the game but still fun
  at points... this focuses on things like placing rails in places etc and doing trick on/under/over 
 them.
  
  Hardcore: this is skating for fun kind of thing were knowone gets in your way and you will complete 
 missions such as clearing parks of trouble makers etc ...
  
  my favourite part to play would be career because you get to play on mega ramps etc...
  
  one 
 of my small problems with the game is somtimes how badly it tells you how to do goals (ie: hey kid! 
 crooked up this rail and when you almost get to the top nail the trick with one branch 180 and 
 then darkslide back down!)
  you do it and it somtimes doesnt notice?
  
  the city to skate in is the best of any tony hawk game buy far with tons of hidden gaps, mini parks 
 etc.
  
  I found project 8 to be much harder than all the other TH games and so is this balancing etc is 
 somtimes really difficullt compared to thug and america wasteland!
  
  in the end proving ground may be difficult to new people to the seires but for peole you have played 
 the game a good bit or non stop they will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooter2006
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks proving ground is a great skate game, i have played many many hours, i really enjoy 
 the new features, skate check is awesome exspeically when those punks get in your way, the build 
 your own ramp and parks mode is great, but try n skate your own layout and your messed up lol, 
 how do i upload pics to this site? cause i built a skate park on top of the dc mall and id like 
 for everyone to see, n i also landed a 900 backflip and got the pics but want to upload it, if 
 anyone can help let me know, also if anyone wants to challenge me on multiplayer lobby plz do i 
 always welcome new players n challengers, also my gamertag is southern king of speed, look it up 
 if u want a good challenge , also in the dc part of the game how do u unlock the little space behind 
 the giant gate, with the monument behind it? if u know let me know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugsrock120
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I like how at the beginning its a little Choose Your Path kind of thing. There is 
 Rigger, Hardcore or Career skater. Hardcore and Career are probably the right choices to make. 
 Rigger is a little on the hard and stupid side. You can even do all three paths at once in this 
 game. You don't have to choose one.
  
  First things first: The Paths you choose (Career, rigger and Hardcore) do not have different difficulties. 
 They are all easy.
  
  HARDCORE REVIEW:
  
  Hardcore is fun. You skate because you want to. The story I liked in Hardcore is Dustin Dollins 
 story. In it a group called the Crazy 2 1s take over a skateboard park called FDR. You enter FDR 
 and it introduces the leader, Cam. After getting a bad beating you return to Dustin who teaches 
 you how to body check people. As the checking adventure goes on you face many challenges until 
 you have to fight cam and protect Dollin at the same time.
  
  There are two other stories in Hardcore. One is learning the Aggro push and kick (to make you go 
 faster in skating and manuals) with Mike Vallely and the other is learning how to bowl skate with 
 Lance Mountain.
  
  In Mike Vallely's story you learn to go faster in your regular skateboarding and go faster in your 
 manuals. There is a bit of gaps and spine transfers in this one. If you are a beginner to the Tony 
 Hawk games try Mike Vallely's story first.
  
  In Lance Mountain's story, you learn bowl skating. You learn how to do slash grinds and other things. 
 In the middle of the story you meet an enemy near the end of the story you get two things: Your 
 enemy's bowl skating park and you get branded (like cows)
  
  CAREER REVIEW:
  
  Career is also fun. A big pay check is on the line in Career. In Arto Saari's story you learn how 
 to Nail-the-Trick and even get to be in a movie and demo.
  
  In Stevie's story you learn how to Nail-the-Manual (Its somewhat hard to do) In the end you get 
 the key to a park called Love Park.
  
  In Bob's story you learn how to Nail-the-Grab. In this story you meet another enemy who you have 
 to compete with.
  
  RIGGER REVIEW:
  
  Although you get to put up your own ramps and things like that throughout the game, Rigger isn't 
 all that fun (its pretty hard, too) I haven't even gotten past the first story you have to do which 
 is with Jeff King. In it you win a skateboarding video contests and then have to help Jeff turn 
 a lame demo into a good demo. Sounds easy? Think again.
  
  GAME REVIEW:
  
  This game is REALLY fun. Rent it first to see if you like it, though. In it you get your own skate 
 lounge (Like a skate park that you can edit throughout the game) you get to make your own skateboarding 
 videos with the video editor and recorder. You also get some pretty neat things when you do Street, 
 Rigger, Hardcore and Career missions like:
  
  1. Get a sponsor. This is where you get to choose a sponsor. If you're more Hardcore, Career or 
 Rigger you may get different sponsors
  
  
  2. Join a team. You get to pick a skateboarding team to be in. In this the paths you choose also 
 affect your choices.
  
  
  3. Get a shoe company sponsor. You choose a shoe company to sponsor you. Paths affect choices.
 
  
  
  4. Get your own signature board. In this you get your very own signature board that represents 
 you in a way.
  
  
  5. Get your own shoe sponsor. Exactly like 4 except with shoes.
  
  
  6. Build a team. In this each pro that you helped is able to be on your very own skateboarding 
 team. You must have done their story first and you have to impress them before their on your team.
 
  
  
  7. Make a team video. You get to be each team member and make your own team video.
  
  All in All, this game is really fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  i was very syked to play another crazy tony hawk game even though they are very unrealistic they 
 are pretty fun and a crazy story but when i played it it was horrific it went a totally different 
 way and failed completely. I hate the camera angle the controls and story overall this is he worst 
 skating game i have ever played .if you want a good skating game pick up ea's skate. it is fun 
 and realistic. i higly recomend you stay away from this game and im never gonna play this gae again 
 unless held at gun point to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daisyduck54
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  either u like the game of you don't. this game in it's own way is good and bad. it's too short 
 the graphics are good they changed up the whole view and the way you skate. which is very annoying. 
 online isnt very good either. but the storyline was okay and at least u can skate check people 
 i think this game is a lot like tony hawks pro skater 4. but i think that this should be the last 
 of the tony hawk games and a new generation of skate which is a very good game and blows this game 
 away. PDZgame lord 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a tony hawk game of course and it is quiet fun to play bacause you can do so many 
 things in this game such as nail-the-grab or nail-the-trick them 2 features are one of my favourite 
 features in the game i have only got the ps2 version which is fairly crap because you dont have 
 all the kool things like on the ps3 and X-box 360 version you can have access to your very own 
 sk8 lounge but unfortunently you cant do that on the ps2 version i was very pissed when i heard 
 about that but all the rest is really good like the rig-a-kit which is a menu in gameplay that 
 allows you to put all these kickers QP and all sorts of things in the city almost were ever you 
 want it is fairly kool but you do get over it sooner or later.
  
  The graphics of this game are really good but the bad thing is the back ground like the city and 
 stuff and all the people they all look really weird but still the skater who you choose to be has 
 really great graphics and when you create your skater it is really realistic with things but the 
 faces to choose from are really bad and i mean bad so i just picked any random one in this game 
 they are missing a couple of skate brands such as Blind and pig but who really cares about that 
 this game still is kool and they have kool brands still availble.
  
  throughout the game you will get sponsored by a brand, you will create your very own team and you 
 can even get a signatured skateboard and signatured shoes which is kool but in the game you have 
 to earn all of this stuff such as learning new tricks and meeting new skaters like Bam Margera 
 who is my favourite skater! This game does have some fantastic videos like people do all these 
 awesome tricks and it even has sponsor videos some are funny some good and even some crap the game 
 is fairly simple. But still this game is a bit worth buying but not to much! Oh yeah the areas 
 are DC National mall, i forget the next one and philidelphia. thank you for listening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  So, this is the 9th Tony Hawk game so far. But it is by far the 1st on my list of the best! Tony 
 Hawks proving ground has you making your skater how ever you want. You can be a Career, Hardcore, 
 or Rigger skater. Let me go into closer detail to try to convince you that this game is worth the 
 purchase.
  
  Story: 9/10 The story in this game has many different "branches" I suppose you could call it. You 
 can choose either one of the 3 stories (Career, Hardcore, Rigger) and then in each story there 
 is another 3 mini-stories. For example, if you choose career then you are trying to get fame and 
 fortune, and then you can do that by choosing to skate with Stevie Williams and take Pics. So all 
 in all, the variety of this story is very well done and is only bested by Tony Hawks Underground 
 in my opinon.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 The gameplay in this game is standard tonyhawk. X+ control stick in any direction 
 is flips. Y is grinds, b+ control stick in any direction is grabs and so on. There are some new 
 things that are added to the formula though like Nail the Manual and Grab, aggro kick, aggro push 
 and many more. So it doesn't really leave the average Tony Hawk formula which is great, but it 
 adds in new features to keep you interested.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 I was actually amazed when I started up the game, went into create a skater and 
 looked at my character! Everything about this game looks real. From the pants on your skater to 
 the enviornment around you. One thing that really blew me away was that if you are wearing a hoodie 
 or something, your hood will actually move with the wind or when you turn your body! Its just little 
 things like these that add to the overall graphical score. 
  
  Replay Value: 9.5/10 There are lots of things to do in this game. There are SO many challenges 
 and games to play that this game could last you as long as 50 hours just doing goals if you try 
 to get sick on every goal. Also, just skating around town and trying to get some awsome videos 
 and pictures will really last you a while.
  
  So, in conclusion. Tony Hawks Proving Ground is the BEST Tony Hawk game I have ever played. It 
 is enjoyable and it is everything I ever wanted in a skateboarding game. In a Buy or Rent situation 
 I'd say buy, you will have lots of fun with this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The other Tony Hawk game we're amazing, I Was happy with American Wasteland, but ever since Neversoft 
 has checked out, its been a mess for Activision, I Did not like Project 8, i thought it was extreamly 
 bad, I think its Shaba's fault for that one, but this one has more real feelings to it, when ever 
 you Kickflip, you get more feeling than the last ones. My favorite was Underground. I Think activison 
 should of done that and they would have a 9.6 here on gamespot, but I still like this game. Its 
 extreamly fun. The create a skater is back and you again featured in Cut scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  An auful story, disasterous new add ons, boring new moves and the stupid "you need to buy this" 
 feature. That worked in American Wasteland since there were actually STORES but in this you create 
 a park for your house and buy clothes from nowhere. Also it seemed to try to compete with the new 
 game "skate" by having a camera angle just like it. There are so many flaws in this game, that 
 if you want skateboarding, go for Project 8 (which will cost about $20 less) or SKATE. (which probably 
 will cost the same but gives you an awsome experience.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asp7td
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  THPC is really a step backwards in the franchise. The game itself feels just like project 8 and 
 the thug series. The gameplay itself is fun. like all Tony Hawk games, you can have fun just doing 
 tricks if there were a mode that allowed you to do so. The game is supposed to be revolutionary 
 where the player must "decide their own fate" when really its a pointless objective to objective 
 storyline
  
  Graphically the game looks great. It is very realistic and the worlds seem very real. The general 
 skating around is fun but the story and objectives really hold this game back from what it could 
 have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thevision9
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  i think the problem here in this series is that they are running out of ideas, and making it a 
 tad to fake. don't get me wrong there are good parts about this game but i like to make my last 
 couple of points the goods so bare with me here. i remember playing the first tony hawk and it 
 was revolutionary. and in order to jump tall buildings you would have to type in the gravity cheats. 
 it seems with proving grounds that the gravity cheat is always in. right off the bat i was doing 
 double back flips off a stair set that was like 50 stairs. im thinking if a skater could do that 
 would he really be needing to prove himself? the graphics to me were a bit of a let down. im running 
 the hdmi cable, 50 inch high def tv, i shouldn't be let down with graphics. this tv makes loony 
 toons look real for goodness sake. i got a lot of hype with this game and within the first 5 seconds 
 i was disappointed with the graphics. but i was a good gamer and was able to get past that fact. 
 (my last negative before i run off some goods.) i know that this isn't a simulation game, but cant 
 we add a little bit of realism? im just sad that anything you can think of you can do. i pulled 
 a quad back flip in a half pipe. yea enough said with that...
  ok lets get to some goods because i did like some things about this game. the fact that there is 
 3 story lines is cool. granted on e inst to much of a story line and more of a lets punch people 
 in the face.... but its still nice to have options. another thing that i liked is actually from 
 a past game but they brought it back and revamped it a little bit. the nail a trick. you can now 
 enter in at any time and control your flip tricks as well as your grabs. big thumbs up i like that 
 feature. and lastly and by far the coolest is you can build rails and ramps any where in the game 
 now. a parked car on the side of the street? lets add a kicker to the hood and session on it. now 
 if tony hawk can make another game with the physics engine of thps1 with the new features of thpg 
 then he would have me hooked.
  bottom line, disappointed with the way this series is headed. this game is lame but fun if your 
 in a superhero flying mood. but also does have some revolutionary things like the fact that you 
 can build anywhere now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Proving Ground is the 9nth game in the main Tony Hawk series. This time Neversoft gives 
 you a choice on how you want to make your skater. They can skate as a career, to inovate, or they 
 can just skate to skate. I for one thought this would open a whole world of opputunities, but instead 
 we get this.
  
  One path your skater can take is career. Like the other paths in the game there are three skate 
 episodes. One of them has you taking magazine pictures. Another has you skating in Arto Saari's 
 video. The last one has you skating in competitions against Eric Sparrow from T. H. U. G. Then are 
 another three goals where you impress a pro (which you also do for the other paths.) Then there 
 is the final goal, which for the Pro skater path is a huge demo, complete with fire rings and fire 
 works. From this path you learn Nail-The-Trick, Nail-The-Manual, and Nail-The-Grab. Nail-The-Grab 
 and Nail-The-Trick are cool, but you won't find yourself wanting to use Nail-The-Manual.
  
  Another path your skater can take is rigger, where you are creating and skating. One episode has 
 you folowing around Bam Margera interrupteing the shooting for his t. v. show (which makes the game 
 seem kindof out dated because he doesn't have one still running.) Another has you entering a competition 
 called "Rig-The-World." The final rigger skate episode has you entering the "Van's Downtown Jam." 
 The final goal for rigger is that you turn a junkyard into a skatepark. In rigger you get the rigging 
 kit abilities and climbing skills. The rigging kit is cool, but it stinks how you can only put 
 30 pieces around the huge three city world. Climbing helps you get to some places and works well.
 
  
  The last path your skater can take is hardcore, where you skate because you love skating. One of 
 the episodes has you defending the cities from a gang called Two-One. Another has you bowl-skating. 
 The final episode has you filming for a video to put on the internet. The final goal for hardcore 
 has you doing stunts for a movie. In hardcore you gain the abilities to skate-check, to do bowl 
 riding moves, and to agro-kick/push. Agro-kick/push is good for gaing extra speed before going 
 off a ramp, speeding up during a manual, or just getting around faster. Skate-checking is when 
 you tackle somebody and send them flying, which is really fun to do and I found myself doing it 
 a lot. I think the bowl riding moves were the worst feature added to the game. After you impress 
 all the pro's. You shoot a video with these skaters. Where you do a goal with each of them, based 
 on what you did with them in the main stories. In addition to all this, there are tons of side 
 goals. These range from more video and picture shooting, to races. All of the tricks from last-year's 
 game return, minus focus mode. Some of them have just been mapped to different buttons. There is 
 also the occasional glitch. There is also a video editor and online.
  
  So in conclusion, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground is the best Tony Hawk Game since T. H. U. G. It introduces 
 some good ideas into the series like the multi-path story, but Neversoft needs to take a break 
 from the yearly Hawk schedule to have enough time to more finely craft the next one. I'd wait longer 
 if it means a better game.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 7
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  
  True Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom696969
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Sure tony hawk proving ground is unrealistic compared to skate but that is what makes it fun, i 
 mean in tony hawk u can do MASSIVE combos and u can do every trick u can imagine.
  In Skate it's too realistic and u can't do nothing.
  
  Game play - brilliant 10/10. there are 
 a lot of things to do in this game that will make u play it for a long time, plus there are leader 
 boards for everything which u can work your way to the top.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are pretty good 8/10
  
  overall the game is absolutely awesome with 
 lots of new features like rigger, nail the grab and nail the manual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok. so i thought most of the tony hawk games were decent, not amazing but good. this game is better 
 than any game i have played in a while. the graphics are great, and it looks real. the plot is 
 beastly, because you can choose what kind of skater you can be. you meet Bam who eventually steals 
 your wallet, and you never want to stop playing this game. the tricks are kind of unrealistic, 
 but who cares!? they are cool and fun, which is all that matters. the challenges are great because 
 they are HARD. easy stuff is boring but this game wants the player to keep trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kisu_maru
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay I liked the game overall but I beat it in like a day or like 8 hours. The exclusion of the 
 female gender made my sis mad and not want to play the game. The Voice acting sucked for your character 
 also. The GH3 demo was better than the game which is pretty sad. I liked the new 3 tier story makes 
 you feel like your in the game more, but again it was too short you'd learn all 3 skills then you 
 do an uber thing and that's it where are the story lines of using the skills more to master them. 
 the game over all was so-so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteman123
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  i have played every TH game there is and i think this is the worst EVER the new camra angle sucks 
 and they need to realize the grafix in nex-gen games are are a lot better. for a example: where 
 you have long hair and glasses your hair dosen't go through the glasses. SKATE is the better game 
 and if u want a bording game get skate not THPG so in conclusin dont waste your money on THPG buy 
 a good game, like skate ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knu_2_lav
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  But Skate. changed all that.. Skate is the next step in skateboard games evolution. No more grinding 
 on electrical wires, no more tripple flip and handstand grind. Only realism.. all the way. And I 
 love it.. I have only tried the demo of TH: PG, but i feels like any other TH game I have tried. 
 So there you have it... I am not gonna buy this game, nor rent it or borrow it from a friend. I'm 
 sticking to Skate. and will play it for as long as I can. I love that game.. I really do. So tough 
 luck, Mr. Hawk.. A new sherif is in town.. :p
  
  K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  So it's been at almost 10 years since the first THPS came out, and every year since then another 
 one has come out. Activision did the old if it ain't broke, then don't fix it . So the game has 
 become stagnant and you really don't need to play much further then 3. Even with the latest GTA 
 style of THUG it's still the same game. So when Proving ground promised something need I was excited. 
 Well everything that is new falls flat on it's face. With the EA title .Skate out THPS has some 
 competition, and it's competitor beats it in most catagories. The primary THPS elements are there. 
 Simple controls to do fantastic stunts that no one could attempt in real life. Right? Wrong! The 
 controls in this game are really funky. Attempting to do an actual stunt is tricky with the way 
 the controls are set up. You press buttons so you can go into slow mo and then hit more buttons 
 to do tricks. Then you land. It sounds so easy and it's really not! The controls are very klunky 
 and frustrating. The graphics aren't up to snuff for current consoles either. I could understand 
 if I played the Wii or the PS2 version, but I expect more from the XB 360 teams. It's really too 
 bad. The music is pretty much the same, and the sounds are standard for the skater games. This 
 game needs to be brought back to the drawing board and re-done. It's a big disapointment compared 
 to THPS debut on last generation's consoles. I would wait until the next game comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Jakester
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, THPS was okay. THPS2 improved upon that with manuals. THPS3 improved upon that with much 
 better graphics, and the revert move. THPS4 improved upon that with spine transfers and a new  
 career mode. THUG added walking and a story mode. THUG2 was a step down. The game was good, and 
 sticker slaps added depth, but the story and goals weren't as fun or involving as THUG's or THPS4's. 
 THAW game the series back interesting goals. And an involving story. But it's Story Mode was essentially 
 a long-ass tutorial. THP8 was the expirimenter. Nail the Trick. You click in the two analog sticks, 
 and flick the analog sticks to flip your board. THPG improves upon everything that the previous 
 games did. As a true sequel should.
  
  Added to Nail the Trick, are Nail the Grab and Nail the Manual. Nail the Manual is very tedious 
 until you master it. Nail the Grab, however, is the best new addition to this game. In Nail the 
 Manual, you click the analog sticks, hold the right trigger, and use the analog sticks to set the 
 board into either a manual or a nose manual. In Nail the Grab, you click both analog sticks, hold 
 the left trigger, and use the sticks to grab your board.
  
  Another new addition is the Rigger Menu. When you press the Back button, you enter a small menu 
 that allows you to place rails, kickers, QPs, and even cameras. It also allows you to modify certain 
 objects in the world to be skatable. When you place a camera, you can skate or air through the 
 marker, and take a picture by clicking the right analog stick.
  
  The story mode is very fun and open-ended. There are three catagories, divided into three storylines; 
 Rigger, Hardcore, and Career. Riggers place objects into the world to skate on. Hardcore skaters 
 skate for no-one but themselves. Career skaters skate for money and fame.
  
  **STORY SPOILERS**
  
  The first rigger storyline is about you impressing Jeff King, and skating 
 on your own rigged pieces. The second one is about climbing objects and pissing off Bam Margera. 
 The third is about modding the world for a contest with Rodney Mullen, Daewon Song, and Vanessa 
 Torres.
  
  The first hardcore storyline is about skating with Mike V., and later helping a man named Cooper 
 get his magazine, 7-Ply, online with videos of you skating. The second is about you, with the help 
 of Dustin Dollin, kicking thugs out of FDR skate park. The third is about bowl skating with Lance 
 Mountain.
  
  The first career story line is about making a video with Arto Saari and Nyjah Houston. The second 
 is about competitons, with skills taught by Bob Burnquist. The third, magazine photos with Stevie 
 Williams.
  
  At the end of every catagory, there's a goal using everything you've learned thus far.
  
  **END 
 SPOILERS**
  
  This is definately the best game in the series thus far. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngeunit1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk Proving Ground is the ninth game in the Tony Hawk series, and while it adds some new 
 elements, it just is not as good as many other parts of the series.
  
  Graphically THPG is about average. The lighting is a bit too strong in most places, but when it 
 is done right it is very good. Also the player body models and textures are all pretty good, except 
 for the faces, they just seem kinda weird.
  
  There are a few new elements to the Tony Hawk series. These include the addition of Nail the Manual 
 and Nail the Grab along with the returning Nail the Trick. Especially Nail the Manual which is 
 really awesome. These are actually really awesome and probably the best addition to the game. Overall 
 the game feels kinda awkward and glitchy. First of all there are a lot of weird collision glitches 
 when you come out of a trick on a quaterpipe, sometimes you just fall even though you are sure 
 that you nailed the trick perfectly. Also the normal weird things that happen when you hit stuff 
 is still there from Project 8 and the older games. Overall though, the challenges for the AM and 
 PRO levels are fun and exciting, and there are some new ideas here along with the classic ones 
 that you would expect. Some of the sick challenges are just balance games and become boring and 
 frustrating to complete and you don't even get a real feel of accomplishment when you achieve them.
 
  
  THPG is a solid game that will defiantly make die hard Tony Hawk gamers happy. Though now that 
 there is another skating game on the block (Skate) , it really doesn't feel as out of the ordinary 
 and different as it had in the past. I think Neversoft might have to make some dramatic changes 
 or come up with some really new ideas or the Tony Hawk series is not going to be taking off like 
 it has in the past anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpie_92
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I have personally always liked the Tony Hawk games as it makes a sport that i personally find quite 
 boring EXCITING! Its a great game for veterans and new fans but its a shame it is being overshadowed 
 by the more of a simulator game SKATE.
  
  Tony Hawk games are about fun and are packed with features which is why i am so glad the brought 
 the Create a Park mode back in.
  
  This games is all about fun and story lines which makes it different, the wacky and actionpacked 
 environment makes it fun to find spots to make your own.
  
  This game personally deserves around an 8 for it to get some justice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildmatt
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I'll say that I am not yet finished with the game I'm around 3 hours in.
  
  I must also bring up that I just recently finished Skate and as good as that game was it was LONG!!! 
 By the end of it I still didn't feel like I was in control of the flip tricks at all, it was just 
 random patterns on the analog stick...
  
  Anyways, enough about skate, the first thing I did when I popped this baby in is... I played Guitar 
 Hero 3 Demo.... yes that alone is probably the best reason to get this game, just for the Tenacious 
 D! Hahahaha anyways I WAS a big Tony Hawk fan back in the day, the 2nd one was intense. And I ve 
 played Project 8, finished 3rd in the town and had enough of it.
  
  Problem with this one is that I still feel like I'm playing Project 8 with minor changes some good 
 some bad. The Aggro Kick and Nail the Grab's are fun, the nail the manual is stupid. Another thing 
 that's stupid is that you gotta do the missions in order to learn them, yeah that's right you can't 
 do them until you do the tutorial missions.
  
  The graphics are pretty much like Project 8 which was fin, but it's time to upgrade, Project 8 
 was really a nice leap foward, the new animations were nice and they're in here again, the problem 
 with the animations is that you can barely see them. Anyways you get clipping all over the place, 
 like last years version.
  
  The gameplay is what's been good with the series forever, and I still think for now that this formula 
 is better then Skate's... For now anyways, Skate 2 only needs to improve a few thing over the original 
 to be better, like the flip tricks, god, I never felt like I was in control over them, kickflips 
 wouldn't work oftenly, like c'mon! But yeah, gameplay in Proving Grounds is pretty much like every 
 other Tony Hawk since Underground, except you get 3 story branches in this new one, basically it's 
 just 3 branches of missions... one hardcore which is the ones who just skate for themselves, so 
 pretty much just hitting the sickest stuff and doing insane stuff. The career branche which is 
 mainly you just getting famous, getting sponsored by deck, shoe, truck and any other company you 
 can think of. Then you have the builder branch which makes you place things in the world with the 
 usual editor that's been in there since like 3, so WAY out of date, which is a big problem in some 
 cases, like try to place something on a roof or ledge.
  
  So overall I agree with the gamespot review so far, skate is technically better, but tony hawk 
 has the better gameplay by little right now. Any hawk fan will find enjoyment in this, I did anyways. 
 Stay tuned for my full review later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprt_Matthew117
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I think that the Gamespot review really summed this game up. I feel that the only way that you're 
 really going to get much fun out of this game is if you're a vivid TH fan. They really haven't 
 improved much on the general game, and seeing as how there's a new skating game out there, that's 
 what they really needed to focus on. Simply saying that its impossible to improve a game's core 
 every year doesn't really cut it. Activision has been putting out the generally same game now for 
 about 4 or 5 years. Thats not called not being able to add a new engine, thats called hightail 
 robbery. The worst part is that people STILL buy it. The game has a lot of little glitches and 
 stuff but besides that the game's framework works a lot better than last year's. In my opinion, 
 SKATE wont his year's battle for the top skateboarding game. Their game generally feels a lot more 
 natural and gives us a fresh breath of games. Overall, I have this game a 6 because it really didn't 
 improve much on Project 8 and there were a ton of glitches and bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  im a big fan from the Tony Hawk series at least just for the PsX. i have been very dissapointed 
 since america wasteland and downhill Jam???? come on! i was really expecting something else about 
 this new release, something that can make something against the EA skate. but seems like they did 
 not give a shut about this, i guess Neversoft is viewing more for the franchise. than for the fans. 
 and thats awful because many of us are moving out to SKATE.
  
  IMAO. Skate grinds over the TonyHawk Coffin.... BIG TIME
  
  Thats the deal, THPG is a total 
 letdown!
  
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaGodBST
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, remember back when Tony Hawk's Pro skater first came out for PSX? It was GREAT! Gameplay and 
 everything, then part 2 and 3 came along and the magic kept getting better and better. Then THUG 
 came out for PS2 and it was awesome. Story and everything. Then you were sorley dissapointed by 
 THUG 2 ( I know I was) , then they made up for it with American wasteland and it seemed like they 
 got their rhythm back. Then Project 8 hit the shelves for Xbox 360 and that one was even good. 
 And when the first previews for Proving Ground came out on gamespot. com you were anxious to play 
 it and waiting and waiting for it to come out. Then you finally get to buy it you get it home, 
 you put it in your Xbox or PS3 that game is starting and you can't wait! You create your skater, 
 you start the game and then............. Your heart dropps cause you realize you just spent 60 dollars 
 on a game that is remarkably HORRIBLE! That's how I felt when I started playing Tony Hawk's Proving 
 Ground, cause to be honest, the only ground they proved was the one they dropped on making this 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is mediocre at best, the graphics look like someone from neversoft was high as a kite 
 while they were using Maya 7.0 (Or maybe even lower) . It's just awful awful awful. you get to choose 
 your own path with is a new feture and is a good concept except but, doesn't grab your attention 
 like it should. The Hardcore skater route basically tells you to beat up cops and security guards 
 if your gonna be a skater and makes it seem like a funny thing. The Rigging route is a good route, 
 but you can basically do the same thing in the other routes. Build your own skate places and... well... skate. (haha) 
 The career mode is also good as well, it shows you basically what you need to do and what desicions 
 you have to make to become a self-centered, a** kissing, do what everyone wants, rich pro-skater.
 
  
  All in all, I beg everyone to please.... PLEASE...... avoid this game at all costs. And when I say 
 costs I mean, your money. Use it on something useful like a game that was actually made to be sold. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jscand99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit, Tony Hawk hasn't reinvented the wheel this year. But it is great fun. 
 If you like realism in skating, this is not the game for you. But all the nail the features, as 
 well as some fun challenges, rigging, and new camera angles make this game a ton of fun and addicting. 
 I'll admit I haven't gotten very far in the game yet, but this is the skateboarding game for my 
 speed.
  
  I have no ill will toward skate, it is just too much of a simulation for me. And that is where 
 the difference lies. I think too many people giving Proving Ground a poor score are people who 
 enjoy Skate. better for being closer to a realistic sim. That doesn't mean that Tony Hawk is any 
 worse than it had been. If you enjoy the past Hawk games, this one ranks up there with the best. 
 I am just afraid it won't get enough of a chance because of the sim crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StSk8ter29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk games have always seemed to have the glory of being the only skateboarding game out there. 
 More recently, SKATE was released and challenged this position of glory. It could have been possible 
 to change everything about the Tony Hawk gameplay and compete head on with SKATE, but instead Neversoft 
 stuck to their roots and delivered what seems to be a solid game. The presentation of Proving Ground 
 (PG) is instantly different than that of it's predecessors, but the core gameplay stays the same. 
 The game does not have an intro with blazing rock music like the older games and instead just drops 
 you onto the primarily red main menu. Upon entering the game, you may notice that the balance meters 
 for both grinding and manual tricks have been changed, and that the camera is a little offset compared 
 to project 8. These are different, but quite frankly they don't take too long to get used to and 
 I didn't find myself really caring that much. In fact, the offset camera was set back a little 
 bit (compared to skate where the guys camera is jammed up your A%@) and my skater never got into 
 my view of the target rail or ledge. Upon entering story mode you are instantly told that every 
 choice you make changes the type of skater you turn into. The types of skaters may be different 
 for this, but you can't help but think that the hardcore and rigger types just end up being popular 
 and have a career anyway. Other than that, you have a little checklist that lets you know just 
 what paths you seem to be taking and although it's not a huge innovation the new system gives a 
 little bit of replay value to a game that's known for linear storylines of rags to riches. The 
 only thing that i have to say about this game other than the above concerns is that it is a little 
 bit more challenging than Project 8. You will sometimes find yourself repeating a challenge 20 
 times, but any veteran player should be able to pass them and the difficulty seems to be adjusted 
 exactly so that you cannot fly through the game. To me this was a welcome change, as beating the 
 more recent TH games have been a breeze for veteran players. With more areas to explore, the same 
 rocking soundtrack, and the new east coast feel, Proving Grounds should be a fun and more challenging 
 game for people that are veterans of the series. I couldn't help but feel like the darker east 
 coast setting gave this game a fresh feel, and anyone that's tired of the brightly colored cities 
 of the last few games should not regret spending their cash on this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
