-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Project 8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tonyhawksproject8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Redesigned career mode gives you multiple levels of challenge.
 nail the trick mode is a cool-looking addition that has a positive impact on the gameplay.
 online scoreboards add more lasting challenge to the career mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate is frequently unstable.
 skater creation options aren't as in-depth as they have been in previous installments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 80 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,965 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Nov 7, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Project 8 makes a lot of changes that will please fans of the series, but a few technical issues 
 keep it from being as great as it could have been. 

  Tony Hawk appeared on the Xbox 360 last year, but Tony Hawk's Project 8 marks the first time that 
 the series has been built from the ground up for the current generation of consoles. As you might 
 expect, not being saddled with the constraints of the Xbox and PlayStation 2, Activision and Neversoft 
 have made some strong visual strides this year, updating and modernizing the game's look while 
 replacing a lot of the trick animations that had been in place for years. The gameplay is as freeform 
 and as technical as it's ever been, with some smart changes on that front that are enough to keep 
 fans of the series interested, while a new tutorial is aimed at getting new players up to speed. 
 Unfortunately, some technical glitches and unstable frame rates plague both the Xbox 360 and the 
 PlayStation 3 version of the game.  

          Tony Hawk's new scheme is Project 8, and he's looking for the top eight skaters in town. 
 By the end of the game, one of those skaters will be you.     

  Those frame-rate problems hit the PlayStation 3 version of the game significantly harder than the 
 Xbox 360. Other than the choppy frame rate and slightly sharper graphics on the PlayStation 3, 
 some of which is only noticeable when using an HDMI cable on a high-end HDTV, the games look roughly 
 the same. But there are other, more significant differences between the two versions. The Xbox 
 360 version has online support for up to eight players, including a new game mode called walls, 
 which gives your skater a tall trail behind him that behaves sort of like the light cycles in Tron -- if 
 you hit another player's wall, you're out. The Xbox 360 version also uses its online support to 
 present a lot of different online leaderboards. Much like Amped 3, many of the different goals 
 in the game have their own individual leaderboard, which adds some competition to the single-player 
 game and gives you a reason to keep on playing the same goals again and again. Without this, the 
 PS3 version feels sort of flat by comparison.  

  The PlayStation 3 version of the game distinguishes itself by offering complete support for the 
 Sixaxis controller's motion-sensing abilities. You can set it to just control functions like balancing, 
 if you like, or you can move and execute tricks with it, as well. It works, but it lacks the precision 
 offered by the D pad, so it's a neat experiment that's pretty good at showing off what the Sixaxis 
 is capable of, but you probably wouldn't want to play through the game this way. The PlayStation 
 3 version also installs a 264MB cache file onto the system's hard drive when you first put the 
 game in your system. Presumably, this is done to help speed up loading, but the load times don't 
 seem much better than the Xbox 360 version of the game. If you're in a position where you have 
 to choose between the two versions of the game, the Xbox 360 version offers a more complete package. 
 The Tony Hawk series was a pioneer when it came to being online on the PlayStation 2, and its omission 
 on the PS3 is completely crazy and thoroughly disappointing.  

  Underneath all those differences lies the same basic game, and it's not that different from what 
 Tony Hawk fans have come to expect from the series, but the changes are noticeable and welcome. 
 The big gameplay change this year is the addition of a new slow-motion trick mode called "nail 
 the trick". You can enter it while in the air by pressing in both analog sticks, which slows the 
 action and moves the camera to your feet and your skateboard. At this point, the two analog sticks 
 (or the Sixaxis' tilt sensor, if you're so inclined) control your feet, letting you flip the board 
 around in a variety of ways. It's very strict on its timing, making it difficult to use at first. 
 But as you get better and better at it, you'll find that it's a handy way to rack up some points 
 when worked into your trick combos. The scoring system has been reworked a bit, so it's a little 
 more difficult to post up ridiculous combos and multipliers by abusing a ton of lip, grind, or 
 manual branches. Considering that score inflation in the online mode over the years has made the 
 system difficult for anyone other than the hardest of the hardcore Tony Hawk players to enjoy, 
 bringing the scores back down to earth is a good idea.  

  The game has a good career mode that doesn't bog itself down with too much story. Tony Hawk is 
 starting up something called Project 8, and he wants to find the eight best skaters in town. You 
 start out ranked 200th, and everything you do is focused on increasing that rank. The primary way 
 to move through the game is to complete goals, but the goal system has been thoroughly reworked 
 this year. Rather than setting you up with a very clear critical path that takes you to the top, 
 the game is a bit more open ended. You'll immediately find all sorts of goals, and as you complete 
 goals that open up new parts of town, you'll uncover even more challenges. Also, the game doesn't 
 ask you to set your difficulty at the beginning of the game. Instead, many of the game's goals 
 offer three different levels of completion. You can get by if you can complete the amateur-level 
 goal, but there are also pro and sick levels to achieve. As it should be, the intermediate Tony 
 Hawk player should be able to accomplish the pro-level goals more often than not, and some of the 
 sick level goals are, indeed, sick.  

          The game's goals offer multiple levels of difficulty that should challenge players of all 
 skill levels.     

  There are a lot of different goals in the game -- in fact, there are plenty of times when your compass 
 gets so cluttered with goal arrows that you're not quite sure what you should do next. Probably 
 the most interesting new goals are the chalk challenges. Grind versions of the chalk challenge 
 have you skate a specific grind line in an attempt to reach the next chalk marking. The first line 
 you reach is for the amateur goal, the second for pro, and the third for sick. There are also chalk 
 challenges for being able to reach a certain height while launching off of a quarter pipe, natas 
 spinning or stalling on specific objects, wall planting or wall riding up to varying heights, and 
 so on. Since your skater improves over the course of the game, you might not be able to reach the 
 sick levels for these goals right away, giving you a reason to come back later after you've raised 
 your stats.  

  You'll perform at skate demos several times over the course of the game, and these work by splitting 
 the crowd watching the action into three zones. You need to constantly do tricks in each zone to 
 keep each section of the audience happy. You'll also meet up with pro skaters and then take on 
 specific challenges to show them you're legit. These challenges are often unique. Bob Burnquist's 
 pro challenge asks you to jump out of a plane and perform tricks in the air. Bam Margera, once 
 again, can't stay out of the garbage, and he'll demand that you launch yourself off of a building 
 and land in a dumpster. Ryan Scheckler focuses on gaps and acid drops, Daewon Song has you move 
 pieces around a small area to set up a lengthy grind line, and there are five more challenges to 
 play through over the course of the game, not counting Tony Hawk's grand finale, which is different 
 depending on how many goals you complete at the higher levels. All in all, people that have stuck 
 with the series over the years should be able to blaze through the game's goals and get the amateur 
 ending after about six or seven hours. But moving up to the pro and sick finales will most definitely 
 take some time. The career is helped along by several appearances by a virtual Jason Lee ( Mallrats, 
 Enemy of the State, Stealing Harvard ) , who guides you by informing you of new skate demos, pro 
 challenges, and other more important goals. All in all, it's a fun, streamlined mode that focuses 
 on the gameplay without spending too much time with needless story sequences.     

  The level design is similar to American Wasteland, in that Project 8 presents the world as one 
 large city with different sections. However, this game makes good on the "seamless world, no loading" 
 concept that American Wasteland touted. Where American Wasteland just hid the loading by forcing 
 you to skate between areas in tight, non-descript tunnels, Project 8's world is truly seamless. 
 The only time you'll see loading screens while playing is if you retry a goal that's halfway across 
 the city, forcing the game to pause for a bit while it warps you there. The large city is nicely 
 designed and has plenty of opportunities for ridiculously long combo lines. The size of the city 
 becomes a problem online, where you might play a full game without ever seeing another player. 
 To combat that, you can choose to limit players to one part of town or a few areas that combine 
 multiple parts of town into one area. The online mode in Project 8 on the Xbox 360 is much the 
 same as it has been over the years. You can connect to a game with up to eight players and just 
 skate around. The host then chooses to start a game and things go from there. In addition to the 
 new walls game type, old modes like trick attack, score challenge, combo mambo, graffiti, and horse 
 are also available. The online action is a lot of fun, and in a surprising twist, you can still 
 use the slow-motion nail the trick mode during online games.  

          Project 8 takes place in an open city, but initially you'll be locked into a pretty small 
 area.     

  Like in many of the sports games that have transitioned from the previous generation of consoles 
 to this one, in Project 8 there are a lot of features and options that haven't carried over from 
 American Wasteland or the previous games in the series. While you can still create your own skater, 
 your options for hairstyles, faces, eyes, and so on are way more limited. However, the number of 
 licensed shoes in the game has skyrocketed, presumably because the nail the trick mode gives you 
 a detailed look at your feet. The level-creation tools show up in a limited form during the career, 
 but there's no option to make your own skate park or goals. Those options were nice to have in 
 the previous installments in the series, but Project 8 doesn't feel like it's missing a large chunk 
 of content or anything like that.  

  If it wasn't for its frame rate problems, Project 8 would be a great-looking game. Most of the 
 animation that's been used and reused in Tony Hawk games is gone, replaced by all new motion-captured 
 tricks and rag-doll physics. Yes, that's right, the legs-straight-out benihana animation you've 
 come to know and love over the years is history. But shed a silent tear for it, because the game's 
 animation does look really nice. The environments are bright and colorful, and even the gross-looking 
 pedestrians that have given you goals in the previous games have been replaced by nice-looking 
 close-up shots. The game runs at a good speed, but unfortunately the frame rate just can't keep 
 up. The PlayStation 3 version of the game is more unstable and sinks to lower depths than its Xbox 
 360 counterpart. On the 360, it's just enough to get in the way of the gameplay. On the PS3, it's 
 enough to make the game feel unfinished, but only on the occasions when it  really  starts dropping 
 frames. Both versions also contain a cool pro tricks section that lets you view the skater models 
 doing tricks as they were motion captured. You can move the camera around, focus on the board, 
 roll the sequence in slow motion, and see just what level of fancy footwork goes into doing actual 
 skate tricks. It reinforces the concept that actual skating is, at the pro level anyway, insanely 
 difficult.  

  The soundtrack in Project 8 is your typical mix of multigenre licensed music. By default, it's 
 low enough to serve as background music that doesn't get in the way of the action. There's a bit 
 of voice work in the game from the pro skaters, but since they only turn up during very specific 
 challenges, most of them only have a few lines. Considering their wooden delivery, maybe that's 
 for the best. Tony Hawk gets a bit more mic time, but even he seems like a bit player in the game. 
 Instead, it's Jason Lee who does most of the talking. In addition to being a former pro skater 
 and running his own skate company, the guy's an actor, and he manages to deliver his lines quite 
 a bit better than the skaters do. There are a lot of new sound effects in Project 8 that really 
 enhance the experience. The grind noises in Tony Hawk have always been great and realistic, but 
 they've been mostly the same for the last several years. There are a lot of new skating-on-surfaces 
 effects this year that really enhance the sound of the game.  

          The models and animation are great, but an unstable frame rate really gets in the way. 
     

  Like every other release on Microsoft's platform, the Xbox 360 version of Tony Hawk's Project 8 
 has a series of achievements that you earn by completing specific tasks. The achievements are designed 
 much better here than they were in American Wasteland, with a handful of points coming for just 
 progressing through the story mode, while many, many more come from mastering it. There are also 
 points for reaching specific scores and combos in the high score mode, playing and winning online, 
 and more. The game also has an achievement for beating a developer or beating someone who has beaten 
 a developer in an online game. It'll be interesting to see how this viral achievement works its 
 way from player to player.  

  Project 8's tutorial should help new players get into the swing of things, but ultimately it's 
 fans of previous installments that will get the most out of this game. The redesigned career mode 
 and multiple difficulty goals inject a lot of excitement into the formula, and features like online 
 leaderboards and Xbox Live support really make the Xbox 360 version stand out. If you've ever been 
 a fan of the Tony Hawk series, this game is worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (187 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MassimoMoretti
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Man, I love the Tony Hawk games. Who doesn't the series was the highlight of sports games and ps2 
 games. But as a Tony Hawk game comes out every year. They are starting to get stale. The Story 
 is the weakest of every game. "Tony Hawk is in town and wants to round up the best 8 skaters, you 
 are ranked #200 and have to talk to every Pro skater who is generous enough to stop and help you 
 and try to make the top 8. Much like the past three games you create a skater to tour around the 
 generic levels, the only problem with this is that the options for a character are so lame and 
 just really disappoint. You will start the game and notice that when you talk to a pro, you never 
 answer back to them and that you don't even see your character in the cutscenes, it's just a first 
 person camera view as the Pros spout their weak boring lines. The only thing that's good and new 
 is the Nail The Trick feature which lets you zoom in on your board and control your board with 
 the thumb sticks. Honestly "NTT" is really fun and I had a great time trying to see how much I 
 could squeeze into a combo. Finally "Sick" missions are actually a challenge. The missions you 
 might be wondering just very from things we have seen before "Hit a certain line" "Use a trick 
 to break something" "Competitions" and maybe some fun missions but they are far and few. I was 
 excited to hear one of my favorite things of all time, "Ragdoll Systems" are present in the game. 
 But they are really over-the-top and disjointed. Create a goal, create a trick and create a park 
 have been removed from the game. The only options are "Story" "2player" and "Xbox LIVE", or if 
 you are playing the Ps3 version Online has been removed. To recap this game is a complete miss 
 and a major disappointment since I love the Tony Hawk series so much. Overall (5.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasukya
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk Project 8 was the first skateboarding game I have ever played and I did find it kind 
 of fun, though pretty challenging. One of the bad things about it was it's graphics, it was kind 
 of bad. It didn't look realistic and it looks a bit pixelated. 
  
  You could do alot of tricks, like over 50 or so, many are flip tricks or grab tricks. There are 
 also manual, invert, grind and special tricks. Special tricks are basically tricks that need a 
 special meter to fill up before doing the trick. The controls are weird too for those tricks. Like 
 a spent half an hour trying to do a special grind trick. It will take some time to get use to a 
 special trick. 
  
  There is also a thing called "Nail the Tricks". You basically press the 2 control sticks at once (while 
 in the air) and you will go to slow mode and the two sticks will let you control each of your feet. 
 So you are like making your own tricks, though I find controlling it is annoying but it takes time 
 to master. 
  
  There are also challenges which are in 3 difficulties. Amateur, Pro and Sick. The challenges are 
 mostly doing these tricks while being filmed, taking photos of your tricks, street marking challenges 
 and Nail the Tricks challenges.
  
  Overall if you like skateboarding games and you don't mind bad graphics and weird controls go for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwamebeauvais
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I started playing the Tony Hawk series at THPS 3 on Gamecube. I loved the game, so when THPS 4 
 came out, I got it, and I was blown away at the difference. I think the transition from the third 
 to fourth games in that series was the best sequel upgrade in any game series ever. By the time 
 I'd gotten to American Wasteland, though, I was worried that the series was on its last leg. The 
 graphics were so cartoonish and the gameplay presented no real improvements.
  
  A couple of years later, I bought this title against the recommendations on this site for PS2. 
 It was bad. I still enjoyed playing, but there was nothing new, and all the elements that were 
 left out were very noticeable. Since I bought my 360, I'd debated often about trying the next-gen 
 version of Project 8, and I finally broke down. I'm so glad I did.
  
  There's a dramatic difference in the video quality (obviously) , but it's the level transitions 
 and the goal system that's remarkably improved. With the exception of a little video hitch occasionally, 
 you rarely notice the transition for area to area. Controls are about the same as before, but the 
 manual system is much better than the PS2 version.
  
  All in all, if you love the series, you'll love this game. I can only pray that they will eventually 
 start creating map packs so you can download new areas to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknees93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying, this game IS fun. It provides a few hours of enjoyment to complete 
 the main storyline. However, unless you really want all the achievements the replay value is rather 
 low. This installment of Tony Hawk is par for the course for Tony Hawk games. You start as a kid 
 from the suburbs and work you way up through hundred's of people to eventually make it on to Tony 
 Hawk's new skate team "Project 8." The game has hardly any storyline to it except for a few small 
 cut scenes which tell you that you got sponsored by so and so because you moved up in the rankings. 
 The goal is to make it to the top 8, hence "Project 8." However, when you do make it there, the 
 game is pretty much over. You can go around trying to complete all the goals to try to get ranked 
 number one. But there really is no reason to. For me, at least, there was no urge to. Don't get 
 me wrong though, the game was fun while it lasted. Yet, when I beat it, there was no real sense 
 of accomplishment. Tony Hawk congratulates you and thats it. In the realm of new features, there 
 is one. "Nail the Trick." With nail the trick you can go into slow motion and control your characters 
 feet as the flip the board. However, at times this system glitches up and makes the board spin 
 out for seemingly no reason. For those new to the genre, there is a training mode which teaches 
 you the basics. But from there your let loose to explore the world. The game features a reverie 
 of pros as usual and sets you out on meaningless missions of different varieties. The online play 
 is fairly active, yet extremely glitchy. It will freeze for no reason which can be frustrating. 
 I would say Tony Hawk's Project 8 is good in small doses, but does not provide the urge to want 
 to play through again. So, have fun for about 6-8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinwebby
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  This is a great skating game, it has the potoential tobe better though. the offline has a great 
 story to follow from a rookie rising through the ranks (like other tony hawks games) . The game 
 has amazing graphics one of the best around that time and amazing flowing gameplay which once you 
 learn is as easy as pie. the tricks are like any skateboard trick in real life but better because 
 you can see the trick from different angles. the main new addition which is custom trick, it slows 
 down the screen and focuses on the skateboard while you use the analog sticks to rotate the skateboard, 
 be careful though get it wrong and lose your combo and fall over! most of the missions begin to 
 get repetitive and also some are very hard to do. i think the ending needs work on as it is impossible 
 to get to as you have to do basically everything on the hardest difficulty! great theres no loading 
 screens just like american wasteland and great the levels are so big. 
  The downside is multiplayer as it is fun but not amazing. the game begins to get annoying when 
 you play that and you end up just going back on singleplayer although it is fun at times. 
  basically the best tony hawks skating game apart from proving ground that is so it gets an 8 out 
 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THXiam117
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I first would like to say this game is really good. The worst thing about it is that for me its 
 imposseble for me to beat it. The trick "Darkslide Boardslide" has a glitch that made it impossible 
 to beat the game. The graphics were good. There was a decent style of clothing. The gameplay is 
 fun. and the nail the trick mode is an awesome add. The challenges are fun. The bad thing is that 
 some challenges are insanely easy to get sick, but some seem impossible, It would be better if 
 it was more realistic. They make the grinds harder to balance than in real life ( I would know 
 I'm a skater) . And the amazing jumps where you land perfectly is like your superman with balls 
 of steel. Overall the game is really good. If your looking for an easy game most of the time then 
 it's a must buy. Looking for something harder and more reallistic get Skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  i bought the game for like a moth ago. i played an played and i found out.
  best game ever. I like the game ida the ranking list all the achivements and online i can keep 
 on forever but i can't find any thing thats wrong.
  
  they have jason lee as a coach "jason lee from my name is earl"
  a bit info about the game.
 
  you see on the news that tony hawk is on the news and he says that the 8 best in the distrikt 
 are in his project 8.
  then you going to bet pro challenges and spot challanges.
  it's 11 pro challenges if im going to be perfect.
  i love this game bye it becouse it's best.
 
  
  it's nothing that can take this game in the tony hawk series (only skate can)
  
  more info 
  on online 
  the trick atack is best and all the cobos and all the tricks evry thing 
 is so good can't understand why people don't like this ggame top game but not a ten only a 8,5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 was built for the next-gen consoles from the ground up, and it shows. The 
 graphics look well done, although some of the faces on the skaters don't look as good as their 
 real life counterparts. The story is simple, Tony is looking for members for his Project 8 group, 
 and you have to work your way from the bottom (#200) to being #8, and if you really want to, #1. 
 While the game doesn't force you to become #1, if you choose to, you'll have a heck of a time trying 
 to get most or all of the goals on the "Sick" rating. And when they say "Sick" they mean it. I 
 managed to get to the #3 spot and I wonder how much more yelling I'll do when trying to reach #1. 
 
  
  The controls feel very fluid, it's easy to do a manual after landing your 360 Backflip Rodeo. A 
 new addition to the Tony Hawk series is the Nail-The-Trick feature, this is where you click both 
 analog sticks down and use the to create an insane high point value flip trick, and it fits in 
 great with combos. There's also a focus meter that builds up when you do tricks, press down on 
 the left stick to activate it, it helps in landing tricks more efficiently. 
  
  Overall, coming from someone who hasn't played a TH game since the very first one on the PS, this 
 game was pretty good. It'll last you a while, so I recommend it as a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parapraxis
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Theres not much of a storyline to it, I mean there is to some degree, but I don't see the point 
 in choosing a preset character [Surfer, Kid, Girl, Punk, etc, etc.] if it really wouldn't make 
 a difference anyways. Why not just make a completely made up character? Like most Tony Hawk games 
 the game ranges from relatively easy to exceedingly difficult and it can get pretty tough. It's 
 harder than its predecessors at least. I've found goals in the game to have foolish starting points 
 because the actual goal itself doesn't really pertain to the direction and sometimes even the area 
 that its set you in. Though, all in all its a fun game and I enjoyed it. Some goals became really 
 tedious and frustrating, but that comes with any game really especially the tony hawk series. It 
 doesn't really have any new additions except for the ability to get into a "matrix" sort of slow 
 motion feel and you control the board completely. Its new and kind of cool, but not enough for 
 me to think this game is outstanding compared to the previous ones. On top of all of this I think 
 the areas are very "blah" as well In every tony hawk I've played I've had a favorite area I like 
 to skate in, but in this one I don't necessarily enjoy skating anywhere in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blink182plus44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Hi am Brett Manning and am going to reveiw Tony hawks project 8. This game is way different from 
 the other tony hawk games. They use motion capture so the game feels more real. This dosnt make 
 the game alot funner but its nice. The goals are fun the loctoins are ok . There divided up so 
 you play career mode to unlock all of them. There is a new thing witch is nail the trick this really 
 fun for aliitle pit but then gets boring. Its smooth tho and nice. But the making your character 
 sucks and the story line sucks your character dosnt talk or have a personality. This game just 
 gets boring faster than the other tony hawk games. But its fun but not great. This game is alittle 
 hard to review because its fun but then its not as good plus no create-a-park watchs is lame!!!!!!!. 
 One more thing you can play as travis barker :) cheat codes typed in plus44 :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dms286
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is a fun game if you are bored on a raining day and stuff. The game has some 
 new stuff from the other tony hawk game. Like the nail the trick thing where you can go slow-mo 
 and maike up your own filp trick and stuff. The griding is a little bit more easy to me but other 
 then that it is the same. It has some fun parts and some realy dume retared stuff like collecting 
 fricken gulf balls for a guy in the first aera. There other pro skaters in the game like any other 
 tony hawk. Its fun doing combos and jumpimg over peaple or just geting on top of a building and 
 jumping off. You can pick up your bored and run around like some of the other tony hawk games. 
 You still have to do clloect the combo and skate letters though. There ain't much else to say about 
 this game but that it is a fun game to play when there is nothing else to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I know this game is old news and there is already another one out, BUT! I think that I should 
 give credit where credit is due. I picked this game up again after getting stuck because of a glitch 
 and started a new profile. I had SOOO much fun, sometimes it feels like button mashing and boring, 
 but honestly it can get fun when you try the objectives. I played it until I got to number 6, (no 
 not all in a day, took me like a week) and I am only reviewing it now because I stopped playing 
 after Halo 3. The graphics are nice and most of the controls feel fluent. There are some times 
 where the game just HAS to mess up your landing, but I can forgive that. I'm going to keep this 
 short and tell you that this is not a must buy, but if you are looking for an average sports game 
 and are getting tired of racing games, try out this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was as hyped as any other THPS, THUG, or THAW player, and this was what I needed. I was really 
 depressed by THAW, the graphics made me cry myself to sleep at night and the story made a flame 
 burn inside of me that made me think, 'Birdman games are going down the drain...'. Luckily this 
 game came to the rescue, seeing how Down Hill jam kinda sucked... I mean for this game the graphics 
 were rated one out of every game when it came out, you couldn't smack people with your board, oh 
 well. You can make your own trick combo -- yes, your own trick combo. Flick your feet (analogue sticks) 
 withst in the air, and BAM you just created your own trick.
  The game is bent on being a subberbbian skater to a main street G. You get sponsored for clothes 
 and boards and teams. Theres a shit load of boards in the skate shop so don't pinck' on just one 
 board, look at non-exsistant boards, old-skool boards, wave boards, modern boards and some pretty 
 gnarly ones. 
  The game is a lot like Skate only a little more precise on skaters' clothes, shoes, etc; You can 
 make your guy look like one of the Guitar Hero guys, it's pretty sikk. Now just relax, you can 
 do all the same stuff in the old games, except for tagging, sticker slapping, and kicking someone's 
 ass. Although you can knock someone over, just 'cause you're a skater... The currency isn't money, 
 it's tokens. They don't have much purpose if you're a hard-core skater. You can pick up random 
 skate scenes from Dustin Dollin, Andrew Ryenolds, Ryan Shekeler, etc. teaching you how to skate, 
 or do a trick at least...
  Overall the game is better than THAW in my opinion; some new moves, some new skaters and some new 
 looks. It's what we need in the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebestninja1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  the tony hawk series has had been going for 9 years and this is the 8th game. even though the series 
 has had its ups and downs this manages to be enjoyable enough to occupy for hours. like American 
 wasteland it does have a streamed city without loading times its great fun to explore the city 
 and of course a joy to skate. This story around the game isn't as good as THUG, THUG2, and THAW 
 but extreme sports games arnet exactly deep anyway the story is about tony and his new comp for 
 ams called project 8 as the name implies. your goal is tomake it to the top 8 ametuer skaters you 
 start at 200th. you earn ranks by finding goals that have been marked green they say grind, manual, 
 wallride, acid drop etc. when you do these goals to the next marking your an am if you make it 
 to the next one your a pro and if you go to the end you're SICK! there are over 200 goals so start 
 skating! as you gain ranks you get sponsered you start off with Jason Lee's STEREO company and 
 he hooks you up with goals after you comeplete those goals you get sponsered by ALMOST or ETNIES 
 or ELEMENT etc. And you will be meeting the pros such as Stevie Williams, Dustin Dollin, Tony Hawk, 
 Lyn-Z Adams Hawkins, Nyjah Huston, Bam Margera, MikeV, Rodney Mullen, bob burnquist, Ryan Sheckler, 
 Daewon song and P-rod. Their pro challenges are varied and fun. the graphics are a big leap since 
 THAW on the 360 is just terrible! though the frame rate goes a bit dodgeyin some places. any way 
 this is a nice change of direction and i'd like to see more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacarue224
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  You know it is okay but could have been a lot better. they just needed to adjust the gameplay and 
 interest level. they needed to spend more time on it before releasing it. that was my review this 
 is just to provide the 100 required words. no offense to the game though. i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i n i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i h i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i. THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jalexbrown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk games have been around since the original Playstation, and in that timeline, there have 
 been many iterations released, some good, and some bad. Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a decent example 
 of how to take a long-living franchise and keep it interesting.
  
  Essentially, Tony Hawk's Project 8 is like the last few Tony Hawk games have been, but with some 
 updates. For one thing, the world is now totally continuous. There's no selecting a level. The 
 whole world is connected, which makes you feel more like you're in the game. That note brings me 
 to the gameplay as a whole. It plays like all the other Tony Hawk games, with one excellent new 
 feature  Nail a Trick mode. Click both thumbsticks and the whole game goes into slow-mo. You use 
 the left thumbstick to control the left foot, and the right thumbstick to control the right foot. 
 This feature allows you to chain together tricks, and you can even insert them into the middle 
 of a combo that's already in progress. The only problem with this feature is it can be hard to 
 get the hang of. You have to hold the analog sticks in position until the board is rightside-up 
 before you can move them or else you bail, and with the 360 thumbsticks, it's fairly easy to have 
 one of your thumbs slip, ruining your whole combo. You can still hop off your board like in the 
 Underground games, but you rarely so rarely do that the feature's hardly justified.
  
  Unlike in previous Tony Hawk games, the objective is slightly different. Instead of a typical list 
 of goals, you traverse the world trying to find things to do that will raise your ranking as a 
 skater in the city. The idea is to get your rank for 200 to the top eight so you can get a spot 
 in Project 8. This is very time-consuming, and the whole Project 8 experience is much longer than 
 previous games in the series. The goals are also typically justifiable. For example, every "stage" 
 has a goal where a guy will call out tricks while filming you, but he's skating, too. So you have 
 to follow him and nail the tricks he calls out. Goals like this galore, and you'll spend many hours 
 trying to raise your rank. Also along the way, you run into professional skaters who want you to 
 do various things for or with them. These professional encounters are relayed to you through your 
 video phone, where you'll get various videos throughout the game with characters tell you what's 
 happening in the world. There are also classic goals scattered throughout the world, which are 
 the basic type of "have two minutes to accomplish as many goals as possible" structure. These goals 
 tend to be too constrictive once you've gotten used to the more open-ended goals of Project 8.
 
  
  Visually, Project 8 is very good. Lighting effects are nice, and the world is huge and flows nicely. 
 There's little load between levels, so the world really does stream well. The environments are 
 all nice and detailed, and they're all where they should be. You make your skater in this game, 
 and you can spend a lot of time customizing him to your liking with the editor. The world is littered 
 with lots of pedestrians that you can make into targets if you choose. Knocking other skaters down 
 will give you a little pop-up video where you can see them chase you. If they catch up to you, 
 they'll knock you down and you lose tokens, but you get tokens if you can not only knock them down, 
 but then keep them from catching up to you.
  
  The audio for the game is fair. Most of the sound effects are standard effects from the Tony Hawk 
 library. As always, the music is where all the audio is. The music is varied in Project 8, and 
 if you've liked the music selection in previous Tony Hawk games, you'll also enjoy the music in 
 Project 8. When you enter Nail A Trick mode, not only does the video go slow-mo, but the audio 
 does as well, which is a neat, if not expected, effect. There's nothing top-notch about the sound 
 production, but there's nothing much to complain about, either. It's just there.
  
  Overall, Project 8 is a fresh experience for people who have been playing the Tony Hawk games since 
 the first iteration. And if you've enjoyed the trip up to this point, you won't be disappointed 
 when you play Project 8. The changes may scare off those who liked the old Pro Skater games but 
 hated the Underground games, but overall, Project 8 is a much fresher experience than the Underground 
 games. As insignificant as the change seems, the streaming world makes this game keep an amazing 
 pace that will have you playing this game for a long time. Once you beat Project 8, you will almost 
 certainly play through it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  With Tony Hawk's Project 8, Neversoft ditches having long stories like in the last three games, 
 and keep the story at a minimum and focuses mainly on skating. And while the gameplay is great. 
 It seems that Tony Hawk is getting less fun.
  
  As I said before the gameplay stays great. A is to ollie, which you can hold longer to build up 
 speed. B is to do grab tricks. X is to do flip tricks. And Y is grind. For these tricks, you can 
 move the left analog stick in different directions to do different variations of these tricks. RT 
 and LT at the same time is to spine transfer. LB and RB at the same time is to get on and off your 
 board. LT when you are just riding is to do a nollie or pressure etc. RT when you are riding is 
 to change wheter you are riding regularly or switch. If you jump on a rail and hit RT and Y at 
 the same time, you do do a grind stall. If you do the same on such things as a post or a fire hydrant, 
 you do a natas spin. Which you can also alter by double-hitting any of the face buttons besides 
 A. To spin you push the left analog stick left or right. Neversoft also improved some things like 
 flips. Which are now done by holding either trigger and pushing up or down on the left analog stick. 
 Unfortunately, you still enter focus mode by clicking on the left analog stick. Which I found hard 
 to do on purpus, but easy to do by accident. The biggest new addition is the nail-the-trick mode. 
 To do this you click down on both analog sticks then move them in different directions, then when 
 the griptape is facing the top, you stop.
  
  This game doesn't have much of a story. It's just you climbing up a long list of skaters until 
 your enter the top 8. The goals are mainly about skating. Like demoes, competitions, and photoshoots. 
 There are also spot challenges, which test a speciffic skill. The only exceptions are bail goals 
 where you are try to break your skater's bones by crashing into things. These are pretty fun, partly 
 due to the fact that this game uses ragdoll physics. You advance in skills by do a trick a certain 
 number of times or amount of time.
  
  So in conclusion, Tony Hawk's Project 8 failed to live up to its next-gen potential. The series 
 really has been going downhill lately. This game is worth a east a rent.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 7
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 7
  
  True Score: 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well I love Tony Hawk games but this one was a huge disapointment. First off I would be skating 
 along and run in to a invisible wall the was no even there. No really fall off my board skating 
 out in the open with nothing around! Second GOD D@%! it if the missions would work right I would 
 not get so mad. I mean I complete the mission with the right requirements and it still does not 
 allow me to get a gold. And Third the NPC's are stupid. I mean come on sense when do they put the 
 controls to open a gate where no one could reach them. Seriously! What are they supost to do fly 
 above the gate to open it? Uh. Dont go any where near this game. It is so bad American waste land 
 is better. This game is the worst game out right now. Here is hoping that the new one will be better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  With every year we get games like Madden and FIFA and some such as Tony Hawk. While some get more 
 and more complex, leaving casual gamers left behind, games such as Tony Hawk focus more on tweaking 
 the already existing gameplay and making it great for casual and hardcore gamers alike.
  Tony Hawk Project 8 keeps it simple. You still have the same gameplay all the way back from Tong 
 Hawk's Pro Skater (which really says how before it's time the gameplay was for the first game in 
 the series) - with some added things, much like we see every year.
  What's really nice is that the game can have something for all gamers, regardless of time and effort 
 put in. If you just want a fun alternative game to everyday's shooter or sports game then this 
 is perfect. If you want a fun skating game, it doesn't get any better then this. The progression 
 of the game is a nice pace and series fans and new comers will appreciate the game. Some parts 
 may be frustrating if you try to get a SICK score for everything, but it's just trial and error, 
 so if you have patience you'll get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to get to last you till Skate and TOny Hawks Proving Ground comes out. This 
 is a really unrealistic game that is surprisingly fun though. Its all out huge combos if you have 
 never played tony hawk before. You create your skater and try to get it Tony Hawks project 8 which 
 is a group of the very best 8 skaters. It takes about 15 hours to get there but getting there can 
 get pretty repetitive with nothing new really introduced except the nail the trick mode which is 
 pretty fun i guess. The multiplayer is pretty boring unless you have friends to play it with.
 
  
  Overall I would say to get this and/or amped 3 if you want something to play until Skate comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  In project 8, you begin at rank 200. and you must work your way up to rank 8, and eventually 1. 
 The world is very open ended and has great visuals. There are no load times and frame rate is extremely 
 stable. There are gaps which are hard to find, and secret spots that can be fun to find. Controls 
 are pretty cool and can be cahllenging. THe different difficulty settings can be pretty impossible 
 to achieve in sick level. Career mode makes absolutely no sense and is thus hilarious. Classic 
 goals are truly cool. The achievements are possibly the most difficult ones ever!!!!! Get hits game, 
 it's cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavien3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  this was a very good game. the new graphics are awesome. the Nail The Trick is very very cool. 
 i am looking forward to the nail the manual and nail the grab on the next game. but for now this 
 is a fun game. i really think that tony hawk games should have more four player except for THPS2X. 
 the live is great with this game. everything i do is pretty easy. you can get SUPER SUPER SUPER 
 SUPER SUPER SUPER easy achievements. so it is very good for your gamerscore. this game is a very 
 fun game. and the pro challenges can actually get very hard. like unless u know how to rig very 
 well daewon songs pro challenge is not easy. but the awesome guys like the grim reaper. im wondering 
 wut happened to daisy or maybe i dont have her yet. i like all of the other pro's you can be. like 
 hosoi and others. and zombie officer DICK!! haha officer dick from the THPS series was awesome 
 and i personnaly dont really like the Zombie extra, but whatever he's still cool. pat the realtor 
 is funny and to fatt for life but anyways. i hope you enjoyed my review and enjoy the game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery_dude
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I wrote a review on the PS2 Version then a couple of months later I got and Xbox 360 so along with 
 this review I shall also do a little comparing throughout.
  
  Graphics: I believed at first the graphics were amazing which they still are but I had just left 
 the ps2 at that point so they seemed a little better at the time. Now that I have come to terms 
 with my Xbox the graphics don't seem as amazing but still very good and I'm sure anyone else who 
 converted from PS2 would agree. (I hope)
  
  Gameplay: Very similar to the most recent ones a great resemblance to T. H. U. G. and T. H. A. W. T. H. U. G. 
 2 on the other hand was slightly different but this isn't a review on that so I shall go back to 
 where I was. The usual work your way to the top style of game as usual but with one new turn I thought 
 was rather good which was the difficulty settings. Now you don't set it at the start and go with 
 that which changes how hard things are now you get a list at the start for instance, High Score 
 Combo Am:10,000 Pro:15,000
  Sick:20,000. So therefore as you get better by playing you may go back to already accomplished 
 challenges and set the bar that little bit higher.
  
  Create-A-Character: The Create-A-Character is slightly better than the PS2 version on the now current 
 gen consoles but still rather simple especially since as games proceed you expect more rather than 
 less. I did like the fact that as you change style from Urban to Surfer for example clothes will 
 change but this also is a downside as there was a pair of jeans from urban I wanted but the face 
 and hair style in surfer suited me better.
  
  Nail-The-Trick: This new feature was a great change from the normal focus mode from previous games. 
 now in the PS2 version because the physics weren't as good it would glow green to let you know 
 you were okay to flick the stick in a different direction. On the Xbox and PS3 version the physics 
 and graphics were better therefore you could tell when you would be able to flick the stick. As 
 you may have guessed each stick controls a foot left stick left foot right stick right foot. It 
 also slows down time so that it is possible to variate it rather than bailing every time you link 
 another trick into it.
  
  Good Points: Nail the trick and all one streaming world and you control the bail!
  
  Bad points: 
 Create-A-Character and the same old storyline! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foodclubdrinks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is the kind of game that I put in my console and play everyday getting every 
 little ounce of fun out of it. This game, although not as good as expected, has some amazing physics. 
 Activision did a very good job on this game. The reason I feel so strongly of this game is because 
 I skateboard myself. I love it so much, and to have something that is so similar to the extent 
 of Project 8 taking me into a whole new world where I can do what I want, when I want without cops 
 or injuries that cause skateboarding delays, it is very entertaining and exciting.
  
  The negative flaws of Project 8; although there aren't that many, the little there is are very 
 severe and make Project 8 not near as good of a game as it could've been. The one VERY big issue 
 I hated very badly about Project 8 was the fact that there was not a create-a-park option. Not 
 only that, there was also a VERY STRICT limit on the customization of your create-a-skater... this 
 was very ridiculous. For the career mode, the goals were very stupid and lame. They sucked very 
 badly and I never intend on playing through career mode again. The story was very poorly put together 
 and is was as well very boring and lame.
  
  Although the negative flaws of Project 8 are extreme, the positive aspects of the game over power 
 the negative parts of the game to the point where it doesn't really matter once you start to get 
 far into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrantley
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk Project 8 is a fabulous game. It is an incredibly difficult game to completely beat, 
 but I loved every minute of it. I was able to reach #1 over about 60 hours of gameplay. That is 
 3 times more than I have ever spent on any other game. It is very addicting, and it also looks 
 great. I still havent felt anything like scoring a 7 million point combo to gain that final achievement 
 in any other game. (Yes, I'm bragging) The create a character could have been deeper, and I do 
 think that the classic goals, as well as some of the bail goals, are too hard. However, other than 
 those minor flaws this game is amazing, and the online isnt half bad either. I cant wait for Proving 
 Grounds to arrive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jowell91
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Every year they put out a new Tony Hawk game, are they really worth it? Well the short awnser is 
 no, not if you'v got the one that came before it.
  
  New improoved! Better gameplay, more realism, new maps, omg a new custom feature, a load of crap 
 if you ask me. This is really not any different from the last game that game out, it just dosent 
 have the level editor, but that was pure crap anyway, so thats a good thing. Like the last game, 
 its all like one big level which is cool, there are different environments, such as a school, suburbs, 
 urban areas and a skate park and more, thats all good stuff, there arent really any loading times 
 to speak of either.
  
  The graphics are a touch nicer than before too, the next gen maybe has paid off. It all looks bright 
 and cheerfull, not too realalistic, but then again that never has been the Tony Hawks way has it? 
 Realism...
  
  The game has a good sound track, like before it has Punk, Hip Hop, Rock and some other stuff which 
 is a good mix and theres probably something you can find to please yourself, but as a hip hop fan 
 most of the tracks in there that are for us are crap, but I cant fault the game on my personal 
 taste, it rather the spend money on getting the game good, than to get 50 cents new song on it 
 or whatever.
  
  Xbox Live, now ive only done this once, because im not much of a fan, but its really good, its 
 easy to get into a game, all the gametypes are there and that, nice choice in maps and its overall, 
 quite a fun experience.
  
  But they are really milking this franchise for all its worth, now im not saying omg they should 
 have stopped after 3 this is lame and crap no im not, I think the series has alot of life left 
 in it, but what I will ask is that they put a little more effort into making things new and better 
 than before, because I feel like im buying the same game over and over just to get a little nicer 
 graphics and a remix on places to skate. Maybe this next one comming out soon will be better, boy 
 ive said that before though havent I? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidrulez
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  it was a fun game that brought tony hawks game to a new level it was really fun to do all the new 
 tricks and see how many of them i could do i loved getting off the board and ramming people the 
 graphics are great just like the gameplay it was fun just to wipe out i loved to travel everywhere 
 and just skate the combos are enormous and the scenery is gorgeous they had ramps every where and 
 the career was fun it had the rpg feel to it i loved the game i hope you will too bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign357
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was good for two things. The graphics, and the physics/gameplay. The graphics were good 
 compared to other next-gen games, and it was much more realistic than all the previous games. For 
 example, when the player did an ollie, if he was high up the ground would shake and the way he 
 ollied was much more like an auctual skater doing an ollie. When skating over cracks in the road, 
 you felt them as the controller vibrated to it, and again, it made you feel like you were auctually 
 more into the game. However, on the other hand, like all the other tony hawk games it is very unrealistic. 
 Some people dont care and some people may like it, but in my opinion its just dumb and a more realistic 
 game would be much better. Such as the new game coming out Skate, i feel that game would be much 
 better because it makes the player auctually have a challenge doing tricks, not just doing 360 
 flipping 10 stairs off the bat and darksliding 100 foot rails. The story was decent but looses 
 your interest after a while. There is no Story but rather quests and missions that you have to 
 find yourself that had nothing to do with each other. Instead they just tested how amazingly unrealistic 
 you could skate in the game. Overall, its better than all the other Tony Hawk games, but it still 
 wasnt in my opinion a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  For the first Tony Hawk game made for the next-gen consoles this one is short of anything great. 
 Its like they threw all the other games and made it Project 8. The only thing interesting about 
 Project 8 is the new Nail the Trick feature. Besides that every thing else is old news with a new 
 face. Dont get me wrong the game is fun for the hardcore Tony Hawk fans, but you really want to 
 see at least some new things coming into the next-gen playground. The character creation is very 
 weak, THUG had the best character creation so far. The open world dosent feel so open and the objectives 
 are getting really ridiculous. Other than that its a good pick-up and go game for Tony Hawk fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_crabtree
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Wow, how to start is quite hard, there are so many things in this game that have improved the Tony 
 Hawk series. Just by adding a couple simple things such as Nail the trick it allow the player to 
 experience the dynamics of skating. Even if you do not like skate then you shouldn't really be 
 reading this but then again it means that you are interested. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 in the casual range of gaming to the hardcore pwnerer. I have enjoyed every minute of slow-mo, 
 nail the trick, amazing terrain and crazy bam that I could have in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  They messed up Underground 2 and Wasteland. This one? Not so much. But it ain't perfect. 
  Tony Hawk's Project 8, the, of course, eighth installment in the Tony Hawk series. After the Pro 
 Skater portion of the Tony Hawk series, Activision decided to take a different approach to Tony 
 Hawk games. The freedom of being able to get off of your board, walk about, get more in-depth with 
 the creativity, and so on. However, this fantastic Tony Hawk revolution only lasted a game. Until 
 they introduced Underground 2 and American Wasteland. Not to be a Negative Nancy, but these games 
 flopped, big time. They went too far with what that made perfect in Underground. And now... Project 
 8. You know, I didn't have very high hopes for this game, and I didn't think it would meet my standards. 
 I was wrong.
  
  Game Play: 10/10
  
  Forget the boring story, the overall game play is awesome. Feels just like it should. The goals 
 provide quite a challenge, as well as Spot Challenges, and completing the game completely. Although 
 it's the same thing with every Tony Hawk game, I was not let down. The part of the game that really 
 caught my eye however was the Nail-The-Trick mode. It gave you a chance to create awesome looking 
 tricks right then and there, adding huge bonuses to your point total. As well, turning your skater's 
 speed down to 1 or 2 was a joy too. It was fun going into focus mode, kickfliping to a nose manual 
 on a picnic table while being able to manual the WHOLE thing, instead of clearing it before even 
 pulling the kickflip. Same thing with stair cases, rails, and the like. Graphics: 10/10
  
  There is nothing more I could ask for graphics wise. The way you can see the wheels turning when 
 you go into focus mode.... the way your legs move when doing tricks... brilliant. It's a really cool 
 feature how they got the actual pros to come in and do their tricks with the special suits on so 
 it could be put into the game. Of course, the scenery and character models were great, and I would 
 hope they would please any gamer.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  Once again, Activision releases a decent soundtrack with the good songs and the bad ones. Decent 
 raps, decent punk, decent rock. Then there are the little sounds like the rolling skateboard, and 
 characters voices. Of course, they don't get any better then the actual person doing them, so I'm 
 not even going to grade them. Replay Value: 5/10
  
  Well, once you finish everything.... what's really the point of going back and doing it again... unless 
 you NEVER get bored. Only really the try and beat your high scores and the increase goal performance, 
 but really, that's all. However, I've heard good things about the online mode. Unfortunately, I 
 couldn't get a taste of online, because my console kept freezing before I got a chance to play. 
 Regardless....
  
  Final Score: 7/10
  
  Well, that's about it. Tony Hawk Project 8 is an above-decent game. Not great, but it will entertain 
 those who have always loved Tony Hawk. It's fun, it's challenging, and it's cool. Finding gaps 
 and secret spots, getting Sick on all goals all lead up to becoming the greatest skater on Project 
 8. If you're an achievement player, this will be a good game to obtain them in. Rent or buy? Well, 
 that's a tough decision. If you're a hardcore fan who squeezes every little bit out of a game and 
 is willing to do it with this one, then buy. If you're just looking for a little weekend fun because 
 all of your other games are played out, rent this and go buy a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk games have always been good, but lately they have begun to go in the wrong direction. 
 THUG1 introduced a story mode that was a bit poor. THUG2 had a better story, but ended up feeling 
 like Viva La Bam. THAw had a good story, but the gameplay wasn&acute; t as tight as before. It was 
 very easy. Tony Hawk&acute; s Project 8 tries to make the series good again, and it lives up to 
 that. If you wanted Tony Hawk to be good again, then you will be pleased when you find out that 
 the game doesn&acute; t actually have a story. Well ok it does have a story, but it plays a very 
 little part. Tony Hawk is looking for the best skaters, and you (like many other skaters) take 
 up the challange. You start at rank #200, and have to reach rank #1. You gain ranks by completing 
 goals, finding gaps, and secret spots. At first the game is overwelming. You have a compass that 
 shows you where the goals are, and at the start, your compass are filled with goals, as it feels 
 like everytime you take a turn, the compass shows you a goal. There are 200 goals, and most of 
 them have alternate goals. For example, with most goals, you can earn Amateur rank, Pro rank, or 
 Sick rank. For example, one goal requires you to natas spin mailboxes in one combo. You get amateur 
 for 1 mailbox, pro for 2 mailboxes, and sick for 3 mailboxes. This system really proves who is 
 good at the game, and who is not so good at the game. Bailing plays a bigger part now. When you 
 bail, you can control yourself, so you can give yourself as much damage as possible. In the end, 
 you get rated by dollars, so the goal is to get the highst hospital bill as possible. Some goals 
 do use this, to hit spots that gives you points, break gates, break bones, and even bowling. It 
 is quite funny to see yourself get slammed into a tree, or a wall. Classic mode returns this time, 
 but it&acute; s a bit diffirent. Insted of choosing it from the main menu, you can find people who 
 gives you these Classic goals. Back in the days of THPS3, you where really hardcore if you could 
 get all goals in one run. In THP8, there are 10 goals to complete in 2 minutes, but if you want 
 to get sick rank on it, you must complete all 10 goals in 2 minutes, which is quite a challange. 
 A little tip: It&acute; s about finding a route to follow. Go on YouTube to see walkthroughs. You&acute; ll 
 need it!! While you skate, you earn strokes, which is money, and can be used to buy new tricks, 
 and decks. You earn them by doing tricks in front of pedestrians. The biggist improvement is the 
 new Nail The Trick mode. You enter it by pressing down the left &amp; right analong stick. The 
 camera then zooms onto your feet. You now control your feet. The left stick is your left foot, 
 and the right stick is your right foot. Now you just have to make the right combos. But be carefull, 
 one wrong move and your finished. Nail The Trick, and be used whenever you want to use it, so it&acute; s 
 another helpfull way to build up big combos. THAW had you skating in L. A. where there was no loading 
 times, but you still ended up skating through long corridors, while the game was loading. THP8 
 has no load times, but this time it lives up to it&acute; s promise. There are no lodaing times, 
 so you&acute; ll never be interrputed while skating. The thing that makes skating this good in THP8, 
 is that it isen&acute; t the unrelastic skating found in THUG1&amp;2 and THAW, where you can get 
 so much speed, that you can&acute; t get in the real life. This is back to basics, and it&acute; s 
 all about making big combos. The game also has support for 8 players online, which is as in any 
 Tony Hawk game, quite good. You got the old options, plus one new mode, called Walls. Here players 
 leave a wall when they skate, and if one player skates into your wall, he loses. Besides that, 
 there&acute; s nothing new to report. So far i have talked positive about the game, but the game 
 does have it&acute; s flaws. First of all the difficulty. The difficulty is high, which is good 
 considering THAW&acute; s difficulty, but sometimes, it&acute; s too hard. If you aren&acute; t a 
 Tony Hawk veteran, it&acute; s vurtualy impossible to get sick in all the goals. The new bail goals 
 are very hard too. There is one goal, where you have to break 15 bones, and get a bill on 90000 
 dollars, but this is mighty hard, cause it&acute; s random how big your bill is. You can hit the 
 same spot, the same way twice with diffirent results each time, and that&acute; s annoying as hell. 
 Serouisly, this game is one of the hardest game ever. It had to buy a new controller, cause i broke 
 my old controller in frustration, adn that&acute; s not a plus. Before, you could create your own 
 trick, goals, levels, skaters, and tag, but this time you can only create your own skater, and 
 even there, the options are limited. It just dosen&acute; t have the same depth as before. You can 
 change some areas in the game, but you don&acute; t have a lot of choices, and it&acute; s farily 
 rubbish. The trick list has also been cut down big time. There are many tricks that are missing 
 this time, which is a bit dissapointing. The graphics are really good, with very relastic animations, 
 and backgrounds. The only flaw is that some of the pro skaters faces look a bit off. There&acute; s 
 really a lot of detail in the enviorments, and the frame-rate rarely drops. The sound is still 
 good. The good old sound effects are back, and there&acute; s a good soundtrack, with Kasibian, 
 and so on. The game does last quite a while. It took me nearly 50 hours to reach rank 1, and duing 
 those 50 hours, i have cryed, and got pissed off, but that only makes it that more rewarding when 
 you finally reach rank #1. It also takes a lot of time getting all the 287 gaps, plus 36 secert 
 spots, and 49 achivements, so there is a lot to do. Overall, THP8 is a very good game. It brings 
 back almost everything good from the previous Tony Hawk games. But the game lacks big time, when 
 it comes to create stuff, plus the game is very very hard. It&acute; s one of the hardst games ever. 
 Now i wrote that it&acute; s very hard to get 100% in the game, but i only need 1 achivement now, 
 and that&acute; s get all the gaps. If you love Tony Hawk, you must buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTMETODOWORKxX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  In project eight Tony Hawk is putting together a team of skaters called his project eight. You 
 have to do a certain amount of goals to be able to meet another skater that will have a task for 
 you to do, if you complete the stunt they will put in a good word for you and you will be a step 
 closer to making project eight. You can do some sweet tricks and while in the air turn to slow 
 motion to nail ur tricks precisely. Finally at the end shred with Tony and if you meet his expectations 
 he will put you on the project eight team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickaWireX
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I have played every Tony Hawk game since the original on the PSX and they where fun till the Underground 
 series came out. They really lost focus on game play and kept it almost the same from the first 
 game to Project 8. Project 8's graphics are alright and just skating around can keep you busy for 
 an hour or two. I didn't even bother with the story line, because most of the objectives are same 
 same from the earlier series. So if you are looking for the same old Tony Hawk series, go ahead 
 and rent this one. Just keep in mind EA's skate. is coming out soon and it looks pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: les_pinner-3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  I am a sports game fan, mostly Tony Hawks games, because I have and played ever single Tony Hawk 
 game and they are all really good. When the first one came out i was so amazed at thisa game I 
 couldnt stop playing it and I was lke that with the other Tony Hawk games. But when Tony Hawks 
 Project 8 came out, I was gob-smacked, I couldnt believe how different it was from the other games. 
 While I was playing it on my Xbox 360, I felt everytime I completed a task I felt really proud 
 of myself and also the futher I got. the more exciting the game was. The feature that I really 
 like is the 'Nail-A-Trick', because you can make up so many moves with this feature, so far I have 
 proberly made up over 200 moves. My rating's for the game is ***** (five stars) . Gameplay and story 
 *** (three stars) .
  Graphics and phyhics ****/ (four and a half stars) .
  
  Les Pinner
  
  Keep on gaming dudes/dudettes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: French023
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk is making somthing called project 8. He is getting together the 8 best amature skaters 
 around. The point of the game is you , a amature skater, tries to make project 8. You start at 
 the ranking 200 and boy do you get good at the game by the time you get to 8.
  
  Tony Hawk project 8 starts off kinda slow. It is frustrating at first because the point piling 
 tricks take a while to get used to. When I say that im not saying its hard to do the tricks its 
 more getting used with the buttons to press. Another reason why its frustrating at first is because 
 your stats are so low. But with time the you learn the special combos and the game becomes a breese. 
 One of the great features of the game is how you raise your stats. You raise them simply by playing 
 the game. For example if you grind around town for 20 minutes your grinding stat will rise significantly. 
 Or if you manual for 20 minutes your manual stat will rise. The only problem with this is that 
 its kind of unbalenced. You have to manual the same amount of feet as you have to grind. This is 
 a problem because grinding is about 10 times easier then manualing is.
  
  Another cool thing about this game is the character creator. It's the same as all the other Tony 
 hawk games you love besides one change, you can change your character type at any time. This means 
 that you can go from being a surfer with long hair to a little kid. That is a cool feature because 
 you can try out different types to see what you like best. The challenges in this game are typically 
 pretty easy. For each challenge there is 3 skill levels to beat. A. M-easiest --- Pro medium ---Sick 
 impossible. When your just going for project 8 it really doesnt matter what skill level you get, 
 either way if you beat a challenge it will raise you about 2 to 3 spots on your ranking. ( from 
 186 to 184) The challenges all vary like some are classic goals where its the collect skate get 
 a 250,000 point combo type thing. Others are grind to a certain chalk marker without falling. The 
 only thing is, is that there was only a few chalenges that took me more then one try to beat the 
 A. M skill level.
  
  Ahh the achievements. After putting about 23 hours into the game I can tell you that i only have 
 around 350 achievement points. This is because the achievements are near impossible. For example 
 If you beat all a pro challenge which is suposed to be a really hard thing you only get 10 points. 
 The thing i will tell you though is that those are probably the most rewarding achievement points 
 even though they arent high in number. You feel like you acually beat a challenge when you get 
 then not just 2 perfect reloads. This is what achievements are all about. All in all this game 
 will keep you ocupied for hours. It is a very satisfying game and gives you a good feeling when 
 you beat it. There is a lot of repaly value for the sole fact that after you make it to project 
 8 you still have hours and i mean hours left of playing time to try to make it to 1 on the list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Adding another game into the Tony Hawk series isnt the easiest nowadays because fans just keep 
 wanting more and more and with how many Tony Hawk games that there are out there, its gotta be 
 getting a little harder for developers to think of new additions to keep it interesting. Tony Hawk 
 games have been coming out yearly for quite a while adding different tricks, environments, and 
 characters into the mix to switch it up, but whats next? Releasing onto shelves on November 7th 
 of 2006, Project 8 brought something new to series. Neversoft Entertainment gave their fans something 
 creative, but was it enough to entertain the fans this time around.
  
  The story in Project 8 is pretty simple, and why shouldnt it be? Its a game about skateboarding 
 right? Well, Tony Hawk is coming to town and hes going to start up a tour to cross the nation, 
 and hes only taking the top eight skaters. You begin at number 200, so throughout the game, you 
 have to prove to him that youre good enough to make the top eight. As in many other Ton Hawk games, 
 theres a vast area, but never in any previous game has it been this vast and seamless. Fans of 
 the series may notice some places from previous games, but different in ways to make them fresh. 
 Of course, all of the area in the game isnt open in the beginning from the get go, you need to 
 perform tricks and accomplishments to advance in rank to unlock or rather open up these different 
 areas including places such as the schoolyard, the factory, the skatepark, downtown, and a few 
 others. To make the game have appeal to the long-standing fans, Neversoft created whats known 
 as nail-the-trick (NTT) mode which is hard to master, but fun as hell to use. It involved slowing 
 down time when jumping to pull off some pretty interesting tricks. When you go into NTT mode, you 
 use each analog stick on the Xbox 360 controller as each foot of your skater and you make up different 
 tricks whether youre flipping your board end over end, or making it spiral in the air, as long 
 as your feet end up where theyre supposed to be when you land, youll fine, and with a lot more 
 points, I might add. This is quite a fun and unique feature to add to a skating game because of 
 the control it gives you, almost putting you into the game with how you want to move your feet. 
 Not only can you use this when jumping with your board, but also while just tooling around with 
 your board up and down pathways; connect two tricks together and create a long-running trick that 
 garners you loads of points. With this ability, the tricks are up to you. Of course, within the 
 game, there are hundreds of tricks to pull off, some youll be trained how to do from the tutorial, 
 but other tricks youll learn from the pros themselves.
  
  As you skate through different areas of the games. Youll come across a host of different real-life 
 pros that will teach you new tricks to perform and also challenge you to pull these tricks off 
 in successions. Some of the pros include Tony Hawk himself, Jason Lee, Bam Margera, Ryan Scheckler, 
 and a bunch others to help you along the way. From learning and passing the challenges of the pros, 
 youll gain ranks helping you to achieve your goal of at least getting in the top eight spot. Besides 
 the pro challenges, there will be a ton of other places to pull off tricks, and to help you find 
 them easier, the developers have marked them on your mini-map. At times, itll seem like your mini-map 
 is flooded with things to do, but it just shows you how time you can spend in this game. And with 
 each trick youre able to complete, there are three levels of difficulty which will help your overall 
 rank in the top 200 individuals trying to make the top eight. This just adds a little more challenge 
 to the game. Newcomers to the series wont have to worry too much about the difficulty level, this 
 was actually the first Tony Hawk gamed I played from beginning to end and I had an easy enough 
 time getting the tricks down and figuring out some wicked combos to gain some much needed points.
 
  
  The graphics on the Xbox 360 really shine in Project 8. All of the characters look much like their 
 real-life selves and represent their overall body and character. The animations in the game are 
 smooth and fluid when performing tricks and also while connecting them together to pull off some 
 huge point combos. The colors within the game look superb and the environments created by the developers 
 look creative enough. The physics are decent, but you have to remember, this is a Tony Hawk game 
 and while a lot of what its based upon is really, a lot of the wipe-outs and stunts within the 
 game are far from realistic, so the physics within the game are necessary for their own purposes. 
 But not all is perfect in the graphics department, there seems to be some stuttering issues with 
 the game. I myself have only experienced less than a handful of spots where its noticeable. Neversoft 
 Entertainment did create a patch for the game, but when applied, the game seems to stutter even 
 more and no patch has been issued since then. So, my suggestion would be to not update the game 
 if it asks you to.
  
  The sound in the game consists of a multitude of different licensed tracks from a host of different 
 genres and while it is always playing in the background, its never overpowering to make you want 
 to turn it off or turn it up. The voice acting in the game is spot on with all of the pros offering 
 their voices up for their respective parts and throughout your travels youll be treated to different 
 real-life videos of the pros performing some of their best tricks. The multiplayer mode in the 
 game is much like the previous online gameplay of Tony Hawk games in the past with offering you 
 an array of different match types to try out between you and some friends. And for those of you 
 who dont feel like achieving a certain amount of points or pulling off an amount of tricks, can 
 also choose the option of free-skate online to just plainly skate around with friends. Its pretty 
 smooth gameplay online and the stuttering youll notice offline isnt present while youre online. 
 Strangely enough.
  
  Overall, if youre a fan of the long-standing series, youll really enjoy this newest installment 
 into the series. With the variety of tricks including, the large seamless environments and the 
 inclusion of the NTT mode, youll be able to spend a multitude of hours honing your skills to be 
 number one of 200 to join Tony Hawk on his tour. If youre new to the series, well, much of whats 
 noted above applies to you also. Its a game that anyone could have fun with, and even learn how 
 to master after a certain amount of time, but that time spent learning the tricks and challenges 
 is time youll be having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomgiv3r6
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 25, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  At its core, Tony Hawk's project 8 is a quality game with a lot of potential, but it just does 
 not seem to have that one element that makes the series so much fun. First of all, a lot of this 
 game's potential is hindered by a few technical problems. This game has a small problem with the 
 frame rate and a few other issues with multiplayer that are rare, but very obvious when they happen. 
 The game's nonlinear story line is great if you just want to explore the game's huge city and just 
 skate, but for those who enjoy something more straightforward like in THAW, this game might seem 
 a bit empty. The character creation in this game is also very limiting.
  
  Fortunately, this is where my complaining ends. Project 8's detailed open environment is huge with 
 lots of things to do and literally hundreds of goals to complete. You will never be bored in this 
 game because there is always some place to explore and goals to do. This game's multiplayer is 
 quite good to. There is a new game mode called walls that is really fun and it has several large 
 stages. So whether you are a hard core player or new to this series, you should certainly give 
 this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjbelllows
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  I wanted Project 8 ever since i heard about it coming out. I got it for Christmas and wanted to 
 play it immediately, which i did. At first it was kind of fun, unlocking the door to the city, 
 and continuing to do the missions to unlock more and more places and things. After a while it started 
 to get repetative, the missions got boring, and some i just didn't want to do. They ranged from 
 impossible to easy, and started to get on my nerves. I liked the graphics though, i think they 
 did do a good job on that. The gameplay and scenes both have good graphics, with complimentary 
 voices from famous actors and skaters alike. I believe the graphics and gameplay are ok, but the 
 missions just get boring and annoying. Skating around is fun, but it doesn't help you except for 
 improving your skills. I do go around trying to get my skills higher, but it takes forever to get 
 one to upgrade and i haven't really noticed my player get any better. He falls on manuals and grinds 
 like usual, even though I have upgraded them a couple of times. The whole idea of getting in the 
 top 8 so you can get on a skate team with tony hawk is not a GREAT idea. It put a different approach 
 on the game unlike all the others. But, to get way down to the top 8 u have to beat almost every 
 mission. Getting sick and pro on side missions is possible, but i only get sick on a couple of 
 the missions. It seems impossible for me to get them all in sick, but most likely others can. I 
 know someone who beat it in 3 day, but that was on the PS2 version and i think it is somewhat different. 
 He has seen missions that are hard that he didn't have to do on the PS2 version. So, i guess the 
 Xbox 360 version is harder with different missions. If that is so, can you change the difficulty. 
 If you can't, Project 8 will be an aggressive ball busting game which will make alot of noobs quit 
 while they're ahead. Tony Hawk's Project 8 isn't the worst, but isn't the best either. The gameplay 
 is good and i like the graphics, but the developers have to think of new ways to keep their consumers 
 happy and interested. They need easier (even though i found it quit easy) missions, because i even 
 have trouble on some. Yes, they did put the new trick vision thing, which is barely used when you 
 actually play the game. So I give it a 8.4 because of it's defaults and also its great new advances 
 on skater games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 8, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 4: Now I know the Tony Hawk games were cool a long time ago, but this is next gen, and 
 the gameplay has not changed at all since Tony Hawk way back on the N64. All the gameplay revolves 
 around is simply hitting buttons as fast as possible in different directions to rack up a bunch 
 of points and get longer combos. There is no skill involved in this. Anybody can hit buttons fast 
 to do tricks. The gameplay is simply no fun at all, and completly boring. The game does have online 
 play, but still all it takes to win is the person who can mash the buttons faster to pull off the 
 best tricks. I have nothing against Tony Hawk games, and I actually liked them back on the PS2 
 and N64, but Neversoft needs to make the gameplay revolve around a little bit of skill of some 
 kind, before this game can ever be fun at all. Graphics 9: This is the only great part about this 
 game. The characters look incredible and the enivornments look fantastic as well. Sound 6: This 
 game sounds decent for the most part. The voices are kind of annoying but the music in the game 
 is pretty good. Value 7: At least this game has some online play to make you play the game some 
 after you beat the short single player game, but the online is still pretty boring. Overall 5.4/10 
 Overall this is probablly the worst game I have played on the 360 to date. The game does feature 
 a pretty cool thing with creating tricks in slow mo, and some of the pro challenges are moderately 
 interesting, but overall the gameplay remains pretty boring throughout. This is the worst TH game 
 to date, and should only be played by the most insane fan of Tony Hawk games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePerkster15
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 8, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was really well done. Cool levels, online was ok. This could of been such a 
 better game it the frame rate didnt freeze up and there were better characters. The graphics are 
 wonderful, but since the game stops and goes like just for a quick millisecond, it some how ruins 
 it a little bit. The characters were sorta boring, and that was a minus there. I wish they made 
 them like they used to. (tony hawk 3) Fun game, but American wasteland was much mroe addicting. 
 I hope this helps if you are considering this game.
  Catch you on the flip syde -cp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  The game have improved alot since American Wasteland came out. The graphics are more realistic 
 and the envoirnment are amazing with the texture and lighting effects. The new feature, Nail that 
 Trick is an awesome installment, it really makes you full control of the board when doing tricks.
 
  
  The story is fun but activision made it a lot harder than expected. Since people were complaining 
 how easy the early Tony Hawks game were. Doing all sick challenges will be a hard time to get, 
 since it cause mostly fustration to some people. I personally myself do get fustrated at times, 
 because it just seems impossible to do.
  
  They did add the character looks customization, but they lack that part big time, there are hardly 
 a whole lot of clothes to choose from so your character will pretty much look the same as always.
 
  
  The online part is ok...... not many people play online. I played once and the host just sits there 
 and chat, most of them do. Anyway, when i do play a match, like the Trick Attack and the new Line 
 Dash thing. Where each player have a line coming from their backs and try to cover the other players 
 to ride into them to get points. Now i'm currently trying to get 100 games played online achievement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julle23
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 6, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  You can do alot thing u couldn, t do in reality
  
  but in the meantime u cant do the simple stuff.
  
  the nail the trick isnt working either.
 
  
  If u like games which u can complete things in acouple of tries
  
  u better look for another game.
  
  there were several times were i had to try like 100: s of 
 times
  
  before i finished, cause of controll difficulties
  
  like one time i finally finished a thing on a pro challenge then another thing came up u shall 
 grind a way wich the other couldn, t do and when u get to the end the skater always jump in the 
 wrong direction, a tried this mission about ahundre times (i actoully did) but still controll problem 
 over and over again.
  
  Neversoft used real skaters with that computer move thin (forgot what name it was) but is still disappointing. 
 if thing with the skaters couldnt do thing then maybe they should stop with the tony hawk series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shionhibiki-360
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 5, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  thug2 had a lot of creation but i'm not happy with this game it has no creation. it just sucks 
 this is the worst game in the series. thug2 was the best it had creation. i like games when they 
 have creativity but this one is the worst of them all. i wish neversoft will learn from there mistakes 
 and not make disappointing games like this again. this series will never beat ea skate or any other 
 skateboarding games that comes out. it needs more create-a-skater its just to small to make a good 
 skater and they should add a teenage female and teenage male to put in the create-a-skater as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mallowman87
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  As a fan of all Tony Hawk's ganes I approached THP8 with some caution, as the I feel that the series 
 went downhill after Underground 1, with less emphasis being placed on skating, and more on graffiti, 
 Bam Margera, and general dicking about. THP8 is a refreshing blast of just pure skating fun, with 
 all levels blended together into one giant skating world.
  
  Using motion capture technology, Neversoft have also managed to create currently unparalled realism 
 into movement. This makes the game so satisfying, endless hours of fun can be had just rolling 
 along the flat busting backside flips, manual combos, and cheeky little grinds on ledges.
  
  With the addition of a slightly weird but wonderful Nail the Trick mode, the removal of the 
 BMXing from THAW, and more goals than you could shake a stick at (With the option of either just 
 barely doing enough for it to be Amateur quality to progress through the story, or doing it to 
 the highest possible standard for gaming excellence) , THP8 is a welcome update to the genre, and 
 is a satisfying play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alaskanpeas
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  this is a late review. i have been playing this game for about 6 months now and i will say although 
 the game play can be fun at times the levels are boring and unrealistic, and also there are many 
 people including me complaining about not being able to skip the intro to the game, which after 
 a couple months becomes very very annoying. I think the game could have been better if they would 
 have just had a long loading screen when you start the game instead of loading while playing. I 
 say this because the loading while playing causes a horrible drop in frame rates, also they should 
 have done it like in th: aw where you skate through a tunnel for it to load so you dont notice the 
 frame drops. They could still fix the game with an update but its been too long and i dont see 
 it happening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the game i brought with my 360 was Tony Hawk and they really let them selfs go with this 
 one. This is of course 8 in the long running of Tony Hawk. it seems that they gone down a peg with 
 this one to. The story goes that Tony Hawk is looking for the 8 best skaters in the world (when 
 did the US become the world) . Your job is to go from 200 all the way to at least 8 then u can go 
 even more and become number. The story does sound a little cheesy but its better then the jackass 
 things they done in the last games ( the first was funny the others just got boring)
  
  The main gameplay is still there which is good. The Story mode is a good size and depending on 
 how u play it might take a little while to complete. a new mode were u can go into this slow motion 
 thing a preform flip tricks using the control, The difference is that u control it all with the 
 analog and try to combo but one mistake could lead to a nasty fall. This by fair is the best thing 
 i have seen in a Tony Hawk game to date. the camera for some reason feels to close to the skater 
 and feels it should be a little more back.. The create a skate mode is a real big letdown this 
 year thought. One thing Tony hawk is know for is its great create a skater option but this year 
 its very bear and doesn't to me have no where near enough in it. There about 4 or 5 hair option 
 and all of them i personalty don't like. A lot of the stuff u could do like change the height of 
 your guy is also gone. Now even thought that bad your thinking well that a bit harsh to give such 
 a low score for that well its not. The gameplay is good until the FPS (frames per second) drops. 
 It get really low and at some points can become a real pain in the ass if your doing a pro challenge 
 or something .
  
  The graphics are really nice and the whole city looks great .That something else, the city is huge 
 which is a nice touch but when when that fps drops its not so nice. Also some of the character 
 models look really good like Bam's while some look awful like Lyn-Z. The music not my kind of thing 
 but the voice acting is top notch and hearing your guy bail down a hill is priceless. So there 
 is some value in the game and there some easy Achievement to pick up to. U might end up playing 
 this for a few week or so. But at the end of the day Activision has really let them self go with 
 this this game and i hope they can put the next back on track 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendDizzy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Where to start this game is one of the game where you get out what you put in if you want to spend 
 time finding every hidden gap or line to hit than this game will keep you going for months but 
 if it is just the story then you may want to think twice.
  The good- the never ending gameplay that was promised with American Wastland is here without bland 
 parts of scenery to go through most of the same faces from the other Tony Hawk games are here and 
 the tricks and lines to hit are bigger and harder to do makeing this good fun on your own on line 
 depending on how many people are there it can be better or simular to being on your own you have 
 to work out which is better for your self.
  The bad-It is also much shorter than the others which despite the content means that if you are 
 very good at this game than the fun is over much to soon, They have also cut out most of the things 
 that made me turn to the series in the first place THE FUN or more to the point the comedy of the 
 game the playing tricks and doing stupid thing from THUG2 it seems to have lost all of that which 
 i thought was a shame.
  Overall a game worth getting the graphic show just what the 360 can do the game play is there even 
 if a little short the music gets a bit anoying after a while as you always seem to here the same 
 songs but you can change that so in my opinion good buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick917
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  At first Tony Hawk's Project 8 seems like a pretty solid game, which is fun to play and pretty 
 easy to work your way through. However as you begin to pull off more advanced combos, which are 
 required by the career as you progress, the glitches in game begin to really annoy you by, for 
 example, stopping combos even when you've quite obviously pressed the button to keep it going. 
 Also the character customisation is one of the most basic i've seen on any game in a long time 
 with a choice of four or five everything, except for a large selection of shoes, hats and skateboard 
 decks. Despite some bad points however the games fast pace, pretty long career mode and quite easily 
 achievable achievements make it a must have for any serious X-box 360 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamtale666
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  Now i bought this game just after christmas, having played the demo i must say i was hungry to 
 get this game... and in turn i did, at first i was a little bowled over... i thought it seemed only 
 good and not as awesome as the demo made it seem, a few months down the line and i love this game, 
 nothings changed, i still dont think its anywhere near as good as say... THUG or THUG 2 but you 
 gotta admit this game feels very very new and not a blatant clone of tony hawks of past. The new 
 nail the trick mode is great, to see the deck, the jeans and the skate shoes so finely detailed 
 is quite refreshing, unfortuantley its not really game you can play for hours and hours and you'll 
 often find yourself turning away from one of its many goals and just purposley bailing to see how 
 many broken bones you can get :D
  
  Gameplay 8/10 - Yer theres some nice touches, nail the trick is great and it does feel like tony 
 hawk game without being a blatant rip off of its predecessors.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Very highly detailed i must say, a few annoying glitches but nothing major, the 
 most bugging thing would be the lagging this game suffers from, but hey, look at the skate shoes 
 :D
  
  Sound 7/10 - Yet another abyssmal soundtrack in a tony hawk game... dear oh dear, countless crappy 
 punk songs, countless crappy hip hop songs and crappy metal music that just dosent seem worthy 
 of being called metal. still if you have you Iron Maiden custom soundtrack running instead then 
 all is forgiven :D
  
  Value 7/10 - a decreasing price tag is making this a must own, yes you will get board of tedious 
 goals and missions, but c'mon 2 for &pound;40 now, smashing bam margera into a wall at high speed 
 and breaking 20+ bones is soooooo worth it! ;)
  
  Tilt 8/10 - Its a nice game, it looks nice and with the right custom soundtrack sounds nice, it 
 can get tedious im not gonna lie but if your a skating fan why wouldnt you buy it?
  
  Yer so basically if you like skating why wouldnt you have this already? if your not to bothered 
 about skating just buy it anyway it can be a fairly deep game if you can be bothered with the goals 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallmankids
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Definitely just like other Tony Hawk games except a new Board Control in slow-mo. Activision calls 
 this Nail The Trick which allows you to control the boards movement using both analogs sticks with 
 each stick corresponding to each foot on-screen. This nail the trick feature I feel is useless 
 as i never used it and would rather not use, I feel up until Project 8 Tony Hawk american wasteland 
 was the best in series due to it's seamless loading within the entire game. Tony Hawk P8 incorporates 
 this by having one huge city to skate in and with much better graphics. Activision has definitely 
 stepped up to deliver the graphical Tony Hawks Game I've always wanted. Hopefully the next introduction 
 can have even better graphics and maybe a new feature along the lines of nail the trick but revised 
 somewhat so that totally impossible tricks can't be performed, even though the entire game series 
 has unreal combo's entrenched into gameplay. That being said i still believe the nail the trick 
 went a little far.
  
  Multiplayer is also very good like all other T-Hawk games which adds good replay value to the game 
 even though multiplayer ends up being very repetitive.
  
  The Gameplay differs only slightly from other Tony Hawk Games with the new Nail the Trick function, 
 but the single player portion of the game seems be quite the same as the last couple of T-Hawk 
 Games in the series.
  
  Overall Tony Hawk Project 8 is a great game that could still like all the other games in the series 
 still could use some touching up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I got to the top 8 within my first four days of owning the game. This takes away from the replay 
 value. I would say achieving sick scores though is much harder than past titles and in a few cases 
 near impossible.
  
  The new slow-mo trick function is one that I didn't start playing with until later in the game. 
 Once you get the hang of it , it is pretty addicting. The game itself is addicting.
  
  I would say get this game if you have been a fan of Tony Hawk games in the past. If not, then choose 
 a new series because all the T Hawk games are pretty close 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Graffclyde
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  Realistic skateboarding game Tony Hawks Project 8 is a classic! Just shows the skaters that its 
 not that easy to land all the tricks at once, you got to learn and practice to get it perfect.
 
  
  This game just shows how the pros do thier tiricks infront of the fans, i never heard of Ninjah 
 the 11 year old pro skateboader untill this game droped to xbox 360. The moves on this are awesome, 
 slow motion just can teach you how to do and land the trick.
  
  The gameplay on this is awesome, you got loads to do on this highly realistic skateboarding game. 
 But you got to do missions to get the tricks and levels and the characters AND the skate boards. 
 Also not to mentiond the skateboarding gear.
  
  You get you compete against the professionals and if you beat them you get thier video and special 
 video tricks.
  
  Well you know my review its all about style, practicing and REALISTIC!
  
  -Graffclyde 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandabs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It has been eight years since the world gave virtual skateboarding a different look. Eight years 
 since pixels reached fame in extreme sports. Eight years since a famous series was born. Eight 
 years since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater has been released. And now, eight years later, Tony Hawk's Project 
 8 has reached the Xbox 360. The story is basic. You play as a skater ranked the #200 amateur in 
 the world. Then, one day, professional skater Tony Hawk announces that he is putting together a 
 team of the top eight amateurs in the world called Project 8. To get on the team, you must complete 
 a series of goals and challenges, to boost yor rank up to at least eight. Rather than selecting 
 a difficulty at the begining of the game, goals now have the option whether to complete them AM: 
 Completing the goal at lowest conditions, PRO: Completing the goal exceptionally, or SICK: Completing 
 the goal 100% individually. The higher the completiong, the more your rank boosts up. There's also 
 a new mode called Nail The Trick, where you do a trick in slow motion, using the analog sticks 
 to control your board. The enviorments are fun as can be to skate in. Not to mention that every 
 single detail of the buildings are perfect. The only thing about them is that they curve up, and 
 while that makes them more skateable on, building's just aren't like that in real life. The characters 
 look like what they should be, punks are punks, urbans are urbans, and, of course, skaters are 
 skaters. However, it seems like people who wear strict styles are overpopulating areas that would 
 have more regular styled people in the places. The sound is what you hear everyday. People talking, 
 shouting, screaming, you name it. Voice overs are just what they are supposed to be, not exaggerated, 
 not bored. However, the wheels make only slightly different sounds on different terrain. Going 
 from a sidewalk to a brick pattern walkway sounds alot more different, and in the game, there isn't 
 much of a difference. Overall, Tony Hawk's Project 8 is an awesome game. It's currently ranked 
 #52, and I recommend that it should be bought and to have a good time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryVanBreemen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  I have played Tony Hawks games all my life. I practically grew up with these games, and this one 
 is nothing short of brilliant. Everything about it is great and you'll find yourself going back 
 to it again and again. Thereis always things to do, even if you just want to pop a kickflip.
  
  The Xbox Live is good, although i would of prefered alot more people. (The maximum is 8 players 
 per game) . I think with more people there it would have been alot more fun. The only slight other 
 problem i have is the range of clothing/shoes. In the past Tony Hawks there has been no short supply 
 of great cloths, I just think they could have put more into this one.
  
  A great game that you'll keep going back to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowflow008
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Of course, this is the big release. It's the only game developed by Neversoft, it's on new hardware, 
 it sports all these new flashy graphics, slow-mo tricks and no load times! This should easily be 
 the best of the bunch, and it probably is.
  
  I won't bore you with the basics here, as I expect you should know something about what we're looking 
 at. Breaking it down though, here's what I think:
  
  The Good
  
  Before the graphics, the obvious entry here, let's not forget this is a Hawk game. Building it 
 from the ground up again and making it feel like a Hawk game is so important. Had the controls 
 not felt how we expected, we'd know. It's not perfect, and it is different, but it's still Hawk, 
 and controls have always been #1.
  
  Getting to that obvious, the visuals, the animations, the whole look is just outstanding. We knew 
 this coming into it, but it still impressed me to see how it all worked. Keeping this brief, it's 
 by far the best looking Hawk game ever. Need we elaborate more?
  
  The difficulty is something that was addressed from the beginning of development. Most gamers will 
 be able to complete the game and crack into the top 8. Veterans and skilled players will get the 
 sick objectives more easily and therefore should be able to complete the game and get to the top 
 4, or even #1. It's a cool way to tweak the series, cover the different skill levels of gamers 
 and tie it all in with the story. While the story itself isn't stellar, I didn't mind it at all. 
 I enjoyed the game on almost every level more than THAW. The Bad Sense of speed. That's the big 
 one for me. This game is so much more realistic on so many levels. This is a great thing for the 
 most part. However, it lost something when slowing it all down. Adding objectives that are timed 
 (Racing, Get There goals) just made me frustrated. On the one hand, you build up speed when going 
 off of ramps, which is that realistic sensation and awesome. But for the rest of the game, it irked 
 me a lot. One example would be when I fell down from the Hill Top area and had to skate back up 
 the hill. Pressing Up makes your skater push, but it was something that, to me, stood out for the 
 entire experience as a negative. The inevitable happened back with THPS 4. Last week I stopped 
 at a local media store and the worker was wearing a THUG shirt (a promo) . He claimed that his favorite 
 was 3 because after that, the open-endedness of the games turned him off. Clearly it's impossible 
 to please everyone, but now we're presented with a really large world. Goals are everywhere, some 
 harder to find than others, and if you want to hit up the other side of the world for whatever 
 reason, it'll take you a while to get there. It's hard to call that a drawback, really, as it is 
 an enormous world and attention to detail has been extended into each corner of the game. Console 
 Comparisons Updated! After playing the Xbox360 game extensively, I finally got a PS3 some months 
 later. I expected some differences, but not quite what I encountered. Here's an excerpt from a 
 lenghty news posting I wrote in mid-January, 2007. First off, each time I load, I have to watch 
 the Activision and Neversoft intros. These aren't too bad, but c'mon, it's game #8, I have never 
 had to watch them before. The first time, I understand... you have to sit through the entire opening 
 sequence. It's annoying (as I've played each version of Hawk this year) , but manageable. This doesn't 
 happen on the 360. Then we have load times. I don't know what the issue is, but the load times 
 to open up saved games is atrocious. It's not nearly as bad as the PS2, but loses to both of Microsoft's 
 consoles and even the PSP. What's the use of a nice 60Gb drive (or even 20) and it takes 45 seconds 
 to load a 120k save game? Yup, 45 seconds. 20 seconds to locate the save game on the HDD, then 
 another 25 to actually load it. By contrast, the Xbox360 took 2 and 10 seconds respectively. 12 
 seconds versus 45? Another comparison, the PS2 took over a minute. Dismal My main gripe thus far 
 is the audio. My receiver will switch to accept the best audio standard (it supports DTS) , and 
 while the game initially loads, the receiver switches over to Dolby Digital. Unfortunately, it 
 then reverts to stereo thereby losing my rear speakers. I expect there's something wrong, but I've 
 tested other games as well without problems. My issue here is that half of my sound effects are 
 gone. No bail sounds, no deck sounds, no 'wheels rolling down the street' effects. There are no 
 options to tweak here, so unless I've missed something, I'm stuck. I *could* go in and switch my 
 audio to accept regular component, but then I'd have to switch back each time! The PS3 doesn't 
 allow simultaneous outputs, so you can't use your regular component and optical outputs at the 
 same time. Once again, a problem that doesn't plague me on the 360. While Sony's controllers have 
 been my favorites, the new Microsoft one is very good for a Hawk game. The PS3 still wins in the 
 basic feel department, but Neversoft tossed in some sixaxis controls which are ultimately useless 
 in my opinion. The tilt functions work much like THDJ, but again, the Hawk series is one with very 
 specific controls and they're incredibly important as well. Tilting the controller to move isn't 
 as precise and just doesn't really fit the series. I've also accidentally tapped up and gone into 
 a manual unwittingly. Finally, and this is before even skating around to actually play the game, 
 it looks like garbage. The 360 is nice and smooth. Great textures, good lighting, the whole deal. 
 The PS3 is all pixelly. Textures are OK, but in the distance it looks horrible too. In conclusion, 
 Microsoft has online play, looks cleaner, loads faster and is just better. There's just no doubt, 
 the Xbox360 is the best version of Tony Hawk's Project 8 in terms of the next-gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoobinator
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't always feel compelled to write reviews or disagree with professional writers because:
 
  a) They're better at it than me and,
  b) No one gives a **** about player reviews, but here goes.
  
  So why am I writing this, because 
 7.9 is too low for such an excellent game and one that I nearly missed out on because of it. But 
 everyone is entitled to their own opinion. The game is excellent, simply put the best in the series. 
 Graphics are next gen in standard but don't expect to see every pore or wrinkle on your skaters 
 T-Shirt to be modeled as lifelike. They're good but not stunning. The world is open, sandbox in 
 nature, no load times at all, just a very well put together streaming world. Yes the sections that 
 make up the world e. g. schoolyard, slums etc are all quite cliched but it doesn't matter too much, 
 the core game mechanics overcome the blase level design and make the levels fun to interact with. 
 The actual gameplay is a continuation of all that is Tony Hawk, but the open world and gameplay 
 elements e. g. Find gaps, hidden spots etc give a proper incentive to actually want to skate it 
 rather than play to the goals. It's fun to just skate and prat around rather than jump from goal 
 to goal which are almost all (with the exception of the jackass type ones) well thought out and 
 pretty challenging.
  
  The big difference from where I'm coming from with this review and the professional writers is 
 that I haven't played a THPS game since Number 3, so I've been a long away from the series. So 
 this to me feels new (just about) , it's not stagnated at all. The problem is I can clearly see 
 why someone would be jaded with playing this game and NeverSoft MUST change the game around in 
 the upcoming sequels to make the next game as vital a purchase as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gHoStLyEyEs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is totally awsome, sure some people hate it and completely just dont like the graphics 
 but i do and thats all that matters, no lets get to the real thing here, The game Tony Hawks Project 
 8 is a game where you can make a skater just the way you like to. Except for the fact that all 
 the super custimizationg features are gone, like the nose and the eyes and things like that. But 
 that is the only bad feature i can find.
  
  the game starts as a lonely boy in is neighboorhood and he is locked inside so you have to do some 
 tricks and open up the biggest world that has come to Tony yet. And there is no loading times what 
 so ever awsome.
  
  the game has some really funny characters in it like the beaver mascot and the zombie. And there 
 are some unlockeble characters too so you can keep skating around town getting goals.
  
  The games graphics are pretty sweet and the way that you can work the ragdoll physics so you can 
 make your guy hit a pole and keep slideing down the street is totally the best thing ever once 
 your done the game.
  
  This tony hawk game also has some good sound, and the people talking is good voice acting, the 
 characters in game look like they should in real life but you can tell if the character was made 
 though because they have a lower resolution.
  
  This is so far the best in the series and I think that everyone should try it, its great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeboi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Watching the videos and previews of project 8 before the release you could'nt help but feel that 
 maybe this next-gen installment of the Tony Hawk's Pro skater series would be the breakout -end 
 all release, potential was there with a new gamplay mechanic added with the use of the thumbsticks 
 to slow down and zoom in on the board in a matrix-esque type control. The graphics looked really 
 smooth and buttlery framerates to boot. Upon playing this installment, hard core gamers initially 
 learned that first, you have to endure through 10 minutes of cutscene before you can even start, 
 and create a park has been totally trashed out and nowhere to be found. As if that was not bad 
 enough, the framerate consisently drops below 60-fps and to most of the hard-core guys, it really 
 does detract from gameplay. Graphics are much improved and it was nice to see the updates and with 
 a solid framerate when it does decide to rear its head, can definately make this game at the top 
 of the thps list. Gameplay and graphics aside, The soundtrack once again is chock full of punk, 
 emo and rock and rap tunes to break bones by. One thing about the thps series is punk and rock 
 really get a large chunk of the soundtrack but some old skate tunes would be nice to hear as well. 
 88 fingers louie anyone? or what about some bro-hymn from pennywise?
  
  Plain and simple Project 8 is a fun game, it is definately worth a purchase or rental at most, 
 but overall this game is the example of You can't have your cake and eat it too! Id say out of 
 5, this game gets a 3.5. Maybe next time it wont feel so rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Over the last 3 years, the Tony Hawk series hasn&acute; t been as good as all the old Tony Hawk 
 games, The Underground series (and American Wasteland) , all had a story mode, and they where all 
 pretty easy, and completed. With Project 8, the story mode has been changed dramatically, and it 
 ain&acute; t easy no more (more on this later) , while those changes may be good, the content has 
 suffered, in compairsion to the other Tony Hawk games.
  
  The goal of Project 8 is simple, complete some goals, impress the pro&acute; s and impress Tony 
 Hawk, so you can get into Project 8 and eventually, be the best of Project 8. And that&acute; s 
 pretty much it, you start at being the placed at 200th, and getting placed into better ranks. There 
 ain&acute; t so much story this time around, which might be a shame, depending on what you thought 
 of American Wasteland&acute; s story mode.
  
  This year&acute; s new features comes in form of Nail The Trick. Basically, when it&acute; s used, 
 everything goes into slow-motion and the camera focuses on the board and your feet. You use the 
 left and right stick, to control your feet. It work&acute; s pretty good, but it takes time to learn 
 it fully. Also, each goals have 3 difficulty settings, Easy, Pro &amp; Sick, and those sick goals 
 are pretty damm hard, so for those who get&acute; s angry pretty quickly, stay away from this game 
 (if only my brother listened) .
  
  There&acute; s also wreck yourself goals, which invovles you trying to bail as bad a possible, so 
 you can rack up a big hospital bill and break as many bones as possible. It&acute; s pretty fun 
 to see how much, you can mess up your character (there&acute; s even sounds of bones getting broken) , 
 the problem however is, that how big your bill is going to be is random (pretty much like Burnout: 
 Revenge&acute; s crash mode) , for example, you can bail the exact same way, and the result is still 
 driffent. How long you fly is also random.
  
  It dosen&acute; t take long to open up every area in the game, but reaching #1 sure does take time.
 
  
  Now about the content, the game claims it&acute; s a biggest Tony Hawk game yet, however it ain&acute; t. 
 All the create modes are gone, and there&acute; s even some tricks that has been removed, so the 
 biggest Tony Hawk game my ass! Also the game is pretty harsh. If you ain&acute; t a Tony Hawk vetran, 
 you have no chance of getting placed at #1. There&acute; s also some glitchs.
  
  Graphical, the game looks pretty nice, though the character&acute; s looks like zombies (at times) , 
 and the frame rate is a problem sometimes.
  
  Soundvise, there&acute; s some good voices and a pretty good soundtrack, and sound effects are as 
 good as ever!
  
  Project 8 has been released on: PS3, Xbox 360, PS2, Xbox and PSP. The Xbox 360 has some good graphics 
 (though the frame rate!) , it also has online and leaderboards for every goal. Custom soundtrack, 
 and achievements. The PS3 version dosen&acute; t have custom soundtrack (damm!) , and it dosen&acute; t 
 even have online (WTF!?) , considering the Tony Hawk series was the first online game on PS2, this 
 comes as a dissapointment. Graphical the game looks better than the X360..... if you got a HD TV, 
 the frame rate is also worse here. There&acute; s support for the SIXAXIS, which let&acute; s you 
 control the character and balance using the SIXAXIS, it&acute; s a nice feature, though you probably 
 won&acute; t use this feature so much. The loading times are also longer, and even if you install 
 it on your PS3, it dosen&acute; t get any faster.
  
  The PS2 and Xbox version dosen&acute; t have online play, and it&acute; s eaiser. You can manual 
 by pressing triangle which some fans might get upset about. Otherwise, it&acute; s almost the same 
 game as the next-gen versions.
  
  The PSP is the same as the PS2 &amp; Xbox version, though Nail The Trick controls is mapped to 
 the face buttons, so it dosen&acute; t work at all. Overall, the X360 version is best.
  
  All in all, Tony Hawk Project 8 is better than the Underground series (and American Wasteland) , 
 but it can never be better than the old Tony Hawk games. If you&acute; re a newbie to Tony Hawk, 
 play the other games, if your a vetran, you&acute; ll probably get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The game have improved alot since American Wasteland came out. The graphics are more realistic 
 and the envoirnment are amazing with the texture and lighting effects. The new feature, Nail that 
 Trick is an awesome installment, it really makes you full control of the board when doing tricks.
 
  
  The story is fun but activision made it a lot harder than expected. Since people were complaining 
 how easy the early Tony Hawks game were. Doing all sick challenges will be a hard time to get, 
 since it cause mostly fustration to some people. I personally myself do get fustrated at times, 
 because it just seems impossible to do.
  
  They did add the character looks customization, but they lack that part big time, there are hardly 
 a whole lot of clothes to choose from so your character will pretty much look the same as always.
 
  
  The online part is ok...... not many people play online. I played once and the host just sits there 
 and chat, most of them do. Anyway, when i do play a match, like the Trick Attack and the new Line 
 Dash thing. Where each player have a line coming from their backs and try to cover the other players 
 to ride into them to get points. Now i'm currently trying to get 100 games played online achievement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Tony Hawk yet. Still with some of the Tony Hawk flaws, but easily overlooked. 
 The game is the best looking TH to date. The nail the trick hammers the fun factor. Finally a great 
 change that doesnt involve Wee Man! The gameplay is mostly the same as all TH games, but it does 
 focus more on skating and having fun than the previous 2 games. A few missions are hair pulling 
 frustrating, but when you do beat them you feel like you can take Tony any day. I dont even like 
 skating, but I like this game and you probably will to. Give it a chance if you havent already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurkeyScavenger
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a mix of many things. Like the tumor I aquired from the retarded physics. And the 
 pain in my abdomen from laughing about it. At the same time, the one thing about this game that 
 clearly stands out in my mind is friggin gay this damned game is. I mean seriously, stokens ????????????????????? 
 It makes you wonder how far a game series can sink before it finally gives up. I mean seriously, 
 if the pattern the Tony Hawk series has been taking continues, my feces will be worth more than 
 them in a couple of years. The original games were so hardcore and awesome. Now, we hear things 
 like tubeular and stokens . Its not funny, if thats what they are trying to accomplish. Is this 
 a game about skateboarders or sell-outs who are so lame that they almost make me look cool. But 
 on top of all this, there is some decent gameplay and stuff, but that doesn't count for much, because 
 how much can you screw up a game series with one game? Enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteezySnowman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The seamlessly flowing and clean environments make skating around a breeze and its massive amount 
 of challenges with different difficulties makes a long story mode. Although the create-a park, 
 deck, spray, and trick modes are missing, Neversoft added mo cap tricks and a ton of sponsor, pro, 
 and misc. movies. They also added a new game called walls which is pretty fun iwith a bunch of 
 people. They kept all the old games and added a few combo/point games (I think, because I never 
 played American Wasteland) . Nothing bad was added into the equation, but it does have an unsteady 
 frame rate at some points.
  
  Now for nail the trick:
  
  This is a great addition to tricking and is a great way to rack up huge combos when used in your 
 strings. Although it takes a few minutes to get used to the foot controls, it is a very useful 
 technique. This game is very good but if it had been fine tuned with a few bugs taken out, this 
 would definitely be one of the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Known2regect
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  You want a game that has difficulty, and the best nail the trick system you've ever used. This is 
 the game for you! You start out as a person in his home neighborhood. I'll tell you there are some 
 pretty Ridiculous characters. First of all you have to manual over a squirrel's RC car and do a 
 wallplant on the clock to get out. Hundreds of un-lockable or buy able boards, sponser's, and more.
 
  If you are not sure, rent it first, always good to rent so you know your not wasting all that 
 money for something you think is trash. But if you are a past fan of the Tony Hawk series and skateboarding 
 games, I can probably bet you that this will reach out to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrifeLives
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  wow..... thats the first thing you say when you see the opening sequence.
  remarkable...... best describes the graphics as the skaters dance on the screen in an elegant majestic 
 motion. this happens to best describe not only the intro, but the new feature, that is, the ability 
 to slow time to do a trick ( nail a trick mode; press both analog sticks) finally, as the kasabian 
 track comes to and end and The Master Tony Hawk glides across the screen and the game starts up. 
 my first response was was to remain in awe. the menu system was great and it seemed as though all 
 was well. Or..... was it? start a new game, create a skater. coool! I thought, finally. then...... 
 disaster struck. the create options......... left a sour taste in my mouth. IT SUCKED ! It was 
 terribly limited ! I found myself asking myself, all that hype... and this is it..? anyways, I 
 kept moving foward, putting my disappointment behind me. then the game started. You start your 
 journey outside your house, and I was wowed by the truely awesome graphics. THP8 had a really impressive 
 3D world to explore. so I hopped on my board and skated around a bit.
  
  That is... until I bailed. then it all hit me. My disappointment resurfaced. Apon hitting the ground 
 my body was thrown several feet into the air and then flew across the neibourhood landing about 
 50 feet from my original point. What the F was my original question following. that was one... 
 terrible glitche. and it only went downhill from there. ther were glitches everywhere. Collision 
 detection is UNHEARD OFF ! moving through buildings or walls seemed to be the norm in this virtual 
 world. still, never the less, i moved on.
  
  okay. first mission and I still dont feel involved in the game. gotten used to the controls. First 
 mission...... SAD and REPETITIVE ! all the missions seem very samey . Collecting the combo doing 
 this , doing that, IT WAS BORING, really, it was. and I found myself asking why I should have purchased 
 it, when in fact I should've taken something else. I thought back and wondered, you know what? 
 Tony Hawks Pro Skater 4 was better than this ! just then I heard a track, soundtrack that is......
 
  
  wow, whats that song playing thats what I said. then stated what the hell did they put that in 
 here for???? yes folks, Gnarls Barkley was on the soundtrack. why or why would he be in a game 
 of this genre? Gnarls Barkley in a skating game, thats a first. In fact, my second thought after 
 that involved more disappointment. Why wasn't there any custom soundtrack in this game? all the 
 tunes are boring and mediocore. my expectations of hearing The Offspring, Rancid, Social Distortion 
 etc were crushed as I then used the manual and saw what useless tracks found itself into this SKATEBOARDING 
 game. so, after all the hype, all the videos, all the hype, and hype and hype and more hype, was 
 it worth it...? no, it wasn't. but I thank THP8 for reminding me, that graphics are not everything. 
 after all, I have never seen a game have so much eye candy and yet be so utterly repetitive and 
 boring ever before, if doing 1000000000 missions that ALL feel the same, but like pretty graphics 
 with pathetic collision detection, get Tony Hawks Project 8. if not, just rent it. i shouldv'e 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Great game with great graphics. Nail the trick mode is one of the biggest and best things to come 
 to this franchise, but the whole team dropped the ball by not alowing the players to use the perfect 
 balance cheats just because of achivements. Saint's row found it's way around this problem. If 
 i remember right the Tony Hawk games were about having fun and the lack of these cheats is just 
 frustrating. Besides how many people really care about the achivements? We need an update for the 
 console that lets us use our favorite cheats
  GAMEPLAY
  there are moments that the game seems to stall
  GRAPHICS
  the characters still seem kinda blocky
 
  AUDIO
  the soundtrack isnt that great
  LONGEVITY
  great party game
  INNOVATION
  only thing really new is nail the trick and that isnt useful in most situations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is the eighth game in the Tony Hawk series and pulls the series out of the 
 slump its been in. The three games before Project 8 all featured some sort of stupid story with 
 boring characters and lame dialogue. Thankfully Project 8 steers away from that for the most part. 
 There is still a small story but not as much as the last three games. You play as your character 
 and am trying to get into Tony Hawks new skate video called Project 8 he's taking the best eight 
 undiscovered skaters and filming a video with them. You start out at rank 200 and have to get all 
 the way to number 8. You rank up by complete the many goals scattered around Beaver Town. The universe 
 is completely open and unlike American Wasteland where you had to either ride a bus or skate through 
 a long tunnel there are no loading times at all in Project 8. The gameplay in Project 8 is fantastic 
 the goals are different and fun. They range from following a filmer and busting out tricks to spot 
 challenges where you have to bust a trick like a manual or grind and make it to the markers without 
 wiping out. Another really cool thing about Project 8 is for almost every goal there are three 
 rankings: Am, Pro, and Sick if its a goal where you need to get a high score the Am ranking will 
 be pretty low, the Pro goal will be higher, and the Sick goal will be much higher. Having three 
 different rankings on almost every goal is very cool and makes it so there is much more to do.
 
  
  The skating in Project 8 is about the same as American Wasteland but it feels more realistic. You 
 can't do 540 Double Backflips anymore and some tricks like the Darkslide which wasn't a special 
 trick in the last game has become a special trick again. Some changes have been made to the controls 
 now instead of pushing down on the control stick to do flips you hold down the L Trigger and push 
 the control stick up or down depending on what kind of flip you want to do. There is also a new 
 trick that has been added called Nail the Trick it isn't really a trick but its very cool. There 
 are lots of Nail the Trick goals but normally to activate it you press down on both sticks then 
 you have to move the control sticks in different directions to perform tricks. But it takes a lot 
 of practice to perfect it but once you get good at it there are tons of unique tricks you can do. 
 The way your stats upgrade has changed also in the THUG games and American Wasteland you improved 
 your stats by doing random things like doing two backflips in one combo. In Project 8 it keeps 
 track of the total distance you've grinded and all kinds of other facts. You upgrade your stats 
 by grinding a certain amount of feet or doing a certain amount of special tricks its a very cool 
 idea and works much better then the old system did.
  
  The graphics in Project 8 are great all of the areas look truly next-gen. The characters look awesome 
 also the graphics are just fantastic you can tell a lot of work was put into them. The sound is 
 pretty good the sound effects are great and the voice acting is fantastic but the games soundtrack 
 fails. There are a couple good songs from bands like Primus and Wolfmother but the majority of 
 the soundtrack stinks. Tony Hawk's Project 8 isn't the longest game but with three different ranks 
 for almost every goal there is plenty to do and some of the achievements are pretty hard so those 
 may take you a while to get. All in all Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a great that definitely brought 
 the series out of its slump.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Now I have been playing this game for 2 month's and I just cannot stop playing it. If i'am bored 
 I just play a little THP8. This game is really easy to start but, mastering it is hard. If you 
 like the games that was before this one get this one.
  
  You can play this game in 2 way's: Story or multi-player. The story last's 10 hour's. After that 
 an impressing multi-player. All the good old modes from pro skater 2 are here and that bring's 
 the multi-player to the top. If you have nothing to do you can skate the whole THP8 world which 
 is full of challenges and big gaps.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 8
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  In Tony Hawk Project 8, the gameplay is a lot better and different than all the others. Yes they 
 took out some stuff, and it can get you agrivating, but this is the best in the serise!
  
  Gameplay is great! Nail The Trick is a great way to rack up points, for comps to online. Realistic 
 tricks. No more, slam face on board or whatever. Motion sensored make this game look so real.
 
  
  Graphics are the best out of all the games! (Duh) The people accually talk like they mean it! Not 
 more same motion every sentance thing. (If you know what im talking about) Yes when your talking 
 to someone the backrounds blurry and all. The faces are just plain weird!! What happend to the 
 good faces?
  
  Sound is great. You can here realistic sounds, like your accually skating.
  
  Value is worth 
 it! Spend 60 bucks or 50 to buy this amazing game (dont get p***ed if you keep losing) . This game 
 is amazing and i highely reccomend this game. PS2 version is to laggy and no where near graphical 
 as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotty316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Tony Hawk Project 8 is the best Tony Hawk game to come at us in a long time. Not since 
 the days of Tony Hawks 1-3 (4 is debatable, more on that soon) has one of the regular sequels been 
 so overwhelmingly addictive. The idea of a GTA-styled Tony Hawk is exactly what Neversoft needed 
 to do. Going from area to area seemlessly gives us TH vets unimaginable lines and combos. The graphics 
 in THP8 are great. Everything flows near perfectly, aside from the occasional bump when theres 
 too much going on, the retooled engine is the best in the series so far.
  
  The goals, are all attainable at any TH skill level, which will suck new fans, or in my case old 
 fans, in and never let go.
  
  PROS - Graphics are excellent, Nail The Trick is a cool feature,... goals vary in favor of any 
 player, from new blood, to old skoolers, everyone will love THP8s addictive gameplay.
  
  CONS - Occasional hiccups, but otherwise smooth as butter... Bams Pro Challenge (Entails everything 
 I didnt like about THPS4) , Create Modes are all gone, and the CAS sucks... All in all, THP8 is 
 one of the best in this VERRRY long series. Hopefully THPS9 can do even better, if thats even possible... 
 (remove challenges like Bams, and it could be!! ;) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  i love this game it is defently the best tony haawk game ever its very realistic besides the part 
 where u could fly a thousand feet in the air and break 15 bones and get up right away and be fine 
 this game is very realistic the skating in this game is fun as hell online is fun to playing with 
 ur friends also i like horse its fun if they had like a tag game like in the old tony hawk that 
 would be awsome the story to this game is about tony hawk setting up a new crew called project 
 8 and u have to work ur way up to be in it do all different types of challenges to get the u start 
 off i beileve at probaly 200 rank and when beat it ur in rank 7 so yea this game is kinda long 
 if u love tony hawk games u will be happy with this games and if never played tony hawk buy it 
 now!! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Yeah thats right for 8 straight years in a row we have seen Tony Hawk come and go just in time 
 for the holiday season. Now its time for the series to die but this new game however does show 
 it still go a few tricks up its old sleeve. Yes theres all these challenges and stuff as well as 
 creative use of achievments although they can sure be hard. There is multiplayer but I highly doubt 
 anyone is still playing when I was playing this game near launch there were only a few games available. 
 I don't know how it is know but my gut tells me it is pretty much dead. graphics are good especially 
 the lighting but the tried and true gameplay of Tony Hawk is what makes this so repetitive it has 
 been perfected you can't improve on it so its time to let it go and bring it back in a few years 
 where it will feel new again. If you want to get some extreme sport action going on or just wanna 
 play a skateborder game you can't go wrong with this one although it is the only one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBrownie5911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Not a lot of people like this game because they are waiting for ea's SKATE coming out later but 
 I really like this game. The graphics are 10x better than the other Tony Hawk games and the players 
 are up to date. Levels are ok not fantastic though. I think Fun Park (you unlock it last) is the 
 best and also the Skate Park. Nail the trick is simply awesome and the special tricks that you 
 buy from Jason Lees skate shop are killer. Not many clothes and accessories to choose from but 
 there are many shoes. It is also fun to be sponsored by different skate companies as you get ranked 
 up like vans and element. I beat this game in about 15 hours and there isn't much you can do after 
 you beat accept goof around or try and get pro or sick on challenges that you had amateur, or pro 
 on. So I say screw everybody that hates this game because it rocks!!! PEACE OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdavis999
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  THP8 Is one of the best tony hawk's games made. The Tony hawk series didnt get off to a v. good 
 start with american wasteland on the xbox 360 but Project 8 has redeemed the series and has made 
 the series great again, the only problem is the frame rate it really dose lag at points in the 
 game, the graphics are v. good a major improvement to american wasteland, and i belive that this 
 will be one of the best for a while. the sound of the game is preety good about as good as the 
 graphics, but once you've completed this game there really isnt that much for you to do on it, 
 the free skate option get quite boring fast, what i really liked about this game was when you fell 
 off your bord the ragdoll physics would glitch and they would go flying to the top of the map and 
 when you hit the floor there would not be much impactthat made me laugh the most, A very addictive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Having played the TH games forever, I consider myself a big fan. Due to that I will have a hard 
 time giving this game a truly honest review because it played so similar to so many of the previous 
 titles (not exactly a bad thing, but kinda disapointing) . In fact, my first thought of playing 
 was 'Hey, I've done this before!'
  
  Gameplay - The base controls you should be familiar with, it's the same solid base that has been 
 on virtually every 360/xbox TH game. The nail the trick is a nice addition, but it really isn't 
 spectacular. Graphics - Compared to a lot of the current 360 games, the graphics are pretty dissapointing. 
 On the other hand, they are the best graphics in the series. And your shoes/board look pretty cool 
 in the nail the trick mode.
  
  Sound - A decent mix, personally would have prefered more punk/less hip-hop though.
  
  Value 
 - A decent game, but remember, you can probably find American Wasteland for quite a bit less (particularly 
 if you buy used games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fonsi305
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk series has been around since the sony play station 1 and n64 and it has only impressed 
 gamers, skate fans and even people who are looking for a good game. Project 8 is no different from 
 that. Project 8 was completely rebuild from the ground up for the next generation and it shows. 
 The game has better visuals and sound then the previous game THAW. If your asking your self what 
 new features are in here you first theirs nail the trick mode where you control your feet with 
 the analog sticks and you can create sick tricks. Their is a new city called Beaverton and did 
 I mention the nice visuals on HD. The game can run on 1080i. Now the bad things about the game 
 are not a good story mode. In THAW their was a solid story mode in this game all you do is skate 
 around talk to pro skaters and rank up a lader to reach the ultimate nirvanna project 8. Also not 
 alot of customization features either. And you cant play horse online!. The good is the nice visuals 
 and sounds. The soundtrack is superb and the skaters look very real. Summary : Tony Hawk Project 
 8 is a superb game if your into skateboarding and if your a good gamer. The story mode lacked a 
 good story and online lacked horse all around THP8 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This Tony Hawk game is the best yet if you like tony hawk games you'll love this one.
  
  Good - There is a new way to do tricks its called nail the trick mode you use the left and right 
 thumb sticks to move the board with your left or right foot. And there are some fun new mini game 
 things like you knock over bowling pins with your body. The graphic are like Saints Row and there 
 alot better than previous Tony Hawk games.
  
  Bad - The only bad thing about this game is the character creation, the character creation is not 
 as deep as previous Tony Hawk games. You pick from male or female then you choose Urban character 
 or Punk, Kid, Surfer. Then you choose maybe 5 faces for each type of character then some cloths. 
 But over all this is a fun game and i recommend you atleast rent it if you a fan of skateboarding 
 or Tony Hawk Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Bozack
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is slightly different from its predecessors not so much by what was added, but more severely 
 but what was taken away. This Tony Hawk sequel forces you to pick a social group for you created 
 skater; limiting your clothing, skin color, and overall appearance. Also, the small chalk challenges 
 are a constant annoyance and the missions are drab and redundant. The Nail the trick feature ,which 
 is unusable in multiplayer, is probably the only good addition to this game. Many say that this 
 is the best Tony Hawk game so far, I say its only the best looking! The game itself is the worst 
 since underground 2. Project 8 should be a rental at most! I wouldn't suggest to anyone that likes 
 skateboarding. The word best fitted to describe this game would have to be DISAPPOINTING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxmanic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  As we know since the first release back on the PS1, the Tony Hawks Pro Skater series has dominated 
 in the skateboard series and this Project 8 is no exception. After American Waste land, you would 
 have thought that the THPS line would finally run its course, but with the release of a new platform 
 it would be almost sacrilege not to bring the franchise to the X360.
  
  Project 8 brings everything that was great with the original game and adds to it. Excellent character 
 creations options are still there, coupled with full customisable appearance with a varying array 
 of body types and genders to choose from.
  With this there is also a huge amount of boards to choose from, although this, like the character 
 creation is purely atheistic. Inclusions of different challenge types are there along with the 
 Classic missions bring a constant level of challenge that will no doubt keep players coming back 
 for more. Also its plain to see that a lot of thought has gone into the environments offering 
 hundreds of secret gaps, grinds, ramps and transfers which again will keep die hard fans suitably 
 pleased.
  There are nice touches throughout the game, noticeably the new nail the trick mode, which allows 
 users to focus and reallywellnail the trick.
  
  Although the over the top speed and grind/vert are still there, a really nice touch and maybe one 
 for the true skateboarders out there, the ability to actually slow the speed down for a more realistic 
 touch to the game.
  
  To close, although a lot of players may refer to Project 8 as money for old rope, this part of 
 the franchise is one that will keeps gamers satisfied for a long period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's see - the first Tony Hawk game, titled Tony Hawk's Pro Skater (or Tony Hawk's Skateboarding 
 in Europe) , was a major hit. That was back in 1999. Since then, Tony Hawk himself was recognized 
 as one of the best skateboarders around. Of course, not long after, a sequel came along, and with 
 that, it has been continued every year. While Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 and Tony Hawk's Underground 
 were the best in the series, in my opinion, anyone can argue that the Tony Hawk series has been 
 plagued with the same old gameplay.
  
  Eight years later, Neversoft Entertainment releases Tony Hawk's Project 8. After hearing claims 
 from fans that the series was losing it's grand touch, Neversoft decided to release the game, assuring 
 that the game was built from the ground up, built from scratch, etc. All that could probably grab 
 your interest, because it's been a while since the Tony Hawk series needed an improvement. Tony 
 Hawk's Project 8 introduces a brand new engine. The biggest goal out of this engine for Neversoft 
 was to make the game look and feel as real skating would. Responsive controls and ragdoll physics 
 when bailing are some new, and more than welcomed features. The engine can stand on it's own, but 
 there are some flaws and mishaps that make the engine a little less than what it's supposed to 
 be.
  
  Tony Hawk's Project 8 starts you off as an unknown skater who is willing to be a part of Tony Hawk's 
 Project 8 . Well, it's not that easy. Your main goal is to work from the bottom up, so you can 
 become recognized, and eventually become part of Project 8. You can customize your skater however 
 you wish, just like in the previous versions. The problem here is that quite a few options for 
 customizing your character aren't available. I noticed a big difference with the lack of customizable 
 options, so it's not wise to think that you're ready to customize a well detailed character, because 
 that most likely won't be possible.
  
  There is a tutorial available for newcomers of the series, but it's essential that long time fans 
 take a bite here as well. Some controls have been altered, so you'll have to work with the changes. 
 The tutorial is quite hefty, and it'll basically go over what you need to know about Project 8. 
 If the tutorial doesn't feed your interest, you can always just barge right into Career Mode, the 
 main core of the game.
  
  Career Mode is where your game begins. Career Mode mixes some old and new gameplay elements. Old 
 timers of the series will be pleased to see some older objectives within the game, such as collecting 
 S-K-A-T-E. Newer features such as the Spot Challenge, allows you to match different tricks such 
 as grind and manual distances. If that doesn't suit your taste, you can complete other objectives 
 which include Pro Challenges and racing goals. All in all, Tony Hawk's Project 8's Career Mode 
 is slightly longer than all the other previous games, but it won't hold your shoulders for long 
 after it's beaten.
  
  Tilting to the next section, Tony Hawk's Project 8 would not be complete without multiplayer. All 
 the goodies of multiplayer have returned. Trick Attack is the most basic of all modes, where all 
 you have to do is score the highest amount of points in the allotted time limit. Tony Hawk's Project 
 8 is online capable, and allows up to eight players at once. Novices shouldn't really bother with 
 online play because about 90% of the players online are veterans and will tear you apart. Instead, 
 hone your skills in either Career Mode or offline multiplayer with another player (although it 
 would still be magnificent if Neversoft would add four players offline) .
  
  One of the exceeding attributes in Tony Hawk's Project 8 is known as Nail the Trick. In Nail the 
 Trick, you are allowed to slow down time and create new tricks based on what you do with your character's 
 feet. You can control the left and right foot of the character with the left and right thumbstick, 
 respectively, and can also be used to transition into the next possible combo. This is quite a 
 unique feature that will be enjoyable to any fan of the Tony Hawk series.
  
  With a brand new engine comes brand new graphics. While I can say a lot of good things about the 
 graphics, I can do the same on the bad side. Minor textures like buildings look rather decent, 
 but it's a little obvious Neversoft didn't put too much effort with this. Major important textures 
 such as wooden verts and rails look strikingly real. Clothing textures and the logos that are pasted 
 onto them have a realistic feel. Skater models aren't quite impressive, though. Up close they look 
 a little on the blocky side, which makes it feel like they don't have much life in them. Bob Burnquist 
 looks like he's dead, and Tony Hawk looks like he hasn't ate in decades.
  
  Brand new engine, brand new graphics, now what? Well, that's a simple question with a simple answer 
 - brand new soundtrack. Tony Hawk's Project 8 boasts a soundtrack that is mixed with alternative 
 rock, metal, and hip-hop. The Cure's Plastic Passion , Charizma's Devotion , and Bad Religion's 
 Social Suicide all are available for listening in the game. If you really dislike the songs, you 
 can create your own custom soundtracks and implent them in the game, for your own share of thrills. 
 I do have some problems with the sound, though. For one, the voice acting isn't up to par. Most 
 of the voice actors feel like they're uninterested with anything relating to the game, by the tone 
 of their voice. There are also some problems I had with the soundtrack, in which one of the songs 
 would end and then pause for around two full minutes before the next song would come up. This can 
 easily be bypassed by just selecting another song from the menu, but it is annoying when this problem 
 persists.
  
  Like I said earlier, Career Mode is slightly longer than the other games in the series, but it 
 won't hold you for long. There also happens to be no Create-a-Park feature except the one in Career 
 Mode, but I would not call that a Create-a-Park mode because of the numerous stripped options. 
 The Nail a Trick attribute is very unique and has some replay value on it's own. Multiplayer is 
 interesting if you are very experienced, and provides a challenge as well as entertainment. While 
 the new and improved content may sound enticing to many, it's not as astounding as it seems. The 
 brand new engine does add new flavor to the series, but you will be expecting more. Career Mode 
 is still engaging as ever, but it's still a short experience. Offline and online multiplayer is 
 one of the better treats from Neversoft, so don't be surprised if it gets you hooked for a good 
 while. Nail the Trick is a superb addition to the series, and it's definitely worth a look to those 
 interested. Then again, you have some issues with the new engine that need to be fixed. However, 
 Tony Hawk's Project 8 is marching in the right direction, and we can only hope that it's for the 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game just shows the world what an xbox 360 can because of its graphics and game play this 
 game gets very highly addictive while 10 minutes into it and after training this game is sooooooooooooo 
 much fun i played it for 10 hours str8 1 day but still dident get close to competeing the game 
 after a couple of pro challenges it the game they seem to get pretty difficult such as the the 
 2 girls and bams pro challenge. but this game has so much to show that is why i am rating this 
 game 9.2 so if u have an xbox 360 i recomment realy strong to get this game it wud make ur days 
 so much more fun and oh yes but the down point to this game and all the other tony hawk games are 
 the 2 players and online so i wudent bye this game if u dont like story mode and u just want it 
 for 2 player... oh and im off to go play it now . if u want to conntact me for any questions add 
 me on xbox live : me360niall or just send me a message on gamespot thx for reading and gd bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redvett111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  If you have been playing every Tony Hawk game since the release of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, you 
 will feel that Project 8 is on the same level as the first few games in the series. Now, the Pro 
 Skater series had a great start with the first, it went higher with the second (And the remake) , 
 even higher with the third, stayed on par with four, dropped slightly on five, went much lower 
 with six, plummeted to the ninth layer of hell with seven, but rocketed back up from eight. American 
 Wasteland following Underground 2 is like tearing off a band-aid five or six times then giving 
 yourself a papercut right after. It really is a wasteland. But Project 8 following American Wasteland 
 is like pulling your arm out of a fire and having a waterbottle with you.
  -------------
  The game scrapped the option to choose your difficulty setting. Instead, it makes it mandatory 
 to beat every single task on Sick mode which is more painful than male birth. Speaking of tasks, 
 what is with the goals centered on bailing? I'd rather drop the soap than complete another mindless 
 mission where you must knockdown/crash through/break X bones while achieving a high hospital bill. 
 Yeah, at first the whole bailing thing sounded cool, but now I'm always pressing X to skip the 
 falls. I don't want to play a skateboarding game where you have to bail, I like to do that on my 
 own. You can't just plan these things, they come natural. Bailing should not be forced.
  -------------
  The lack of cheats really pissed everyone off, including myself. But while scanning 
 the vast number of topics on forums, I always come across the one person that says The game developers 
 don't want you to use cheats. They designed the game with the perfect challenge level. How can 
 you not beat it? Lolololololol? I'd like to point out that I am not the person that puts in the 
 codes for me to use; the game developers do. They had the intention of us using cheats, hence why 
 the make the codes and a cheat menu. If they didn't want us to use codes, they were better off 
 just creating a cheat menu where everytime you type something, the game erases you saved slots. 
 Hey, why not just go all the way and make the disc melt in your console so the whole thing has 
 gone to waste. No. They didn't do that, so they aren't trying to stop use from wanting or using 
 codes.
  ----------
  Some of the goals are not done by skill, but by luck. Construction Crash should be the first one 
 coming to your mind if you attempted it. It sucks so much that I had to use a time glitch to achieve 
 Sick status, let alone Pro. The Classic Goals are no better.... Actually, they are better, but 
 not the type of thing you will enjoy doing. YouTube and Google Video are your two best friends 
 because most forum members start with How do you beat ----- on Sick? Followed by them saying Oh, 
 never mind, I got it. Lolololol. Person 2 says Can you tell me how you did it? I'm stuck. Lolololol. 
 Person A will most likely respond with Why should I tell you? Nobody responded for me within the 
 two minutes I posted! Lololol. 
  The objectives are too far apart, and are scattered in such ways where you may find one of the 
 mission goals (Wine bottle from Slums, goats from School) near by the one and only objective (Hedges 
 from Suburbs, light the candles from Slums) by one of the SKATE letters, next to the first letter 
 in COMBO. Where do you go to first? It's just so random where nothing is in the perfect skate line 
 except COMBO and SKATE (If you are lucky) I'll use the School for an example: You can either do 
 what I did and turn around to wall plant the plywood and continue your line, or just skip to COMBO. 
 Once you get the C, there's no turning back. It's like crossing a bridge, and having the ropes 
 break on you once you make it across. So you get the C and continue to collect the other letters. 
 Uh-oh! The T in SKATE is there. Might as well pick it up; kill two birds with one stone. Uh-oh! 
 There's a goat you just knocked into. Might as well push him in. No point in getting everything 
 ahead of you, only to lose more time in going back for it. So you keep going and you finally get 
 all of the letters. While in your line, you happen to get the highscores, letters, goats, and secret 
 tape. Eight second left, guess I should check what I accomplished. Uh-oh! You screwed up! The one 
 object goal is still needed! But you are close to the Skate Park by now. Manual down the hill to 
 the school. Oh sh*t, the bar is going too fast. All you can do now and get off your board, get 
 back on and quickly wall ride (If you are lucky enough to make it that far) . What's this? While 
 trying to grind the blue and yellow rails, you either don't make it up the slope and start going 
 down, or you just bail. Let's say you didn't bail, but didn't make it up the slope. Now you can 
 only get off your board and try to turn around and grind back up. Now what? Your walking timer 
 has expired since you needed to wall ride. Start Down A to retry.
  --------
  The music selection sucks so much. The only song I like is Slayer's Angel Of Death. But even listening 
 to it once is enough to make you cringe. I love Slayer and all, but Raining Blood is so much better. 
 But hey, at least you can play your own tracks. After starting up the game, you might do what I 
 do and hit the Guide button to choose your tracks. But no, you can't because you have to listen 
 to that horrible song in the intro which you can't always skip. I always loved the intro songs 
 for Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1-4, didn't like 5, didn't like 6 (I do like The Doors, however) , and 
 7 needed Motley Crue's Live Wire as the introduction song. That was the only song I listened to 
 in THAW anyway.
  The introduction song is so bad that you feel depressed when the PRESS START icon doesn't show 
 up. But, hey, we all feel your pain. I am still wondering why it hadn't shown the pros skating 
 in the intro for four years. Whatever, I always skipped it after the first few times of seeing 
 it.
  -------------
  The skater selection for Online, Multi, and Free Skate is horrible. Just plain bad. And I mean 
 baaaaad. Ever since the sixth, I kept saying that Jason Lee should be in it. Now that he is, I 
 can finally have somebody to play as that doesn't make me want to say The button slipped and I 
 chose the wrong person. Back in the days or Pro Skater, I always chose Bucky Lasek. Always. Five 
 years straight, that was him I used. THUG 2 came out and I had to play as a new person. Why should 
 I adapt? Better yet, why isn't he, nor anyone else in it? Now with THP8, there's only one character 
 from the first that stayed in the series. Guess who? Tony Hawk. I bet that in two years from now, 
 It will just be called Skater, because Tony Hawk won't be in it because of all the cutbacks they 
 do. But isn't that too close to Skate, an EA game? I don't care. But at least we have Bam, no matter 
 how much I hate his new show, CKY and Jackass still rules. But I don't want to play as him. Honestly. 
 So atleast I have Jason Lee.
  -----------------
  The Stat system is retarded. I got full stats the normal way, not using DRINKUP to gain full air 
 stats (Hint Hint for anyone lacking it) . To my surprise, I reloaded my game and my stats are scrambled! 
 I already have the achievements for it, why the balls do I need to get them again? Sure, the grind 
 one is simple, but manual is a b*tch. I either skate or grind. Why use two wheels when you have 
 four? That is, if you are not in a combo. This may or may not have happened to you, but it sure 
 has happened for me.
  -----------
  To wrap this all up, if you love the series like I do, and have every game of the series but this 
 one, I'll say get it. It's fun at first, but a b*tch to beat. I'm at spot #3 and my game time reset 
 to 00:00 for no particular reason. The best part of this game is Xbox Live. You can find me as 
 MotleyPriest111 on Live, and I am usually always playing this game when I'm online. By the way, 
 my collection is as followed:
  
  THPS- PSX, N64, DreamCast
  
  THPS 2- PSX, N64
  
  THPS 2x- Xbox
  
  THPS 3- N64, PSX, PS2, PC
  
  THPS 4- PS2, PC
  
  THUG- PS2 (And GameCube 
 for about a day before I returned it)
  
  THUG 2- PS2
  
  THUG 2 Remix- PSP
  
  THAW- PS2
  
  THSL (Sk8 Land) - GBA
  
  THDJ (DownHill Jam) - DS, Wii
  
  THP8- Xbox 360 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie_sr
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Good: Fun and improved trick system. Massive city to skate and explore. New objectives and hours 
 of gameplay. Bad: So many GLITCHES. Physics could use some tweaking. TH: P8 is a very fun game especially 
 with the new trick system: The Nail the Trick Mode. But there are just so many glitches and physics 
 problems, that the fun is taken away. The glitchs might be fun in some cases, but flying up 87 
 feet in the air for messing up a grind, is just riddiculous. To the developers: PLEASE fix all 
 the glitches and tweak the physics a bit. Getting wiped out should be realistic, not stupid. It 
 will make the game ten times better.
  
  I recommend you rent this game, or play the demo first. If you like it, then buy it. This is a 
 definite keeper though because of it's replay value, and the achievements will keep you playing. 
 As the score says... it's GREAT... juuust great... (sigh) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calum5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Tony hawks project 8 is an awsome, addictive game with a long single player story and some excellent 
 new challanges. The difficulty level can be frustrating at certain points bit when you get into 
 the game its just right. Acheiving an amature score is not too hard and getting a sick score is 
 challanging enough to make the game have excellent replayability. Its slightly annoying that they 
 got rid of the map maker but to be honest the level design is so good that nothing you could make 
 would be better. Also there are some fun parts where you get to move objects around, which can 
 let you set yourself up with new ways to get to hidden areas. The gap system works really well 
 and the intergration between skating around the map and starting challenges is ace.
  
  The trick system and controls are easy enough for people new to the series and familiar enough 
 for long time tony hawk veterans. The new nail the trick system is extremely satisfying to use 
 once you get used to it. Although it is a good way to do tricks it isn't so easy that you can use 
 it non-stop. The emphasis on using combos to get big scores can create really tense situations 
 when you are in the last seconds of the clock and are halfway through a massive combo, as bailing 
 will make you lose all your score. Luckily you can pause at any time and head back to the last 
 stage in the competition which is useful.
  
  My favourite thing about this game is that it requires skill to play. You can't just button bash 
 and hope for the best as that usually results in you skidding along on your face with the games 
 entertaining ragdoll physics.
  
  Overall Tony Hawks project 8 is a fun semi-freeroaming skating game that will appeal to fans of 
 the genre and new players alike. Also great value if you can get it in a sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 For 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  :) THE GOOD : Graphics Are Amazing, 
 The Soundtrack Is Pretty Damn Good, The Sound Overall Is Great, Tony Hawk Games Have Never Been 
 This Much Fun, Nail A Trick Mode Is Awesome.
  ===========================================================
  : (THE BAD : There Are A Few Framerate 
 Problems, Not Enough Bam Margera In The Story Mode.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  I've been with the series 
 from practically from the beginning. You name it, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 
 2, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4, Tony Hawk's Underground, Tony Hawk's Underground 
 2, Tony Hawk American Wasteland, and now Tony's Project Hawk 8. Over the years I found the series 
 to constantly get better and better until Tony Hawk's Underground 2 which is proberly the best 
 Tony Hawk game of all time. Up until now, Tony Hawk's Underground was arguably the last game in 
 the series to really revamp the wheel. Since then each game had just been a rehash of the year 
 before with a few touchups here and there. Finally Neversoft scrapped everything wrong with the 
 old games and completely redid everything into their most complete package yet. For an extreme 
 sports title you wouldn't think a story would even be brought up. However, if you were to take 
 a look back at some of the previous titles of the series you would easily see that Neversoft has 
 been trying to incorporate some snazzy storylines in the game for a quite a while. The best story 
 in any Tony Hawk game yet has been Tony Hawk's Underground, and Tony Hawk's Project 8 doesn't change 
 that. The original underground was an epic tale with betrayal, the becoming of a legend, and the 
 fight for what was right. For some reason Tony Hawk's Underground 2 ditched all of that and made 
 the story look like a MTV show. Tony Hawk's American Wasteland though had the most embarrassing 
 story with it's annoying characters, never-changing plot, and pointless objectives. It seems that 
 Neversoft in this game, instead going back to Tony Hawk's Underground and making a more movie-like 
 storyline, has ditched pretty much the story idea entirely, going back to the roots of Tony Hawk 
 Pro Skater 4. There is a plot though. Apparently Tony Hawk is looking for the Top 8 skaters in 
 the region to join up with him. Your goal is to move up into Top 8. Boom. That's it. So those looking 
 for a more involved storyline better go check out Tony Hawk's Underground. I'm guessing Neversoft 
 was too obsessed with the gameplay of this game to make one. Hopefully we expect the next game 
 in the series to have one.
  
  Gameplay : Tony Hawk has always been addictive for one reason: its killer complex system and smooth 
 flowing combos. Creating combos qualifies for one of gaming's most satisfying things to do ever. 
 It's just a thrill to build up points after doing long and stylish lines across a level. Thanks 
 to this latest installment, creating combos is easier than ever. There are a ton of things to combo 
 here and thankfully none of it feels thrown together. The levels are all perfectly designed to 
 combo into one another, which is an absolute blast to do. This time around Neversoft has even thrown 
 in a new feature called Nail the Trick which basically flings the camera up to the skater's feet 
 and gives you complete control on how you want to flip the board depending on the way you move 
 the analog stick. This feature can build up a lot of points and can be used frequently in one combo. 
 The only way it doesn't feel cheap is the fact getting it down is tough! Nail the Trick requires 
 a lot of precision and perfect timing. One miss of a button and the combo is dead. So what seems 
 like easy money actually comes with a killer price. On top of that, Neversoft has added rag doll 
 to the bails. Normally rag doll is used only for dead bodies in shooters. To see it in a game like 
 this, where it can be triggered at any moment the player feels, is hilarious. The skater can fly 
 at outrageously high attitudes and come crashing in on his/her face at ridiculous speeds only to 
 get back up again. Funny stuff. The game itself surprised me. It's unlike the last four games in 
 the series. This one is hard! For an experienced veteran who's been with the series from the beginning, 
 this game will seem challenging. For a newcomer, this game at times will seem impossible. Getting 
 into the Top 8 is rather easy with a few difficult bumps here and there, but getting into the Top 
 4 and then the number one spot is practically the hardest thing a Tony Hawk game has ever asked 
 for. I, myself, who has been with the series from practically the beginning and consider myself 
 to be quite a combo master, even have trouble with the absurdity of some of the goals. That's not 
 to say that it's a flaw though. For the last couple of years people have been complaining about 
 the difficulty of some of the Tony Hawk games. The last really difficult Tony Hawk was Tony Hawk 
 Pro Skater 4, and since then they've seem to only get easier and easier. Thankfully Neversoft was 
 finally wise enough to finally listen and revamp the difficulty. Hats off to them. There are also 
 new types of goals. Some of which you don't even need to press a button to enter into. Just combo 
 into in it and it begins. Of course, each goal is set to three difficulties. Amateur, which is 
 like just doing a forth of the actual goal, Pro, which pretty is much is fully completely the goal, 
 and Sick, which is completely the goal but with something crazy attached. This is a cool and everything, 
 but to get to the number spot you'll need to get everything sick anyway. There are also secret 
 spots now. There are only thirty-six of them, and not all of them are genuinely hidden, but the 
 ones that are really cool. I hope next game in the series makes more use of this idea. There are 
 some things that are missing, but are probably just waiting to be added for the next installment. 
 Until then, this game feels complete enough to dismiss that anyway. Multi-Player : It is a blast. 
 There aren't any new gametypes, (except one that is exclusive to XBL) , but ones still work perfectly. 
 My favorite is horse because it calls for you really get show off your skills among you're friendsand 
 then effortlessly take them down to ground! This game is a great way to kill time among friends. 
 Out of all the Tony Hawk games this is by far the most satisfying. It definitely manages to impress 
 on many levels and is the first one in a long time that hasn't let players down. There are some 
 unmentioned issues like lack of customization and ridiculous goals that rely mostly on luck, but 
 everything else balances out so you really shouldn't care about that. There has really yet to be 
 a flawless Tony Hawk game but this is the closet.
  
  Thank you Neversoft! The Xbox 360 version of Tony Hawk American Wasteland had a bit of a response 
 issue and sloppy layout. Thankfully Neversoft has cleaned up all the controls and pervious so that 
 they feel really clean and easy to handle. Even PS2 veterans will find these controls easy. Graphics 
 : They are definitely the most realistic graphics in the entire series and the colors practically 
 bounce off the screen. The detail is still as crazy as ever. The lighting is great pretty much 
 anywhere you go, though Focus almost lights everything up so brightly that it becomes blinding. 
 There is also a slight framerate issue though there is rumored to be a patch released soon that 
 fixes this, so there's nothing to complain about.
  
  
  It was really the Tony Hawk series that introduced a kind of game to me that a player would want 
 to keep playing long before it was over simply because it would just get bigger and bigger. This 
 one didn't me down. Getting in the top eight feels like it's only the beginning of the game. Even 
 getting in the top four stills leaves more to be desired. The only real issue is that the game 
 world doesn't get a whole lot larger. There aren't any crazy secret levels that Neversoft has been 
 known to make for every other title. There is however plenty of secret characters and many things 
 to purchase in the skate shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  tony hawlks project 8 is just one of those ordenarey hawlk games... with a goal to make the project 
 8 skate team. Although its just seams activision is geting no where with these games this one has 
 some fun new features to offer. Like nail a trick mode where it slows down so u can watch ur trick 
 while u do it. The have nailed it on the grafics part. It really amazing how they amde the skaters 
 look. If you are looking for a tony hawlk game with a skate park creator... go buy another game 
 cause it doesnt have it. Alothough the creat a skater mode has not a wide varite of stuff theres 
 still cool stuff to chose from. My opinion is that it fun for a little then gets boreing. Defenitly 
 better halwk gaMES OUT THERE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  I enjoy playing this game, when a friend of mine got me this game, I wasn't too sure, I thought 
 that it would be just another Tony Hawk game. I was off by a mile, this new Tony Hawk theme of 
 slow motion foot control is very addicting, I go around trying to find places that I can jump into 
 slow mo and make a huge trick that no one has ever made. The game is challenging, the game is fun, 
 its pretty much one of... no I would say the best Tony Hawk game to date. I was very surprised 
 that this game was fun, I found myself playing the same objectives so I could get my rank up to 
 be on Tony Hawk's Project 8, now I don't know what happens when you get there, hopefully something 
 fun but I'm sure it will be. I like playing this game a lot, I think its very creative, and it 
 has completed an objective that is attempting to be created by many next gen games, which is freedom. 
 You can go anywhere you can possibly imagine in the game, even places you didn't imagine. It has 
 that much freedom. Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJOLNIR562
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a good game that lives up to the game's well known reputation. The innovative 
 new Nail The Trick mode is the new mode in the game that is quite fun, although it is hard at first 
 to learn how to control the board whilst in Nail The Trick mode it is quite fun once it is learned. 
 The game's only real flaw is that the lighting is horrible. The game has way too much lighting, 
 even the first 5 seconds of the game when you leave your garage, it is like you being abducted 
 by aliens. They make the lighting like the sun is 20 feet from the earth. Besides the lighting 
 issues the game does live up to it's name and is something to pick up when you have the chance. 
 The game also has a good amount of Achievements to unlock. Having nearly 50, the game's achievements 
 range from extremely easy to very hard. The hardest of course getting rank 1 and being top dog 
 of the project 8 team. The game itself is very easy to get onto project 8 but getting rank one 
 is nearly extremely difficult because of the difficulties of doing runs and completing all the 
 tasks at hand in one run. All in all i would recommend this game. - MJOLNIR562 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HazRutter26
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Tony Hawks game yet! The Nail The Trick system works very well. The way the levels 
 are all linked up into 1 big level is something that I really do like. Xbox Live is in my opinoin 
 great and it is very fun trying to beat your friends at trick attack! The achievement system works 
 well in this game and arent too hard nor to easy to get. The storyline is quite average but it 
 works well. The visuals are stunning it is also a very addictive game and I really recommend it. 
 Overall I think it is really rather brilliant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnt99donalds
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This newest Tony Hawks delivers the goods and on many levels is better than the last few, where 
 American Wasteland was rushed and I didn't prefer the Underground series.
  The newest parts on this version are good like the control tricks, the layout is very good and 
 the gameplay is the usual same. What it doesn't do is change the stories that well you still have 
 the classic run, the non-skateboard ideas, highscore settings etc. and after soon it becomes spent.
 
  Although the layout was good the areas were cliched, skatepark, suburbia school have all been 
 done before and many times better.
  The online is very good and modes are fun to play on it also the graphics are really quite good 
 compared to Wasteland which was the only other 360 entry.
  Overall it's worth the buy if you love skateboarding or fancy a change from the usual otherwise 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlordadam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Think of your Favourite Food. Now imagine you are in a restaurant and you have ordered your Favourite 
 food and that its on its way. Now imagine that next to the plate the waiter has put down there 
 is a big wedge of cash just for you. Makes it that much better eh? Well thats exactly what neversoft 
 have managed to do with the new Tony hawks game. They have managed to make an already awesome game 
 that much better with the inclusion of 1 new addition. 3 words. Nail The Trick. What this is in 
 effect is basically the Matrix's Bullett Time but for a skateboard. This is how Neo would Skate 
 if he chose to do so! At any point during a combo you can click the thumbsticks and Nail the Trick 
 this gives you control over your players feet (left stick left foot, right stick.. well you get 
 the picture) . What this does is give you total control over which way the board moves and which 
 tricks you pull off. You might think that a new addition like this would be difficult to control 
 but Neversoft have made it the most natural feeling move ever. it really adds a whole new dimension 
 to the series.
  
  Other than that its pretty much Tony Hawks by numbers. There is the usual challenges to complete 
 to open up new parts of the city and to upgrade your stats. The old Classic style challenges are 
 now integrated into the main game and do not feel like they have been tacked on at the end of development 
 as the previous vertions seem to have done. All the favourite pros are included in the game and 
 some of the newer stars of the scene are included to bring the roster a bit more up to date.
  
  As ever the music in the game is second to none. It provides an Eclectic mix of rock, hip hop, 
 metal, punk, infact theres pretty much something to suit everyones taste. This has become the standard 
 for Tony Hawks games.
  
  The only negative thing about tony hawks is the create-a-skater mode seems to be alot more limited 
 than previous versions. With all the other improvemetns in the game i felt little dissapointed 
 by this but this is really only a minor niggle and certainly doesnt take anything away from the 
 game.
  
  In conclusion Project 8 is Funky, Fun but most improtantly Fresh with new ideas to breath life 
 into the old dog or should that be the old bird :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I havent played a lot of the Tony Hawk games, but I downloaded the demo for this one off of xbox 
 live marketplace and really enjoyed it. I got it on sale at Target for $40 and was instantly hooked.
 
  
  The textures and lighting blew me away. The framerate stayed perfect all the time, and best of 
 all, the multiplayer was incredibly fun. An exciting part of the campaign was unlocking parts of 
 the city and skating with pros, and making combos. This game had me playing it 3 hours a day, it 
 is so fun.
  
  Its really cool to play trick attack and free skate and grafiti online with friends because its 
 a nice way to chill and skate around virtually. Get this game, it is extremely fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subsonicdust
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Tony Hawk's Project 8 last weekend, I was expecting a challenge. I was hoping that 
 Tony's 'proper' next-gen debut would not only be a big improvement over last year's American Wasteland, 
 but also a return to form for the series, and a game which us veterans could sink our teeth into. 
 I was right, and in some instances, I wish I wasn't. The 'sick' difficulty on Project 8, which 
 has always been a cinch in the past, is now so mind-numbingly hard, I find myself questioning whether 
 or not some of the goals the game presents to me are actually possible. Go figure - 2 days ago, 
 I thought I'd be the wise guy, so I attempted one of the classic goals on the sick difficulty, 
 which requires you to beat all 10 goals in one run, or 2-minutes. There's an achievement in it 
 , I said to myself, it won't be that difficult . 3 hours, 4 coffees and 5 outbursts of anger on 
 an empty bottle of Diet Coke later, I was still attempting this ridiculously difficult challenge. 
 There were those many instances where, at the split-second after I bailed or messed something up, 
 my homicidal impulses reared their ugly heads and wanted me to kill another living being... then 
 they slowly melted away - pretty much once I'd hit the 'restart' button. And it doesn't end there. 
 Nailing high combos in the game is no longer child's play. In previous games, your fingers would 
 do a little dance on the buttons, you'd concentrate to level out your balance meters, then you'd 
 land a 10 gazillion-point combo. Quite simple, really. In Project 8, though, it's almost as if 
 the developers thought: Okay, guys, let's see 'em land this! . Because the game's a much more refined 
 simulation of the real-life sport, everything in the game has been slowed to a crawl. You can no 
 longer land 1800 spins and put two fingers up to Tony Hawk. You can't do corkscrews over the roofs 
 of two buildings like you were buttering toast. Hell, you can barely land basic double impossibles! 
 (Those not familiar with the nuanced terminology of skateboarding, please bear with me here) . Now, 
 you are forced to keep things 'realistic', as you land your 180 kickflips , and FS nollie varial 
 heelflips . As a result, you'll rarely see the skyrocketing combos of past 'Hawks games. Having 
 an admirable challenge in a game is perfectly fine. It keeps you on your toes, and it's something 
 that's all the more satisfying when you finally accomplish your objective, but Project 8 just plain 
 takes the biscuit. It's -- as I mentioned in this blog's title -- harder than an inebriated Scotsman. 
 And believe me, when you attempt the School Classic Sick Challenge , you'll realise that that ain't 
 an exaggeration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Project 8 was supposed to be the flag ship game for skateboarding games. Its turned out to be 
 a joke fest with all the weird thing they ask of you in the game. Gameplay - if you haven't played 
 a Tony hawk game.... well you suck, but any ways very simple button figures allowing you to Manuel 
 easy or grind, grab, or flip tricks. The bumpers allow you to do spins in the air. Over all the 
 control is very flexible and in no time will you be able to nock out 500,000 point combos.
  
  Story - how do I say this.............. IT SUCKS! TH wasnt the best 8 skateboarders in your 
 local area and you have to do thing from challenges to finding gaps and suck. They make you do 
 ridiculous things like wall ride posters or tag things. The challenges are good as you compete 
 for high scores which is what the game should be really about. Beating real skateboarders challenges 
 unlocks other areas from a capital or a school to a factory. None the less, the story was so bad 
 in my opinion that I could go any further.
  
  Online - online get ready to step your game up because the pros are out there. Very competitive 
 and solid gameplay.
  
  Overall - without the weird storyline this game is great. Take away the players look weird and 
 you really can't create a true player in the game. I came close to creating my self and I wish 
 they had more Nike SB stuff in the game; DC doesn't do it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a huge fan of all the Tony Hawk games up to 4. Underground just didnt cut it for me. 
 From there the Tony Hawk series was in the same category as Ridge Racer, every integration was 
 enough of an evolution from that last game to make it passable. That is until Tony Hawks Project 
 8. I dont know what it was that made Neversoft wake up and smell the coffee. Maybe it was the 
 declining critic ratings or it might have been EA announcement of SKATE. All that I know is Project 
 8 is a reminder of what made these games so fun in the first place. The graphics are entire levels 
 above American Wasteland. The textures are much sharper, the lighting is some of the best Ive 
 seen on the 360, and the character detail is very good. The motion captured tricks definitely dont 
 hurt the overall presentation either. The sound is very standard and hasnt seemed too changed 
 since Tony Hawk 3 but nobody said that was a bad thing. The soundtrack is the redeeming quality 
 to the very standard sound effects. Its not the best soundtrack on a Tony Hawk game yet, but it 
 works just fine. The replay value is enhanced by the great multiplayer. It may not be set up as 
 well as something like Halo 2, but what is? Theyre is also a decent number of game types that 
 will keep you entertained for a good while. But the main attraction in my opinion is the much, 
 much improved campaign mode. There are goals spread across the entire world which is truly sandbox 
 unlike the poser that is American Wasteland. Theyre are three levels for each goal AM, Pro, and 
 Sick. You can break into the title feature that is the top 8 just by completing everything on AM, 
 but if you want that #1 spot you better be prepared to beat everything on Sick. This could take 
 many hours at chomping at the bit. Overall I believe Project 8 is a very welcome game to a franchise 
 that needed a reawakening. It takes all the best features from the Classic games, Underground, 
 Wasteland, and a little touch all its own to make my second favorite Tony Hawk game yet. Basically 
 if you like Tony Hawk games, go out and buy Project 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth360snipa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  just plain fun. best next gen skateboarding game out there. ability to slow down time and do tricks 
 is cool. x x x x x x xx x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Krinkle9210
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Even though this is the eighth game in the tony hawk series, THP8 is still one of the best in the 
 series. The gameplay is pretty much the same as its predicesors. You have all the moves that have 
 become staples to the tony hawk series, and it looks and plays better than ever. Every other Tony 
 Hawk game has used the same recycled animations, but not this one. Now every trick and motion was 
 motion captured and looks alot more realistic. The graphics are really pretty great throughout 
 the games gigantic world. The frame rate is pretty bad though. It rarely ever stabilizes and its 
 a shame that it isn't solid. You skate through one big level once you unlock it all and there are 
 NO loading times once you get in the level. This means you could theoreticly start a combo and 
 land it on the other side of the map. This makes the game feel alot less restricted by letting 
 you just skate and not have to wait for any load times. The other big feature of THP8 is the Nail 
 The Trick mode which lets you control your feet to create tricks in real time. You just click in 
 both thumbsticks and it goes into the mode. You use your sticks to control the skaters feet and 
 you can branch into some really cool tricks. Although this mode feels really revolutionary at first, 
 it kinda loses its appeal after a while. This is one of the most addictive Tony Hawk games ever, 
 but it still has flaws. As mentioned before the frame rate is nearly never stable. Although it 
 really doesn't get in the way of gameplay, it just isn't nice to look at. Also the rag doll physics 
 are ridiculous. Many times when you bail you will go flying into the air wildly. Its either supposed 
 to be funny, or its just really poorly done. I really don't know which one it is. Another bad thing 
 is that the player models look a bit weird when the camera goes up close. Sometimes the skaters 
 eyes look very strange in cutscenes. Also i have found that there are just too many goals to be 
 done. There are literally at least a dozen different goals you can do at one time, and its a bit 
 overwhelming. Overall though, these flaws aren't really that big but they do stand out. If you 
 are looking for a good skating game or if you're a fan of the tony hawk games you should go and 
 get this game, but just don't expect a revolutionary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk series has had a lot of ups and downs, ranging from perfect games to crushing disappointments. 
 The series' move the next generation in the form of American Wasteland provided a grim outlook 
 for the future of the series, since that game was far from spectacular. However, Neversoft has 
 mostly recovered from whatever errors they made in the past to bring us Project 8, a glimmer of 
 hope in the saga that is Tony Hawk's Pro Skater.
  
  In Tony Hawk's Project 8, Tony Hawk has a new project (called Project 8 shockingly) in which he 
 is searching for the top 8 unknown skaters in the town of Beaverville. You hope to earn your spot 
 in that top 8. That's pretty much all there is to the story. Of course, who plays a skating game 
 for the story (except when there's comedy) ?
  
  Tony Hawk's Project 8 has made a complete jump to the next gen. The graphics are impressive, with 
 beautifully, richly detailed environments covered with graffiti and things of that nature. One 
 of the most impressive aspects of the graphics is the water, which looks astounding and ripples 
 realistically as you run or skate through it. However, there are also some clipping errors every 
 now and then. In addition, the framerate can drop significantly at times.
  
  Project 8 has an acceptable soundtrack, which may be appealing to someone who likes metal (not 
 me) , but I'm not sure. There are also some nice rap tracks on the playlist. The voice acting is 
 surprisingly impressive, thanks to contributions from a bunch of the real skating pros.
  
  Tony Hawk's Project 8 breathes new life into the Tony Hawk series with the Nail the Trick mechanic, 
 which is one of the most addicting and entertaining devices I have ever seen in a skating game. 
 Nail the Trick mode allows you to, in slo-mo, pull of some amazing combos simply by moving the 
 analog sticks. It's a simple mechanic that produces awesome results. This alone is enough to make 
 this game great.
  
  Unfortunately, there are a few problems with Project 8. Maybe I suck at skating games, but I find 
 Project 8 to be extremely hard. This is strange since I found every single other Tony Hawk game 
 to be a cinch. Even the amateur goals were incredibly difficult for me and caused me greats amounts 
 of frustration and strife. Of course, I may simply be rusty - I haven't played a Tony Hawk game 
 in a while.
  
  Also, there are some terribly frustrating errors that can occur, although extremely rarely. Sometimes, 
 when performing an invert trick, you will successfully land the trick, but then immediately bail 
 and go flying into the air. This causes you to fail the trick you just performed. Although this 
 occurs rarely, I hope it is fixed in a patch since it can really screw you up at times.
  
  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a great game with a new innovative mode that is tons of fun. However several 
 errors and an overkill difficulty cause a great more deal of frustration than you might expect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user127
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  tony hawks project 8 is the newest addition to the tony hawk franchise in which you take on the 
 role of a nonamed skater trying to make it it into the elite 8 in which the top 8 skaters become 
 tonys new team, but you dont care you want to know how good this game is, right? this game is good 
 in fact if it werent for this game im preety sure a few fans would bury this series, but dont worry, 
 this game shines in many ways, from the beutiful visiuals to the amazing controls this is just 
 what the doctor ordered, but what really sets it apart is nail the trick mode, in which your feet 
 become the analog sticks, wanna pull kickflip? fling your left foot back and watch the board fly. 
 but you probably ask whats the cons to this game? its the custimization and the difficulty, first 
 off thecharacter custimization is lacking, severly so to the point that it can be annoying. second, 
 the difficulty, the first few challenges arent that difficult until you find the pro ones which 
 can be so difficult you might just give up on story mode, but in the end tony hawks project 8 is 
 a fine game to have in your library and just might give you hope in the franchise yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is pretty much the same old Tony Hawk except with a new Nail-the-Trick mode 
 and many appearances by Jason Lee. I dont mind this man in small amounts, but he just gets annoying 
 in this game. Anyway the new nail-the-trick feature is a very good addition to a dying series, 
 but i dont think this feature is going to save it. Every game is pretty much the same. I was a 
 big Tony Hawk game fan, but its about time to let go. The story behind this game is that u are 
 a young, prospecting man looking to get into Tony Hawk's Project 8, which is a group of the 8 best 
 skaters in the city. You start out at 200 and work ur way into the top 8. Once you hit the top 
 8, it is not going to be easy to move up in the ranks. This game gets very difficult near the end 
 because u have to get many sick goals which are near impossible. This is basically another average 
 game from the Tony Hawk franchise with a little addition from the nail-the-trick mode. Unless this 
 franchise can come up with better things, I dont see much of a future for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth picking up and keeping in your library. I have only played one skating 
 game before and that was a few years ago. This is a real good break from the norm of the usual 
 games that are out there.
  This game is just straight fun factor. Even though you need some skill to pull some of the stunts 
 off, you'd still spend more time having fun doing various tasks in this game.
  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a refreshing genre that has been around for a little bit, but is proving 
 to only get better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game was a total let-down, even though I knew this game wasn't going to be that great before 
 I got it. It's a slightly amped version of old TH's with much better graphics and features. The 
 whole slow motion thing and taking control of your player's feet thing is a little gimmicky IMO. 
 The sound is kindof iffy, I didn't have the sound on very long because I got this scream-o junk 
 that is not bad, but not something one want's to listen to for very long. (more that 30 seconds) . 
 The THUG series was the best TH games ever made, because of the better gameplay, overall humor, 
 and creativeness. Here's hoping for THUG3. There is only so much stuff you can do with a skateboarding 
 game, and for me, it was never really about the cool features and tech, it was the awsome story 
 that kept me laughing and playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is the reason I bought an XBOX 360.
  
  Perhaps not entirely true - the fact that there were other great games available played a part 
 - but it was the icing on the cake that made me take the plunge. Having spend the best part of 
 2003/04 playing through Pro Skater 1-4 and Underground with a friend of mine, I feel like a bit 
 of a veteran of this series and this installment seemed to be quite special. And it is. For those 
 of you like me that were quite unimpressed by the car-driving/non-skating missions and awful storyline 
 that plagued Underground and (presumably) American Wasteland, you'll be pleased to know that there's 
 nothing of the sort in this one, and it very much feels like a return to the Pro Skater days with 
 a modern twist.
  
  Graphics are outstanding and the slo-mo feature isn't just meaningless showing off - it really 
 helps in pulling off the more impressive tricks (which is why it's called focus time ) .
  
  Problems? The missions are way too hard, and I'm not saying that in a I can't do it immediately 
 therefore it's impossible kind of way. As an example, the classic mode expects you to complete 
 a Pro Skater style level with 10 or so goals in 2 minutes in ONE RUN to get the sick rating. I 
 can't see how anyone could possibly do that - it was basically impossible in the original Pro Skater 
 and those levels were a lot smaller and less complex. Luckily, the game doesn't expect you to get 
 sick in everything in order to complete the game - in fact, you can even leave quite a few of the 
 missions and still end up in the final 8, which is when the credits roll. After that, it's up to 
 you if you want to fight to get to number 1 (which I have to assume is practically impossible) .
 
  
  The soundtrack too is quite uninspired - in the Pro Skater series, the music really made the experience, 
 with tracks from Bad Religion, Aim and Busdriver to name just 3 of the myriad of excellent hip-hop 
 and punk artists to have graced the series. I can barely remember a single tune from this outing, 
 and I think they could have made more of an effort to pick some more obscure tracks and introduce 
 the audience to something new. Then again, maybe it's just a case of music generally not being 
 as good these days?
  
  I've rated it as best in series.. I'm not sure it really is when you compare it to the Pro Skater 
 series but it's close, and if it wasn't for the ridiculous difficulty level of the sick scores 
 then I wouldn't hesitate, but there was no other classifcation I thought really fit.
  
  If you're a Tony Hawks fan, you absolutely have to own this game, it is truly unmissable. If you've 
 never played one before, the purist in me tells you to go and get used to the control scheme in 
 the earlier games first (because you'll have a hard time jumping in from the word go if you have 
 no prior experience) , but it's an excellent standalone game in either case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xidum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This Game is awsome... better than any of the the others... to fully 100% this game it will take 
 u a while!
  
  GAMEPLAY : this is awsome there is so many more places to go and much more free roaming room to 
 do what ever you want... there are millions of challenges with 3 diffulculty levels... u may get 
 the best on some but may not on others... but once u have got all on all, then theres no stoppin 
 ya
  
  GRAPHICS : better then ever, oblivion may be better but this not far behind still gets a 10! of 
 course everygame has the odd glitch but i have only found 1. thats that u can see in ya own body 
 but everygame has that. SOUND : still got all the flips lands bails groans and REAL PROS voices, 
 yup awsome
  
  VALUE : i think you wont be wasting ya money here, unless u dont like skating games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Over the last few years, the Tony Hawk games have really started to get bad, American Wasteland 
 being by far the worst. Thankfully, this year it looks like things are finally starting to get 
 better. While still not a perfect game by far, Project 8 is a very fun game that will keep you 
 busy for a very long time. I had never been to into skateboarding games, playing each new one but 
 never for over 2 hours or so. However, Project 8 was the first skating game that i really wanted 
 to get. Maybe it was the incredible graphics of the E3 06 trailer. However, for the most part im 
 glad i bought it. The story mode while fun, still has a bit of dumb dorky things to it. But it 
 gives hope that the next Tony Hawk will fix this problem. Also, the graphics are good, but just 
 don't have the same impact they did back in May 06 at E3. The framerate is not so good though, 
 slowing down very much pretty often. However, this is still a great game to get if you like skateboarding 
 games or have always wanted to get into one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  this tony hawk has to be one of the best skating games i have ever played since there are so little. 
 this game pulls you in and wants you to finish the game. but as you get deepeer into the ranks 
 its harder to become number 1 as you progress. this games difficulty is at easy until it starts 
 getting challenging. once u crack the top 8 its a real challenge to become number one. as i am number 
 6 now im still struggling to become number one. this game is highly reccomended for me and to anyone 
 else, it may not be to llengthy if youre a casual gamer, but if youre determined to beat a game, 
 this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pologamer223
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't what I expected from the great Tony Hawk series. Okay, its got a couple of new 
 features but not enough to keep me happy such as the Nail the Trick and the free bail. The graphics 
 have greatly improved over its little brother American Wasteland.
  
  This game's career mode has good value, but just doesn't hit it like Underground 1. I have Wii 
 as well as 360, and I had more fun playing Downhill Jam than Project 8. The past three games activision 
 has given us, Underground 2, American Wasteland, and Project 8 just haven't been great games. I 
 am anxious to see what they have under their sleeve for Tony Hawk 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Fantastic gameplay, great graphics, Xbox Live games are decent, Achievements are good, bailing 
 is fun this time around, excellent attention to detail, Voice acting is good, Jason Lee, Lyn-Z 
 Adams Hawkins.
  
  The Bad:
  Some goals are frustrating, Isn't too welcoming to newcomers to the series, a few of the achievements 
 are too easy to obtain, Create-A-Skater options are far too limited, No Create-A-Park.
  
  The So-So:
  Achievements, soundtrack, Online game types, Eric Sparrow's name on the list of Top 
 Skaters but no appearance other then that.
  
  The WTF:
  Some of the lines in the game, breaking none to two bones when in real life you'd be dead, Flying 
 around aimlessly when bailing, The overweight angry real estate agent, Zombie Officer Dick secret 
 skater.
  
  The Perplexing:
  Why no Geoff Rowley?, Why Ryan Sheckler?, Why torture Mike V with making him say stupid lines?, 
 Why limited Create-A-Skater options?
  
  Gameplay: A lot of the gameplay has been revamped and rebuilt, this being said a lot of stuff has 
 changed and most of it for the better. The new Nail the Trick mode adds a lot to the game and is 
 one of the best new features of Project 8. Some of the new stuff can get on your nerves, but luckily 
 Neversoft saw to most of it and decided to add in some things to make it better. Sometimes when 
 you bail after performing a trick, your character will fly around sometimes thanks to the new rag 
 doll physics for when you bail. When this happens, all you have to do is press X and the bailing 
 is stopped and you're skating again. A lot of the levels have certain fun objects that make Project 
 8 better, such as the Fun Park level where there's a roller coaster you can grind on and a (fake) 
 Dragon that you can skate on. Some of the levels, such as Suburbia, don't have that many great 
 places to skate and feel sub-par at best.
  
  The story mode is basically just about how Tony Hawk wants a bunch of amateur skaters to compete 
 to get into his Project 8 which is 8 of the best Am Skaters in the area. The story mode is helped 
 along by actor/former skater Jason Lee, who you can see in Mallrats and the TV show My Name is 
 Earl. Jason Lee basically tells you where to go through your Video Phone and helps you around the 
 city and tells you when you get new stuff in the skate shop or who is now sponsoring you. In the 
 duration of the Career mode, you run into plenty of pro skaters who give you challenges, some of 
 them more interesting and some of them harder then others, the most memorable is probably Bam Margera's. 
 Bam asks you to bail into a trash dumpster, which is really difficult to do and I found it very 
 frustrating. There are plenty of achievements in the game, most of them are pretty creative and 
 some of them are difficult to get. Overall, the story mode comes up short and the You part of the 
 story feels very lackluster, being that your Create-A-Skater options are highly limited and you 
 have no lines in the game whatsoever. Previous installments in the game, ever since Tony Hawk's 
 Underground, have played around your Create-A-Skater, and Project 8 is no different, but this portion 
 of the gameplay comes up short as aforementioned.
  
  A few disappointments that I found with the game are that the Classic Mode is now worked into Project 
 8s career mode, not a separate mode. Classic Mode was a really fun mode to play in, and in American 
 Wasteland it was rewarding, too. Also, the Create-A options have been chopped down into just Create-A-Skate 
 which, as mentioned previously, is highly limited and put to poor use. It would have been amazing 
 to make your own Create-A-Park in this game, seeing as all the stuff in the game could have been 
 put to good use. Playing on Xbox Live is probably the best portion of the game, but once again 
 it wasnt put to as good of a use as it could have been, at least there are some fun game types 
 and you can play across the entire Project 8 world of Beaver Valley.
  
  The secret skaters in Project 8 are excellent; you get to play as some famous people such as Jason 
 Lee and Christian Hosoi, or some humorous characters such as Zombie Officer Dick whom you may remember 
 as a non-zombie chubby cop from previous installments in the series.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are something that was really hyped about, the Birdman's introduction into 
 High Definition, next-gen graphics has been a big deal since the game was first revealed. The character 
 models look pretty good, but it would be nice of the skaters faces showed some emotion. The animations 
 are done really well this time around and the tricks look more solid and realistic then ever before. 
 All of the environments look great and skating into new areas of the game only takes a brief second 
 to show up, and when you're far away and looking at the city from somewhere you can definitely 
 see all the work that went in the game.
  
  Neversoft obviously put tons of hours of work into the game, and you can easily tell this just 
 be looking at all of the names that are in the development team. There are tons of neat touches 
 like graffiti, there is some really fine detail in the flowers; they aren't looking like JPG's 
 like in prior installments in the series. A good example of how far the series has come in terms 
 of graphics can be found in simple little details that Neversoft saw to such as fire, the fire 
 has never looked this good and its impressive to look at.
  
  Sound: All of the voice acting is done really well, all the pro skaters that are in the game do 
 a pretty good job at voicing themselves, but some of the lines make you wonder if they're really 
 say anything like that, a good example would be some of the things that Mike Valley say, or when 
 Jason Lee said Get up on it! The music has always been an important and well thought out part 
 of the franchise, but this time the music is more annoying and you may just be better off listening 
 to your iPod while you're playing.
  
  Value: This is probably not the best installment in the series, but it still beats out some of 
 the other titles such as the first two games and the previous title, American Wasteland. A lot 
 of the value is probably found within what you can do with the new gameplay and the multiplayer 
 portion of the game. Something that brings down the score is the lack of Create-A-Skater options, 
 you can pick a certain type of skater such as a kid, a girl, or a punk and you go from there with 
 picking how you want your skater to look. There are such limited options that it's really a downgrade 
 compared to other games. The good things about the game are that the graphics are a huge upgrade 
 from American Wasteland, and the gameplay is tons better then any other title. The animations are 
 solid and are better then ever before.
  
  Final Words:
  Project 8 is sort of a letdown, but a lot of the new features make up for everything that is wrong 
 for the game. Tony Hawk's Project 8 has been a highly anticipated release in the franchise. All 
 of the new features excited many; the biggest new features to note are the next-gen graphics and 
 the Nail the Trick mode. Not only does the game boast new graphics, but the gameplay has been revamped 
 and rebuilt to live up the expectations. A lot of the stuff from previous titles has been changed, 
 such as the ability to run up walls and do flips like in the previous title, Tony Hawk's American 
 Wasteland. But, overall, Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a great title and the gameplay makes up for most 
 everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk has now entered its eighth title. It is quite amazing to me, since I have played every 
 single one except a little bit of American Wasteland but I heard it was not too good. The series 
 has been through a lot, its been through, level updates, graphical upgrades, and mechanic updates 
 and finally got itself a Story, added to it! Now the story is what really kept me interested in 
 the game after #4 but as soon as THUG 2 came out I was blown away and could not wait for the next 
 one, except the next World Destruction Tour never came. STORY: Now that there is no story to it 
 and no extra levels with wacky stunts, it seems to have lost that thing that made THUG 2 practically 
 so Great. There is no, crazy wheel chair guy going around and doing 540's, at least not in career 
 mode. It just plays it safe and goes back to the roots, just with more tricks and in an open city 
 with more things added. It also has no load times, (unlike Wasteland) .
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: The new stuff like, the Focus mode really is cool but its quite difficult to pull 
 off. Nail the Trick I believe also is a new addition which is also made this game much more interesting 
 then others but it also is rather tough to pull off. Nail the Trick allows you to jump off a ramp 
 and while in the air hit focus and be able to actually make the board do multiple combos in any 
 direction until you are close to the ground. The Multiplayer is also a great and a good amount 
 of fun but there usually is not that many people on. What also really gets me mad about this one 
 is that there is not as many Create options like THUG 2. I used to Love making Skate parks, I would 
 spend days and weeks creating the perfect skate parks but now they don't even have a create your 
 own Deck, and not that good of a list for create a skater, or a lot of stuff. They also don't have 
 the Classic mode anymore, which I thought was a great addition to THUG 2.
  
  PROS: Great new additions like the Focus mode and Nail the Trick, No loading times through the 
 huge sandbox skatetopia, good variety of areas, Fun multiplayer, New Career mode makes things a 
 little easier for everybody although it still is the most difficult Hawk game yet.
  
  CONS: No Story, Very poor Create options compared to previous entrees in the Hawk series, No classic 
 mode, or create a Park, not very much replay value.
  
  OVERALL: American Wasteland really had a lot of Training sessions going on but in this game, you 
 will wish you had a tad bit more because of the increased difficulty. Overall this game shines 
 pretty well for an open world and no story game. Especially in todays games which have Giant lane 
 out stories in like every game that comes out now. So a fairly good experience skating but mostly 
 still waiting for something a little more ambitious and I would say worth a rent if there is nothing 
 else to get, otherwise try under ground 2 and you won't be as let-down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Good, same old gameplay with the only addition of the nail the trick mode which is pretty cool. 
 Character customisation is a joke and is fairly crap. Multiplayer is fun to play on xbox live. Graphics 
 are fairly good, but this game has HORRIBLE framerate problems! You will also see the board go 
 through the top off jumps and so-on. The sounds are alright, I don't listen to the games tracks 
 so i don't know if they are any, they aren't my style. LLots of goals and hard achievements will 
 keep you playing for quite a while. This is a decent game with a few good points, and aquite a 
 few bad points though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  In the TonyHawk Interview they say they made Project8 from the ground up with the Next Gen Technology 
 and they have the graphics rock but not so much for the gameplay first off all i will talk about 
 the gameplay for a start im giving the gameplay a 7 becuase Project8 is all about the graphics, 
 New moves and not so much for the gameplay its a great game dont get me wrong but i just dont like 
 when ur doing tricks and then ur game starts to hitch up thats not for me but i would say ive been 
 playing it for 3days not and 80% off the time its been solid. Now about the graphics, The graphics 
 in this game for this type a game i would say are pretty mind blowing they really have done a good 
 job with the graphics and its not just the model detail its also the world detail. New move system 
 in this when you get some air you can go into this type off slow mo were it moves the camra to 
 1side and you can do all these cool tricks (in slow mo) . The sound is good but could off been 
 better and if ur an achievement person this game will take you time to get all the achievements. 
 This thing that really made me get this game was the graphics, StoryLine and XboxLive. I give this 
 game a 8.9 out off 10 if the gameplay had off been better then it would off got a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiascra
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  THP8 is a well equipped game with all the old moves you no and love like the extensive manuel and 
 grind tricks so the game requires a lot of skill but the game is obviously the best skateboarding 
 game on the market at the moment. But the whole series needs a boast they are good but the story 
 doesnt vary enough, this one however has a new feature in witch you can slow down time. Even so 
 the game feels a little lost theres something missing an essential part of the game is gone vanished 
 disappeared.
  The learning curve is 30-60 mins because you can perfect am moves in that time however moves that 
 are more based around the sick and pro levels are more difficult to learn and therefore take longer.
 
  The games perfect for pulling off good lines and showing off your skill specially on 2 player. 
 Multiplayers wicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kireRare
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 would have been another mediocre skating game they crank out every 6 months, 
 but the thing that makes it pure crap is the incredible amount of glitches, frame-rate issues, 
 and annoying moments. The graphics in Project 8 are decent, except for the faces and facial animations. 
 The gameplay, weak. Skating around a small world is only interesting for about an hour. The new 
 nail the trick feature is good in concept, but is not practical or fun. Story (if you can call 
 it that) . Its a bunch of pro skaters giving you pointless tasks. The worst part of the story is 
 that it is not funny whatsoever, it clearly tries to be but it fails miserably. Add this on with 
 the numerous glitches and you got a game that is not worth the hair on your ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobs_1
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I'm sick of playing skateboarding games where you can ollie over cars like nothing, where your 
 knees can handle any fall as long as you land on the board, and the city coincidentally falling 
 after doing something. I want a realistic skateboarding game. The Tony Hawk series, much like the 
 real life persona, should retire and leave these games alone. I am a big fan of Tony's and many 
 of the pro's within the game, but seriously... give it a break. Or if you're going to make a game, 
 put in some new things like... realism for starters. Seriously, I need a skating game that'll keep 
 my attention beyond the first level, and this, sadly does not cut it, even with the Nail the Trick 
 feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes another TH game. They never stray too far from the original formula but there are alot of 
 upgrades and downgrades to deal with in this iteration. To start the graphics are pretty good for 
 the most part, but there are some choppy animations here and there. The close ups during focused 
 mode look really good though. The create a character is completely stripped to a bare minimum though 
 let me tell you that right now... my guy looks goofy as all hell but hey whatever. The goals are 
 scattered all over the place in random spots and sometimes youll have no idea what youre supposed 
 to do or where youre supposed to go. All of your basic TH elements are in there though with a brand 
 new flashier engine for the next gen. including classic goals and such, But let me tell you beating 
 the classic challenges with the SICK achievement is totally uncalled for and almost impossible. 
 So hopefully your patience are true, and your skills are well polished. Because unlike most of 
 the diehard fans I passed up the THUG series of games and let me tell you my skills are a bit rusty 
 and some of the goals they expect are damn near impossible to me. OK so my suggestion to you is, 
 rent this first and see if its got all the goodies to keep you interested, and well me, I have 
 been out of the TH loop for a couple editions so it was a fresh breath of air for me to get me 
 back in the spirit of sidewalk shredding, This game to me is worth the money it takes to be challenged 
 by it. ENJOY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOZ_10
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  For starters I am a huge fan of the Tony hawk games and have been playing them ever since Tony 
 hawk pro skater 2. Well my favourite Tony hawk game so far would have to be pro skater 4 because 
 I think there was a huge improvement from 3 to 4 and I had the most fun playing it and it occupied 
 me for a long time, its also the first one that I got 100% on including gaps! Anyway were here 
 to talk about project 8 so Ill start by saying that I really enjoyed it for a while and really 
 like the nail the trick feature and use it regularly to rack up scores of around 1 million. The 
 tracklist Is huge and as usual it has many styles of music and just like in previous games you 
 have the option to edit the playlist which is always good. When you start off you need to create 
 a skater and even tough there isnt as much of a choice than there was In previous games there 
 are still enough to make your skater unique. The story is that Tony hawk is setting up a team of 
 the top 8 amateur skaters or something like that anyway you then have to do all types of goals 
 and pro challenges until you reach the top 8.
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as usual except it was the only time I had played it with 
 the analogue sticks because I used the d-pad when playing on play station and even though you have 
 the option to use the d-pad you will no doubt prefer to use the analogue sticks not just because 
 the d-pad is a piece of junk but if you want to use focus or nail the trick (which I found very 
 useful) it requires you to click in the analogue sticks. When you start off there are many many 
 goals and youll probably unlocking goals faster than you are completing them. The area in which 
 you skate Is huge and it is made up of all different sections such as school and factory. All 
 of these sections are connected and there are loading screens when moving between them. There is 
 no fast travelling or teleporting but they arent really needed because you have a compass that 
 tells you where goals are and it shouldnt take you too long to skate from one end to the other. 
 The only real problem that I found in it is that after you get into the top 8 there arent really 
 many new goals and I think Im up to the point where the only thing I have left to do is finish 
 all the goals on sick difficulty which is quite lame because I did them all on pro and I didnt 
 get anything for it not even an achievement! So now there is just a huge gap of nothingness until 
 I get the number one spot by getting sick on every goal. So that has really put me off for now 
 and I dont know if Ill ever get back to it but I probably will.
  
  Well that took ages! yeah I probably could have done more but.. Umm anyway Ive decided to give 
 it a 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Nail the trick rules
  Great gameplay
  One level
  Good story
  Great soundtrack
  Mocap animations
  Graphics are AMAZING!!!
  Xbox Live is good
  
  Cons:
 
  No CAP
  Lacking CAS
  Can't watch the other people
  
  Ive played every Tony Hawk game in the series and Tony Hawk's Project 8 for the Xbox 360 is the 
 best game in the series. Like in the PS2 review, the gameplay is rock solid. The Nail The Trick 
 feature in the game is even better in the Xbox 360 version compared to the PS2 version. You are 
 able to rotate your body during Nail The Trick. The Level (Yes I said Level!!!) is massive and 
 very different from the PS2's Levels (How sad : (.) The Story is still good and the soundtrack is 
 the same as the PS2 version (Which means its good.) There is no Create-A-Park but you can customize 
 some parts of the level. The Create-A-Skater is still lacking but, you have two more styles to 
 choose from. The animation in the game are AMAZING!!! I mean every trick was redone. The graphics 
 are VERY good You still get Stokens when you do big combos around people to buy new decks, tricks, 
 and mocap tricks.
  Xbox Live is great and walls is fun but, when you land after time you can't watch the other people. 
 This a spectacular game and I highly recommend you pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GentzeG
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This version of Tony Hawk reminds me of the original, but with much better graphics, and a different 
 take on career mode. This game has solid graphics, gameplay, voicework, and a couple nice touches, 
 such as horse in multiplayer when a skater falls/finishes a trick, and it is freeze framed in mid 
 fall or after the player finished the trick. The game falls short however with the unresponsive 
 d-pad, and will often mix up commands when trying to do grab/flip tricks on the thumb stick. The 
 game also lacks create a skate-park and good create a player... but this isn't enough to make the 
 game any less fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor19990
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Well i picked this game up only after i failed to get my PS3 on launch. Wow, i am glad that i did, 
 at first it took me a few minutes to get used to the controls (They differ quite a bit from the 
 original-since its a old game) . Either way after getting used to the game, i found that it has 
 to be one of the best Tony Hawk games since the original it mixes the goals and other objectives 
 flawlessly. While it allows for some simple skating for the newer skaters it also has some crazy 
 hard goals for all the Tony Hawk fans, and it rewards them with some nice achievements. The controls 
 for the game are perfect esspicially once you get the hang of the nail the trick stuff that allows 
 you to flip the board based on the movements on the joystick. This adds some fun times with the 
 game, and if you master it, you will have no problem blowing away some n0ob online.
  
  The online aspect of the game is great, from the sessions i have played there has been minimal 
 lag, and it is always a blast to tag a rail with a highscore and then see some attempt to graffitti 
 the rail and end up falling. Another cool part of the multiplayer is the exclusive achievement 
 that you get after beating someone from the developement team.
  
  So to sum it up this is probably the best Tony Hawk since the original, and that is saying alot 
 since all the games in the series were great. Regardless, any gamer should go out and buy this 
 superb game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Good: Redesigned career mode gives you multiple levels of challenge
  nail the trick mode is a cool-looking addition (slow-mo trick mode)
  online scoreboards add more 
 lasting challenge to the career mode
  the hospital bill meter is not only funny, but surprisingly interesting
  WALLS MODE!!! (like 
 tron but on skateboards for xbox live)
  8 player on line modes
  
  Bad:
  Frame rate is frequently unstable
  skater creation options aren't as in-depth as they have been 
 in previous installments
  some bugs and glitches become apparent throughout the game
  
  Overall the game is clearly well made and graphically spectacular. Though I feel that glitches 
 and bugs that constantly appear and voice talent that could be better make the game level off a 
 just above average. Any T. H. fan would surely enjoy the game and probally have fun with walls mode. 
 If you are looking for a T. H. upgrade than go for it, but if you content with American Wasteland 
 save yourself the time and money until Skate from EA sports comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of the Tony Hawks series ever since number 1 came out on the N64. Project 8 makes 
 small improvements from the other games such as nail the trick. Which lets you go into a slow-motion 
 for a short period. Besides that all the new features are semi bland and feel sorta tacked on. 
 The graphics and Voice acting is good and the gameplay is as solid as ever. The things that cripple 
 the potential of this game is the major glitches in multiplayer and in career. For example when 
 your playing a game of horse and its your turn your sk8er will often stop in mid air and that will 
 be the set score. Another thing that is an issue is the VERY! linear Career mode. Talk to someone, 
 Get a message, Talk to another person. Put up some posters for some guy. Thats how Career is. You 
 would think that after making all these games they would finally make a gould Career. But besides 
 these small thing THP8 is a fun game that has grate classic gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RunningRampage
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  OK for the most part I liked this game.... but ony about 60%....40% was not like
  
  The game looks nice and all and the nail the trick mode is cool but thats about all i see in it
 
  
  -The gameplay feels a lot different from the earlier games in the series... and its not a good thing
 
  -EVERYTHING IS TOOOOO FAST.... thank god for slow-mo
  -and the game is laggy... not a very good thing is it?
  -the tricks are starting to defy physics 
 just a little too much, and its fun to have some friggen boundaries every once in a while
  -What happened to the element of playing at REAL locations around the world?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petshopboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't bought a TH game in a few years because the games were not as appealling or as original 
 as I thought that the first few were. I was pleasantly surprised to find out how fun this game 
 turned out to be. I had a really tough time putting it down any time that I picked it up.
  
  The graphics looked awesome, and I think that it's safe to say that Tony has officially made 
 the transition to next-gen. The amount of goals in this game was astronomical, and the level of 
 difficulty ranged from super easy to slamming the controller against the wall hard. It was the 
 hardest Tony Hawk I have ever played by far. Most of the goals were within reach though. The story 
 wasn't very original, but it is still pretty fun making your character and seeing them climb up 
 the ranks as you progress on your journey to the number one spot. The nail the trick feature was 
 a very cool inclusion, and takes time to learn and even more time to master.
  
  I did have a few issues with the game though. Some of the goals that involved bailing into objects 
 seemed very far-fetched and out of reach on the sick end of the challenge. There were also a few 
 glitches in the game that are readily talked about on the forums and could have been easily fixed 
 with an extra week or two of playtesting. A generic create-a-skater and a lack of create-a-park 
 hurt the game a little here also.
  
  So, a few minor flaws keep the game from being perfect, but I do think that this is still the best 
 Tony Hawk game in years. Good online play just further illustrates how much replayability and fun 
 can be had with this game. If you like games that involve a board or are just looking for a really 
 fun game with a challenge, pick up THP8 as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomthedude
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Neversoft are back and by the title and plotline, they may seem bored. You take a not so in depthly 
 created shredder and start out at #170 on Tony Hawks 'Project 8' List. Only the best will be chosen 
 to represent The Hawk.
  
  To move up the list, you must complete as usual, goals. But this year, most of the goals are different 
 and some of them dont require talking to people. If you see a marker on the ground that says 'Wallplant' 
 You must get a run up, jump forward off the ramp, and depending where you hit the wall, your score 
 will be put in one of three brackets: AM, Pro or Sick. Of course, you get moved up the list faster 
 if you do it sick, but Neversoft have actually listened and made the Sick goals EXTREMELY difficult.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing and we are talking Viva Pinata amazing. There is a new mode called nail 
 the trick, where in the air you click both analogue sticks down and the camera will zoom down to 
 the skaters feet and using both sticks must move the skaters legs to flip the skateboard. This 
 sound hard, but with practice is relitively simple.
  
  A game isnt without its flaws, and the only noticable ones are glitches and framerate issues.
 
  
  So Project 8. If you are a fan or veteran of Tony Games, by all means get it. If you are just into 
 360 or dont want a game with challenge, You should probably rent it first. A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeoxins
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  We've seen the Tony Hawk titles emerge from basic tricks with little combo variation, to awesome 
 super mid-air combos. Now in Project 8, we go back to those little combos; only their on beefroids.
 
  
  Alot of THP8 is the same as the other titles gameplay wise. You grind, manual, get big air, grind, 
 grind again, grind again, grind again... Yeah, and as the text on the back cover says, It's so 
 real Well, no, not so much. The literally professional motion capturing is amazing. When you enter 
 'Nail the Trick' mode (which I'll talk about later) you can actually see the feet sliding up the 
 grip tape, and then you can flip it with a kick, flip it with your heel, anything you thought possible 
 on your skateboard, and nothing you ever thought possible, or just straight didn't think of.
  
  The Soundtrack is the best since THPS1. Its not ALL HEAVY METAL HARDCORE DARK GOTHIC ORGAN 
 SUPER AMPLIFIED music; a big surprise. One song is called 'Ice Cream Headache' which is apparently 
 heavy metal with some moron probably related to Bam Margera yelling Blahblahblah, I have an Ice 
 Cream Heache, ughhhhhhh I actually kept that in my playlist. You have your fair share of Hip Hop, 
 Punk, and Rock/Other
  Nail the Trick is the best feature to hit the Tony Hawk titles since we saw free roam goals in 
 THUG. You control the board in SloMotion using your analog sticks, and pushing them whichever way, 
 when you have your grip tape/trucks up. Its amzing, and very hard to explain. You'll have to play 
 the demo to see what I mean.
  
  The game isn't very visually appealing with little contrast seeing as how there is no Day/Night 
 and you're always outside.
  Multiplayer is okay. Pros would be that there arent very long load times, but the cons consist 
 inside an immense list. Just a few would be:
  -Whenever someone joins, we enter Uberlag mode.
  -Whenever someone leaves, we enter Uberlag mode.
 
  -Too many people acting like they can really skate / 8-year old trash talkers (What game doesn't 
 have this issue?)
  -No Spectating mode, which leads to...
  -Whenever you enter a game yourself that is already in progress, we just listen to the smashing 
 of skateboards all over the place while we look at the Clouds/Red Line backround as the time counts 
 down.
  -Its takes so long for the game to finish, even considering that it is only recording your stats 
 to the global leaderboard. Something that should only take half a second that takes about half 
 a minute. Like Microwaving Pasta.
  
  Nonetheless, its an alright game seeing as how its only the second attmept on Next-Gen consoles 
 and I can appreciate the developers attempt.
  
  I'll give Project 8, another 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happydude12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game and turned it on I was hooked almost immediately. Being a great fan 
 of the Tony Hawks series it didnt take me more than 5 minutes to get used to the game. But it 
 has a very easy tutorial level which takes you through the basics of the game in no longer than 
 20 minutes.
  
  The game has 4 modes, Career Mode, High Score/Free Skate, Create Modes and Multiplayer Games. My 
 favourite is obviously Career mode where you choose a skater and then make them to become ranked 
 in the top 8 out of 100 to become in Tony Hawks Project 8.
  
  I love this game so much I have only had it since Christmas and I have played it so many times. 
 Lets just hope there is another Tony Hawks game coming out soon. I dont know what I would do 
 without this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squid_man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Project 8 is without a doubt, the best Tony Hawk game in the past several years. It brings the 
 series back to its basics by throwing away the idea of plot. While some may see this as bad, 
 do you really want to see another THUG? Your goal, simply put, is to be the number one skater in 
 town. You do this by doing the usual assortment of tasks; grind certain distances, smash X amount 
 of things, and do whatever crazy tasks that the pro skaters need done. There is one new feature 
 to the series though, Nail the Trick. At any time you can go into Nail the Trick mode. This allows 
 you to create your own tricks by moving the left and right stick to control your left and right 
 feet. This is a very useful tool when trying to make huge combos. Graphically Project 8 is amazing 
 when compared to American Wasteland, the only other Tony Hawk game on the 360. It would appear 
 that the crew at Neversoft have really started utilizing the full power of the 360, and it shows. 
 The game does however have some frame rate issues, but nothing that is too distracting.
  
  On the other end of the spectrum is the sound. The sound effects are all your typical Tony Hawk 
 stuff, but Project 8 has one of the worst soundtracks in Tony Hawk history. There are only two 
 good songs, Gravitys Rainbow by The Klaxons and American Life by Primus. All the other songs are 
 so bland you dont even notice them or so annoying it distracts you from the game.
  
  The rest of the game suffers from your typical Tony Hawk problems; frustrating tasks, awful cut-scenes 
 (aside from Jason Lees) , and the awful feeling of been there, done that through out the entire 
 game.
  
  The most fun youll have in the game is probably online. Players are able to skate around the 
 entire city while playing online, an impressive feat considering the size of it. But playing Tony 
 Hawk online gives you some of the best online experiences. Sure in Gears of War you can saw a person 
 in half, but to truly destroy someone, Land a Million point combo in the last seconds of a game 
 and listen to everyone else moan as they see their chances of winning disappear.
  
  If youve ever played a Tony Hawk game before, give this one a rental, if you like what you see, 
 buy it. For people who have never played a Tony Hawk game before, Project 8 is a great place to 
 start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Jakester
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  I have played all the Tony Hawk games, and this is by far the best.
  Gameplay - The tricks in this game are fewer, but better. The new Nail The Trick mode has you clicking 
 in both analog sticks, and flicking the analog sticks in any direction. It's easy to flip your 
 board, but hard to spin it, and NOT bail. The basic Flip tricks, Grabs, Grinds, Focus, Spines, 
 spins, and flips are still there. I didn't repeat myself there. Flip tricks, and flips, like back 
 and front flips, are both useful.
  Career - 1st you have to create your character. I chose a female, and for the first time EVER in 
 a Tony Hawk game, the female player character is not FUGLY!! YAY!!!! You start in the 'Burbs, just 
 skatin', but, when you find an entrance to a skatepark, you meet Rodney Mullen, and he sets you 
 on the path of Project 8. Sure, you go up in rank before that, but Mullen teaches you very valuable 
 skills, that you will need. When you get into the big city, Jason Lee lets you skate for him! (Thus, 
 the Batman reference) He'll inform you about all your Demos, the Pros in town, and the OWNED challenges, 
 where you have to beat a sick line by a Joe-Skater. (Or Joan-Skater) You get the info on the Comps 
 from the Bird-Man himself, Tony Hawk. He gives a message to all the peeps who want in. The pros 
 have you do some insane $#!+, like Stevie Williams. He has you do a grind above the ocean, which 
 will take you HUNDREDS of tries to beat. Yay. Burnquist has you Skate-Diving. from a Heli-copter, 
 for those of you who don't know what Skate-Diving is.
  Classic *sigh* - Is incorporated into career mode. I hate that.
  Online Play - Get with some 
 buddies, and tear it up! You have to get the highest score, play tag, and alot of other fun stuff.
 
  Conclusion - This is an awesome game, that fans of the series will thoroughly enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  At first you will think Tony Hawk Project 8 is terrible. It is completly different from all the 
 other ones. The graphics are actually good for once and there are new features to the game such 
 as nail the trick mode. The game grows on you here are the good and bad.
  
  The Good: The graphics are great. The environment is better. Nail the Trick mode is superb.
  
 
  The Bad: The game gets very repetative. There are a couple bugs (picky gamers will get upset) . The 
 missions are not fun at all the game is better off just free roaming.
  
  Tony Hawks Project 8 is worth getting. Thus I give it a 8.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's project 8 is a solid game, but the spark the earlier games gave you was a no see here. 
 The game itself was rather boring compared to THPS3 and 4. The graphics were solid as well, but 
 the unstable framerate was harsh. If any game COULDN'T have a bad framerate I would choose the 
 Tony Hawk games. You need to have great graphical performance to be able to have the great experience 
 the earlier games gave you, and the harshness of the physics weren't alright. But the limits were 
 set so high that you just actually just had to skate around and level your skills up before you 
 could continue the story. I guess it was unfair as well...
  It was hard to play this game, since it was boring and gave me a sad feeling about the future of 
 gaming. We have had many series fall flat on their faces, and now one of my favorite series is 
 down there with them.
  I dont have time for a long review, but I will explain a little more about THP8 before I go...
 
  THP8 also offers a great story to be honest. It was fun, but tough to raise in the ranks. But 
 once you reach the top 8 it was rediculous and stupid. You have to complete all of the goals on 
 pro or sick to reach rank 4 and 1.
  The realisticness of each trick you do gives me a warm feeling of awe. I thought it would be realistic 
 to a point where it would look stupid, but the components of the air and ground tricks were much 
 better than THAW and THUG2, the earlier games where these departments slowly made changes.
  I guess to conclude it I thought THP8 was a good renter. It was some fun but not enough to rival 
 EVEN THAW! The value is high since you will playing well through your way to make efficiency of 
 the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmulisha808
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best TONY HAWK game I have played, and I have played them all. Neversoft built 
 this game from the ground up and it was a good change. Like every game, they added a new mechanic 
 and this one is called NAIL THE TRICK which puts you in slow motion and using both of the sticks 
 as your legs you flick the board. This is a really cool way to add more points to your combos. 
 The graphics are excellent. The skater models look as real as their real life counterparts. This 
 time, unlike American Wasteland, there are NO LOADING SCREENS. It loads it the background, but 
 I have noticed that when it does that the game tends to lag a bit. The sound is great and also 
 the music which has a huge collection to choose from. The create a skater mode though has been 
 toned down. You can only customize little things now. Multiplayer on xbox live is fun. This year 
 they added a new game called walls where you created walls by skating and if another skater runs 
 into your created wall they lose so you must avoid other walls. Overall this game is FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apwc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  You got to hand it to Neversoft; they pump out a new Tony Hawk game every year. Unfortunately, 
 they ran into the same problem many sports titles do, staleness. The last few games have offered 
 little in the innovation department, throwing in things like goofy stories, vehicles, and poor 
 structure. But with the first official current gen (yes its current now) entry, Neversoft has 
 given the series a much needed renovation. If you got bored with the Tony Hawk series, Project 
 8 has enough fresh ideas to bring you back.
  
  Gone are the poorly written MTV inspired storylines. Instead, the game gives you the simple task 
 of climbing your way to the top of Tony Hawks dream skating team, Project 8. A virtual Jason Lee 
 acts as your guide to the various spots and goals. Your progression through the story is as open 
 as you want it to be. Certain parts of the world are closed off, but can be easily opened. Each 
 area is seamlessly connected, which means you wont be skating down any dark corridors while the 
 game loads like the last game.
  
  The developers have spent that last few iterations fussing around with the way goals are assigned, 
 and have finally found the sweet spot in Project 8. You can skate up to a glowing pedestrian for 
 a normal goal, or a classic mode run (which are as challenging as ever) , or you can find a pro 
 for a pro challenge. In addition to the NPC assignments, youll also find chalk, nail the trick, 
 bail, and own the spot goals. Many of these simply require skating, grinding, or jumping over a 
 specific area. Not only are the goals accessible, but they have varying levels of difficulty too. 
 Each one has an amateur, pro, and sick requirement, and though you can make it in to Project 8 
 through the am goals alone, it will take a lot more work to get to the top. Most Tony Hawk vets 
 should be able to handle the pros, but even the most hardcore player will find the sick goals tough.
 
  
  What makes it tougher is the scoring. Its been tuned down so that getting a gabillion points from 
 a long string of grinds and manuals is a bit harder that it used to be. To get those giant combo 
 scores, youll have to link together every move in your arsenal. The slow motion focus mode returns 
 to aid in balancing, and it is accompanied by the Nail the Trick mode. In one of the most innovative 
 additions since the manual, Nail the Trick mode lets you have total control over your skaters 
 feet. By clicking the analog sticks in the air, the action slows down and zooms in on your feet. 
 Each stick controls a foot as you flip the board around. Its tough to get the hang of at first, 
 and you might find yourself eating concrete in the middle of a great combo, but with practice, 
 it can be a very useful tool for racking up huge combos. Unlike the focus mode you can use Nail 
 the Trick at any time, and its worth practicing as the game even allows players to use it online.
 
  
  Many of the multiplayer modes have returned from previous versions, with a few new additions, most 
 notably the Tron inspired walls, which is exactly like it sounds. The game allows eight players 
 online, which is great if you can find them. You can upload the entire world and skate around with 
 friends, but with only eight players, if you dont limit the size of the play area, you can go 
 a whole match without seeing anyone. You also wont be the most original skater on the block as 
 the create-a-player has been drastically scaled down. The park creator has also been scaled down 
 to the point that it barely exists outside a couple of goals.
  
  The lack of customization stings a little more because of the missed potential from the gorgeous 
 visuals. Built from the ground up for the current-gen machines, the game takes advantage of the 
 new horsepower with detailed character models (though some of them slip into the uncanny valley) 
 and believable environments. The visuals got more than a fresh coat of paint though; every move 
 has been motion captured by real pros. The changes are subtle, but noticeable and the moves animate 
 fluidly. Theres even an option to view tricks as they were originally captured. Paired with the 
 liberal use of actual skating videos, the mocap serves as a great reminder just how talented pro 
 skaters really are, and how hard it is to even stay on a skateboard, let alone flip one all over 
 the place.
  
  The visuals are accompanied by a good licensed soundtrack. It may not win any awards, but it works 
 well and stays out of the way. The sound effects have also been upgraded. If youve ever wondered 
 what it sounds like to skate over a pile of vomit, through a pool, or across a picket fence, youll 
 find what youre looking for with Project 8.
  
  The only marks against the game are the slowdown, which crops up on certain goals, the aforementioned 
 uncanny valley, and lack of customization. But these downsides are only minor given the excellence 
 and challenge of the gameplay.
  
  Overall
  Project 8 marks a new beginning for the series. Its accessible for new players, challenging for 
 veterans, and fresh enough to bring back the uninterested. There are some minor flaws and some 
 features missing, but its a great revamp and a big step in the right direction.
  
  Purchase?
  You can easily pull 12 hours out of the single player game, and if youre an achievement 
 hound, youll be spending a lot more than that trying to get them all. If youre new to the series 
 or a long time fan, this is definitely one to add to your Christmas list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remizzle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 3 days ago and I've played it for pretty much all my spare time hours so far.... 
 when I'm not playing it, I'm thinking about playing it. YOU JUST CAN'T GET ENOUGH OF THIS GAME. 
 This game is also harder than the previous thps's which gives it that replayability that project 
 8 is so well-known for. Pros: Amazing Graphics, Pretty cool Online mode. Career mode is awesome. 
 This game has tons of replayability. There's not enough time for me to write all that i think about 
 this game because i want to get back to playing it....
  
  Cons: There is only one flaw with this game, and that is the only technical issue with this game: 
 The game will almost always freeze when you are trying to quit an online match, it might just be 
 me, idk, but i don't' think it is because i didn't have enough time to scratch my disc...
  
  So, my conclusion is don't listen to Gamespot... sorry gamespot.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKiba
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Tony hawk project 8 has eveything a skateboarding game would have. It has nail the trick which 
 allows the player to do there own set of tricks in slo-mo, it has ways of getting sponsered by 
 companys sucha as Stereo and Quicksilver, it even has the shoes and shirts that the DGK skate team 
 uses. Tony Hawk also includes another feature, glitches. As you crash into a wall, your camera 
 all of a sudden goes flying into the wall. Sometimes, if you do a wall ride, and you ollie of the 
 wall, you bounce on your board. Graphic wise, this game is stunning, gameplay, this game is hardcore, 
 but gliches, this game is raunchy. If you are a tony hawk fan, rent it first but when you notice 
 the glitches, be prepared to get pissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xWhite_Rabbitx
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Just from playing the demo I can see that this could be one of the greatest Tony Hawk games ever 
 made. The trick stick really allows you to control your trick but it will take some time to master. 
 I would recommened this game to anyone who is a fan of the Tony Hawk genre. It may cost $60 for 
 the 360 but it is definetley worth it. Owners of the original xbox need to upgrade though because 
 many more games will be in hi def and you should take advantage of that as soon as possible. Im 
 not saying that the original xbox isn't any good because I have one that I love but the 360 just 
 has co much more power and better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_0f_Enigma
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Project 8 starts off very easy, a bit too easy if you ask me, but then when you get right into 
 the top 50, things start to change for the worse. It becomes more frustrating than fun. Once you 
 get into the Top 50 there aren't many challenges left for you to do, so your kinda stuck trying 
 to get the Sick titles, which make you do insane things. An example, not taken from the game, is 
 having to manual down the street, hold, then grind along a railing for 100 feet, then finally pull 
 off a clean 540 Rodeo McTwist. Now as fun as that may be, there are a lot of things wrong with 
 the mechanics. It seems the balancing in the game is harder than previous titles, which stops you 
 from actually grinding 100 feet. Now, I am not a skater myself, but I do a couple of people who 
 do, and I watch boarding movies a lot. Tony Hawk titles take everything out of perspective for 
 what skating is about. There really are combos when it comes to real life boarding. Sure you can 
 do combos, but in competition they only get you so many points. THP8 does no good with it. Instead 
 it makes you go out of your way to clear gaps and do impossible things. Once, just once, I would 
 like to see the birdman himself try one, I bet he couldn't do it. All in all, this game is just 
 more frustrating that fun, which I probably have stated before.
  
  The graphics and the sound in this game are really improved over the last TH, American Wasteland. 
 The acting is a lot better this time around, and there is a whole new list of music ranging from 
 80's music to present time. The graphics are superb, and dominate any other TH title. But these 
 two things alone, don't save the game. Even though American Wasteland had lesser graphics, I still 
 had way more fun with it.
  
  Really, the only thing that actually saved this for me was the multiplayer. Being able to play 
 over XBL or with a friend is fun, not that I couldn't do it in American Wasteland though. The only 
 problem with it, is it gets really repetitive, fast.
  
  Hopefully in the game installment, Mr. Hawk will take away the frustration of P8, and make the 
 Sick missions, not so impossible. Maybe add in a couple things from the past titles that made them 
 fun, and perhaps you will have a game to top the third Tony Hawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kane2929
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  it doesnt matter what skateboarding game comes otu ti is great but this one is fricken awsome this 
 game is one of the best i ever played but it needs mor etime put in to it liek thug and thug2 and 
 wasteland but besides that it really felt leik i was skaten rigth beside bam it was fricken awsome 
 game i would love to meet then creators of it and shake there hands they would eb my heros for 
 the rest of my life but the game play is a lil hard to get right off the bat and is a lil hard 
 to controll at times so i would love to just beable to fix that and i woudl be a way better game 
 but besides that it needs some mor lil touch ups and it would be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay so if you love to skateboard, or if your just a tony hawk fan, then you seriously need to 
 play this game. The graphics and gameplay are unreal! The character creation is deep and creative, 
 and there are so many different decks to chose from when buying a deck. The multiplayer was really 
 good too, besides the small glitches that you get once in a while. The nail the trick feature is 
 pretty cool and unique also. The Neversoft and Activision team really improved on their series 
 this time by making it more realistic, (for instance you dont ollie 6 feet up in the air) and also 
 by just all out making a kick butt great skateboarding game. Also, there are a lot of pros for 
 you to skate as, and they all look exactlly like they do in real life. PERFECT VOICE OVERS!! So, 
 to sum it up, THP8 is defintely in my opinion the best skating game out there, and I know that 
 there just gonna keep on improving on these games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mufcbarlow1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The tony hawks series have took a step in the right direction with project 8.
  Activision have scrapped the THUG style story modes for a more realistic skating game which makes 
 it feel like an realistic sports game, rather than in previous games, it felt like you was playing 
 jackass/tony hawks.
  
  IT still has some funny/weird challenges, but this game focuses more on tricks, points and pleasing 
 crowds by competing in demos and skate events which seemed to have been replaced by odd, jackass 
 style stunt challanges in past games, more so in american wasteland.
  
  Gameplay - 10 - the gameplay was already perfect, but lets face it, it needed a face lift to keep 
 alot of people interested. Its a step in the right direction
  
  Graphics - Amazing player models and environments with nice player and board physics
  
  Sound 
 - just about what youd expect from any tony hawks game
  
  Value 8 - lengthy career mode with plenty of online options, plus freeskate. Lacking create a skater 
 depth. No create a trick or park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  In Tony Hawk's next game, Tony Hawk's Project 8, you play as a skater that lives in a town that 
 is known for its skating. Tony Hawk then decides to come to this town to look for the top eight 
 skaters out here for his special team of skaters... his Project 8 . You, ranked at number 200, have 
 to rank all the way to the top eight, and become number one in Tony Hawk's Project 8 (in a way, 
 I mean both the team and the game...) . Here's my review.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 Gameplay: Tony Hawk's American Wasteland was quite a disappointing Tony Hawk game... can I still 
 say that? Well, it was; not much worked out for it, despite its one big world , BMX bikes, Bert 
 slides, nose stalls, and its skating gameplay. It was because of its simple difficulty, stupid 
 or kind of awkward story, and its actual lack of improvement that it was just an average skating 
 game. But what does this have to do with Tony Hawk's Project 8, you ask? Well, to tell you the 
 truth, I wasn't really expecting much from Project 8; even though the Neversoft veterans are putting 
 full effort into this game, and just not look over what the rookies of the Neversoft team are doing 
 while they are working at another game (a la Gun) , I was still afraid to buy it, for I thought 
 it would go downhill from THAW. Having the urge to rent it, I realized I was wrong; dead wrong. 
 Tony Project 8 was very improved, and made me easily forget about all the things I found kind of 
 negative about THAW and even the THUG series of games. But, let's just get on to the gameplay. 
 To begin, the first thing I realized was that there is no story mode; instead, there is a career 
 mode! Sure, there is a story, but nothing that tries to be a movie, which is a good thing. The 
 point of Tony Hawk games was never about the story, it was always about the pure enjoyment of playing 
 a skating game, and that's my sort of philosophy to this game: Tony Hawk always, and top-priority 
 needs to be, about the pure enjoyment of skating. And to tell you the truth, Tony Hawk's Project 
 8 is all about the skating, and nothing else. No silly driving sequences, no riding on anything 
 else, not even any BMX bikes; it's all pretty much about the skating this time, making the career 
 mode seem more like Tony Hawk Pro Skater 4 then anything else (could that be the answer why they 
 are calling it Tony Hawk's Project 8 and not something else?) , which is considered a quite good 
 compliment. Another thing about the career mode: there is no Amateur, Pro, or Sick difficulty setting. 
 Instead, that is what the goals of the game are set up like. Almost every goal you do, the challenges 
 you are told to do are ranked from Amateur, Pro, and to Sick (for example, land a kickflip for 
 Amateur, a 540 double kickflip for Pro, and a Clean 540 triple kickflip for Sick) . And don't be 
 surprised if you can't get sick or even pro so easily; Neversoft has made this game pretty challenging, 
 and can take some practice to complete goals on Amateur levels. The variety of goals has also improved; 
 in this open world, (and it is one big world, with non-existent loading and no long hallways) you 
 have a bunch of spot challenges to master, which is a lot of fun to do. These are basically lines 
 or really challenges that require you to go to a certain distance or length to get Amateur, Pro, 
 or Sick. Other fun goals would competitions or eliminations, following the filmer, doing as many 
 told tricks as you can, bail challenges, Pro challenges (as in the pro skaters) , Nail-the-Trick 
 challenges, and even Classic challenges (you know... those timed 8 goals?) , and that is really what 
 the mostly consists of, too. Notice that there are also new things to do in this game: bailing 
 challenges and Nail-the-Trick challenges. Bailing is also an important part of Project 8, and even 
 has its own scoring system, called the hospital bill and also how many bones you have broken (which 
 I can't help but laugh at) . You can bounce by pressing Y, and move to the left or right via analog 
 stick while bailing (kind of like the Takedown premise in Burnout 3, Revenge, and Legends) , as 
 well as quickly getting up with A. Not much to say, just guilty pleasure all the way through. Another 
 new mechanic, Nail-the-Trick, can be very interesting; basically, while in air, closing up to your 
 feet (like how Focus mode does now, but even closer!) , you can use the two analog sticks to flip 
 around with. It's nothing I'd do all the time like you can, but can be pretty fun during challenges 
 when you need this power. Also, note that even though their aren't really any new skating tricks, 
 don't expect to get a million combo so easily; the scoring system, as well as the balance system, 
 makes it hard to get even a fourth of a million, and with no cheats (for online to be more fair 
 and to not beat the game so easily, I'm guessin') , will be quite a challenge to get, but at least 
 they revamped it that way, thank goodness. And, also, the leveling-up with your stats for skating 
 has been something of a challenge to do, now with a certain of amount of feet or seconds to record. 
 And now, for the create-a-skater mode; really, this has been simplified, now by choosing which 
 class you are (surfer, punk, kid, female, or urban) and giving him looks based on your style of 
 choice. Its disappointing, especially with no create-a-park or even creat-a-trick, that there is 
 a lack of creation in this game. Sure, this time the game revolves around skating, but the part 
 of enjoyment for Tony Hawk games was for me was to create a bunch of crazy things for this game 
 to even have more fun. And there really is only one problem with the gameplay: the frame-rate can 
 be a nuisance sometimes during gameplay. Otherwise, Tony Hawk's Project 8 is simply a major improvement 
 over last year's game, and has been a Tony Hawk game to play. Considering the next-gen versions, 
 and from what I hear the Xbox 360 version, are the better versions of the game, THP8 is certainly 
 the next-gen skating game to own.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: Even though this is definately next-gen material, don't be surprised if you think there 
 is something wrong with the graphics. The character animations, though well-done, are kind of mixed 
 between not pretty and not ugly, just decent. the new rag-doll physics are okay, but really needs 
 an improvement, for I feel like this game needs more of a realistic feel to it. And another gripe 
 would be that the framerate needs a slight tune-up. Otherwise, the game doesn't look that bad; 
 the environments are imaginative and is really the best part of the looks of P8, and close ups 
 of your feet and skateboard are pretty all-right, as well. Average on the graphics department overall, 
 though.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: The soundtrack is another major improvement over last years, having bands such as Wolfmother, 
 Gnarles Barkley, and even the returning The Ramones. Voice-acting is pretty good at best, but not 
 really what you would focus on in the sound department at this case. Where's the wacky sound effects? 
 Those were pretty awesome, but otherwise, sound is great.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: Career mode is very addicting, and kind of lengthy at that. The goals are pretty fun and 
 addicting enough to try to Sick them all , as well as maxing out your stats, and to become #1. 
 The online mode is better, and good enough to try out. This game would've been more addicting if 
 there were more things to create, but otherwise, replay value is quite high.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: Overall, I'd say Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a very fun skate-boarding game, and should be recommended 
 by Tony Hawk fans as a whole. Believe me, you should not be disappointed by what the overall experience 
 (even though you might) , and if you are unsure, then make it a definite rental. Tony Hawk newbies 
 beware, though; this game is worth to play, but you might want to rent it first. Otherwise, THP8 
 is a fun game and is recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3R1N
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  When I first took a glimpse at the GS review for this game, I simply couldn't believe that it would 
 get something as low as a 7.9. Granted, it's still dubbed "Good," but any Tony Hawk title deserves 
 a higher score than that by all means due to the fact that the series has continued to raise the 
 bar for skateboarding and skateboarding games for almost a decade. With this in mind, I do feel 
 some aspects could take a toll on the game's overall presentation, which is why I've decided to 
 write this review; to justify the game's stronger points as well as its weak ones.
  
  First off, the gameplay aspects of P8 are exceptionally innovative, although somewhat similar to 
 previous titles such as THPS4 and the THUG games. For example, your goals as a skater-on-the-rise 
 aren't given to you straight up like in the much older THPS games, as you're required to explore 
 a variety of different areas to locate those who will provide you with such goals. The means of 
 actually FINDING these people, however, is a task within itself because the compass used for navigation 
 is rather hard to read at times and you'll often find yourself lost or just not knowing where to 
 find a particular goal. You can fix this by setting a waypoint on the compass, providing you with 
 a larger blue marker that'll most likely guide you to your desired destination, but there's still 
 a possibility of getting lost.
  
  As for the Career mode in general, it is indeed innovative like I stated previously, and you'll 
 find yourself spending multiple hours at a time with it, acquiring new sponsors, completing Pro 
 Challenges, and so forth. After all, how else would you make it onto Project 8? On a side note, 
 the game features a new set of goals entitled "Spot Challenges," of which require you to manual 
 or grind a certain distance, stall for a certain period of time, air up to a certain height, and 
 even bail a specific way to obtain Am (short for Amateur) , Pro, and Sick rankings. In terms of 
 the rankings you obtain after completing either a Spot Challenge or a goal within the main storyline, 
 the rewards aren't much different as you move up from Am to Sick, which makes completing each goal 
 feel a little less... rewarding than it should be. But, the more goals you complete, the higher 
 you move in the ranks, and the more Pro Challenges you complete, the more Special Tricks, Decks, 
 and "Mocap" (slow-mo demonstration) Tricks you can unlock, which obviously make the game much more 
 enjoyable.
  
  The game obviously has no difficulty setting, as you just create your skater and go, which should 
 sound like a task within itself due to past Create-A-Skater modes are their tendency to be extremely 
 in-depth, but in this game? Not so much. This, as you can imagine, isn't necessarily one of the 
 game's strong points and will most likely disappoint all those who are expecting a typical display 
 of what past Tony Hawk titles have provided us with. With this in mind, the skater you choose obviously 
 doesn't have an effect on how well you play the game, but you better make sure you can get the 
 hang of and play it well enough, as some goals can prove themselves to be exceptionally challenging, 
 and you'll often find yourself wanting to throw your controller at the television screen. Don't 
 get me wrong, the goals aren't impossible, you just don't want to continually strive to obtain 
 the bare minimum when completing them, which is a strong possibility in this case.
  
  Putting the difficulty issue aside, you'll be happy to know that the standard THPS trick system 
 is here in its entirety, and boy is it as great as it ever was. The combo system is without a doubt 
 amazing, with various different manual, stall, and grind combinations you can throw together to 
 really rack up the points. Pretty much everything you can do here in Project 8 is absolutely astounding, 
 which is why true fans of the series will without a doubt give this one a try despite the frustration 
 factor present within the aforementioned Career mode and so forth.
  
  Visually, the game looks astounding, and the trick animations in conjunction with the new "Mocap" 
 videos are absolutely beautiful and are truly a great example of what the Xbox 360 can really do 
 graphically with a skateboarding game. Even the way each character you come across looks will put 
 you in a state of awe. Yes, everything looks THAT good. However, the cinematics and even the live 
 action videos do have a tendency to skip around a tad, but I still have no clue if this is because 
 of MY Xbox acting up or what, as it did the same thing on a friend's console as well. Putting this 
 aside, the game looks great and most definitely sets the standard for any future skateboarding 
 game that might make an appearance on the 360.
  
  Aside from the graphical features, the voice acting is great, as each skater's voice talent is 
 provided for each of their parts, and even the side characters' voices sound just a good. The sounds 
 each skater makes when they bail? Again, not so good. These little clips do tend to get a tad on 
 the annoying side, especially when your character is that of the little kid like mine is, as he 
 squeals like a little girl (he's a boy by the way) whenever he bites the big one. The sound effects 
 emitted from the board and otherwise when performing tricks more than make up for this slight flaw 
 however and truly contribute to the realistic skating experience provided here. Just... try to 
 look past the annoying bail squealing.
  
  Online, the game is a blast, as you can quickly jump into either a ranked or non-ranked match with 
 the press of a button, depending on what kind of gamer you are. The headset is also put into use 
 here, as you can continually communicate with rival players, talking smack or discussing strategies; 
 whatever floats your boat. I have found myself getting disconnected occasionally due to a poor 
 connection at houses other than my own, and there's always the problem of the person who creates 
 each room being a complete... you know what, but P8 still provides us with an enjoyable online 
 experience.
  
  Overall, I feel Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a great skateboarding title for the 360, although it does 
 sport a few minor technical flaws, some annoying voice acting in a few areas, and a exceptionally 
 challenging Career Mode. If you're a true fan of the series like I am though, you'll most definitely 
 look past these things and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Activision has seemed to have nailed the trick with its latest entry into the Tony Hawks series. 
 This was truly their first next gen. attempt at skating, seeing that American Wasteland was a port 
 with not so nice graphics and gameplay. Here is a breakdown of how i feel about the game.
  
  New Additions-One of the newest additions to the Tony Hawk series is the Nail the trick mode. 
 This allows you to slow down time to do tricks with the left and right analog sticks, pretty handy 
 and fun if you ask me. Also a good skate shop and excellent graphical enhancement.
  
  Gameplay- New nail the trick mode is a great improvement which makes for a fun time. Mechanics 
 are all nice but at times can be hard to complete some tricks.
  
  Graphics- 10x better than American wasteland as they are built from scratch. The environments and 
 the skaters look gorgeuos. The only problem i ran into was a shaky framerate and slight clipping 
 goes on if u just run into the wall.
  
  Sound- good as usual, the voice over is decent, i figured it would be better than it is but its 
 not a big factor in the game so ill deal with it.
  
  Some of the things that bug me in this game are the short time you have to complete goals, and 
 the clipping. When you have 20 things to complete its quite difficult to finish it in onenute and 
 thirty seconds or two minutes. Also, the clipping can be annoying as sometimes you can get stuck 
 in walls or ramps as you go up at times.
  
  Overall, this game is a great ground built game and a must have for any Tony Hawk fan, or just 
 any skating fan.
  
  Thanks for reading, Lucas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Overall, this is the best Hawk since the days of Pro Skater. It involves some of the underground 
 features but includes a more intricate story line and gives traditional fans a Pro Skater feel. 
 Great game.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  The only reason it isn't a 9 or 10 is the framerate issues. The gameplay and controls are realisitic 
 and smooth. The controls are the same, which is a good thing. Nail the trick is an outstanding 
 addition to the Tony Hawk family. It gives the game an additional boost. Fix the framerate issues 
 and this is a 9 at least.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  How gamespot gave this a 7 is beyond me. Rodney Mullen, Jason Lee, Tony Hawk, Bam Margera etc... 
 all look, to the T, exactly like they do/did at some point. The color scheme is crisp. The skateparks, 
 schools, cities etc, all look like a major upgrade from the previous next-gen Tony Hawk. The mouth 
 movements when players talk is more realistic than any other game i have played other than GoW.
 
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Sound is good, but doesn't sound much different from the previous Tony Hawk's. Very good Tony Hawk 
 style soundtrack with a fair combination of Punk, rock, and hip hop. Not much has changed with 
 the sound.
  
  Value: 10
  
  With all of the different things you can do in Tony Hawk it gives this game more replay value than 
 any other Tony Hawk in the history of the series Pro Skater or Underground. Nail the Trick and 
 all of the different goals within the levels. The hidden tricks, create a trick, free skating so 
 on and so forth. I also love the leaderboards and the ranking you get for your skill of skating 
 and your march to get into the top 8. The value is endless on this game
  
  Tilt: 10
  
  I hadn't liked a Tony Hawk game in years. I didnt even like the last Pro Skater. After the first 
 underground, which was pretty decent in my eyes, I was done with Tony Hawk. I played this demo 
 and was hooked again. This is a must have for anyone who loves the traditional Tony Hawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbo28
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  More or less, i dont like some of the options, such as not being able to use your career character 
 on 2Player/High Scores, so you have to dealwith sub super stats. Also the High Scores only keeps 
 top 5 overall scores, and top 5 combos that accompany each score. Top 10, and top 10 best combos 
 period, not just the ones from the top score runs. The compass thing at the top was hard to get 
 used to but could get much better. Oh yeah, and not enough deck detail, what happened to changing 
 wheel color, trucks, griptape and all that good stuff? And last but not least, there isnt enough 
 special tricks, if you create more than 1 character, they'll all have the same specil tricks in 
 the long run... not that cool.
  
  But all in all, i love this game, the revert to manual is alot smoother, the slow motion is awesome 
 for helping out with tough balances. Very good career mode, dont know how you get 100% complete. 
 But at the end of the day, its still one of my favorite titles for the 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizzam911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Project 8 is a realistic skate boarding game. Tony Hawks Project 8 has vasily improved 
 from American Wasteland and is a pleasant mix between Underground and Pro skater. You start out 
 creating a character but its not the in depth character creation mode that you loved in Underground. 
 You choose from templates and chose from your clothing options. Then you start out on a set of 
 goals and make your way to different areas of skating. The whole world is load free and makes a 
 nice mix for a pretty big world. You make yourself up to project 8 and depending on how good you 
 do those goals you make it to different spots on the team. Overall its a good game and the game 
 will keep you excited online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaladinSnake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I'll break this up into the usual categories, you all know the drill.
  
  Graphics: This is where the game really stands out, and not in the way you might think. The graphics 
 are quite good, though i've seen better. Where the game really shines is the animation. Borderline 
 every trick is motion-captured, bringing a fresh new look to the aging animations we've all seen. 
 I was extremely pleased when I did a flatland combo, all the flatland tricks have been mo-capped 
 as well, so even the transitions look believable. Same goes for lip tricks and grinds.
  
  Sound: This is a mixed bag. On one hand, the in-game sound effects, such as the sound of your wheels 
 rolling along the different surfaces, to the make-you-flinch sound of your neck snapping in 8 different 
 places, all the sound effects are really superb and really help to draw you in to the experience. 
 I've gotta give credit to the skaters in this one, for once they did a decent job at voice acting, 
 I mean, their skaters, not actors, and I never expected them to sound even this good. I guess they've 
 been getting a lot of practice. The music is where I think the game starts to slack off. Now, this 
 is just my opinion, some people might enjoy the music, but the only two tracks that I find enjoyable 
 are the intro song, Kasabian's Club Foot , and Wolfmother's Woman . However, that's just my opinion, 
 others might enjoy the music a lot more.
  
  Gameplay: Ah yes, the gameplay. This game is amazingly fun to play, it strikes a very good balance 
 between realism and the classic Tony Hawk-style 50 feet out of a quarter pipe sorta gameplay. The 
 Mo-capped tricks make just skating around and finding new lines much more fun, and the Nail the 
 Trick mode is ridiculous, in a good way. By now everyone should know how it works, so I won't waste 
 your time explaining it, but damn is it fun! You can create almost anything, even attempt to do 
 already existing tricks, though for some reason I can't figure out how to do a damn 360 flip.
 
  
  Final Words: The Tony Hawk franchise has seen it's ups and downs. Most people agree that the THUG 
 and THAW editions were the lowest point, though I found them fun. This game has the potential to 
 completely turn the series around. The gameplay is as good as ever, the graphics and mo-cap bring 
 new life to the visuals, and the in-game audio is top notch. This is a step in the right direction, 
 and I can only hope to see more of this from Activision in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pherstothelee
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Although I loved the gameplay in games like American Wasteland and THUG, I rather enjoyed 
 the transition back to the original Pro Skater format, where you're just doing tricks and getting 
 points for them, instead of pulling pranks and other stupid stuff. The new Nail the Trick mode 
 is really cool and its actually kinda tough, especailly compared to doing those same tricks without 
 Nail the Trick. Before playing this game in the stores, I had never played a 360 for a long period 
 of time, and the controls switching from PS2 to 360 was incredibly easy. I would've liked to have 
 seen more realistic gameplay, instead of just being able to bust massive tricks, but in a different 
 mode, since making 200,000 point combos will never get old.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are definitely next gen. All of the characters are beautifully 
 rendered, and there is virtually no lag time.
  
  Sound: The sound... Sound? By that do you mean music? Because I never really heard any music, which 
 normally makes the Tony Hawk games even better. The voices are really nice, and the sounds from 
 skating sound realistic, but lack of music really kills this area.
  
  Value: The story mode seems to be pretty long, since when I start, it takes me around thirty minutes 
 to get to rank 185. The two player mode is really fun and there are many different modes to offer 
 here. Overall, this game will last you a loooong time.
  
  Story: Yes, I am now changing reviewer's tilt to story, so here goes. The story in project 8 is, 
 well, basic. It's basically a rank up to the top and then you win game covered by a pretty shallow 
 story. Fortunately, this is a game where a good story isn't really needed.
  
  DIfficulty: While landing tricks is pretty hard at the start of the game, it's gets easy after 
 a while, and you'll be pulling those 200,000 point combos in no time.
  
  The Good: Goes back to it's roots, Nail the Trick is fun, the multiplayer is really really fun, 
 and the graphics are great.
  
  The Bad: I didn't hear any music, the gameplay could have been more realistic, and of course the 
 story isn't all that it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blink182man4lfe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I think its great. The game got a lot better than what American Wasteland which I thought was absolutely 
 one of the worst games. The Challenges aren't as unreal as compared to the other Tony Hawk games. 
 Coming from a skateboarder nothing upsets me more than doing a manual into a fingerflip down a 
 set and getting 500 points for it where thats something that would get kids signed. In Project 
 8 they give you sick skate spots a couple of crazy ones, and tie it up all into one nice neat package. 
 I have only unlocked Travis Barker as a skater so I'm looking forward to find out the rest of the 
 secret skaters which from what I know there are quite abit of them. Obviously not as cool as Darth 
 Maul and spiderman but I heard officer dick makes a comeback as a zombie but I'm not a hundred 
 percent on that one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoetheMoe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I got this game as a Thanksgiving gift and I sure am satisfied. If you are reading this then 
 you have played past THPS games. From the begining you will certainly love the new trick design. 
 all tricks loke super realistic. the new gameplay feature for this version is called Nail the Trick 
 in this mode the gameplay slows down like focus mode, but htis mode is better because you have 
 the abillity to form all kinds of huge flip tricks! What i love to do after completing the game 
 is just skate around and just do realistic tricks. this game is both possible to perform those 
 huge crazy backflip indy to triple-kickflip to revert manual. or you can make the more real tricks 
 stand out. i love doing 360-flip to blunt slide over in the school area! The story is very good 
 best in series. THUG1 is the second best. the other new feature is this odd bone breaking ragdoll 
 thing. where u must break as many bones as u can and gain a huge hospital bill. this feature isn't 
 needed but is often fun. controls are the best that i have seen them. simply as that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL13NK1LL3R
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  yeah, i love the game play like the slow motion where u can use the stick to make the tricks, it 
 makes feel real and add fun to the game! the graphics are awesome for this game and i think they 
 should fix on charatcers little more otherwise, its great.. u can tell which pro skater is, that 
 is awesome and they still have classic mode and new modes which add more hours to the game! the 
 bad thing is framerate is sluggy once awhile like when u doin alot of spins and tricks together, 
 and bails too. : ( other bad thing is create a skater is not alot of options like other games but 
 this is the next gen so u have to give time for it like madden, if u love tony hawk games then 
 u should get this game but if u dont really like skate games then just rent it to see if u like 
 it then buy it lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popedeezthe3rd
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how you could not like this game. This is so amazing I cant stand how people 
 are hating on it even tho its better then the undergrounds and American wasteland. The only way 
 they could have made this game better is by letting you do nail the trick in multi-player mode 
 that would have made it even more perfect. I haven't stopped playing it only because its that much 
 fun. For one reason there always seems to be more to do which is great and another reason just 
 playing the game and making challenges for myself is great! dont believe the people who hate the 
 game they just cant find anything else to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roushfan1799
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  finally a realistic Tony Hawk game. the areer mode is like a real career mode it is cool that you 
 start from the bottom to the top. Nail the trick is a cool addition. The graphics are much like a 
 360 game and looks like they do in real life. online is fun with the new mode wall.8 players online 
 is fine hopefully it is not laggy. The Goals are really hard and fun. hopefully this is not the last 
 Tony Hawk game. The areer mode should have more things like you can compete in the X games and the 
 Dew sports tour. A realy cool thing is that you can make your own brand (DC) customize shrits, shoes, decks, pants 
 and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  7 games in and the Tony Hawk franchise was feeling exhausted, it just wasn't fun to play anymore, 
 the same tired, and considerably easy goals, it just felt boring. Well thats all about to change 
 because Tony Hawks Project 8 is probably the most exciting and original Tony Hawk game in a long, 
 long time. THP8 is a breath of fresh air to the series, it feels, plays, and looks good! whether 
 thats down to the incredible level design or the insanely hard goals is any reviewers guess, but 
 ones things for sure, this takes point as one of the best Tony Hawk ever made
  
  As you might remember, Tony Hawks' American Wasteland was released for the Xbox 360 a while ago, 
 and it really was quite simply a poor port of the original game on the Xbox and PS2, but this is 
 the first true next-gen Tony Hawk game, and it shows. Visually THP8 is one of the best looking 
 games for 360, whilst it may not be your average Gears Of War , it still holds up as looking pretty, 
 its just such a shame that frame rate issues plague this game throughout, but by no means is it 
 unplayable, its just a sad thing to see nonetheless. A patch is rumored to be released soon which 
 may help the the frame rate issues, so fingers crossed for the time being.
  
  The character models all look fantastic, even including your own skater, the clothes feature impressive 
 bump mapping that gives the clothing an all new realism, the facial features, whilst being a little 
 over exaggerated, still look very well made indeed, and the pro's do benefit from this. The pro's 
 look disturbingly like their real life counterparts, all the way down to Tony's sign of aging. 
 The textures are also impressive, you really feel like your skating on concrete pavement, or maybe 
 thats down to the outstanding! sound.
  
  THP8 has amazing sound effects, they are incredible, you can just feel the clatter of skating on 
 tiles or pavement, as you get faster so does the clatter, and rumble of skating on double glazed 
 glass is also worthy of mention, this is truly one of THP8's highest points, you can even hear 
 the slight echo of the world around you whilst skating in a low part of the skatepark, its just 
 that impressive, this reviewer is lost for words. But with great sounds comes a terrible soundtrack, 
 this years soundtrack is worst than last year, it features a handful of well known bands, but not 
 necessarily well known tracks, kasabians club foot feels misplaced in this genre of game and Kool 
 and the Gangs summer madness ?, well ok i guess that fits since there is no day and night cycle 
 in P8, its just plain old day time.
  
  And the free roaming aspect of P8, is what we have been waiting for since AW, finally, the world 
 is truly open, and what a world it is. The game takes place in Beaver Valley, and trust Neversoft 
 to play off crude jokes about the word beaver throughout the game, because it happens a lot. The 
 level design in P8 is divine, to the fun parks incredibly funky colours, all the way to the slums 
 sun torn look, all the environments feel like they should do, and it goes a long way to making 
 this Tony Hawk game, one of the best.
  
  In terms of story, the game takes a change of direction, instead of the previous jackass style 
 story lines, P8 practically features none, basically Tony is looking for the best 8 skaters to 
 join in on what Tony likes to call project 8 . You, the 200th entry, must work your way to the 
 top of he rank, and this is no easy feat, Neversoft have cranked the difficulty of their goals 
 to the MAX. Each goal consists of three rankings, Am, Pro and (of course) Sick!. while Am is very 
 easy, Pro seems to step it up a little, but its still fairly easy, but when it comes to Sick!, 
 thats when things start getting ridiculous, i can only warn you now, if you are new to the series, 
 then run away, you are going to struggle, but veterans like my self should find it surprisingly 
 hard whether you are new to it or not.
  
  The goals have changed pace too, these mainly consist of: spot challenges, Nail The Trick challenges, 
 comps, pro goals, normal challenges and of course classic goals. to name a few. and actually these 
 are pretty fun to do, and the ranking system is also highly rewarding, you just cant wait to get 
 to the next rank, and when you do rank, say, every 10th, you can earn new sponsors that give you 
 shoes and deck designs. But this is where P8 disappoints...
  
  The customization. If you have played any Tony Hawk game you would have probably noticed the amount 
 of customizations available to you, and you would further go on to say its one of the things that 
 made the game that extra special. Well thats not the case in P8, the only thing that you can create 
 is the skater, and create is a generous word to use, you basically pick out of 5 preset styles: 
 surfer, punker, kid, urban and girl. surfer and girl are probably the most generic styles on offer, 
 whereas punker, kid and urban are more eccentric choices. but really, from there on, its a choice 
 of face (essentially, race) then clothes... thats it. the fact that you cant remove or add tattoos, 
 or facial hair, makes you wonder what Neversoft were doing only God knows, if that wasn't all, 
 each style, has their own wardrobe, so you may be a surfer, but you want the punker's jacket so 
 bad you almost want to be him, and i guess thats a plus, being able to change style anytime you 
 want, but its a plus for the wrong reasons. There are no other create modes either, whilst being 
 not a huge fan of create-a-park or create-a-tick, they were nice to have either way. Board options 
 too have been cut down , only the Deck is changed, not the grip tape, nor the wheels
  
  Customization problems aside, i have saved the best till last. The Gameplay. The entire engine 
 has had a face lift, most of the animations have been renewed, abd the game feels more technical, 
 nollie hard flipping into a rail manual has never felt and sounded so good, but i have to admit, 
 the game still feels a little to unrealistic, back flips are required a lot, and are treated as 
 a daily grind. P8 boasts one new and very impressive feature: Nail The Trick. press down both analogue 
 sticks and you are in a whole new world, moving the left and right sticks will move your left and 
 right foot accordingly, this mode tricks you into believing it is very limited, but it is far from 
 it, you must try it your self to discover this new addictive feature that i sincerely hope stays 
 with the series. The gameplay is very solid indeed.
  
  while there are many poor decisions Neversoft have made, P8 is still one of the finest skateboarding 
 games ever created and will surely be remembered for all of its good, but sadly remembered at the 
 same time for all of its bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASSH0LE
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is very different from all the games in the tony hawks series since the first one to 
 ever come out. it is fun but i will agree the story is not nearly as good as underground but he 
 skating and the graphics ect are amazing. i can just do the free skate in this game for hours at 
 a time. i do agree it is still too unrealistic with all the tricks i mean i must have landed like 
 a 1080 like 4 times already and like a triple kick on flatground. but the slo mo feature is so 
 fun to do and if you skate like me it makes it even more believeable and fun to do. i really am 
 in love with this game.. BUY ITT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basher96
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is pretty entertaining. You have to try to become one of the Top 8 in your city 
 for Tony Hawk's Project 8 skateboard team. It has a ranking system from 200 to 1. You start off 
 at 200. As you beat goals you unlock more area, characters, and go up the ranks. Pluses: There 
 is a lot of variety in goals. A cool environment to skate around in. And has a pretty good soundtrack.
 
  
  Minuses: The create a character is horrendous. There are no options to choose from really. Also 
 the game becomes a bit chuggish at times. All in all the game is a good rent / buy when it becomes 
 20$. You'll get your moneys worth but its not worth 60$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  After Tony Hawk's American Wasteland it was obvious that the tried and tested Tony Hawk formula 
 was becoming a bit bland. The series desperately needed some big improvements and Neversoft have 
 delivered them with Tony Hawk's Project 8.
  
  Visually the game is one of the better looking titles on the Xbox 360. All of the textures in the 
 THP8 are extremely impressive. However, as Jeff noted in his review, the game is let down from 
 time to time with framerate issues. This is most obvious when you move between areas on the huge 
 map. Its more than likely that is is caused by the streaming world which loads constantly as you 
 play, avoiding THAW's dreaded corridor sections.
  
  In terms of gameplay the usual Tony Hawk core trick elements remain. On top this is the new Nail 
 The Trick mode which is without doubt the biggest addition to the series since Tony Hawk's Pro 
 Skater 3 and really allows the game to become a much more personal experience as you create your 
 own tricks on the fly. The new rag-doll bails on the other hand seem a bit pointless and might 
 as well not be in the game at all.
  
  One thing you'll definitely notice about THP8 is that it is much harder than previous games in 
 the series. Some of the sick level goals seem nigh on impossible when you're first faced with them. 
 THP8 is probably the most difficult title in the series, taking over from Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 
 4.
  
  Online the game is as fun as all the other Tony Hawk games, offering one of the best communities 
 and competitive experiences in online games. Some people may even be lucky enough to unlock the 
 beat a developer achievement for beating one of the game's developers (or someone who has already 
 beaten a developer themselves) . I personally unlocked this achievement in my first game on Xbox 
 Live!
  
  Overall, this is one of the best 360 titles yet and and absolute must buy for anyone who has ever 
 enjoyed the Tony Hawk franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1al
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Solid Gameplay with a large Variety of goals to complete but with too many goals its bound 
 to be liner and repetitive including Getting from point A-B buy doing MAnuals Grinds and even bailing 
 to earn a Am Pro or Sick level on that certain goal and remains that way thorughout the entire 
 game pretty much. However although Neversoft proved themsleves worthy once again and went back 
 to the drawing board which including motion Capturing Gameplay opposed to Animated which did indeed 
 show well. And a varity of new innovative modes that are fun to play with throughout the game
  
  Graphics Although this game shows True next Gen skateboarding my major complaint was from the 
 Graphics Department With Frame rate issuse that do overshadow the Graphics quite a bit and nobody 
 wants that.
  
  Sound
  
  Ranging from 56 songs, once again the THPS series outshine others from its great varitey tracks 
 in its playlist with artist including +44, Damien Marley Slayer, Gnarls Barkley, the Cure, Wolfmother, 
 Dead milkmen etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audiophile07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the Tony Hawk series (except perhaps Underground 2) , I was extremely excited 
 for this release. Upon the unveiling of Gamespot's disappointing review, I was a bit worried about 
 purchasing the game, but did so anyways. If I have learned one thing since then, it is that what 
 I really needed was a review that told me what I wanted to know. And that is:
  
  if you're a fan of the series, this game is definitely a future purchase.
  
  The objectives 
 you are required to complete don't feel quite as campy as in the last few installments. You nail 
 tricks for cameramen and photographers, learn from pros, participate in demos, and smash competitions. 
 One thing that also got me was the handful of missions that utilized classic mode, particularly 
 evident in 1, 2, and 3. You know the drill: grind this so many times, wallplant so many of these, 
 smash a few of these, and other such goals (plus the usual high score, pro score, sick score) . 
 In part, this appealed to me as a fan because it brought memories of the first few games in the 
 series, when it was at its best. Nail the Trick mode, as I'm sure you've heard plenty about, is 
 surprisingly enjoyable throughout the whole game. Before playing it I thought it would be more 
 of a novelty, after playing it I thought it would get old fast, but it makes for great variety, 
 personalization, and killer combos. And when utilizing it in the midst of a major combo it makes 
 for an interesting break in the action.
  
  From a visual standpoint, Project 8 looks much better than its predecessors by utilizing an entirely 
 new engine. You'll come to find that the tricks look much more realistic, utilizing minor flaws 
 in footwork or other such things to give it a particular feel. Your skater doesn't always land 
 everything perfectly clean on the board and may need to adjust. From what I gather, this is due 
 to the heavy use of motion capture of pro skaters. A minor complaint is the occasional frame rate 
 issues, but I don't really notice it as much as others seem to...?
  
  My only really major complaint is the music. Though I do love the music of this installment particularly 
 more than others, you can barely hear it in the game without turning sound effects way down and 
 turning up your tv. The music of Tony Hawk games have always been one of my favorite things, and 
 with such an exquisite track selection this time around, I'm rather disappointed with the volume. 
 Apart from that, everything else sounds great. Very realistic when it comes to the sounds of skating.
 
  
  The world of Project 8 is quite expansive and very diverse. There plenty of secrets and subtly 
 pulled together combo areas that will keep you playing for quite a while. There is so much to see 
 and do, I can't imagine not playing this game multiple times after beating it.
  
  So once again, if you're a fan of the series, definitely look into Project 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Activision and Neversoft has worked together for a long time with this series. No matter what, 
 its pretty much the same thing but adds some new stuff (a perfect example is MADDEN) . There is 
 only one unique feature called NAIL THE TRICK where you go slo-mo when you do a goal involving 
 doing it. Its a unique feature at the goal but is kind of tedious. When using this feature when 
 not doing the goals themselves, its really helpful. However this feature still does not make the 
 game any better.
  
  The story is not all exicting as the Underground stories. Your character signs up in Tony Hawk's 
 Project 8. Project 8 is a competition where 8 out of 200 skaters will compete to show who's the 
 best skater out of the 8. Throughout most of the game you will do tricks, unlock gaps, do long 
 combos, and such. The goals aren't really cool to do and throughout the game its really repetive. 
 As if you're pretty much doing the same thing. The graphics are great, but could have make it even 
 better. The character models looks really clanky, especailly Tony Hawk (he looks so ugly) . A few 
 spots in the game thats annoying is that its too bright. Kind of like FABLE where its too bright, 
 you do not know where you and your skateboard is landing on or at. The environments aren't all 
 exicting, except FUN PARK. Now thats the best Tony Hawk level I've seen in years in terms of having 
 pretty colors and unique aspects. All the levels are, in the SP, combined into one big world. As 
 you unlock gaps and achieve goals you unlock part of that world and get that level. Its interesting 
 but the suburbian levels such as the city, school, or the skate park are overall not as fun or 
 exiting to skate at.
  
  The creative parts in the game aren't as fully featured in what Neversoft promises to do in almost 
 every game. However just like in American Wasteland, you can take your character from SP, the one 
 you made yourself, and bring it online which is pretty cool. Yet, who will want to look at you 
 while you can skate, against, online? The multiplayer is pretty cool, when you join, you pretty 
 much just free-skate. And then at any time, the host can start a gametype. There's a new gametype 
 called Walls which is meh okay. I really did miss and wish that DONKEY was in this game as a multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  It is s sort of a complete package to any newcomers to this series. But for those who have been 
 playing for a long time will probably be disapointed, as to me, its pretty much the same thing. 
 The gameplay is just so repetive now. The tilt is unbalanced when doing these crazy 2 minute goals. 
 The sound is really recycled and although the dialogue is cool, the music is so-so. Overall, I 
 recommend renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentvelvet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Unbelievable graphics and sound, Very cool NEW way of pulling off moves in SLOW MOTION, with 
 full control.... you actually feel like its you on the skateboard, cant really button-mash like 
 old games, which made it cheap to pull off 1000000000000$ point tricks, tons of courses\areas and 
 new tricks, very long replay\game play value
  
  Cons: Some goals and missions are just too hard, other than that, this game is PERFECT and a MUST 
 HAVE for all 360 owners
  
  The graphics are unreal..... better than anything I have seen.... Gears of war is the only other 
 title that beats it graphics wise.
  
  You can play for hours on end...... with tuns of goals and missions, moves to try out..... the new 
 slow mo effect is awesome and will never get old
  
  As I said before.... I used to hate watching my friends hit buttons as fast as they could and get 
 million point tricks..... for button mashing..... you can still sorta do that.... but now it's finally 
 more realistic.... and you feel like you are in control of every grind, olie and slow mo trick!
 
  
  THE MUSIC SELECTION IS AWESOME. THEY HAVE QUEENS OF THE STONE AGE AND OTHER KNOWN BANDS ! NOT LIKE 
 THE OTHER GAMES THAT HAD TERRIBLE UNKNOWN UNDERGROUND PUNK AND EMO BANDS, THATS SUCKED...........
 
  
  The custom skater create option is fast and easy..... you can create a cool guy or really hot skater 
 chick in a mini skirt ( and they obviously added a glitch to see up girls skirts, when they fall.... for 
 all you pervs out there who love computer chicks) haha...... everytime a girl skater falls..... you 
 can fully see and make out her panties and camel toe.
  
  BASICALLY THIS GAME KICKS AZZ, YOU HAVE TO GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME RIGHT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clockworkboy00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  After having taken a break from Tony Hawk's games through their last two iterations and spending 
 some serious time with the Marketplace demo, I was excited to get the full version in my hands... and 
 I was not disappointed.
  
  The first thing you'll notice after firing up THP8 is the scant create-a-skater feature. It's true, 
 the developers didn't devote the time and resources to this section that they have in the past. 
 It's a disappointment, sure, but not a game-killer. I still managed to create an avatar to suit 
 my tastes... and to be fair, with gameplay that provides this much freedom and entertainment, I 
 could skate through the entire game as a 6-foot kielbasa without much complaint.
  
  Before jumping right in, I recommend that even experienced players run through the tutorial feature 
 at the out-set as there are a couple of new tricks and abilites to learn as well as an Achievment 
 at the end for those who gotta collect 'em all. 
  
  Once the refresher is complete, you'll begin the game in Suburbia or rather a single cul de sac 
 with a few houses that inexplicably range from lower-class to uppercrust on the same block. But, 
 it's all beautifully rendered with very realistic textures on everything including pools of water 
 and gorgeous foliage. There's a lot to do here, but after completing a few beginner-level goals, 
 it's on to the Skate Park where the entirety of the aforementioned Marketplace demo takes place. 
 A few changes are noticable in the stage, but it's nearly identical and those who've played the 
 demo will likely be moving on to Main Street, The School, and The Capitol in no time.
  
  You'll find that new areas of the Tony Hawk world are opened with great frequency in the early 
 stages of the game. It gives the player a great sense of accomplishment before things start getting 
 difficult. You'll also notice that completing a few simple goals will get you moving up in the 
 rankings more quickly than you might have expected. It all serves to keep the player engaged early 
 on and I think the set-up works to great effect.
  
  It doesn't take long to see that this game is packed with activities. Classic Mode goals, Pro Challenges, 
 Graffiti goals and Stoken collecting provide so much to do that the game is almost intimidating 
 when you're just getting started. You might find yourself hopping from one place to another in 
 a schizophrenic fit, but as you succeed at each challenge, you'll get a better feel for the environment 
 and it becomes one giant playground.
  
  The only problem here is that, despite a compass that gives you direction to important landmarks, 
 it's often difficult to figure out exactly where you need to go in order to get to a specific challenge. 
 The design of the enviroment is strange, to say the least. It seems that in an attempt to create 
 a world that avoids invisible walls and noticeable barriers, the level designers have instead created 
 a world that is completely foreign in it's planning. Backyards lead to skateparks which lead to 
 factories and so on. It's all very confusing to navigate and the compass really isn't much help. 
 A more integrated map might have solved the problem, but as they say, There's always next year. 
 
  
  No matter where you find yourself in the game world, everything looks and sounds great. Doing a 
 wallplant off of a garage door sounds exactly like you'd expect it to. Rolling over cobblestones 
 is a different sound entirely from cruising over smooth concrete and the slap of your board's tail 
 against the pavement as you ollie over a character dressed as a giant Beaver... ahem... is equally 
 realistic. I substitute the game's soundtrack for my own, but those who don't will likely find 
 something to enjoy in the game's lengthy playlist.
  
  Throughout the game you'll come in to contact with a few celebrity skaters and they're all animated 
 and voiced well, though not flawlessly. Jason Lee, of My Name is Earl and the Kevin Smith films, 
 makes appearances throughout the campaign and provides a good bit of entertainment as you progress. 
 He'll contact you regularly via video phone through which he'll direct you from challenge to challenge. 
 It's a neat feature with a good personality behind it though I would have liked a map integrated 
 in to the phone for easier use.
  
  I won't go in to the controls too much, but if you've got the coordination and dexterity, there 
 is virtually no limit to what you can do with your thumbs. The Nail-the-Trick feature is cool, 
 but doesn't really add or subtract anything from the game. I don't find myself using it for any 
 real purpose other than to switch things up a bit. The new Focus feature, on the other hand, is 
 more interesting in my opinion. Fill up your Special meter, click down the Left thumbstick and 
 the camera zooms in on your character, giving you a close-up view of the action while you rack 
 up points. Very cool.
  
  There are three difficulty levels for nearly every task and you'll find yourself coming back over 
 and over, hoping that your last stat upgrade will give you the extra boost you need to grab that 
 Sick rating.
  
  After all is said and done, this is a very complete skateboarding game and one that will keep you 
 busy for quite some time. There are some problems with the level design and I'd have loved to see 
 deeper customization with your skater, tricks, and equipment, but the gameplay is solid, the visuals 
 and audio are top-notch and it's just a whole lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I finally decided to purchase this game and right out of the box I was really impressed with it, 
 the graphics are really sharp, great controls and new nail a trick mode is beyond awesome. In career 
 mode there are a wide variety of challenges, all more exciting and tough as the game goes on. Definately 
 one of the most challenging Tony Hawk games ever. I really, really like this game, it's addictive, 
 you can move objects around to create obsticles, variety, nice presentation, nail a trick, plenty 
 of awesome stuff to keep you entertained for a long time.
  
  The game does have some major missed points that really dissapoint me, namely the limited create-a-character 
 options, and the frame rate issues. The Create-a-Skater is always one of my favorite areas in Tony 
 Hawk games with a wide variety of clothing, looks and other goodies. But in this game you have 
 to choose a particular style, none of which really impressed me, with different options for each, 
 very, very, few options. They need to go back to the old style Create-A-Skater now!
  
  Also, I'm not a graphics nut, I don't complain about frame rate or anything like that often, I 
 barely notice frame rate drops in most games. But in Project 8 there are very noticable slowdowns 
 in frame rate that just kill the experience in certain parts. After a while you do get used to 
 them though and the game is still playable and enjoyable it just really sticks out and looks awful 
 in some parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk returns for his 8th instalment. This time he is trying to find the best 8 skaters in 
 town (project 8) . you start out at 200 and to get higher you find gaps, do tasks, ect. But this 
 time you can go into nail the trick mode Where you control the board and make it do ridiculous 
 moves to rack up points. Another cool freature is you can watch a pro do a move in slo-mo, and 
 move the camera around as it plays. The world which you play in is somwehat big, although it gets 
 old. And some of the challengees seam imposible to get the highest rating on. I. E. you have to 
 get 600,000 pointsin under 60 seconds!
  Overall THP8 is a fun game, with a great soundtrack, probly over 100 songs!
  If you are into 
 these games, I would definitaly buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Now this is refreshing! A Tony Hawk game that is based on real skateboarding and not that cheap 
 Underground and Wasteland crap. This stuff could actually happen... Except the bailing that throws 
 you really far. My favorite feature is Nail-the-Trick mode where you can create (not save) your 
 own trick. The trick is to use the right stick to control the right foot, and the left stick to 
 control the left foot. You really kind of get the feeling that you are actually creating a trick. 
 Kind of. Carreer mode is the highlight of the game, which made me think. Wouldn't it be awesome 
 to do that kind of stuff. The real Tony has nothing on his character in the game! The Xbox Live 
 feature just is... meh! Nothing special. The game can still be hard due to the points needed to 
 complete a goal, but if you are really good like the best TH player in the world you will have 
 no problem. NONE. NONE AT ALL. This game is great for playing with your firends, so you might want 
 to put this game on your Christmas List. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevernedICE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Project 8 is a new and more professional addition to the Tony Hawk Series. The game 
 play is phenomenal and smooth. You can really tell how much time was put into technical matters. 
 Without a doubt this is the best looking Tony Hawk yet. A huge world is available to explore at 
 your own will with all the maps being directly connected to each other. Difficulty wise this game 
 seems pretty easy at first but that is all too deceiving. Once you actually get into project 8 
 your goal is to make it to #1. Ask any player and they will tell you this is near impossible. You 
 must get a sick grade on every challenge. Sound effects are also great. You can hear every little 
 bump in the ground. As always, the Tony Hawk series knows how to put together a soundtrack. Replayablility 
 is pretty good with the online feature. Sessions last as long as the host wants them to with free 
 skate in between games. A new feature of this game the Nail the Trick where you can control each 
 foot to manually perform a trick. Over all this game is a good piece of work, and a good addition 
 to any gamer's collection weather they skate in RL or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNjAsLiCe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  All these critic reviews giving it low grades calling it not revolutionary same gameplay the Tony 
 Hawk series has had stable gameplay throughout and I personally never want to see it change. 3 
 things that make this new game so great:
  
  -graphics
  -motion-capture
  -nail-a-trick
  
  this is all there really could be done to improve and the nail-a-trick is 
 more than expected
  
  Besides that xbox live enhances the gameplay that allows you and your buddies to skate against 
 each other, which I think is great, but not innovative. They had this feature before, being not 
 innovative is not necessarily a bad thing.
  
  I found myself just playing the DEMO alone day after day until I finally went out and got this 
 game
  
  Fans of the series will love this
  
  But I do agree that Tony Hawk Pro Skater 4 might have been a good place to start for newcomers 
 because that was the revolution
  
  Overall, this series did what it should and with no new gameplay THP8 is still a great game with 
 tremendous replay value and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessefromh-town
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lot of glitchy problems and I don't really like dealing with the crappy frame rate 
 issue. That's what really messes up the game for me. That graphics are decent. They are nothing 
 special though. The enviroments are nice but crappy at times. Otherwise, It is a tony hawk game. 
 If you didn't like them before, you won't now. The Nail the Trick mode is fun for a while but it 
 does get old. The over all game play is solid just like the other Tony Hawk games. The controls 
 are very easy to learn but it still does have that arcadey feel that me, as a skateboard, doesn't 
 really like. I'd say pass on it unless you love the TH series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justspecial_k
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  When i heard about project 8 and saw the previews for it. i was shocked and how it looked. when 
 i finally bought it i wasnt disappointed. the graphics are amazing on it. but the only part it 
 falls on is some of the gameplay. i have noticed that the frame rate isnt up to speed for the action 
 but, its not super noticeable. and some of the challenges are ridiciously hard. and im a veteran 
 hawker. one of the challenges honestly took me 180 attempts. but its still worth a rental, and 
 if ur a fan of the series its def, worth a pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Well it's another Tony Hawk game.
  And it's largely same old same old.
  But thats hardly a bad thing.
  
  The addition of the Nail A Trick feature is a nice one.
 
  Allows you a little creativity and flexibility in your tricks, though can be somewhat hard to 
 pull off, or I just suck.
  
  Graphically it's mostly impressive.
  Skater movement is more fluid then ever, I think.
  
  The music choices this time round were 
 also good, I actually knew a couple songs which is always a plus.
  
  Perhaps my only qualm with the game comes from the create-a-skater mode. Really. You don't create 
 them at all. You don't get to tweak your height or facial features. You pick from a few preset 
 builds, pick out of a couple different facial arrangements and slap whatever clothes there are 
 available on em and let em go. There isn't an especially good variety of clothing options either.
 
  
  It's pretty much just more of a good thing.
  Free-roaming, skating action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vito5503
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  its one of the best tony hawk games i've some people say its the best and some say its a disapointment 
 but the rocks your moms socks off the Nail The Trick mode is the **** it pack full of goal ranging 
 from really easy AM to kicked in the nuts Sick u will be playing a long time trust me its not a 
 dissapointment. its **** its got great music, the create a skater thing with the chose your style 
 of skater (urban, surfer kid, ETC.) is cool but they should of gave more options in the look of the 
 skater but all in all is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Stays the same as previous ones , but this time you can't do as many moves . Barley 
 any customization . The game freezes alot . The single player portion of the game has improved 
 , but not the multiplayer . Then again it's hard to tell since the game freezes basicly every time 
 you try to play it.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are pretty bad , good lighting but the models are very sqared
  
  Sound 
 - Music and sound effects
  
  Value - The online is smally better because you can go to all of the levels in one level , but 
 the game freezes a ton Bad Tilt - Widescreen only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: science
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  To preface this review I wanted to state a few things. I wasn't happy with THUG because I had started 
 the game several times, only to get over half way through the game and have it freeze up on me 
 while trying to save my game, and corrupting my game. I had about 3 different copies of the game, 
 and each one did it. If that hadn't happened, I would have been satisfied with it. THUG2 didn't 
 impress me because it was the whole Tony vs. Bam storyline, and it was a little too jackass for 
 me. I didn't like the shopping cart levels and what I refer to as Hey look at me, I'm Jesse James! 
 Put me in a Tony Hawk game for absolutely no reason with a stupid broken motorized unicycle or 
 whatever the hell this is! level. That whole experience soured my Tony Hawk taste buds, so I didn't 
 even pick up American Wasteland. I already felt cheated at that point.
  
  So without further ado, here's my writeup:
  
  You start out of the gate ranked #300 of amateur 
 skaters, and your goal is to compete and gain ranks so you can eventually make it onto Tony Hawk's 
 Project 8 team. One of your first big breaks comes when Jason Lee signs you onto his own skate 
 team - Stereo. Once you've joined up with him, you're able to change out your deck in his skate 
 shop and access new special tricks.
  
  So far, I like this latest version a lot. Some of the challenges are pretty quick and easy, and 
 some of them are Classic challenges where you have 2 minute runs, during which you have to collect 
 COMBO or SKATE, get a high score, etc. There are also spot challenges, where you have to follow 
 a grind line or you have to do a wallplant somewhere, or get a high mark on a quarter. There are 
 3 levels to each challenge, the am, pro or sick. You earn your attributes by doing, so for example 
 to gain more spin, you have to do a Natas spin or spins during an ollie somewhere for a determined 
 period of time. As you gain attribute points, the time and action required to increase that stat 
 also increase. Also, after completing certain challenges you can unlock the pros movies fairly 
 quickly. After playing for only a few hours you can unlock 3 or 4 videos.
  
  It's got a good and deep career mode. The one thing that I'm not really happy with is the create 
 a skater part you do at the start of career mode. You don't really get to start out and make a 
 skater from scratch. You pick a template, either Punk, Urban, Surfer, Kid or Female, and then you 
 get 3 choices of face which are basically you face and skin tone. Then you can pick only so many 
 different shirts or pants or hats , but for instance with the hats, (I picked an urban template) 
 you wear a baseball cap, but you can only wear the baseball cap tilted with one ear tucked in, 
 and you can't make him wear it backwards, or to one side, or straight. Each template is different, 
 but I didn't really try to change it up to much, because if you change templates, you have to start 
 all over and customize the skater again. In my opinion, it's nice that they gave so many sponsored 
 clothing and options of using a sponsored logo, but with each sponsored item of clothing, you rarely 
 can change the color of it and you're usually stuck with the template they've given. There are 
 a boatload of licensed shoes, which makes sense because of the whole showing your feet in the on 
 Nail-the-trick mode.
  
  Other than that, you start out in one small suburban area, and then you unlock other parts of the 
 world after finishing goals. You earn Stokens from doing tricks in front of crowds or knocking 
 down other skaters, and you use those to buy new decks or specials. Unfortunately, just like when 
 you create your skater, you're limited to only choose a deck. You cannot change the wheels, the 
 color of the wheels, or the griptape. While this isn't really a big deal, it does take away a bit 
 of the feeling of customization from your experience.
  
  The Nail-the-trick addition is pretty cool. In that mode, each thumbstick controls a different 
 foot. You can pull off the mode anywhere, from on a half-pipe to flat ground to in between grinds. 
 If you pull it off in conjunction with a combo, it isn't difficult to get massive points on a run. 
 The team at Neversoft built the engine from the ground up, so there are a lot of new animations 
 and everything was motion captured so it looks realistic. You have the opportunity to unlock the 
 pros motion capture sessions as well as a lot of behind the scenes video on the development and 
 design process.
  
  Like the other games in the past, Online mode is available. In this edition, you basically join 
 a free skate lobby, and the host selects the type of game you compete in. If you join a session 
 already in progress, you'll be met with a splash screen until a new game opens up, as no spectator 
 mode is available. Graffiti, trick attack, combo and high points mode are some of the game modes. 
 One of the more intriguing new modes is one called Walls . Basically, in this mode your skater 
 has a tron-like trail that follows behind them, and your object is to block your opponent in and 
 force them to run into the wall you've left behind. One of my complaints about the online mode 
 is that you have the entire world to play in. Oftentimes during graffiti or walls, you'll never 
 find your opponents, and especially in the case of walls, you need to seek out your opponent so 
 you can end the game in a reasonable amount of time. My other complaint with the Online Mode is 
 that whenever I've gone online, I've been able to play for about 5-10 minutes before my 360 locks 
 up. At that point I have to actually power down my 360 because the console will not respond to 
 any controller actions.
  
  Overall, I've enjoyed the game so far, and would recommend it to anyone who's enjoyed the early 
 games in the series. It has a more THUG1-like feel in an open world environment. The areas are 
 truly seemless, and the only load times you'll have is when you retry a goal that has taken you 
 halfway across the map. The game makes you feel like you're really able to skate anywhere in this 
 huge city and it's surrounding areas. This may be the game that pushes Neversoft to innovate and 
 not get stuck adding one new mode every year and keeping it out of a Madden-type rut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks project 8 was a good and solid game but did not feel any diffrent from any pf the other 
 Tony Hawk games. Project 8 has very good graphics and are very good compare to waistland. The game 
 though was nor as fun as waistland. The story is good and longer then last year but your doing 
 a bunch of the same stuff thoughout the game and there are alot of less cutscines. Nail the trick 
 is a good aspect but is way to sensitive. You could still walk though objects or fall thought them. 
 If your a huge fan this is a solisd game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  The first knock I have on this game would be the graphics. As nice as they are in most every way, 
 I still think that THP8 didn't quite maximize the processing power of the 360. Don't get me wrong, 
 this is a major step up from American Wasteland as far as graophics go, but polish is polish and 
 this game could've used a little more. I know the world is contrived and random, but it doesn't 
 have to be blocky and ported looking. Maybe I'm just expecting too much with this game coming out 
 the same day as heavyweights like Call of Duty 3 and Gears of War whose graphics are what the 360 
 was intended to show. Not that THP8 is an ugly game, i t's juat that I've seen better.
  
  What makes this game a must is the new nail a trick mode. It's basically a minigame within the 
 game that you can pick and choose how and when to use it. You go into a slowed down mode which 
 allows you to manipulate your board to string some sweet combos together but it doesn't come easy 
 so practice up. Trying to add this feature to your trick selection is a challenge that is as rewarding 
 as it can be frustrating, but will keep you coming back for more despite the previously mentioned 
 heavyweight franchise' recent release which commands as much attention as any gamer can give.
 
  
  THP8 stays true to it's roots in the sense that everything you already know and use as far as controls 
 is basically still the same with te right amount of new features mixed in. I've been playing this 
 game with my 10 year old step son most of this weekend and he and I can't get enough, that alone 
 makes this game worth a play. Rent it at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gringots
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  i love it, i love how u can make ur own trick on the go when u press both joysticks.. and awesome 
 graphics! much fun!, it is just increible how u can do such crazy combos, i mean, i got on and 
 once i got the buttons down i started hitting big combos, and as u can go slow motion u can control 
 the grinds and manuals better, all i ever do are big gynourmus combos, its just incredible the 
 graphics n all, so much fun, just awesome, ive only played the demo though, but heck, the demo 
 is friggin fun, i would guess its the same as the real thin just a smaller map 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Let me start this review by saying, I really think this game is getting a bad rap. That being said, 
 T. H. P.8 is a very good looking, solid game. This time around, they decided to completely revamp 
 the whole mechanics in the game. there is not one reuesed animation in this title from previus 
 T. H titles. It feels very fresh. All the animations have been motion captured and feel very real. 
 Sound is stellar, as usual, with a good soundtrack, but that is expected from the series. Now on 
 to the graphics. this is were the game is getting the bad rap. Some love it, some dont. I think 
 hte graphics are amazingly good, and the face mapping is very real. I also dont seem to be having 
 the framerate problem that others are complaining of. either that, or im having too much fun with 
 it to notice. All and all, this game deserves more than its been getting. It is the best installment 
 in the series sence thps3. Its very lengthy, and had pelnty of replayabilty. specially due to the 
 online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greydawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  First of all, the Tony Hawk series has been one of my favorite series in all of gaming. I can still 
 remember the first time I saw the original Tony Hawk Pro Skater on the PS1 when I went to visit 
 my friends up in BG, Ohio. Then when THPS2 came along and introduced the manual, and great hidden 
 characters, more levels, etc.
  THPS3 is why I bought a PS2, and the revert move virtually made the core gameplay perfect.
  THPS4 
 added... skitching? Still, new levels and moves...
  THUG tried very hard to change the style, but the addition of being able to get off your board 
 ended up being unreplacable at this point in the series.
  THUG2 had some of my all-time favorite levels, and better incorporated the slow motion element 
 for huge combos. I am STILL working on all my goals on the PSP version, and it's still plenty of 
 fun.
  THAW.... hmm.... well you know what? THAW had more levels and goals, even if the new moves weren't 
 so great.
  
  And here we are at Tony Hawk Project 8. Until now, and aside from THPS3, the series has usually 
 taken a great meal of gameplay and added some spices on top or some sauces on the side for new 
 installments.
  
  But in Project 8, it's clear from the very start that the entire game is just..... different from 
 the rest. Moves you have been accustomed to have been changed slightly. The graphics are completely 
 re-done, which they have done before, but this time it's so different that it really does take 
 more getting used to that the other games in the series. I was instantly able to play every Tony 
 Hawk game when I first picked them up, but this one takes some time to get used to. In fact, there 
 is a tutorital that I would have skipped but only started playing on accident. And I'm glad I did! 
 No matter who you are, even if you're like me and you always go for the sick difficulty goals, 
 it's highly reccomended that you go through the tutorial. It's short, 15 minutes maybe, and will 
 help you learn the new moves, as well as the changes to the moves you've gotten used to. Speaking 
 of new moves, that's where it's hard to for me to judge if this game is better than the other Hawk 
 games. For instance, you can just hit a button to start a manual, which is easier (?) than hitting 
 up-down, although you can still use the up-down control as always. However, you can't do front/backflips 
 the same at all. Instead of holding a grab and tapping a direction twice, now you have to hold 
 a button and point the analog stick up or down to flip. It works, but it's not as easy to do as 
 tapping up or down twice, and what really stinks is you HAVE to use this control -----they completely 
 removed the double-tap flip control. And now you can only do front and backflips ----they took out 
 the barrel rolls. There are plenty of other things to do in the game besides roll and flip, but 
 I had gotten so used to doing flips any time I could in the other games, I still find myself tapping 
 up twice from time to time. Grr...
  
  With that said, it looks like they are trying to make this game more.... realistic? The motion-captured 
 animations, the environments that look more like real places would look, the physics, the special 
 moves, etc. I remember the first few Tony Hawk games having strange levels (Airport, Cruise Ship, 
 the Mall, etc) , cool but random special characters (Wolverine, Spiderman, the Succubus, etc) , and 
 CRAZY special moves (like grind 'n barf, boomerang, Spiderman's crazy move where he web-shoots 
 the skateboard in-flight, etc) , and the series keeps going farther and farther away from being 
 crazy like that, in favor of being more like real skating. It's cool in a way because the moves 
 really do look much more realistic ------just like in real life, even the simplest moves in the 
 game now at least LOOK more difficult to perform than they did before, and the way the board moves 
 and slants on the trucks is more life-like, plus the skaters in the game really do look like they 
 replicate the unique style of their real-life counterparts. But then again, I really do miss those 
 crazy special moves, and I used to look forward to the next game in the series to see how they 
 created even more of the most bizarre moves to top the last game. There are some interesting special 
 moves for sure, as well as plenty of the ones we've become familiar with in the past, but I still 
 think THPS3 was the peak of what made special moves special in the first place. The nail-the-trick 
 feature is the new major gameplay element to the game, and it's surprisingly good. Ok, so it's 
 not as revolutionary as the revert, and it's not as desirable to me as adding more scripted special 
 moves, but it's cool because it works --------when you use your feet to tap the board, it REALLY 
 looks like the rider's feet are actually doing the work. It's a great use of the physics, and the 
 level of realism if obvious. It takes a while to get used to (just like any new element in the 
 series) , but once you figure it out, it really does become a lot of fun and it's very rewarding 
 to get the board to do precisely what you want and expect it to. If you're a big fan of the series 
 like me, then all it really takes for you to be stoked on a new Tony Hawk game is new levels, new 
 moves, and most importantly, new goals. And Project 8 has PLENTY of new goals. Many of them are 
 standard-issue for the series ---------classic goals like high scores, high combos, S-K-A-T-E &amp; 
 C-O-M-B-O collects, hidden items, etc. But one of my favorite aspects of Project 8 is the new types 
 of goals in the series. First of all, you don't just select a difficulty level at the beginning 
 which determines all of your goals through the game. Instead, as you get a new goal, you have different 
 and more challenging ways to do the same goal. For example, say you have to do a certain number 
 of moves for a local skater ------to earn AM level you might have to get 4 tricks in, for Pro AM 
 level you might have to get 6 tricks in, and for Sick level you will probably have to get 10 or 
 more. I really like the way the goals are streamed together like this. It really encourages you 
 to go for sick difficulty because you can see it right there, just out of reach of your last run, 
 and it's a perfect way to challenge Tony Hawk veterans.
  Not only that, but the goals are have a lot more variety than previous games. I am afraid if I 
 mention too much it might spoil some of the best parts of the game, but I'm really happy with the 
 goals and variety in the game, and it's a good change of pace for the series.
  
  
  Bottom line? Is Project 8 better than any other Tony Hawk game before it? No. But that's not really 
 fair. TONS of new goals, all new graphics, realistic physics, and that fantastic sense of accomplishment 
 the series has been so good at are all great reasons to check this game out. If you've enjoyed 
 the Tony Hawk series through the years, you'll likely be pleasantly surprised at how different 
 Project 8 is from the rest of the series, and the sheer number of goals is more than enough reason 
 for me to be happy with Project 8. The little touches like the vidoes playing during loading screens 
 and the detail in the boards themselves all help give Project 8 a more complete feeling, and although 
 the new levels aren't as memorable as in past games, they are loaded with big drops and combo opportunities. 
 If you didn't like the other Tony Hawk games, you certainly won't like this one. But if you're 
 a fan of the series, you know as well as I do that it doesn't take a perfect rating to have an 
 abolute blast with a new Tony Hawk game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Gamespot is wrong. The frame rate is not much of an issue. It's not very often and you'll be havin 
 way to much mad fun to be noticin it for realz. The way you move across the world on that board 
 is like an electric eal sliding across a thousand panda bears! Use your imagination and you will 
 undeerstand. The updated graphics give this game a new life and the level design is good because 
 there are a lot of places to skate which is important for a game that involves sskating. I wish 
 they had more country rap and the greatful dead on the sound track. ZAP! that is the sounds an 
 electric eal makes while sliding across a thousand panda bears. ZAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SomeAnimlsDance
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Awesome gameplay, Its pretty much all that its cracked up to be. If your a fan of previous 
 TH games you love this, The physics are improved but not in a way that will change the game play. 
 You will still have your high flying, high speed, huge combos that run as smoothly as before. single 
 player is pretty fun. So far i havnt found/seen a way to increase your player stats online which 
 is disapointing. Create a skater not in depth at ALL which is dissapointing but only in a novelty 
 way. some of the sick chalanges are absolutly impossible though : (
  
  Graphics: Pretty good graphics, the textures environment and everything are very next gen looking. 
 The players could be updated they lack a sense of realism for some reason i feel. some of the graphics 
 are glitchy, all in all its deffinatly next gen, but the graphics arnt something your going to 
 be bragging about. not like GeOW :)
  
  sound: Good sound effects, Some annoying repetitious sayings from the pedestrians. AWESOME SOUNDTRACK --- 
 allthough im pretty much a rock fan the choices in the soundstrack are great Its fun to skate and 
 listen to them even if im not a fan of the genre. Value: value= PRICELESS. to be honest with you 
 if there was one game i was going to get for the system it would be this game. There are games 
 like gears, halo, COD3 etc that are way more awesome, way more immersive but TH games last forever. 
 on ps2 i had all my awesome games but the one GAME (s) i played from the second i got the console 
 to the second i sold it were TH games. They never get old... So although this isnt the best game 
 , for me its gonna be the one game that ill still be playing years from now when xbox (3) and PS (4) 
 come out. Tilit: nothing new, but deffinatly something that will last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolive
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I am more of a sports (Football, Baseball, and Basketball) and RPG kind of person, but even I find 
 this game very fun. There are a multitude of different activities and each one has multiple difficulties, 
 which makes for a challenging experience. Sometimes the tasks are harder and the game can get you 
 very very frustrated because you have to do everything just right, which can take many tries. Despite 
 this, the tasks are still enjoyable, and some even are humorous. The world is full of hidden goodies 
 and little things and the variety of objects to trick off of is great. When you create your own 
 skater though, the options seem somewhat limited; you have to be a certain stereotype . Multi-player 
 and online play is somewhat enjoyable but nothing special. The graphics are not as good as other 
 360 games, but they are certainly not bad. The sound effects are outstanding and the soundtrack 
 is a mix of different enjoyable music types. This is the kind of game that will reel you in and 
 keep you playing for hours and can be enjoyable for everyone. It is a good game, not upper echelon, 
 but good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axgamer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I have played every TH game and I gotta say that P8 is the best one yet. The X360 graphics are 
 amazing even on a standard tv. The gameplay is awesome and all the skateboarding looks like real 
 skating. The bailing system is pretty fun. Even for a hardcore Tony Hawk gamer most of the goals 
 are pretty challenging and thats a good thing , now you can't just zip through the game, thats 
 cool. I really like the sound effects like grinding on a rail sounds real and just skating on the 
 ground you can hear the sounds of the pavement underneath you. I don't much like the soundtrack, 
 some of the songs are good , but most of them are kinda crappy and dull. I'm actually glad that 
 they took out create a trick and graphic because they both were downright dull. Create a skater 
 is limited to a small variety of customization but it's still pretty cool.
  
  So overall best TH game ever, buy it don't rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalo0m
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games tht activision has ever made!!! you have to buy this game if 
 u dont buy it then ii guess you dont have the taste for great games: P: P. but seriously you guyz 
 HAVE TO BUY IT even if you dont like these games it isnt a waste of your money!!! u  
 but it or else:@:@ you wont have fun: P: P: P: P and then to finish this review i will just write anything 
 ok. fdsg dfsgsdf dsgs dgdsg sdgsd gdsg dsgsd gs dg h gfj fgj hk ghk ghkl gh kt jh ergh sg s gsd 
 g sdghsd hsdoih sodi osdig sodig osdignsdoign oin odign sdoi gnsodig nsdoign sdoig nsdoignsdoi 
 gjsodigj sldg nmlskdhg oisdngoisdn oisgdng oisdng oisdng oisdng oisdng odlkn gosidg osdig nlsk 
 dngosi dngosd knglds igdso ignsdog kndsligk odsn gidslkg nsldkngoisd nodsging osidng posdnmgpsdnvpsmeoiejoubenr 
 pinv ousdb on o hboi nmosduibpsozbdp pdoifgu hbpiduf hpsio udfh pu hpuidsf hpiud fhp idufh piuhfd 
 piufdh piusdf hpiudf hpidfu hpdiu hi puhds piuh piud hpiughpidfung; drvnpeibmepairun piaer unjiup 
 enp iau !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymaster007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The 8th Tony hawk game is now in stores for current and the next generation Xbox 360. It is definetely 
 very beautiful to look at with the graphics and the physics put together with modeling and animation. 
 This game was worth the wait.
  
  Love the Nail the Trick, love the graphics, love the game. I don't know why Gamespot said the frame 
 rate was constantly unstable, I didn't see any problems with the frame rate, only when the characters 
 had to be rendered at the character selection screen. Great game for everyone with a next gen and 
 current gen. With 200 goals and missions in the game with no loading zones, it is free city made 
 with the work of art. Awesome, just awesome. the soundtrack isn't great, but good thing you can 
 listen to your own with the side-dashboard. The downside is that you can't create a deck, create 
 a park, or a create a tag. That was made up with the graphics. Still miss that stuff still. Missed 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Ive only played 4 other Hawk games (2 of the originals and 2 newer ones) and i would have to say 
 that this is the best one. The new control sytstem for special moves is pretty cool and the storyline 
 is totally better than the previous ones ive encountered. The visuals are good but not great. I 
 first played the game on a standard def t. v. and then hooked it up to an HD. The difference was 
 obvious but it wasnt as big a change i was expecting. The game has solid gameplay with prettty 
 difficult tasks later in the game which make this game suitable for seasoned pros of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhhale
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good solid Tony Hawk experience. The animations are top notch and the graphics got 
 a nice buff. It's got HDR effects (simulating pupil dilation in dark to light transitions, vice 
 versa) and great textures and bumpmapping. The sound effects are good and music is great as usual. 
 The nail a trick mode is the coolest new feature probably since the manual and with library of 
 all the old tricks and links you can sure do a lot in this game. The game is an open free-roaming 
 experience but still gets back to its roots with challenges that seal off an area where you have 
 3 min to collect S-K-A-T-E, do the COMBO line, score X points, etc. There's certainly some elements 
 of nostalgia here. The only drawbacks are some frame rate issues when large open areas are visible, 
 fairly limited create-a-skater options, and some of the pros look a bit zombie-esque in some lighting. 
 The frames dip noticeably at times, but it typically doesn't last too long and it isn't game breaking. 
 The dips are more of a nuisance than anything. A good solid game with lots of things to do, if 
 you like Tony Hawk games you'll probably love this game, if you lack the twitch reflexes or hate 
 skating, then this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Deer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This is old school TH games, but with added on features, that are actually useful this time around. 
 This game will not disappoint, if it does, you don't know a good game. The new perfect a trick 
 feature is very nice, and does not get old at all. Only thing I have to complain about is the Create 
 A Skater, isn't very in depth, and you can't turn auto push off, everything else imo is perfect. 
 I stopped playing TH games at THUG1, because they were just getting so stupid, P8 is no longer 
 the cheese. Which is a good thing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
