-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's American Wasteland
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tonyhawksunderground3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling story mode.
 Interesting bmx trick system.
 Game contains a healthy dose of crunk juice.
 360 controller's four shoulder buttons are perfect for playing this style of game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Character models and textures look pretty bad in HD resolutions.
 Classic mode contains old levels that aren't exactly classic.
 Graphical glitches further mar the game's visuals.
 Story mode holds your hand every step of the way.
 Costs $10 more than other versions for no good reason.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
American Wasteland on the 360 runs in a high-enough resolution to show off every single ugly little 
 flaw that isn't as apparent in other versions of this otherwise-decent skateboarding game. 

 
  Don't let the recent name changes or Tony Hawk's debut on a new video game system fool you. Tony 
 Hawk's American Wasteland is the seventh Tony Hawk game developed by Neversoft in as many years. 
 Over the years the series has had installments that made dramatic changes to the formula, but the 
 more recent installments have focused less on gameplay or structural changes and more on including 
 a story. American Wasteland is the game that finally makes good on the story thing by offering 
 a plot that's far more interesting than it has been in the previous two versions. It also attempts 
 to put all its levels together into one big take on Los Angeles that's free from loading times. 
 That part doesn't work out quite as well as the back of the box would have you believe, but the 
 real issue with American Wasteland is with its gameplay. You'll find the requisite handful of new 
 tricks, but most of the story mode feels like a brief tutorial, and the classic mode isn't deep 
 or long enough to hold the attention of series veterans. It's got more of the same fluid skating 
 gameplay you've come to expect from the series, but the game is over almost immediately.  

          The Xbox 360 version of THAW runs in a higher resolution, but that really makes the game's 
 graphical flaws stand out.     

  The Xbox 360 version of Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is roughly identical to the versions that 
 were recently released on the Xbox, PlayStation 2, and GameCube. The main difference is a graphical 
 one, since this version of the game supports HDTV-quality resolution like every other Xbox 360 
 game. But the character models, textures, and animation still look very similar to what's on display 
 in previous versions. Those previous versions looked great on their respective platforms, but when 
 you blow that stuff up to higher HD resolutions, it all starts to look really, really bad -- especially 
 when you're watching cutscenes in story mode. Up close, the characters look awful, and the way 
 the inside of their mouths are rendered, combined with the odd mouth-movement animations, makes 
 these scenes look terrible. On top of that, American Wasteland is weirdly dark when running in 
 HD, though it isn't quite as noticeable on regular TVs. There's an in-game brightness control that 
 you can use to attempt to fix the problem, but this only succeeded in making the entire thing look 
 washed out. There are also some nasty graphical glitches, causing some decals to flicker in and 
 out of existence. Some of this stuff isn't as noticeable when running the game in standard resolutions, 
 but at that point, you'd probably be better off saving $10 by going with the Xbox or PlayStation 
 2 version anyway. You won't get the higher resolutions that you'll get in the 360 version, but 
 it won't be as glitchy, either.  

  The PlayStation 2 controller has long been the best way to control the action in the Tony Hawk 
 games, though versions on other platforms have gotten by. It really helps having four shoulder 
 buttons to work with when trying to pull off all those tricks. But now, there's a new controller 
 on the block with four shoulder buttons. The Xbox 360 controller is just fine for controlling this 
 one, though using the right analog trigger to revert takes a bit getting used to. So, in essence, 
 this is the first non-PS2 version to control just as well as its PS2 counterpart.  

  The main mode is a story that puts you in the role of a nameless skater from the Midwest who has 
 given up on living in the middle of nowhere. Tired of being hassled by The Man, you run away to 
 Los Angeles with dreams of skating in the area where skating all began. Things are going fine until 
 just after you step off the bus, when you are jumped by some toughs who make off with your gear. 
 A raspy-voiced girl named Mindy takes pity on you and sets you off in the direction of an adventure, 
 which sends you all around the city of Los Angeles, where you'll thrash, skate, and destroy as 
 you find a crew of squatting vandals to call your friends, a skatepark to call your own, and... an 
 alien costume. When you first start, you'll be a pretty weak skater. Most of the moves you've come 
 to expect from the series, like manuals and reverts, won't even be available to you until you learn 
 them. You'll learn most of the basics pretty quickly, but it will take a little while before you 
 learn to use special tricks, flatland tricks, and focus.  

          The closer you get to the character models, the worse they look.     

  You'll also 
 learn the new tricks, like the bert slide, which is the ground-based, surfinglike maneuver brought 
 back to the skating hive-mind by  Dogtown and Z-Boys . You can also get off your board and swing 
 it at pedestrians (which isn't terribly useful) , and you can learn some freestyle running techniques 
 for wall-climbing, flips, and so on. You can also find and ride BMX bikes (which you'll encounter 
 during a couple of goals) , but they are mostly there for you to earn money, which you'll need at 
 various points in the story. The BMX bike controls are vastly different from the skating controls, 
 and they're surprisingly well-thought-out. You'll hold a button to pedal, steer with the left analog 
 stick, and perform tricks with the right. Also, some tricks are left up to you to put together. 
 A flair, for example, is a backflip and a 180-degree turn combined. Bike games have traditionally 
 just mapped that to a button and a direction, just like any other trick. Here you'll have to do 
 a backflip and a 180 at the same time to get credit for a flair. The BMX stuff is minor, overall, 
 but it's an interesting diversion.  

  Few of these new tricks really matter, because most of your goals in story mode simply ask you 
 to quickly grind or natas-spin on an object, or wall-plant or sticker-slap something while watching 
 the fun. Most of the goals are based around the skate ranch, an area found just outside of Beverly 
 Hills that's mostly a large empty dirt lot with a halfpipe in it. One of the major thrusts of the 
 story is your crew's desire to trick out the ranch, so you'll always have goals that involve you 
 busting out a piece of the city so that it can be added to the ranch. There are a lot of different 
 pieces to be added, but since most of them are required goals that get the story moving again, 
 you won't have to go out of your way to get them. You'll have a few things to do in the skate ranch 
 itself, but it's mostly just there for show and for free skating.     

   

  The main problem with the goals is that they're ridiculously straightforward and leave nothing 
 to the imagination. If you need to grind some support cables to loosen a sign on top of a theater, 
 you are set down directly in front of those support cables. After you grind them, you're asked 
 to pull off a wall-plant on the sign itself. Again, it drops you into the exact position to pull 
 it off. The game really seems bent on holding your hand every step of the way. While forcing you 
 to go out of your way to line yourself up might not be the most fun thing in the world, the way 
 THAW is set up makes the entire story mode feel like a tutorial. If you've kept up with the Tony 
 Hawk series over the years, you'll nail most of the goals on your first or second try. But the 
 simplistic nature of the goals will probably turn off new players, as well. While it has a "sick" 
 difficulty mode that's meant to make things more challenging, it still lines you up just right, 
 and it still forces you through all the early move-learning tutorial stuff. It's decidedly un-sick. 

          Classic mode resurrects some of the levels from earlier games.     

  The saving grace of the story mode is that the story it tells is actually pretty good. It follows 
 the standard "ragtag group of misfits' struggles to save the place they call home from evil real 
 estate moguls" plot that drove such classic films as  Breakin' 2: Electric Boogaloo . But along 
 the way, the characters become a little endearing, and most importantly, the game doesn't beat 
 you over the head by shoehorning the pro skaters in whenever possible. When you finally do start 
 encountering the pros, you do it in a way that feels natural, which is great. That said, the plot 
 has some holes, and the last mission hits you unexpectedly, exacerbating the game's short feel. 
 If you were any good at playing previous Tony Hawk games, then you'll probably be done with this 
 one in four or five hours.  

  A big part of the story mode is that it tries to present the entire city to you as one large environment 
 to skate in, without load times. That's true in theory, but it's not nearly as pure as it may sound. 
 The city's levels are all separated by tight hallways you have to skate through to change areas. 
 So you're technically still in control, but these hallways are lame and pointless, and they really 
 might as well just be load screens. New areas start to load when you enter the connecting area, 
 which occasionally causes some stutters and skips in the frame rate. If you want, you can catch 
 a bus from area to area, which saves you the hassle of having to skate from one end of LA to the 
 other. Since you can walk around the bus while the interior of it shakes onscreen, this technically 
 isn't a load time, right?  

  Each area is pretty large and feels at least somewhat different from the other ones. In terms of 
 raw outdoor LA skating, you'll get Hollywood, Santa Monica, downtown, Beverly Hills, and East LA. 
 But you'll also skate in an indoor skatepark, tear up an oil rig, and eventually get access to 
 a casino, though this casino is taken from the PSP version of THUG2, so it's not exactly a new 
 level. The casino is the last area you'll see in story mode, which is pretty disappointing if you 
 played THUG2 on the PSP and already saw this level. The level design is full of huge skate lines 
 that let you extend combos into strings of tricks that take you all over the level. It's at a point 
 where if you're good at keeping your grind and manual balance meters under control, you can do 
 tricks and combos forever. The million-point combo that felt so skillful four years ago is now 
 the order of the day, since some spots feel like you can hop off anything and land on another object 
 that you can do tricks on almost automatically.  

  The flip side to THAW's story mode is classic mode, which once again takes things back to the two-minute 
 run timer, skate letters, and secret tapes that marked the first three entries in the series. It 
 also pulls in classic levels from other Tony Hawk games. The series has been reusing the old levels 
 as special unlockables for the last few years now, so most of the truly amazing levels from the 
 Tony Hawk series have already appeared in a nostalgic context. That leaves behind some good (but 
 not all that great) levels from Hawks of the past, including more levels from the PSP THUG2 that 
 was released earlier this year. The goals have been rearranged a bit, so they won't be exactly 
 how you remember them from the previous games, but that doesn't make them especially difficult, 
 either. Again, if you're down with it, you'll probably be completing at least five of each level's 
 10 goals on your first run-through. However, if you want to get every single goal in the mode, 
 it'll take more time. But vets should have at least gotten to the last level on the list -- a pretty 
 cool postapocalyptic ruined-city level -- in an hour or two. There's more to see and unlock, but 
 if you're just trying to unlock the basics so you can get online to host a game (where you're limited 
 to hosting levels you've seen in single-player) , you can do all that pretty quickly.  

          If you're any good at Tony Hawk, you'll find this game an absolute breeze.     

  The 
 online action in THAW is very similar to last year's Tony Hawk. It lets up to eight players play 
 score-based challenges, capture the flag, goal attack, graffiti, combo mambo, and so on. The modes 
 are generally pretty cool. Even just the plain old high-score competition is worthwhile, because 
 you can throw down really heavy combos. Stuff like graffiti and capture the flag forces you to 
 change the way you play a bit. And the firefight mode, which lets you shoot fireballs out of your 
 skateboard, effectively turning the game into a makeshift shooter, is also pretty crazy. All in 
 all, the online is worth playing, though new players might have a hard time getting used to the 
 particulars or nailing high-scoring combos, since the single-player doesn't really train you for 
 that sort of activity.     

  The modes in this year's online game are pretty much the same online options we've been seeing 
 for quite some time now. Of course, all this is brand-spanking-new to Xbox and Xbox 360 owners, 
 who are finally getting their first taste of online support this year. In addition to Xbox Live 
 support, there's split-screen multiplayer, but this isn't much fun at all. Also, your skater from 
 story mode can't be used online or in any of the other non-story modes. Considering you're sort 
 of building this skater up over time, it would have been nice if he eventually turned into some 
 superskater to give players that do well in the story some extra incentive. To sum up the online 
 mode, if you've enjoyed competing online in the past, the collection of new levels should be more 
 than enough to keep you entertained this year. If you're new to the series, you'll be matched up 
 by rank, allowing you to compete with players of a similar skill level.  

          The game's character models look pretty bad up close.     

  You'll unlock secret skaters 
 when you finish the modes on different difficulties. This year's unlockable for beating the story 
 on normal is pretty random (like it has been in recent years) , and it represents an interesting 
 addition. We won't reveal who it is, but let's just say that he would have been a lot funnier with 
 some voice samples, and perhaps some sort of special manual move that brought out a large pimp 
 chalice. OK, perhaps we've said too much... You'll also have the same sort of "create" modes that 
 you've seen in past versions, letting you create skaters, skateparks, tricks, deck graphics, graffiti 
 tags, and so on.  

  Graphically, Tony Hawk's American Wasteland on the 360 doesn't look much better than its Xbox counterpart. 
 Sure, you can run it in a higher resolution thanks to the 360's 720p and 1080i support, but all 
 this does is make the character models look really awful. It runs at a smooth frame rate and doesn't 
 have any jagged edges to it, but it still looks like a game that was initially developed for the 
 PlayStation 2 and then hastily converted for a higher-powered system. If you're familiar with how 
 some console-to-PC ports come out looking like crisper PS2 games, you should already have a pretty 
 good idea of how this one looks. The textures are a weird mix -- some of them are clearly higher-quality 
 textures that look sharp, clean, and colorful. But you'll still come across some really dirty-looking 
 ground and wall textures from time to time, too. When you compare this to other games on the Xbox 
 360, it looks downright mediocre.  

  Much of the sound in American Wasteland has been pulled from the previous versions, which is to 
 be expected, since the developer got the sounds of skating down quite well years ago. Still, you'll 
 hear some new sound effects here and there if you're listening closely, and for the most part, 
 it sounds nice. The soundtrack is once again varied across several genres, and it includes Frank 
 Black's "Los Angeles," which, really, is all you need. There are also a lot of new punk bands covering 
 a lot of old punk songs. If you're emotionally attached to a lot of old punk rock, you'll probably 
 hate it on principle, but the covers are still decent. As with most every Xbox 360 game, you can 
 opt for a custom soundtrack, if you like. As far as the speech goes, there's a lot of it, and most 
 of it's nicely done. The pro skaters, who were occasionally rough in previous years, aren't present 
 very much, but their performances are generally more believable overall. And the rest of the cast 
 members do a fine job with their lines of dialogue, which are well written and fit in the context 
 of the story -- except for the part where other skaters keep calling you a "noob," which really seems 
 out of place.  

          The game's story goals usually line you right up with the item you need to interact with. 
     

  You'll notice, though, that the subtitles rarely match the spoken dialogue. You'll probably also 
 notice that the subtitles are displayed even though they default to "off" in the menu, which is 
 pretty sloppy. There are a few other minor bugs, much like this one, that pop up in rare circumstances. 
 These bugs are never bad enough to cripple the game, but they do give off the feeling that a few 
 corners were cut during development.  

  While the gameplay in Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is still sharp, the weak graphical display 
 found in the Xbox 360 version really takes the whole experience down a few notches. But even beyond 
 the graphics, this seventh installment just seems to lack that special spark that made the series 
 so much fun in the first place. The Tony Hawk series has always worked, because even if you stripped 
 away all the goals, pro skaters, and extra fluff packed into each annual installment, the simple 
 act of finding lines and skating freestyle across the levels was great fun. Even with a handful 
 of new tricks, simply skating around and grinding out huge lines only goes so far, especially when 
 the levels are set up to make doing so incredibly easy. It's enough to make you think that maybe 
 the series needs a year off to give it time to incorporate some dramatic new ideas that could revitalize 
 the once-great franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (115 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ulvenska
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  I was having a total ball playing this game... for 45 minutes. It was cartoony and fun with the 
 characters, storyline and customization of the charcter's clothes and hair. And the tricks for 
 the skateboard were fun to learn - and when I discovered the bike, even better.
  BUT... the game basically broke. How? The storyline required I press A/red button inorder to proceed, 
 but when I reached that point for the second time (I re-did it because I was unhappy with my choice 
 of clothing and hair) , the promt for me to press the button no longer existed whenever I entered 
 the clothing store and barber shop (these are neccessary action for the story) . The only button 
 I was able to press was the one that sent me back outside, whereby the AI girl would send me back 
 in - the never-ending spiral began. No way out.
  I receieved hopeful advice from another here, suggesting getting the original xbox version to play 
 on your 360 as it will be the same game - minus the glitches. I can't confirm it's success, but 
 I'll explore this option because the game looks like alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  When I got a 360 and 12 games of Ebay this is one off the games that came with it. I'm not going 
 to write a lot about it, I'll do pros and cons. But I'll just talk a bit about it here:
  
  It was the 7th instalment to the Tony Hawk series of gaming, And you'd think after 6 years of these 
 games they would have improved, But no. It sucked a lot, and its until you play this game you will 
 believe this review.
  
  
  Pros:
  So, Whats good about this game? Well, Its not JUST skateboarding, You can ride on a BMX, Graphite 
 and make your own tags. Another thing I think is really cool is HOW EASY ACHIEVEMENTS ARE! At the 
 start of the story you get 50 gamer points, For what???? You won't guess, Walking into a shop and 
 having your hair done.
  
  Cons:
  If you play this game, You will know what I am going to say..
  
  Well, I constantly have to 
 restart the game and that's because it screws up a lot, You get stuck in ramps, Walls, rail, Just 
 everything you can think off!
  Also the game play is going to get VERY BORING! Trust me, It WILL, And having the game crash constantly 
 so you have to restart from you're last save point just adds to the boredom. Its almost as if the 
 game is a test off patience. Some of the missions are ridiculous too.
  
  
  When you get into the Skate ranch you will have to go to the other areas and do missions to get 
 pieces for the ranch. There is a ridiculous one, You have a rope tied to a..... thing, I don't have 
 a clue what the hell it is, And it says "Tap A as fast as you can". Let me just say, I have played 
 Tony hawk games for 9 years now, And Not even I can complete that. You're thumb and fingers are 
 sore and its still wanting you to go.
  
  
  Overall: Don't buy unless you want about 190gamerpoints in 10 minutes, Get the PS2 version of Standard 
 Xbox version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonilee
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  In Tony Hawk: American Wasteland you are a new guy to California and you must skate your way up 
 to well known, pro skater. This game has some pros and cons to it. The pros are the Xbox 360 controls 
 on the game, but thats about it. The cons in the game include a been-there-done-that-story, bad 
 graphics and visuals, and the classic mode's gametypes. Classic mode is back, yes, but with stupid 
 gametypes never heard of in a classic Hawk game. For people looking for a new kinda Tony Hawk game, 
 I reccomend this game. For gamers looking for a classic Tony Hawk skating game, avoid this game. 
 But for an ordinary gamer not aware of what Tony Hawk is, yet has a Xbox 360, just rent the game 
 from Gamefly or something. But if you have a PS2 or orignal Xbox, then this game is reasonable 
 for those consoles, you would just expect more from a Xbox 360 game. That's all I have to say about 
 Tony Hawk: American Wasteland.
  
  -Daltoni 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mykel2727
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Some good stuff (aka better than underground, not as good as 1 2 or 3)
  brings me back to my old school days but with a new twist and open environment
  also the achievements 
 are easy to get, very very easy (if you have LIVE)
  not the same Wow as tony hawks pro skater 1 was four the n64 but still good and cool story flows 
 and usually isn't frustrating its also really cheap now like fif teen bucks so not bad
  im hungry
  its a good game
  just get it beat it get the achievments and get on with your life
 
  it is fun and cool and has skateboarding in it
  i like it and gamespot is cool
  i have had it on both the PS2 and the XBOX360 hey did u hear about noob. com
  pretty cool i think
 
  but seriosly get the game
  it is fun
  and you should get it
  and you will have fun
  and its cheap and
  its fun
  compared to the newer or medium old games from tony hawk
  yeah 
 w00t w00t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Underground 2 was in my opinion the worst game in the series. The story was crap and 
 a majority of the objectives really had nothing to do with skateboarding, it was just a way for 
 Bam Margera to get some more publicity if you ask me. So needless to say when I decided to buy 
 Tony Hawk's American Wasteland for the Xbox 360 I was a bit unsure as to whether or not it was 
 the right purchase, seeing as how it was getting low scores and I was not to fond of the series 
 previous entry. However once I started playing I was blown away and quite surprised at the scores 
 that it recieved.
  
  The story mode in Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is decent at best. I am not really sure what the 
 story is, because the cutscenes were not all that interesting. I do know that you are a amatuer 
 skater trying to make it big the completely open Los Ageles that the game offers you. To be completely 
 honest the story mode is just a way to earn easy achievements points because the game itself is 
 actually quite easy and you get 50 points every hour if that of gameplay. Despite the fact that 
 is quite easy some of the stuff that you do in the story mode is actually quite fun and a huge 
 step up from Underground 2.
  
  The main highlight of the single player mode is the Classic Mode. This mode takes classic levels 
 from the previous Tony Hawk games (some are more 'classic' than others) and you have two minutes 
 to complete as many goals as you can, just like in Tony Hawks Pro Skater 1-3. This mode offers 
 quite a bit of challange, even if you have played the earlier games in the series. Some levles 
 from the first three games are pretty easy if you have played them since you already know all of 
 the lines so you can get the maximum amount of goals. In the levels that are not from the first 
 three games it gets a little more difficult since even though you may know the levles you don't 
 exactly know where the stuff is this time around.
  
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland boasts a hefty multiplayer game as well. The fact that you can play 
 all the levels from Classic and Story mode online or off in multiple gameplay modes. So you can 
 recreate classic battles on older maps online, which is pretty fun, because you were never able 
 to show off your skills on those maps in the older levels, so long time fans of the series with 
 Xbox Live will be pleased to see the robust multiplayer content.
  
  The Tony Hawk series has always been known for its amazing soundtrack. In my opinion the last couple 
 of games in the series have kind of been lacking the soundtrack department. Tony Hawk's American 
 Wasteland saves the day though with quite a bit of variety. The soundtrack features some of my 
 favorite bands (Taking Back Sunday, Senses Fail, My Chemical Romance, and Thursday) covering classic 
 punk bands. The game also features songs by Green Day, Iggy Pop, and my new favorite band Bloc 
 Party. Bloc Party's 'Like Eating Glass' and Senses Fail's cover of Suicidal Tendencie's 'Institutionalized' 
 are two of the best trakcs found on the game.
  
  The graphics in Tony Hawk's American Wasteland are really nothing to write home about. The game 
 doesn't look too much better than it did on the last generation on consoles, which was one of the 
 things that this version got blasted for. The fact that it doesn't really offer any new content 
 and that it is more expensive than the original Xbox version, but now its cheap so that really 
 doesn't matter at all.
  
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland controls just like you would expect it to. Just because it is now 
 on the 360 controller doesnt mean a thing. It controls just like it did back on the regular Xbox 
 and before that on the PsX and the Nintendo 64. Fans of the series will feel at home immediately, 
 and those new to the series will fit right in as well since the series still offers an extensive 
 tutorial that is at the beginning of the game that series veterans still cannot skip through.
 
  
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is a must own for anyone who is a fan of the series or wants to 
 start playing skateboarding games. The simple control interface makes it easy for almost anyone 
 to pick up and play. The game may look, play, and be essentially the same as the original Xbox 
 game with a cheaper price tag, but today this version of the game is super cheap and achievement 
 whores and newbies will love the simplistic nature of the game. With Call of Duty 2, Gun and now 
 Tony Hawk's American Wasteland it is pretty clear that Activision new exactly what they were doing 
 back at the 360 launch. If you ask me this game is alot better than people give it credit for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugsrock120
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  It was an OK game. But it could have been better, alot better. The graphics could have been WAY 
 better.
  
  THE STORY for the game is fairly weak. You go to Hollywood, Meet some people, Build a park and 
 then have to make a skate video with the pros. the thing is you don't see the video and you don't 
 help make the video, you just go find some Pro's and ask them to help. The end of the game was 
 too... Romantic for a skateboarding game like this.
  
  THE TRICKS: The tricks were GREAT. There is some new tricks never before seen in any Tony Hawk 
 game before, and the best part is you get to ride a BMX and do (a few) tricks on that! Remember 
 this though, you do't get EVERY trick at the beginning of the game.
  
  Overall this game was pretty good. I rate it 7.5 because not only did they add new tricks and the 
 ability to ride a bike, but because they added new things to it... Like the new tricks and BMX.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, I loved this game, It's the last really fun tony hawk game activision has made. BUT! do not 
 get it for the 360, get it for plain xbox. Reasons ? well I have both versions because when I got 
 my 360 I thought it would be different than the xbox version I already owned. I was wrong. Same 
 game, TONS MORE GLITCHES. The graphics arnt as smooth sailing on the 360 one, the sound is slightly 
 crappier, it lags ALOT and there are some gameplay issues that arnt on the other versions. awsome 
 game but if your planing on getting it get it for xbox original. SAME thing wtihout the glitches, 
 only thing good on the 360 version is the easy achievment points, but u can just rent it or barrow 
 it off someone for that.
  
  
  
  The game is pritty much like underground and undergound 2 though. The story is entertaining and 
 keeps you playing until you beat it, a few laughs but not as much as underground 2. This one has 
 a good bit more punk music, pritty good soundtrack, still liked underground 2's better. The graphics 
 are decent but not that great, but graphics dont make the game, they help make them better. I peronaly 
 loved the unrealistic skateboarding tricks, which are now removed, and the flying 300 feet down 
 to the ground and landing unhurt on your feet, added to the goofy entertainment. Dont bother with 
 the 2 new ones, they both are quite boring and dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about 3 months ago and all I paid was $20, brand new and sealed. I was hoping for 
 a new generation skating experience but to be honest I thought that Underground 2 was much better. 
 This game is like a repeat Underground 2, only with a couple of extra moves thrown in. Other than 
 that, the gameplay is fun, there is a diesent variety in music and a large selection of charater 
 customization.
  
  The main let down in Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is the graphics. I have seen the Xbox version 
 at a freinds house and the graphics on Xbox 360 are not much different at all. If you are looking 
 for a skating game with good graphics then this would not be a good game to buy. Still it's not 
 a bad buy I guess for only 20 bucks.
  
  Like any typical skating game, the gameplay is extremely unrealistic. (How the hell are you going 
 to move an 80 tonne concrete stairway with a skateboard???!!!)
  
  All in all I give Tony Hawk's American Wasteland 7/10 and it misses out on a perfect 10 due to 
 the terrible graphics, unrealistic gameplay and the similarity to THUG 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Initially I was skeptical - Underground 1 &amp; 2 didn't hold my attention like the old school 
 Pro Skater games did. In fact I'm yet to get round to completing Underground 2. I presumed this 
 was going to be more of the same and while in some ways it is, it's also vastly improved and a 
 great way to wrap up that portion of the franchise.
  
  The main reason? The story mode is actually good. No more are you just going from amateur to pro 
 like the two Underground games and, indeed, Project 8 - events transpire and you have to fix them 
 with the power of skating. It's not a masterpiece but god help me, I actually cared about the characters, 
 which is a far cry from the rest of the story-based Hawk games.
  
  Also, a lot of the distractions of previous games are gone. No car driving levels, only one jackass 
 style stunt - the focus is on skating. Yeah, there are times when you have to ride the BMX bike 
 but thankfully it's only once and it's very easy - the rest of the time its entirely optional.
 
  
  Another nice touch is how what would have been instant ability in the old games is now a gradual 
 improvement. All your various skating abilities have to be unlocked, and you'll be halfway through 
 the game before you can pull off any special moves. This gives a real feeling of accomplishment 
 that constant special moves and massive combos in the old games really couldn't. It's one flaw 
 may be it's length - you've got a lot to do until the casino level, which you'll probably polish 
 off within about half an hour of play and there's nothing else to do there. It seems like they 
 could have extended that final portion a little. Also, you don't get any videos until the end of 
 story mode, which was always a nice little break during the old games.
  
  Classic mode is a nice touch - great to see those old school levels remastered, but they're really 
 just a nice little extra. Overall, I thoroughly recommend this one to disappointed old school THPS 
 fans and modern fans alike. It's difficult without being impossible, long without being drawn out 
 and fun without being just childish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I bought this game. For like $20, cheap, but I so wish I got Project 8. The 360 version 
 wasn't built with next-gen in mind. No shiny graphics, no new content, no nothing. It's just a 
 cheap port that I bought into. It's fun while it lasts though and that's what counts. But just 
 if there was more. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much like the others. This time you do have to learn your tricks and get 
 your skills up (pretty much like THUG) and then you go through each map and you hit a certain milestone 
 and get 50 Achievement points! You can get off and on your board whenever you want and go ride 
 a BMX bike. While you might think this a big major change in the game, it's not because you actually 
 never have to ride the bike. It's not a requirement to do in any of the missions. Now, you can 
 do side missions to get $20 and you get new bike tricks, but seriously, it's not fun. 
  
  I was really disappointed in the graphics. It's pretty much bullsh** how bad they are. The character 
 models look friggin' ugly as hell and it's a shame they put it out this way for the 360. The environments 
 and animations are not bad, but when you just go up to someone it's like watching wax models with 
 flat faces come to life. It's not good to look at.
  
  Now, for complete opposites. I was really impressed with the sound. The voices are decent, but 
 what I really like is the soundtrack. It covers all the Punk anyone could ever love. It's just 
 my type of music and that's what boots it up a bit. This also hurts the game. 
  
  There's no big value, depth or longevity to it. The classic mode is fun to play, but you won't 
 be playing it on more than Normal. Same with the Story Mode. It's short, and while 96 missions 
 sounds like a lot if you play it for a good time during one day, you could get through it in about 
 2 -3 days. Not even.
  
  Overall, this could've been a great game. Too bad most Tony Hawk's don't always turn out that way. 
 I really like skateboarding games, this one didn't impress me. Hopefully skate. will renew this 
 long lived (and very repetitive) genre. Ugh. Better luck next time, Hawk man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is worth buying for skate board fans only are bike fans. Because thats all your going 
 to do. This game you could create your own character doing the game. Tony Hawk's American Wasteland 
 is a excellent game to buy. The Story would been better.
  
  Graphics looks like ps2 graphics, But with a lot better detail
  
  Sound would been a lot better
 
  
  Value is 20 bucks thats good.
  
  This game is a must buy for tony hawk fans are bmx fans. This is the best skate board game untill 
 Tony' Hawk's Proving Grownd comes out for any console.
  
  Its a must own game.
  
  Ps- Tony Hawk's Project 8 sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDiamnz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  american wasteland is great online. the only thing that was stupid was it made me mad in story 
 mode. the story missions were stupid. it was great online though. now i know why they rated it 6.6 
 if your thinking about buying it dont buy skate when it comes out its amazingthere is not much 
 to write about this game. it pretty much sucks. it is much better on other systems. i liked the create 
 a character option where you can create awesome characters. the online is pretty racist. their 
 are alot of racists of american wasteland. ive heard alot of racial talk but you really cant do 
 anything. if i could i would but i cant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mallowman87
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Dull. Only word to describe it. I'm glad that they ditched the unknown skater goes somewhere and 
 becomes famous, destroying stuff along the way storyline. It isn't a terrible storyline in itself, 
 but the 3rd iteration of it it a little bit tiring.
  
  Underground and Underground 2 were at least executed well. This is just, well, as aforementioned, 
 dull. Grind here, Spraypaint some stuff here, Do a series of commands for a guy and he gives you 
 money to put towards buying something in another part of town to the one you're in at the moment, 
 only to return to this part of town to use it . It just isn't exciting.
  
  The controls and everything else are no different to the previous of the THPS series, with the 
 possible exception of the BMX, which nobody uses because It's a skating game. It isn't doing anything 
 meaningful to push the series in any way.
  
  The graphics look PS2 quality on the 360 version, which dissapoints me greatly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  While I have never been a big fan of the Tony Hawk games, even I can tell this game is a terrible 
 port of a game that I have no idea why so many people like. This is the worst looking retail game 
 I have seen on the 360 so far. The characters all look absolutely awful. It's clear Neversoft did 
 nothing to improve this game when it was ported over to the 360. The sheer laziness is insulting, 
 of course. Then you get to the game itself......
  
  For starters, 'Classic' &amp; 'Free-Play' modes are still kinda fun. It's fun to go online and 
 skate with your buddies. Some of the music is pretty good. There are 900 easy gamer points here 
 if you end up liking the story mode (the other 100 might take you some time) . And that would be 
 about the only good things I can say about this title.
  
  My main problem with the game is how much the 'Story' mode blows. Not only does it hold your hand 
 through the whole damn thing (which I thought would be a plus for people like me, who aren't very 
 good at the games) , but it does it in a way that's very annoying. The game teaches you tricks as 
 the story mode moves along. The problem is that you have to learn these tricks to advance in the 
 story. It's very boring and when you combine that with the lame story itself, I had to quit playing 
 this mode for fear my head would explode. The characters, premise of the story, the missions themselves, 
 and the voice acting are all some of the worst I have ever seen in a game.
  
  Then you get to the insulting visuals. These graphics would look bad on the PS2. I could accept 
 the fact that I was playing a crappy port when I played Neversoft's other 360 launch game, Gun. 
 At least that game was fun to play. I am not a big graphics whore or anything, but the god-awful 
 look of this game took me out of the experience many times and I just couldn't get past it.
  
  Like I stated earlier, I am not a huge fan of this series to begin with. But even Tony Hawk 
 die-hards should be insulted by this awful game. I have no idea why this game was rated well by 
 some major videogame publications and websites. This is pure bargain-bin crap that you don't want 
 in your collection for fear it might infect the rest of your games with it's crappy mediocrity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of th Tony Hawks games for years since I had a PSone and then The underground 
 series when I bought my PS2 and I ahve to say for what I read and paid for this game I was rather 
 surprised how addictive it is. The gameplay is like all other THUG and THPS games with a few extra 
 new buttons. The levels are nicely designed with easy access to mega combos and the idea of earning 
 money to buy your clothes from the shops is pretty cool. I bought this game for &pound;9.99 not 
 expecting much and got a hell of a lot more than I thought. I am, sadly, actually enjoyig the main 
 story of the game and was quite impressed with the fact that it revolves around your created character 
 and his friends and not around all the pro skaters like previous THUG games. So there is a lot 
 less advertising in this game than the rest. The only let down to this game is the graphics. This 
 is a port of an old PS2 and XBOX game so the graphics are very blocky and playing games like Amped 
 3 make this game look a little unfinished sometimes. But the framrate is excellent. Also I really 
 love the soundtrack. A lot of good bands covering older tracks is pretty cool and helps with the 
 style and setting of the game. I cannot wait to get a hold of project 8 cos if this is anything 
 to go by project 8 has got to be the daddy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  What is this, the seventh Tony Hawk game? Up until now, there has been a steady improvement with 
 every game. Unfortunately, where this game improves in one thing, it is hurt somewhere else. The 
 improves: -New moves. Who doesn't like new moves? Seriously. -Tony Alva
  
  The sustains:
  -Create-a-mode is still working out pretty well.
  -The basic concepts are still there.
  -Decent 
 voice acting.
  
  The dives:
  -Crappy story line. I hope the person who was in charge of this got fired.
  -Crappy locations 
 (Just L. A.)
  -Lacking character creation. Working off of pre-made models doesn't float my boat.
  -HORRIBLE 
 GRAPHICS FOR THE 360!!!
  
  The saving grace:
  Classic Mode. Actually get to play as Tony Hawk. Or Alva, or Bam.
  
  Basically, the Tony Hawk 
 series was bound to have a less than average game, but it's no biggie. Actually, if you enjoy Tony 
 Hawk games, you can pick it up for about $20 at EB or Gamestop, but don't pay any more than that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kritts
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is an ok skating game with nthin really cool in it..... the graphics are almost pathetic.... the 
 mission are just fu in the beginning then they get boring too..... on the other hand the game has 
 nthin new in it... it is just the same old game which was on the Xbox and ps2... so maybe u shouldnt 
 be buying it on the Xbox 360..... this game sucks really .... no fun at all ... only a bit here and 
 there....... forget buyin it ... u'll be thinking of giving it to your trashbins.... so frgt about 
 it..... i did a mistake by buyin it.... u dont until... u are tony hawks urself!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dups79
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game is just like the previous two Tony Hawk games. It's more of 
 the same old stuff and they did not add much to make it phenominal. Graphics: The graphics are 
 pretty bad for this game considering it's on the Xbox 360. The potential for great graphics is 
 there but you see none of this on screen. Granted this is a first generation game for the xbox 
 360 it's not but a port from earlier generation. So do no buy this game expecting next gen graphics.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is your average Tony Hawk game music. There is an average amount of variety and 
 it sticks to pretty much skater type music.
  
  Value: The value of this game is decent. I mean you can spend a lot of time completing 100% of 
 the gaps. Especially if you do not use a gap guide. The online aspect is there but in reality all 
 you do is play against people that perfect lines for highscores.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This is a great game to get for some easy achievement points. You can get 900 
 points by simply completing the two modes and playing each map online and setting a highscore of 
 1000+ points per level. If you are like me and just all around enjoy playing Tony Hawk games even 
 if it does not add anything groundbreaking new then go ahead and buy it. Otherwise I'd say skip 
 this game and get Tony Hawk Project 8 or Skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 5, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I was a little disappointed in the last game, Tony Hawk's Underground 2. The reason why i don't 
 like this game because i'm really into starting out as a rookie and gain respect and become a pro 
 like a real life story. THUG2 is a wacky game and a lot of boring and stupid stuff.
  
  Anyway, this new Tony Hawk's game is a improvement, the graphics can be done a lot better, but 
 i do like the story line, the customize character, and the missions. But i really do like the online 
 multiplayer, smooth and fun, after every game I pla online, it tends to kick u out to the menu 
 after that game. Sounds kinda stupid i think. Oh well.
  
  The Achievements in the game will take you a long time to get because, you have to find all the 
 gaps in every area in the game and beat the game at 100% too. I manage to get all the gaps thanks 
 to the FAQ in the Hints &amp; Cheats section in the page.
  
  And finally, I gotta say its a ok game since its only a import game from the original Xbox console. 
 Huge disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  By far the bets tony hawks games are pro skater 2,3 and 4 after that they've prettey much gone 
 down hill exept underground 1 was okay. If you were hoping this game turn the series around with 
 online play it really really didn't not only is this game exactly the same the rest but even easier 
 to pull of combos the editor has no in door theme and it seems the editors taken a beating and 
 is no were near as good as underground 1 and 2. Also you can't play your own parks online and theres 
 really nothing new...
  
  Overall: wouldn't recomend this to anyone its easy for any previous fans of the tony hawks game 
 and the editor is prettey crap compared to the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilyhawk
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  As I said it's OK. Like the others just a bit worse. Few flaws. Buy only if you rented it and you 
 like it. I myself liked it at first, but then it got boring. I just skate around. You probably 
 should get Tony Hawk's Project 8. I have the demo and it is sort of fun. First rent American Wasteland. 
 If you don't like it, download the Project 8. If you don't like that, you're out of luck. Since 
 i have to do 100 words I'll tell you the instructions. Why does grind, A does Ollie, Bee does grab 
 moves, and Ex does flip moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  American wasteland is probably the neatest Tony Hawk Ive played so far I like that youre free 
 to do whatever you want. You can create all kinds of things like designs that you can spray on 
 stuff and a bunch of other things. The controls sometimes get on my nerves cause you get stuck 
 on a lot of things and smack into allot of walls when you dont want to but its really not that 
 bad its not something that I would choose not to play the game over. The graphics are kind of original 
 x-box looking but you can tell its a 360 game it looks crisper. This game kind of reminded me 
 of grand theft auto the way its set up in cities where you can roam around anywhere. The music 
 in the game is ok there are some tracks Im sure you will like and recognize. Id say you would 
 like this game even if you were not a typical skater/Tony hawk fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is not another tony hawk game as the hype claimes, its a bit better. The graphics are 
 good, but incredible on the HD. THe game has a real story which is the best part, with tons of 
 unlockable characters. Including some of the Green Day band members. The create a skater has lost 
 some of its appeal, but their are new modes to add on. Such as create a graphic which never gets 
 dull , and the their are no loading times in story. The classic mode is great for the hardcore 
 fans, and their are tons of achievements. Online is great with friends, and creating a special 
 trick is fun. This game has its ups and downs but it is definitely a game that you should buy. 
 It rocks and its great when friends come over. THis game is pretty fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimepirate
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk series seems to be the same every time they make a game. The same style is seen throughout 
 the game. The Story mode is the only thing that has been added to it. It features a created skater 
 trying to rebuild a lost skate park. Going around to each town, collecting different parts, and 
 completing challenges is all you do. The best thing about that mode is that there is no loading 
 time, but you still travel from city to city that takes the same amount of time as if it were loading.
 
  
  The Classic mode is the same as previous Tony Hawk. Complete challenges and gain access to different 
 levels when you complete a certain amount of challenges. The graphics are nothing to drool over. 
 They resemble xbox and Playstation 2 graphics. They do not represent next-gen standards. If you 
 are looking for a new and innovative Tony Hawk game, this isnt what you are looking for. Best bet 
 is to wait out for the new Tony Hawk Project 8, but they intend on doing the same thing again, 
 with the addition of Nail a Trick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proskater40000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed at first. The the grraphics looked good, the story mode was fun, and it seemed like 
 there was just so much fun stuff to do. But the first flaw I noticed is that the character creation 
 was way duller than in previos games. I mean, why can't my guy have a frekin' propelor beanie or 
 boxing gloves!?! That made me angry! The only other thing that was bad was the graphics. The best 
 part was the classic mode. Goals are challenging and fun and it brings me back to the tony hawk's 
 pro skater games. If you are too cheap to buy project 8, don't be, because it's way better and 
 the only thing that makes this better is the classic mode. If you want that, just get one of the 
 backwards compatible proskater games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  THAW is Neversofts newest skating adventure. But, this one is a bit of failure compared to the 
 others. This time around story mode is extremely uninteresting. The first flaw in the storyline 
 is that you cant play with one of your created characters. You have to choose between a few characters. 
 The big huge pain in the ass problem is that the story mode is basically an entire tutorial of 
 the game. You don't get to play many fun parts. The main part of it is learning new tricks that 
 many Tony Hawk fanboys already know how to do. You even have to learn how to get off of your board. 
 Trust me thats not very fun. So in other words the games easy and dull. Plus the gameplay is the 
 same as the last 6 Tony Hawk games. Another problem is the problem with the last two Tony Hawk 
 games. There arent many skateboards to choose from. It would also be cool if you could choose what 
 type of wheels you want instead of just choosing a color. On the plus side you can ride a bike 
 and do some BMX tricks. But that doesnt match up to being able to ride a wheel chair like you could 
 on the last one. Oh and online isn't that bad either... but its not very fun either. Overall the 
 gameplay of the game is dull and an extreme let down to all Tony Hawk fans. Graphically the game 
 is very pathetic as well. The current gen graphics aren't that bad but the 360 graphics are ugly 
 and don't look anywhere near next gen. The voice overs are solid though. Plus it has a great soundtrack. 
 While the game has funny parts and good music it is not very good when compared to the other 6 
 Tony Hawk games. The is a huge dissapointment for all skaters out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattista
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  If you are thinking of buying Tony Hawk's American Wasteland on the Xbox 360 don't bother. American 
 Wasteland has yet again improved on the last Tony Hawk's game, adding new features and of course 
 free-roaming all over L. A. But one thing they haven't improved on is the length of the storyline. 
 If you are a skateboarding game fanatic you will probably finish this game in 1 day. If not 2or 
 3 days. Although anybody would finish it so quickly, American Wasteland is still loads of fun to 
 play with friends.
  
  If you do decide to buy this game only buy it for under 50 dollars. You are much better of hiring 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is extreme fun. You are an ameatur skater trying to make it big. The story line is incredibly 
 good. The cutscenes are a blend of 3d and comicbook styles which makes the game more enjoyable 
 and funny.
  
  The graphics aren't as I expected. However , they are still alright but just not next-gen enough. 
 Don't get me wrong though the graphics don't spoil the game at all.
  
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland has a hell of lot of music in the game. There are around 50 soundtracks 
 in the game. Ranging from Hip-Hop to rock. You'll find at least one song you like in the game becaus 
 eof it having so much different music.
  
  The game has a lot of replay value because you can play it on XBOX LIVE and compete for the highest 
 score.
  
  The best thing about the game is that it you can ride both a skateboard and BMX. This attracts 
 more people to buy the game because if you don't like skating you can always ride your BMX.
  
  Overall this game is exceedingly fun and worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1al
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in the 7th installment to this series is borderline unexciting with a dull storyline 
 after its completed only for the first time. The Supirior series is wearing very thin which will 
 lead to a tragic death to this series unless changes are made for Project 8. But once you over 
 shadow its **** storyline and lame new additions.
  
  Graphics
  
  BAD. It seems to me that they didnt upgade the graphics from the older gen consoles in fact it 
 even looks worse if you have HD plug-ins for your 360 So this game is very pointless with no current 
 gen details and an at best a poopy framerate..
  
  Sound
  
  Played the other console version this on is no different
  
  Value In my opinion if someone 
 took a poop in a little GReenbox The value in that would suceed greatly more than THAW, or maybe 
 its just me becasue i have played the other gen version of the game but who cares after the first 
 time you complete story and classic you just hate it its repeitive and dull what a piece of SHIT 
 C- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  very good game but it's not warth paying 10 more dollars that it's just the same on the ps2 xbox 
 or game cube well not the same on the game cube becouse it can't go online but it's tons of fun 
 good 4 player game i think it's for player or it's to doesen't matter this game is very good online 
 not the best image but what ever it's not that long it's very easy it's kind of fake of thar average 
 person to do it's it is best in seires and the new tony hawk game will be even better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  THAW For Xbox 360.
  
  Bam Margera Rules Forever. Thats What I Should Say.
  
  This game isn't totally perfect, but it is very fun and worth your time.
  
  Gameplay : One 
 word to describe the gameplay would be: FUN. In this huge city you get to play in, there are countless 
 halfpipes, kickers, pillars, rails, staircases, ledges, balconies, and miscellaneous items to pull 
 your vast amount of tricks out onto. Also, the city you play in is huge. It is one big city strung 
 together with 9 areas that you can freely travel between once you have gotten that far in the game. 
 In the story mode, you play through collecting objects to put in a huge skatepark while completing 
 other missions to get to said pieces. You also get to talk to and complete missions for many of 
 the pro skaters. Some of those are Tony Hawk, Bam Margera, and Bob Burnquist. There are certain 
 missions that require cash, and cash is easy to earn by either helping someone put graffiti on 
 a wall or completing a challenge which tests your skills. And just as the commercials for the game 
 say, there are no load screens on the story mode except for when you load up the first level before 
 getting into gameplay. There are some load areas that stop you for a split second to load the objects 
 in the next area you enter, but the time is so short it's barely noticeable. There are many methods 
 of transportation including running, skateboarding, driving a car or riding a bus, or even taking 
 a BMX style bike. There are 95 missions to do for the main storyline, and endless mini-missions 
 to do in order to collect some cash.
  
  Classic mode takes you to the earlier years of Tony Hawk games and puts you in a level and gives 
 you missions to do, with no story or character interaction. You do have a co-op playing option 
 so you can play through with a friend. It's actually fairly easy also, and brings back a couple 
 of the levels from older games, such as the Mall from the original Tony Hawk's Pro Skater. There 
 are 60 goals to beat in this mode of play to beat it 100%, and many of them are similar (collecting 
 S-K-A-T-E and collecting secret tapes to name a couple) . It has alot more nostalgia feel for the 
 veterans of the series and is fun for newcomers at the same time.
  
  There are three levels of difficulty for story mode and two for classic mode, and you must beat 
 all difficulties to make them say complete next to them, which gives reason to pick up the game 
 after beating it the first time. Even after you finish all the difficulties you have to go through 
 and make sure you find all the gaps to beat the game 100%. And even after that I'd assume it would 
 still be fun just to play around and do tricks. Plus there is multiplayer which is just about like 
 all the others in the series, not a bad thing.
  
  This game features a great variety of button combinations to use for a vast amount of tricks. However, 
 sometimes it can get very confusing when you're trying to land a trick for a mission because you 
 have to be precise with them to hit the right trick, which can take multiple tries and get frustrating 
 easily. And if you're new to the manual combos, lip combos, or any of the combos at all, it could 
 take about half an hour to get used to the controls. But after you learn them, it becomes very 
 easy and fun to use.
  
  Graphics : American Wasteland has good looking, customizable designs for skateboard decks, shirt 
 logos and patterns, stickers to plant on the walls, graffiti art, and tattoos. There are decals 
 all over the ramps, rails, and ledges within all of the city the game takes place in. The characters 
 all have very distinguishable faces and clothes, the animations for the moves all blend together 
 well, unless you happen to land a trick when the board isn't even under your feet, which looks 
 pretty shoddy, but is rare enough for it to not flaw the visuals too much.
  
  Sound : The soundtrack that comes with this game contains around 60 different songs ranging from 
 Rap/Hip Hop to Punk to Hard Rock. The soundtrack runs on playlist, just like the other Tony Hawk 
 games, and if you have this game for the Xbox360, you get custom soundtracks. The sounds are realistic 
 and are totally fitting for the game. They have actual professional skaters doing their own speaking 
 parts. They also have about fifteen other characters in the game, each with unique voices. I have 
 to be honest THAW has the worst soundtrack of any Tony Hawk Game Though.
  
  The main story of the game puts you into the shoes of someone who comes from a rural area, and 
 escapes to Los Angeles, California to go where the pros started, as you find out in the opening 
 sequence of the game. You meet a lot of friends, hardly any enemies (only cops and people that 
 just plain aren't nice) , and see enough cutscenes to make you get deep into the game very easily. 
 I won't give away anymore of the story, for you will have to find out what happens yourself. That, 
 and I don't want to give out spoilers.
  
  So this game gets a 9/10 for its few flaws, but still is totally worth buying, because I can't 
 see anyone beating the whole thing in a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamzy360
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  tony hawk must be raking it in from this game as its the only good skateboarding game on any console.
 
  whle it is good its a bit lacking in features after 6 TH games we relly need somethink new. ive 
 done this before and im losing faith in the skateboardin legand.
  lets start with the story well it sucks. its short and all your doing throughout is collecting 
 pieces for the ranch. and u cant place them your self.
  now offline multiplayer splitscreen is fairly poor as for most games (eg. scavanger hunt) u cant have 
 people waching u.
  systam link is great though as u can use your custom maps and play exiting games without half a 
 screen.
  xbox live is not so great: u cant share ure maps, u cant play your maps.
  apart from that xbox live is pretty good with goal chalnges, score attacks and alterntive games 
 such as king of the hill and fire fight.
  ita a advrage game but its about time users can put there content on the marketplace: TH (maps and 
 charcters) , elder scrolls oblivion (custom made weapons and armor) , saints row (custom made cars) , spore (creatures 
 and enviroments) .
  if that happens update ill update this as lifespan would improve my advice wait for project 8! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman1990
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  I disagree with Gamespot's 6.6 score completely. It's way too harsh, if this game had been a 360 
 exclusive then it would have got at least 8 points, but because it came out slightly after all 
 the other formats they mark it down. One of their main worries was the poor support for HDTV's, 
 but to be honest, how many of us actually play on them, I have quite a few friends with 360's and 
 as far as I know, none have HDTV's, maybe in 5 years time, but for now i'm happy to settle with 
 what i've got. Back to the game. The levels are huge for what they are with great lines to follow 
 and endless possibilities for combo runs. Theres a fun storyline to the game and good "sub-quests" 
 so that the game doesn't end too quickly. Gamespot were onto something with the game's lastability 
 though, it is a very short game (I completed it 100% within a few hours) but the fact that it is 
 a sandboxed based game allows replay value. This game wasn't meant to have and engaging story, 
 it's all about fun. So I say, don't listen to Gamespot this time, go out and try Tony Hawks on 
 your 360, even if it's only a rent, I promise you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks American Wasteland is the seventh console iteration of the popular skateboarding franchise 
 to be released to date. Thats a whole lotta game. However, perhaps more impressive than the sheer 
 volume of Hawk sequels is that theyve all been amazingly polished and entertaining, providing 
 a big step forward to making the game more seamless and fluid. Unfortunately, all good things must 
 come to an end, and American Wasteland can oftentimes feel like a step backward for the series. 
 Even worse, on the Xbox 360, the game suffers due to some infinitely better-looking competition. 
 American Wasteland still plays solid, and the storyline is pretty amusing, but on a next-generation 
 console, it doesnt quite cut it.
  
  The story mode in the game revolves around a street kid whos run away from his boring suburban 
 upbringing to live in Hollywood, where so many pro skaters got their starts. Unfortunately, your 
 humble beginnings are soon tarnished when a couple thugs jack your stuff and leave you alone on 
 the streets. A punk-styled lass by the name of Mindy offers to help get you some bearings in this 
 strange new city, and lets you crash with her and her crew at the Skate Ranch, where a mysterious 
 figure named Iggy resides. Youll soon learn of an idea to build the ultimate skate park, and then 
 youre off to collect cool stuff from around town to add to the Ranch. Needless to say, youll 
 also be meeting a few pro skaters and other interesting characters along the way, and while the 
 writing is hokey and the acting can be half-hearted at times, youll likely find yourself enjoying 
 the characters (especially Mindy, who resonates with tough love) .
  
  The story mode is quickly finished, clocking in at around five or six hours. There are multiple 
 difficulty levels  easy, normal, and sick  but these dont really change much in terms of actual 
 challenges. Mostly the difficulties just alter how many points you need to score and things of 
 that nature. But you wont be doing a whole lot of that in the game, surprisingly. Many of the 
 challenges in Wasteland have you grinding or otherwise tricking on specific lines to, ahem, liberate 
 new items for the Skate Ranch, and these tasks often revolve around orienteering than scoring big 
 points. For example, to knock down a tower early on in the game, youll need to grind the support 
 wires to break them, then wallplant the tower itself to knock it over.
  
  Challenges like the one described above are par for the course in American Wasteland, and they 
 present a more or less equal amount of pros and cons. On the positive side, these linear challenges 
 allow the developers to show you the destructive aftermath of your reckless actions to steal property 
 from the city, and the idea of being an outlaw skater in Hollywood is a pretty entertaining one; 
 but unfortunately, these ideas dont leave much to the imagination. Instead of skating to challenge 
 and figuring out how to navigate the environment like in previous games, American Wasteland more 
 or less drops you exactly where you need to be, and does everything in its power to hold your hand. 
 Say you need to grind a rail and transfer to another one. The game will start you mere feet away 
 from the rail, and a graphic that reads Grind! will float over it. Youll see another graphic 
 that says, Jump! when you should be transferring to the new rail. This sucks a lot of the challenge 
 away from the story mode, and it wont be long at all before youve reached games end.
  
  This is especially true if youre familiar with the previous games. Simply put, a good deal of 
 the story mode feels like a tutorial. Youll learn how to grind, spine transfer, use your special 
 tricks, and so on, as if you didnt know how already. You wont even be able to do things like 
 spine transfer and manual until the game teaches you, either, and this can be frustrating. But 
 the story will probably keep you going regardless, and overall youll find story mode pretty entertaining, 
 on the whole, thanks to its funny and cool attitude.
  
  Beyond the story, theres a classic mode that plays like the Tony Hawk games of old, where you 
 try to accomplish as many goals in a level as possible within a two-minute time limit. The game 
 ups the nostalgia factor further by reworking maps from the old games for use in classic mode, 
 but the maps that are chosen here arent all that great. And the goals are pretty easy, so it wont 
 be long before youve bested this mode, either  maybe two hours, three tops. But if you remember 
 all of these old environments, youll probably get a kick out of it.
  
  American Wasteland sure looks great on the PS2 and Xbox, but here on the 360, it can look downright 
 ugly at times. Things like character models were never the strong suit of the games graphics engine, 
 but when inflated to high-definition resolutions, the characters in the game look blocky and muddy. 
 And while some textures look nice and crisp, others juxtaposed to them look like Playstation 2 
 refugees. The sound, thankfully, doesnt get at all lost in translation, and youre treated to 
 a semi-underground and indie selection of tunes that fits the game perfectly. Of course, you can 
 just throw on your own music, if you choose. 
  
  Overall, Tony Hawks American Wasteland is a solid skateboarding game, but with its overly simplified 
 and short story mode, it may serve better as a rental, especially with its archaic visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is a really good skateboarding game, there are a few problems 
 with gameplay issues. For example there are many small-time resolution glitches that are mainly 
 seen in the X360 version of the game. For the most part these are only seen though, if your looking 
 for them.
  
  Graphics: T. H. A. W. does not have the next-gen look to it at all. The graphics are rather busted, 
 but people that are addicted to skateboarding games, (as much as myself) will work around that. 
 I mean its not like the graphics are totally bad, they just lack some next-gen touches. The X360 
 version of the game is pretty much the same as the PS2 and XBOX version of it, except with an HD 
 resolution and minute improvements to the graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is actually better than all of its predecessors. When you ollie on 
 blacktop or sidewalk, you can tell the difference as opposed when you ollie on grass or some other 
 surface similar to that. The sound is done very well. The music on the other hand in the game is 
 not the greatest, IMO. Thank god for the fact that you can just simply rip music to your 360 and 
 listen to your own personal favorites whilst enjoying a skate session with some buddies over Live.
 
  
  Value: This game has awesome value, it will keep you coming back for its outstanding story, and 
 its multiplayer, mainly its Xbox Live. This game supports up to 12 players on Xbox Live, its a 
 really fun multiplayer sports game, one of the better ones out on the market for the 360 currently. 
 This game also features Classic Mode, like T. H. U. G. 2 did, except with less levels this time around. 
 It only features roughly 10 classic mode levels. Its your usual 10 goals per level with 2 minute 
 timer to get as much goals done as possible. Only problem with the 360's value to this game is 
 that the achievements are way easily done. I mean you can get an achievement for just sessioning 
 into a level on Live. If you ask me that was done rather poorly.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This game is easily one of the best Tony Hawk games I've played since THPS3. It 
 has all the mechanics the others did with a several new features. And I think that Tony Hawk fans 
 everywhere should be pleased with this installment of Tony Hawk's American Wasteland. A must get 
 game for a gamer that likes skating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  What a great way to start of the skateboard series that Tony hawk dominates by adding a solid story 
 line, old school levels and simple achievements anyone can strive to get.
  
  story - you get to choose from 4 skaters (why you choose an ethnic and not just create a player 
 i don't know) and find your way to Hollywood, like any other skateboarder dreams of. when you get 
 there you realize the locals are not friendly. so you find your self a friend and she leads you 
 to the top.
  
  gameplay- nothing has changed. which isn't bad. keeping the game simple to where old and new gamers 
 can accomplish task easily.
  
  online- nobody plays it so if you want 10 points per level for achievements go a head.
  
  overall- 
 good game to rent. wait for project 8 coming soon!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mannym17
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game i found very fun in someways.. 
  It has an ok story.. 
  It has lots of tasks/challenges..
  Some where really tough..
  Overall its a great skateboarding 
 game if you like skateboarding.. 
  Even if you dont some might find it fun..
  Its not difficult.
  It takes about 6-8 hours to beat the story..
  It has a game mode named 
 classic mode which is good too.. Its tasks they give you such as break a 80000 score combo.
  I had a somewhat fun time playing this game..
  
  
  Like i said, I enjoyed the game it was 
 fun.. Just no replay value.. and somewhat mediocre graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-eater
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is the first Hawk game on a nex-gen console. The game itself contains 
 a story mode, create-a-modes (where you can create your own character, deck graphic, tag or build 
 you're own skate park) and a classic mode which play's just like the classic Pro-Skater games. 
 But after playing a while you can notice that it's just a port. Things such as bad graphics and 
 sometimes a slow frame rate will show up.
  
  At first when you start off with a new game, you may select you're character which is a major step 
 back according to me because in the previous two games you could make one yourself (al-tough this 
 feature is included in the Classic Mode and create-a-modes) . You start off as a wannabe pro that 
 want's to build a way up to the top. But thing's arn't going as it should be and you meet up with 
 Mindy a girl that want's to publish her magazine American Wasteland. She tells you about a Skate 
 Ranch and so you meet up with another few skaters and start to build on it.
  
  The missions in the game are quite the same. Most of the times some dude yells tricks for you to 
 nail down in a certain amount of time. But you also have to do other things like impress a pro-skater 
 and shooting balloons to some swimming people. There are also side-missions for you to earn money 
 like helping to tag a place or again to do tricks. With the money you can buy clothes, stuff for 
 your board, tattoo or a nice haircut. 
  It's nice to have this new feature so you can always change your appearance but it's just a copy 
 of what Rockstar had with GTA San Andreas. Also the new feature to ride a bike is fun but needs 
 a bit more perfection to make it more enjoyable. 
  
  Another fun feature is that there are no loading times between the different areas. But you can't 
 just go from Hollywood to Beverly Hills in one step because the loading times are just ignored 
 by letting you go to a tunnel or long corridor to pre-load the next area. 
  
  The Classic mode contains some different maps with goals like collecting the S-K-A-T-E letters 
 and get a High Score within 2 minutes. You can also search for Stat-coins that you can spend to 
 upgrade your Stats or collect the C-O-M-B-O letters in one combo. Here you also can use you're 
 created skater or select one like Tony Hawk himself or one of you're unlocked skaters.
  
  The Create-A-Modes explain them selves. Here you can create you're own skater, deck graphic, tag 
 or skate ranch. 
  
  Overall the game is quite good but then there are those graphics. In some cut-scenes they are okay 
 but in the most there is no lip-sync or well used animations. In-game the frame rate will sometimes 
 slow down and the NPC's and you're character look quite ugly from a close-up. The in-game world 
 sometimes is blocky and some textures only show up if you're close enough.
  
  In short, the new Tony Hawk game has great game-play and a story that's good (but only gets a move 
 on at the end) but has bad graphics and sometimes bad voice-work. The Classic mode isn't something 
 new but nice to see again and the create-a-modes are still a nice add on to keep you busy for a 
 while. And with the next real nex-gen Hawk game coming up I just can't wait to see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I will sart by saying that yes I have bought all the other tony hawk games and yes this is not 
 one of the better versions. Comparing this to the other tony hawk games makes this one look pritty 
 bad although not quite as bad as Tony Hawks Underground 2, up until THUG2 the tony hawks games 
 had always been a pleasure to play. I am not saying that THAW is not fun it's just that I have 
 seen skateboarding done better.
  
  I will now look at THAW as it's own game forget obout the other tony hawk games. To start off with 
 the first thing that I noticed was the graphics which by 360 standards had to be amoungst the worst, 
 to be honest it looks like an xbox game ( and not a brilliant looking one at that) however it's 
 not really that hard to see past that. The graphics are watchable it's just they won't push your 
 360 any. The next thing that I noticed was the control scheme and how it had changed quite dramaticllay 
 it was a little hard to get used to and I'm not to sure I ever really got the hang of it completely. 
 The gameplay is what can carry the game through it's fun and while a little repetative it never 
 really gets boring as the game seems to progress nicel and you do always feel like you are progressing 
 in the game even if your not. The game however will pose no difficulty to the tony hawk veteran, 
 this means that while the game may last the newbie a while longer than the veteran. One thing that 
 I must say is that the story is really quite crap and still does not compare to the rather good 
 THUG 1 storyline. The freeroaming world seemes to work kind of well however you will find yoursel 
 skating tunnels and stuff while the level obviously loads undernieth the level. As always Tony 
 Hawks is equiped with a good soundtrack that works well in the game however the game does have 
 some dodgey sond effects and voice overs. The game is good fun but short however it does have an 
 online mode which is fairly good and works well.
  
  Gameplay: It's tony hawks what more do you need to know.
  
  Graphics: Terrible by 360 standards, 
 o. k by xbox.
  
  Sound: Good soundtrack but watch out for those voiceovers.
  
  Value: Get it when it's cheap it is short but it should fullfil your skating needs before project 
 8 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  THAW (Tony Hawk's American Wasteland) makes a descent impression on the XBOX and PS2, but makes 
 a depression on the 360. Although not a bad game on current-gen consoles, the game lacked the true 
 Tony Hawk's feel and was (let's be honest) a budgetised (if that's a word) version of THUG2. The 
 story is ultimately bogus and almost as bad as Amped 3 (there I've said it!) and every time you 
 think theres a logistic reason for something happening ... someone gets arrested, mawled or been 
 kidnapped by a gang.
  Player models look absolutely horrific on the 360, the minor flaws we saw on the PS2 and XBOX are 
 now fully visible articles of failure. Sound on the game is also bad, things that should be heavy 
 and make a loud BANG, now just hit the floor without a doubt (i. e. the radio tower) and everything 
 runs smoothly (i. e. the pagoda in one of Master Zen's missions) . The game has flaws but is still 
 overly playable, just don't expect anything groundbreaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game has really let me down. I have been a big fan of the Tony Hawk series since the original 
 but this game was BAD. The storyline is just horrible. It is nothing like the story line from the 
 Tony Hawk underground games. The classic mode was fun playing on all the classic stages was a good 
 run down memory lane. I had a really good time with that. The graphics were a sad excuse for a 
 next-gen game. They look just the same as they do on the current-gen consoles. The character models 
 are very bad and the maps are not much better. The skating areas are very small. The sound is not 
 what it could be either. The voice overs in this game are poorly done and sound effects can be 
 better. If anything this game is worth of a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casadedim1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay... Is the best of any skateboarding game around. Best interface, easy to you, easy to 
 learn for new people who haven't played any other games in the Tony Hawk series. Some tricks, for 
 newbie players are left untouched to the untrained eyes that dosen't search menus for newer tricks. 
 Could use a feature to teach every trick there is to know. All in all the game play is great and 
 should not be changed at all, if even slightly.
  
  Graphics... Are perfect, not etchyness, very life-like, clean cut, sharp. Nothing is crappy due 
 to the no loading in this game which gives it an even better score for this section. Things look 
 very real like the voards, people, cities, building, etc etc.
  
  Sound... Not much here, sounds very good, nothing wrong. Has a few good sounds for things such 
 as bailing out, car honking, and the like. Not much to say here. The sounds is good.
  
  Value... The game rocks, its one of the best in its series. THUG and THUG2 were good. I remember 
 when I got my first Tony Hawk game. I got Tony Hawk Proskater 4, and I never thought it would get 
 as good as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  im a big tony hawks fan and ive played every game to death so when i heard about the "no loading 
 times" and one big city to explore ads on tv i was excited, i loved THUG 2 and thought it was the 
 best hawk game since pro skater 4 and thought this would improve upon it greatly.
  that said i was pretty dissapointed.
  the area isnt a big san andreas sandbox style games its 
 a series of enclosed areas which you move through tunnels to get between and overall its too cramped 
 in places to pull off tricks ,which isnt helped by the new 360 controller design.
  speaking of which i really cannot stress how mutch worse it is than the ps2 version controller 
 wise. the addition of the new buttons is pretty confusing and dont really do anything but hinder 
 your spinning on vert ramps and you actually have to click the left thumbstick to go into focus, 
 now if your grinding thats jsut a dumb idea as it instantly throws yyou off balance.
  so overall out of the three versions i have played of this ,the 360 has the most control issues.
 
  story wise your a skater trying to amke it with the pros..... again, this was much more tiresome 
 this time as this is the third game in a row to use this storyline and its tiresome to say the 
 least,
  graphics wise its not that mutch of an imporvement to THUG2 in fact tony looks more like mike v 
 with hair overall its pretty to look at but a bit too much in some areas and its easy to get lost 
 sometimes.
  sound wise its nothing special theres no well known bands and overall its a lot more tame and pop-y 
 than previous games and it really is a bore, but you can play your own tracks stored on your 360 
 during gameplay so i wouldnt sweat it.
  value wise its pretty easy, it seems the difficultys been toned down for some reason and it makes 
 it that much shorter and i unlokced everything in 7 hours and 20 mins so its really just another 
 title thats able to breeze through in 3 days or less, so overall im not impressed with another 
 next gen game thats failed to impress, the tony hawks seires is great but this seems to be sqeezing 
 the franchise for all its worth, my vote is rent it or stick with THUG 2 as its really one of the 
 worst hawk games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  always liked Tony Hawk's skateboarding games, but since THUG 2, not much has changed... I've got 
 this game on the 360, & I've played it on the regular Xbox before too, & the only real differant 
 is, it's a bit shinnier, I like this game, but they really got to change it up a little... But 
 I think they've pretty much mastered gameplay for a skate boarding game... I love pulling off 5 
 million point combo's, but after that the fun is over... Thank god for online because I couldent 
 imagin this game without it... But I will say... This game is incredibly fun, but all the same... 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  THAW is better than you'd think for the 7th installment in the series. that's not enough to justify 
 spending over $20 for it. The graphics are prehistoric. But there are a few new things to make 
 it fun.
  Story Mode is self-explanatory.
  Classic mode- remember the old TH's where you'd get the screen of goals before a level and then 
 you'd try to get them? yep, this is it. unfortunately, the maps are just old ones from previous 
 TH's with a thin coat of paint.
  Online play... yep.
  
  So while it's not worth a full-blown 60 dollars, i would say go for it if you can find it used 
 for 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  I was a little disappointed in the last game, Tony Hawk's Underground 2. The reason why i don't 
 like this game was that i'm really into starting out as a rookie and gain respect and become a 
 pro like a real life story. THUG2 is a wacky game and a lot of boring and stupid stuff.
  
  Anyway, this new Tony Hawk's game is awesome, the graphics can be done a lot better, but i do like 
 the story line, the customize character, and the missions. But i really do like the online multiplayer, 
 smooth and fun, i after every game the group play online, it tends to kick u out to the menu after 
 that game. Sounds kinda stupid i think. Oh well.
  
  The Achievements in the game will take you a long time to get because, you have to find all the 
 gaps in every area in the game and beat the game at 100% too. I manage to get all the gaps thanks 
 to the FAQ in the Hints & Cheats section in the page. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: govinator07
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  first of all i would like to say that i love all the tony hawk games and how they play, im not 
 just bashin this one. now that ive said that....
  
  for a next gen game........ how shall i say this.... NOT NEXT GEN!!.... the button layout is the 
 same as it would be for like the playstation and xbox.. nothing special there and the graphics 
 are really bad for next gen it pretty much looks like the 1st gen systems..... the game itself is 
 pretty fun to play, against like your friends or family or whoever is around..... then u got xbox 
 live which is kinda the same as ur friends... nothin really that special for online. the story 
 mode isnt that great but its ok... it could use some work though because they usuall have u do 
 something for ur skate ranch like land one trick to get this cool peice and then retrieve it and 
 get it back.... and u have to like round up ur possey.... thats pretty much it..... for the gamerscore 
 points it doesnt give u alot for each... mostley like 10 or 20 each and thats it... but its pretty 
 much beat the level and then go online into a lobby in a place and u can leave then u get the points. 
 overall the game is pretty fun to play around and make some moves but after a couple hours of play 
 it gets kinda borin... so the replay value is pretty low (in my opinion) ... well thats THAW for 
 ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tribalscorpion3
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The only thing I found cool in this game was the customizations of the charactors and the classic 
 mode. Call me old school, but I like the old versions of this franchise more then the newer ones. 
 They could have added more classic levels and less newer ones. The sound tracks are also well chosen 
 and play well along with the game. An additional perk would have been to add your own tracks for 
 the 360 version from your hard drive or PC. The graphics don't stand out at all except in the classic 
 levels. They touched up a few of the reflections and what not on the classic mode, but for the 
 story line, the graphics look like they are still on the old consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRaChEt84x
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  
  This game.... was supposed to change everything in Tony Hawk history. the 
  First game to not have any loading screens in between levels on story mode . it was alot different 
 than i expected, becuase in between levels, was just a long tunnel or long straightaway that the 
 next level would be able to load when going through that area. All the levels are very good skate 
 spots, but i wish they put in some more skate spots down in OC (south of LA) , because OC has some 
 great skate spots (i live here so i know) . The story mode was a little on the bad side, only because 
 it was sooooo short. I really liked the old school story mode (when you do the goals, and you need 
 to get enough goals to unlock the next level) . Also very short, but still pretty good. This game 
 is overall fun, and if your the impaticent person, who just wants to skate, get this game and have 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_saker
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 19, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  First thing to get straight - I am a BIG fan of the Tony Hawk series, or at least I was...
  
  TH1 got we hooked, 2 was better still, with the nice PS2 graphics 3 once again raised the stakes 
 and 4 was (in my opinion) one of the best games I ever played. I managed to 100% all 4 games and 
 thought I would do the same for every TH game that ever came out.
  
  I found THUG to be a disappointment. I still 100%ed it, but it really felt like a grind... the 
 magic was definitely starting to fade, and I did not even bother to finish THUG2.
  
  THAW, however has been got me interested again. I opted for the 360 version over the nicer controls 
 of the PS2 as I wanted the achievement points, and whilst there have been times when I would have 
 dearly liked to be holding the PS2 controller rather than the XBOX one this has not detracted from 
 my enjoyment of the game.
  
  The major difference between THAW and THUG is that they finally got the story right. OK, so the 
 goals do not alway make much sense, but the story is good fun, has a sense of humour, and the way 
 that you gradually build up your skills as you get through the game keeps it interesting.
  
  Again this time I am not going to bother with 100%ing the game (900/1000 points will do for 
 me) , but if, like me, you have liked TH games in the past, but THUG did not do it for you, maybe 
 THAW will. It is worth a rental at least as the story can easily be done in a weekend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmycanuck
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 6, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk franchise had a perfect formula, and for whatever reason they completely retooled 
 it with the fourth installment and never looked back. Unfortunately that retooling didn't sit well 
 with all of the series fans, myself included. The transition from a goal-based system with a time 
 limit to a story-based system didn't go as smoothly as one might hope. 
  
  But why am I talking about something that happened 3 games ago? What does that have to do with 
 American Wasteland? 
  
  Everything.
  
  Neversoft has had 4 games to take this new formula, fix the issues that many of us have had, and 
 run with a good product. But they haven't. All they've done is put on a band-aid called "classic 
 mode," which plays like the earlier games but features fairly uninspired level design and hopelessly 
 uninteresting goals. It lacks all of the charm, variety, and intensity of the originals. 
  
  And so, the only option for a new and refreshing experience is the meat and potatoes of this 
 title, the story mode. Unfortunately it is neither new nor refreshing, and shows all the glaring 
 problems that the series has had since THPS4. The main complaint? Due to the "story," there are 
 certain challenges that must be completed to progress through the title, and if you can't get through 
 them, tough scat. The earlier games never had this sort of a problem - they understood that many 
 of ther goals were too difficult for some people to complete, so only a certain number of goals 
 needed to be completed to advance. Ever since the change, the Hawk series has been ruined for the 
 casual player. I honestly couldn't get past the firstarea due to one of these "challenges." Limiting 
 the variety of tricks I can do until someone teaches them to me doesn't help either. I've been 
 pulling off wallrides with ease since THPS2. Why I have to wait for some random to "teach me" how 
 to do something I've been doing for 6 years is beyond me.
  
  And so, gamers like myself are left with a soulless classic mode, broken online play, and the most 
 poorly thought out set of achievements to date on the 360. Unless you're a fan of the past few 
 entries, avoid this title at all costs and join me in praying that Neversoft never repeats these 
 attrocities (and in expecting that prayer to fall on deaf ears.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  To be honest, i'm disappointed with this game. Most of the Tony Hawk games have been excellent, 
 and although i'm not a skateboarder i can still appreciate a good game. American Wasteland seems 
 to be a game thats trying to capitalize on a successful series, especially the ported 360 version. 
 
  
  Graphics: ehh... not so good. suprisingly the xbox 360 version looks worse than the others.
  
 
  Gameplay: ok. the gameplay is fun and inventive at times but after 5 or 6 hours its just the same 
 stuff over and over. I don't know if it's just me, but i had a lot of bugs while playing this game. 
 
  
  Sound: The voice dubbing is terrible but the music selection is pretty good. a variety of styles 
 and artists. 
  
  Replay Value: Decent. The online play is entertaining for a little while. A bunch of different 
 modes. Classic mode and story mode, and a ton of gaps to find. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  When I first Picked up Tony Hawks American Wasteland I Was thinking My Favorite video game series 
 has its best entry yet. I was dead wrong. From The Moment I Put The Game in my PS2 to the time 
 i beat it (which is like 10 hours, because it is so short) i felt completely underwhelmed. The 
 Graphics took a huge 180 and got alot worse, the gameplay is solid yet again, but the game feels 
 as if its missing something, yet i cant put my finger on it. The soundtrack is great like always 
 with bands like Fall Out Boy, Taking Back Sunday and My Chemical Romance Covering Punk classics. 
 Im not Saying American Wasteland Is A bad game, because it isnt, but this series has gotten progressively 
 worse since THPS3. I tip my hat to neversoft, though, for yet again including a classic mode, but 
 the levels arent exactly classic, they actually feel like they should be in a wasteland ( pun intended) . 
 The Game Is A Solid Purchase for most series fans and a good rental for anyone else, just dont 
 buy the collectors edition like i did, because you dont get much for the 10 extra bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Still classic Tony Hawk fun.
  Great soundtrack.
  Xbox Live mode.
  
  Bad Idea:
  BMX mode.
  Way to easy to get through the game.
  Graphics are the same as the 
 current gen versions out there.
  
  Overall:
  A fun game but not a next-gen game and not worth the $59 at all! I'd wait until you see this in 
 the bargain bin for sure.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  I'm a big THPS/THUG fan. I must say, this is not a great game. I'm not going to write a full blown 
 review on this since it's really just another part of the series. I'm going to break it down on 
 why I gave the ratings I did to give my overall score. Simple as that.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's standard Tony Hawk. You can't really go wrong with the arcade-style controls and gameplay. 
 Basic everything. I gave it a 7 because of the stupid BMX mode. That mode really, really sucks. 
 The game ends at a good point, because around that time you just feel like ending the game. Not 
 that that's a bad thing since Tony Hawk is mainly an arcade-like game, not a really deep game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  These are not... not... next generation graphics. They're yesterdays graphics. The thing I do like 
 is how big the worlds are now and how it keeps a steady framerate while going through all of these 
 levels. The main story level though is actually amazingly big.
  
  Sounds:
  I loved the soundtrack. A lot of 70s/80s/early 90s punk covers by bands of today such as Taking 
 Back Sunday, My Chemical Romance, Thrice, and any other popular emo style band. What's wrong with 
 that!? The thing I just thought was in need of improvement is the sound banks. The same sounds 
 are from every other Tony Hawk game. The voice acting makes up for some of the sound error.
  
  Value:
  This is where the game shines. The multiplayer is all there and looks good. Plus, 
 online mode will keep you coming back. The achievement points are simple to get and you can get 
 all of them in less than a day. So if you want to get 1000 points today, go get this game. If you 
 want to skateboard, go buy THUG for now. This one will have to go down in price before I recommend 
 it.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  Violence:
  You can fall down, bust your face, and bleed (yet it will disapper) . 
  You can get ran over by cars.
  
  Sexuality:
  None.
  
  Language:
  A few minor words 
 in story mode but the language mainly comes from the music, which you can turn the songs off that 
 have language.
  
  Substance Use:
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are bland, no usage on th power for the 360, the game looks 90% of the original 
 X-BOx version, the only differences a iust a little better resolution and the lousy widescreen presantation, animations 
 are also not good, they should start the animations from scratch instead of taking them from past 
 tony hawk games and make like only 4 new ones each game.
  
  Sound: the sounds are better then the graphics, the board sounds different on the type of ground 
 you are rolling on but when grinding, i notice that theres like one sound that they loop until you 
 stop grinding. Well I havent heard the music in this game cause i use my custom music, but i have 
 a felling that the music is good cause i like it in past tony hawk games.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is like the 2 undergrounds game, so i mean that it is repetive, one mission 
 could be done like in 5 seconds then otheres like in 5 minutes cause of the average level design. Multiplayer 
 is fun, I beat everyone but i had fun, the franchise is going down really slowly, i dont want them 
 to go down hill but they are, they need to dazzle us.
  
  Overall: This Game Was A Letdown, dont buy it, rent it to get some really easy achievement points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan0187
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  First offthis is not a next-gen title so I dont recommend it for 360 . If you do decide to buy 
 it for 360, at least wait for the price to drop down, because sixty dollars is definitely not worth 
 this game. Yes, some cool new features were added, including focus, and like the nada spin and 
 the bike, but should you really care? On top of the crazy storyline, and some goals literally taking 
 about 3 seconds to complete, this game should only take you about 6-10 hours to complete, should 
 you decide to play it that long. Basically, if you buy this, buy it for another system. I would 
 have to agree with other gamers in that this is probably one of the worst launch games for the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Fun gameplay and a decent create a character. Better graphics than the previous Tony Hawk games. 
 A pretty cool soundtrack featuring Taking Back Sunday, My Chemical Romance, and more. Online play. 
 Big maps to skate on.
  
  Cons:
  Dirt-easy story mode. You can run through it in less than half-a-day. Really ugly graphics up close. 
 Terrible BMX controls. The BMX mode should have just been left out since it was just as bad as 
 the Mat Hoffman series.
  
  Overall:
  A fun game but not a next-gen game and not worth the $59 at all! I'd wait until you see this in 
 the bargain bin for sure.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I'm 
 a big THPS/THUG fan. I must say, this is not a great game. I'm not going to write a full blown 
 review on this since it's really just another part of the series. I'm going to break it down on 
 why I gave the ratings I did to give my overall score. Simple as that.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's standard Tony Hawk. You can't really go wrong with the arcade-style controls and gameplay. 
 Basic everything. I gave it a 7 because of the stupid BMX mode. That mode really, really sucks. 
 The game ends at a good point, because around that time you just feel like ending the game. Not 
 that that's a bad thing since Tony Hawk is mainly an arcade-like game, not a really deep game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  These are not... NOT... next generation graphics. They're yesterdays graphics. The thing I do like 
 is how big the worlds are now and how it keeps a steady framerate while going through all of these 
 levels. The main story level though is actually amazingly big.
  
  Sounds:
  I loved the soundtrack. Remakes of old punk songs. What's wrong with that!? The thing I just thought 
 was in need of improvement is the soundbanks. The same sounds are from every other Tony Hawk game. 
 The voice acting makes up for some of the sound error.
  
  Value:
  This is where the game shines. The multiplayer is all there and looks good. Plus, online mode will 
 keep you coming back. The achievement points are simple to get and you can get all of them in less 
 than a day. So if you want to get 1000 points today, go get this game. If you want to skateboard, 
 go buy THUG for now. This one will have to go down in price before I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aman27deep
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Tony hawk, the name we all know, has done well even before (like GBA, PS2. PS, GBC) but when it comes 
 to X-box 360, it's damn poor.
  
  After u play the game u'll say, ahmnmm ,y did i purchase the game??????
  its auctually the same 
 game as on the PS2 but the same graphics.....
  X-box 360 is known for its better graphics n all, but after u'll play this game u'll think that 
 some dollars r simply wasted..
  the graphics r much of the same as on the PS2.
  N i'll say purchase the Game on the PS2 than buyin' it on a much costly platform LIKE X-BOX 36o.
 
  
  ""DONT BUT THE# GAME#"" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofaninja
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks American Wasteland is the 7th Incarnation of the famous skateboarding game following 
 on from the Pro Skater and Underground versions. This is also the first next gen TH game so it 
 should be a big step for the series.
  The main game follows you as a player made character who basically ditches their previous life 
 to move to LA and become a skate board pro like all your childhood heroes. However upon arrival 
 you get beat up by a couple of thugs and lose all your possesion meaning you have to start from 
 scratch. Luckily you meet a friendly local, Mindy who shows you the ropes and before long your 
 on your way to becoming a pro skater. One of the main themes in the game is collecting pieces from 
 around the city to add to your own park but its a little linear and becomes wearsome after a while. 
 One of the big marketing ploys behind this game was the whole no loading times business. Its true 
 that there are no loading times between the areas but instead you must travel through a boring 
 un-detailed tunnel/corridor which takes a good 30 secs to get between the areas. Its really a bit 
 of a scam. 
  Anyways lets look at the gameplay. Anyone whos played the previous hawks game should feel right 
 at home. I'm not gonna bother going over the basics because about 99% of gamers have probably played 
 a TH game somewhere along the line. But theres still spinning, grabbing, flipping, lipping, grinding, 
 manualling, run, climbing, wallriding, focusing, specialling, natas.. ing and of course bailing 
 and then freaking out. I actually really like the freaking out feature because its a really good 
 form of stress relief, smashing that Y button. Aside from all the other stuff there is now parkour 
 moves which are just standing flips. There are also proper flips in spins (aka back and front flips/rolls) . 
 The focus mode returns which is bullet time to everyone who hasn't played THUG 2. Uhmm apart from 
 that there are a few new grinds and specials but thats it.
  Aside from the short main story there is also the classic mode which allows the player to play 
 through 6 old and new levels doing things like High score and SKATE collecting, but its too easy 
 that it'll last you possibly 3 hours. The multiplayer is also still the same including favourites 
 such as trick attack, tag, graffiti and HORSE. You can also go on XBOX LIVE and play across the 
 globe if you want, but some people are really good. I saw a guy get 34 million in trick attack... he 
 won that one. uhh apart from that you can gaps on all the levels but that take time but is fun... well 
 i thought it was.
  The game is the firts next gen TH so i bet your expecting some smooth graphics and nice detail... ha 
 not a chance. the models are slightly smoother but it just means you can see the folds in the character 
 models. Aside from that your paying out 20 more or $25 more for a blatent PS and XBOX port. The 
 Music is good however with a nice mix of genre however much of it is punk. Some songs aren't that 
 good (c'mon a song called 'I like Dirt' just can't be good) but it doesn't matter. The character 
 voices are fine, just standard ones, nought great.
  Lifespan. the stroy mode and Calssic modes could take up a good 10 hours if your quick. Multiplayer 
 may hold hold your attention for a few more hours but it becomes repetitive quickly. So unless 
 you want to play through stroy again or collect all the gaps thats it.
  Problems... collision detection is off.
  The controls are flimsy
  There aren't enough charcter 
 modifications... you either look stupid or boring.
  Its the most unrealistic game ever.
  The cut scenes are lame.
  
  Its a fun game but you've seen it all before and its lame for a 
 next gen console. Get real Neversoft and actually try and be original and put a bit more effort 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VilTeCh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the value. $60 buckes for this game that does not even meet 360 requirements? I surely 
 would not pay $60.
  
  The sound is alright, it doesnt bother me.
  
  Graphics suck. The edges are all riggidy and not smooth.
  
  Gameplay is easy. I love the story 
 mode and how big the places are. Challenges are too easy. Classic mode is getting boring.
  
  I really think you should get the Playstation 2 version of the game if you have a Playstation 
 2 instead of the 360 version. The only benifit from the 360 version is the live online play. But, 
 PS2 has that too, I just think the 360's is better. But overall, I would get the PS2 version.
 
  
  Hope this helped =] .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites of the year. I love everything about it. From Hollywood to Beverly 
 Hills all the way to Dogtown. You won't have any problem at all beating it but you will do so many 
 times. You'll never get bored and you should never get stuck.
  The graphics on this game are best on the X-Box 360 console and online play is awesome. The achievements 
 are simple and multiplayer is so cool. I have always been a fan of Tony Hawk games ever since the 
 first two games came out on the Nintendo 64. Then the next 2 Pro Skaters on the Gamecube and so 
 on and so forth. This game also has a classic mode with difficulty levels normal, and sick along 
 with many unlockable characters.
  Buy this game. You will get hooked. You will finish. And last but not least, you will enjoy it. 
 Save the Skate Ranch and party until dawn.
  My favorite level is The Vans Park. My favorite multiplayer mode is horse.
  Play it.
  Beat 
 it on easy, normal and sick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randomnessdoom
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Ok I liked this game for 6 reasons 1. It had an amazing punk soundtrack wiht songs from Dead kennedys, Misfits, Iggy 
 and the stooges. 2 U can get off ur board and go around hitting people with it. Me and my buddy 
 spent 4 hours running around hitting people wiht our boards. the story line is actually half decent. Yeah 
 the tony hawk game line after like 12 installments of the same basic game is really really really 
 really super old and boreing and ur thinking why doesnt the people who make these games just didnt 
 stop while they were ahead aka. tony hawk 3. Is really a mystery for the ages.
  However tthis game is good for what it is i could just sit around for 3 hours listening to the 
 games soundtrack. all in all if your a diehard fan buy this when it goes in the cheap bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdPizzaKid111
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I am a HUGE fan of the Tony Hawk games, I love all of them. I was really excited to get THAW because 
 it looked like it had awesome graphics, gameplay, and storyline. I was sort of right. First off, 
 the music and audio is great! They have many types of music that plays, nice sound FX, and the 
 voice acting is spot on! On the other hand... the graphics lack what the 360 is capable of. Don't 
 get me wrong, the graphics are good, but if you ask me, they look the same on any other system. 
 I was kind of dissapointed with the graphics, I was expecting really great realistic character 
 models, and just everything pumped up to the max of the 360's power. One really nice thing is, 
 the water looks very real and has nice FX. The story is pretty good, and it had a different style 
 than the underground games. The controls are awesome, but I constantly find myself looking at how 
 to do certain tricks on the menu. Overall, THAW is a good game, but it doesn't fulfill its potential. 
 
  
  Note: This game isn't really worth 60$, I got it on eBay brand new for 36$, so I would look there 
 first ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFT8
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  they let me down: ( big time!!!!!! i liked all the games that came on ps2 and i thinked "yeah of 
 course the xbox 360 version is gonna be better" BUT no it isnt!! you all should rather (if u have 
 ps2) buy the ps2 version! its cheaper and allmost better! if u have HD-TV the xbox version is better! but 
 like me if u dont have HD-TV ull be better of with the ps2 version!! i run trough the game in 3 
 days!!!! that says something!!!!!!!! no dont buy this game but if u have HD its a better choise than 
 the ps2 version! i think u all should look away from this game and be better of with the ps2 version! cheaper 
 and allmost better! this game hasnt that much in it! like decks and hair and stuff like that! look 
 away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Played a Tony Hawk game before? Great! Well, you can play this one and have zero surprises or avoid 
 it and die happily knowing you stopped playing these games at their peak. THAW isn't a bad game 
 at all, but the formula has long dried up and even the core (or classic) gameplay isn't all that 
 fun anymore.
  
  I found myself skipping through the cut scenes for the 'story' missions before I was even an hour 
 into it.... They are that inane. Besides a few new manuevers here and there, this is the same as 
 THUG 1 and/or 2... and it's basically the same games as before only with a story mode attached.
 
  I would be fine w/ dealing with some trite missions here or there, but most of them are mind numbingly 
 simple... And then inexplicably jump to nigh impossible later in the game. So hard, in fact, that 
 I had to enable some cheat codes to get through them. Not because I couldn't do them, but I really 
 just wanted to get the game over with.
  
  Another one of my gripes is how they have lauded this game to be one big city with no load screens 
 and whatever else... It's all total BS. You have to skate down corridors for like a minute between 
 'zones' and the whole game is laid out in a line, basically. It's a step in the right direction, 
 at least...
  
  Graphics are crap for the 360. They are downright ugly in most spots, and never get close to impressing. 
 Ironically, the level that looks the best is in classic mode...
  
  Sound is pretty lame, aside from the same grunts you'll hear 1954194857145 times before you're 
 done, the soundtrack is pretty bad. About every generic 'punk' band you can think of is on here, 
 and there are plenty of covers which do nothing but disgrace everyone associated (with a few exceptions) .
 
  
  Controls are the same. They're fine, but they're old... Too old. Not interesting at all. Riding 
 the bike takes some getting used to, but doesn't seem as polished as it could have been... Oh, and 
 by the way... A bike? What's the deal with that?
  
  Bottom line: If you want an 'extreme sports game' for your 360, Amped 3 is infinitely more interesting 
 and enjoyable. If you've played Tony Hawk games before you could probably pass it up unless you're 
 a die hard fan... and if you haven't played the series before, start with another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reymundo514
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Just like the rest of Tony Hawk's games, American Wasteland is the same as its predecessors with 
 a few new moves and features thrown in; the most significant addition being Story Mode. In Story 
 Mode, you start the game as a kid from the Midwest who just arrived by bus in LA. You then spend 
 the rest of the game trying to hone your skills and prove yourself to the local skater elite. The 
 story can be a little corny at times, especially when you're asked to demolish a building by doing 
 a "killer lip trick on it." Apparently metal bends and concrete crumbs when used in a sick combo. 
 But overall Its a nice change of pace from the goal driven model used in the previous Tony Hawk 
 games. If you liked the older versions though, then you'll be happy to hear that American Wasteland 
 also boasts Classic Mode with such familiar goals as "Collect S-K-A-T-E" and even some of your 
 favorite levels like "Minneapolis" and "Chicago" from Tony Hawk 4.
  
  American Wasteland also introduces the ability to personalize your character during the game. In 
 each area there are side missions that will earn you cash which you can spend at a few different 
 shops. You can buy some new clothes, get a tattoo or hair cut or modify your board. This allows 
 you to play the game as yourself instead of one of the pros or as some predefined, cookie-cutter 
 skater.
  
  Like the previous Tony Hawk games, there is a steep learning curve for those not already familiar 
 with the games. Noobs will find themselves resorting to frantic button mashing and praying that 
 they land with their board straight but Tony Hawk veterans should have little trouble adding the 
 few new tricks to their arsenal.
  
  There was a little bit of hype around Neversoft's claim that there are no loading screens in the 
 whole game. While this is technically true there are a few places where they sneak in a little 
 loading and hope you don't notice. For example, there are long simple tunnels that connect each 
 area. Now the game never stops and says "Loading ..." but the games is definitely using the time 
 it takes you to skate through this tunnel to load the next area. You also have the option to take 
 the bus from one area to another. The game lets you walk around the bus for a few seconds under 
 the pretense of simulating the ride to the next area but ts really loading. So the the claim that 
 there are no loading screens is kind of a half truth.
  
  in conclusion, American Wasteland is a must play for long-time Tony Hawk fans. Gamers new to the 
 series or those who just never got the hang of the older games may find themselves ripping their 
 hair out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland (THAW) is a fun game, but if you're a Tony Hawk veteran, then you 
 won't find anything all that new.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is really the same as before. The idea of skateshop challenges for stat increases is somewhat 
 fun and the "no load times" gimmick is fairly well done.
  
  Graphics:
  Wow, is this really an XBox 360 game? You would have thought Neversoft and Activision would have 
 put a little more time into making it look more "pretty" than this. I was so underwhelmed it was 
 disappointing.
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack is above average, and the classic "thud" sound when you smack the pavement is nice.
 
  
  Value:
  If you already have the XBox version, there's no point in getting this one, especially for the 
 extra $10. However, if you're like me and need a Tony Hawk fix, you may want to get it just to 
 say you have it.
  
  Tilt:
  I had to give a high score for this particular category simply because I've loved the Tony Hawk 
 series for years. I can't stand skateboarding in real life, but I can't stay away from it in the 
 digital realm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  the graphics are better than ever before. The new moves make it look like a skater's international 
 dictionary of tricks. But a short single-player will make Tony Hawk fans disappointed. But yet 
 again happy when they find out the updated create-a-park, -skater, and -goals. Challenge yourself 
 on a free skate/ high score run. Classic mode will bring you back to the old days. But when you 
 start the Story, you'll think it won't be as good as THUG. You'll think it's a remake of THUG. 
 But you're wrong. It's way different. Visit shops, do challenges to upgrade stats, or make some 
 cash to visit some of those shops by accepting goals by bums or taggers. By far, a great game. 
 From a disappointing THUG 2, to a game with great attributes. The soundtrack will not make you 
 as much of a happy camper as THUG 2 but custom soundtracks are available!! Hopefully my review 
 helps.
  Final- 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beranome
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was not very good for a lot of reasons. One thing why it was so bad was that it is the 
 same as all the other six Tony Hawk games. It wasn't the most fun game of the series because it 
 was so short. I mean after making seven games you'd think that they would add a lot more onto the 
 game or at least change the way it is played. Like to get some of the pieces for the ranch you 
 would acid drop off it I mean what would that do in real life. It is not very realistic and it 
 repeats the same thing over and over again in every game. Truly I thought that this game was one 
 of the worst Tony Hawk games of the series and if they make another, one they better change something 
 about. If they don't change it at all I suggest that Neversoft doesn't even make another Tony Hawk 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Targett
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  For those who missed out on the series and are curious what Wasteland tastes like, you say goodbye 
 to x-games caliber skateboarding - where the laws of gravity apply - and say hello to 50 trick 
 combo lines. Of most similarly styled games such as the Tony Hawk series, Tony has always been 
 the benchmark of level design, and Wasteland is no different. Dont be quick to dismiss the lack 
 of creativity in the layout of rails and ramps, this game needs you to invest some time first to 
 discover the clever connection of rails and ramps. What might seem like a wasted jungle of bars 
 and wood at first, soon becomes an intrinsic masterpiece that can be used to string together million 
 point combos. And take it from me, the Whos your Daddy sense of gratification from landing your 
 first millionaire combo is breathtaking to say the least. 
  
  On a visual scale Wasteland doesnt stack up to games such as Halo, or in this case what is to 
 be Halo 3. considering its a multiplatform game it gets the job done. The framerate runs smooth 
 yet the game is plagued by a handful of small glitches that tend to get in the way, and it certainly 
 doesn't showcase what the 360 is capable of.
  
  Youll spend most of your time in the expansive single player story mode but if you long for the 
 classic styles that the earlier series brought forth, there is always mode to contend with. Its 
 ultimately two games in one, plus your online multiplayer. So gamers wont get ripped off when 
 looking for a good deal, but you might want to broaden your tastes if you were getting tired when 
 the T. H. U. G. series rolled out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is the 7th entry in the tony hawk series.
  
  The game is great Gameplay Wise
  U skate around this massive city collecting parts for this skatepark 
 called Skateranch. The City is big, but the level design is really questionable.
  
  Graphics wise
  its ok
  for a current gen-console
  For an XBOX 360 these graphics look alittle 
 too PS2 for a Next-Gen
  
  Sound
  The Sound track for the game is great, atleast for this game because the tracks suit the game. 
 
  
  Value
  The game aint that long. It will last u about 3-5 Hours. But it features a good Replay value. So 
 expect it to play it over and over again.
  
  Tilt
  Good Tilt
  
  7.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volcom12
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  well it is such a rip off becuz dont u want ot see good graphics on the 360 and u are expecting 
 good graphics for the 360 well these graphics on american waste land for the 360 suck there the 
 same **** graphics on the xbox american waste land why spend 60 dollars for thi sgame when u can 
 get a game for 60 dollars that have better graphics and the game play sucks u get bored of the 
 levels and there is alot of glicths. the voice overs suck and the story mode sucks if u are a person 
 that likes skating still this is not a game for u. just a rental just want till it gos down price 
 then buy it but i am warning u that it is not worth the price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuddlesTheBunny
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Tony Hawk game I've played since 3. They've made so many in so little time I 
 just got bored of them. So once I got my 360 I decided to try it out. My first impression was that 
 the story mode was pretty cool. I know I've missed out with the undergrounds and all that, but 
 I thought the game had a good sense of humor. Some of it was kinda stupid, like sketching a dog 
 but it was still fun. It takes about a couple of hours to beat the game.
  
  So once you finish the single player what else is there to do? First off the old school classic 
 mode is back. With some original levels which I love dearly. Theres a total of 60 objectives with 
 the "get the tape" and "high score" kind of stuff. That'll maybe take you more time trying to beat 
 them all. After you do that theres the online modes. This is the most disapointing part. Its just 
 you skating with your friends doing those gametypes that you like to do. Sure its fun for a while 
 but theres no leaderboards or stats that come with it. So it gets pretty boring after a while. 
 In my opinion this game is still worth at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I always liked Tony Hawk's skateboarding games, but since THUG 2, not much has changed... I've 
 got this game on the 360, & I've played it on the regular Xbox before too, & the only real differant 
 is, it's a bit shinnier, I like this game, but they really got to change it up a little... But 
 I think they've pretty much mastered gameplay for a skate boarding game... I love pulling off 5 
 million point combo's, but after that the fun is over... Thank god for online because I couldent 
 imagin this game without it... But I will say... This game is incredibly fun, but all the same... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo786
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok my mate got me this game as a new years present i was like cool. So i decided to play it and 
 was soo amazed out how bad the graphics were the gameplay hasnt been changed sinch tony hawks underground. 
 The music is soo horrible (luckily i could play my own music :P) i was so dissapointed i felt like 
 throwing this game out the window. Than a couple of days later i tried to test it out on live and 
 what do i get? A guy in a panasuit jumping up and down on a skate board a girl that was amazed 
 saying how do u do that and a bunch of fool who hit u off ur skate board. The story mode has no 
 sense doing tricks and getting items so u can build a skate park whats the point i ask. So i traded 
 this poor game in put in a bit fof quid and got myself kameo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is the 7th game in the Tony Hawk series Developed by Neversoft and 
 published by Activision. Let me say I'm glad they took it away from doing idiotic goals like in 
 Underground 1 & 2. The story takes place in various places in Los Angeles, where skateboarding 
 has a lot of history. 
  
  The graphics aren't that great considering the Xbox 360 version isn't that much diffrent from the 
 PS2, Xbox and Gamecube versions except maybe a little more sharpness. If you play the game in HD 
 the cut-scenes look worse then they do in Standard definition. 
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, its a ok online wise. You can have up to 8 people in a party on Xbox 
 live. Theres various gametypes like Trick Attack, Elimiskate, Firefight, Graffiti, etc. 
  
  Overall Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is a good pick up and play game and good for people who 
 haven't played the other 6 games, but if you have it might seem that the game is extremely easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Simply put it's the best TH game since THUG. I mean there are so many tricks 
 and so many different ways to go old school now. The soundtrack is also super cool with some of 
 the best and funniest dsongs I've ever heard. I think that the story line is pretty fun and addicting 
 once you sit down. While it may take a day or two, too beat the story mode it's still a great thing 
 to just have fun with. I personally beat sick story in a day and it was just fun so if you're a 
 skater looking for a good game to just toy around with then I would seriously suggest this title 
 for you. Online play is even better because you can play with all your freinds and show off gaps 
 or tricks or watever. This game also offers some seriously short and easy to achieve achievements, 
 I got all of them in one day except for the 100% which I only need about 17 more gaps to achieve. 
 So I say go out and pick this title up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikingPhil
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very bad. Should not of put this on the launch lineup. It doesnt represent the Xbox 
 360s graphic capabilities. The graphics look like an original Xbox game. If you are looking for 
 a game that will amaze you with its incredible graphics then dont buy Tony Hawks American Wasteland. 
 This game is not worth the 60 dollars either. It probably takes about 2-3 hours to beat. This game 
 is not even worth renting. The soundtrack for this game is also very pitiful. There is only one 
 song on the soundtrack that I recognize. That would be Holiday by Green Day. I am surprised Activision 
 would actually put this game out for the Xbox 360 but they redeemed themselves by putting out Call 
 of Duty 2. The online play for this game is also a disgrace. You can play classic Tony Hawk multiplayer 
 games but if you try to sign on no one ever shows up in the lobby. So you have to forget about 
 multiplayer free roam. If you are interested in these kind of games then you should rent this game 
 first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnLiMiTeD801
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This is suppost to be for the 360 looks like the xbox. This game is the same as the xbox version 
 with terribal graphics comon this is NOT nex gen graphics. The game can be fun and there is cool 
 things to do but why. Why would they put this on the 360 maby make the graphics better as well 
 as the gameplay but no. There just trying to make a quick buck putting this on the 360 look at 
 Kameo or Condemmed and the graphics, game and sound are not even close. This game does not belong 
 on the 360 unless it went through a major overhall. This game deserves to be in a wasteland. This 
 game could have been really good but no effort equils no good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rojo213
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game could of been the first really cool skateboarding game since the first few Tony Hawk's 
 games for Playstation. I was really pissed that Activision didn't bother to tune up the graphics 
 a lot more for the 360. Not only do the graphics blow, but the price is next gen so be prepared 
 to shell out 60 bucks for this half baked skateboarding title for 360. Even on my friends HD TV 
 it still is just a shiny version of the non-HD version. The good parts are the soundtrack, the 
 lack of load times and the still solid skating mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargasm666
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  I really dont even know where to start with this game. There are so many things wrong it would 
 take me a week to get all of them listed so Ill keep it basic. The reason this was made for the 
 360 is a complete mystery to me because it looks horrible. Its only prettied up because it is 
 being run in high-definition. Granted, this does look a lot better then previous versions of the 
 Tony Hawk series but that isnt saying much. The series has never been one to gloat over for graphics. 
 The first 3 versions in the series (IMO) were great games with a lot of fun to be had. Once the 
 story elements started kicking in then it got kind of lame. 
  
  Back to this version,
  
  I really dont have much I can say about this game other then if you MUST play itRENT IT! 
 It just is not that good of a game. On a plus side, some of the glitches in the character scenes 
 were pretty funny. 
  
  I can say the skating still feels solid and theres a TON of things you can do. Some of the lines 
 you can get borderline pure insanity and are sweet if you manage to land them but still, theres 
 just something about the game that really bombed in my eyes.
  
  Just my opinion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was a let-down yet at the same time a enjoyment. Some people may say this game is "garbage" 
 but i disagree with those people. Ok now on to the review.
  
  ---------Tony Hawk's American Wasteland ------------------
  
  You are a student around 18 or 
 19 in the 90's wishing to become a star of skating with boards. On the way to stardom you will 
 encounter many friends and foes. Iggy VanZandt is actually a real person. Green Pipes Point is 
 real. Most everything in this game is real. 'Cept for the map of "east L. A.".
  You must win the AM-JAM learn the ways of special and focus and become enlightened. Young boarder. 
 Over-all this game is O. K. but still it seemed more of a let down than more of a enjoyment. Now 
 TH series has --ONLINE! now you can challenge your friends via XBL! the classic more is still a 
 bit iffy like THUG.2 but over all this game is good. classic mode is ok. Online rocks. single player 
 is luke warm.
  
  ------------------------T=for children ages 13 and  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Do you remember the feeling you got when you first saw the loop ramp with the bull in a previous 
 Tony Hawk? That was a skating game. Mostly skating, mastering tricks and high airs. It even had 
 good content for the street skater. What the new Tony Hawks have come down to is tryin to make 
 a cheesy adventure game out of a skating game. The character customization is really cool. You 
 can get a look you want down to hair color of your choice. After that the game starts to get boring. 
 The missions are bland and there isnt enough competition skating. Remember how much fun it was 
 to get medals in the previous Tony Hawks? I would of rather seen a port of earlier Tony Hawks than 
 this game. Controls are sloppier than previous Tony Hawks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well the Tony Hawks franchise has been out for quite a long time now, so gameplay has adapted as 
 well as the graphics, the story mode has changed a lot from the old games although the old Classic 
 mode is avaliable in this game. The graphics dont really look that great thats because when ported 
 to the xbox 360 activision didnt really work on the graphics so its just pretty standard original 
 xbox graphics. But they still look pretty good and clear just not impressive.
  
  Well the story is pretty simple but its done pretty well, however the story mode seems a little 
 too easy in most cases. Like its almost impossible to not know where to go next, or what to do 
 next. If you have to do a certain trick next to or over a certain thing it will just plonk you 
 directly in front of the thing and just just bust out the combo that it says on the screen which 
 is normally something really simple like B +  .... Or whatever its asking for.
  But this game is still great fun and even though a lot of it is easy its still enjoyable and worth 
 checking out, especially if your a fan of the old games in the series or just a skater fan looking 
 for a new game.
  
  The sound mostly offers Punk / Rock with a small amount of Hip Hop in its soundtrack although some 
 of these consist of some well know names such as "My Chemical Romance", "Green Day", "Fall out 
 Boy" and other bands. But if this soundtrack doesnt impress you that much or if you just dont like 
 that kind of music, thankfully the Xbox 360 offers custom soundtrack to every game. Just press 
 the guide button and select your music that you burnt to your Hardrive earlier. A simple but good 
 feature, makes it all the better.
  
  The game doesnt really offer that much the story mode is shortish and easyish but some of the challenges 
 in classic mode offer a bit more of a challenge and can add a bit more time to the game. Online 
 mode is pretty cool too, most of the people playing seem friendly too so thats always a good thing.
 
  
  From playing A Lot of games in the past and other Tony Hawks games this is a good adition to the 
 series which can be enjoyed a lot. I would reccomend it to anyone wanting to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I wont go on explaining about this game. All there is to know is that there is a story mode wich 
 is way better than THUG2 and all the other modes such as classic mode, park editor, and create 
 a skater. There is also online and overall the game is pretty good ...................... IF IT 
 WAS FOR PS2. WTF Activision! If the trend of porting games direcly onto Xbox 360 deosn't stop there 
 will never be inovation! The graphics are look like **** seriously. I bought this game because 
 I have always played TH games and this one has great potentail but nothing was changed from the 
 PS2 or Xbox versions and it cost $10 more. So unless you really....... really like Tony Hawk games 
 stay clear from this, or buy it for a current gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloMaster21
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  THAW is a good game for tony hawk fans, but, I think people who have never played any Tony Hawk 
 game would appreciate it more. 
  
  The classic mode is wayyyy too short. Only six levels! I beat it in sick (100%) in about twenty 
 five minutes. Not challenging enough, not innovative enough in the classic mode. Still, collect 
 donuts, Natas spin 3 fire hydrants. SiCk score of 600,000 on the last level (in normal) . Come on, 
 i can do that in one combo with ease. This mode was what I was most looking foreward to, and it 
 was over before it started.
  
  Story mode is cool... but EASY. "Hey dude, since u r sooo cool, im gonna like show you how to manual." 
 MMyeah, thanks buddy. "Ohhh dude ur so killer. Come here and ill show you how to spine transfer." 
 Now it may seem logical to teach people how to do everything, but it lasts for a good portion of 
 the game. You dont even get special until about 30-40% through the game. The overall mission of 
 THAW is to pimp out this guys skatepark for him since he has treated the skaters with such respect 
 over the years. You get things such as Huge Dino Heads, Gas Station signs, Awnings. You have to 
 do missions to get these (easy missions) , and then when you go back to the park, your friends set 
 up the pieces and you have to score points on them to prove that they are a good addition to the 
 park (They ask you to score like 2000 points most of the time) . The story continues on like this, 
 but strangely, I had fun with it.
  
  The soundtrack is very very good if you are in to punk and stuff, or a previous tony hawk soundtrack 
 fan. This soundtrack does go a little more underground than previous soundtracks, but I enjoyed 
 it. It plays through Tony Hawk's Sirius Sattalite Radio channel, and he chimes in to talk every 
 once in a while. It is kinda cool how Sirius sponsored it since tony hawk really does have his 
 own show on Faction 28 on Sirius (If you love music, and are thinking about satalite radio, Sirius 
 is the way to go ;) .)
  
  Overall, I would give it about a 7, just because of the graphical flaws, short story, and easy 
 difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games where you wonder why they even made an Xbox 360 version. Almost everyone 
 knows that this game is simply a "port" of the xbox version and so the graphics are terrible. The 
 characters look really bad. At times it looks like they're zombies because their eyes seem to be 
 rolling back in their heads. 
  
  The control is terrible. Sometimes you will simply fall over for now reason. Also when you end 
 up "skitching" (grabbing onto a vehicle to gain speed, etc.) when you don't want to. To skitch 
 you simply press forward on the directional stick. You can then imagine the problems. You'll be 
 pressing forward skating in one direction and a car will come past you going in the opposite direction. 
 You will then (even if you don't want to) start "skitching" off the car. This can get very annoying.
 
  
  Many of the puzzles in this game are simply boring. I've read many reviews saying that the story 
 is great. Maybe you have to a some hardcore skater to enjoy the story. I simply found it to be 
 lame.
  
  The one positive thing is the soundtrack. If your into rock or punk the soundtrack it great. I 
 wouldn't recommend buying the game simply for that though. You can just go buy the Soundtrack at 
 a music store. 
  
  There's seems to be a few options for online play, but I hated the game too much to actually try 
 it.
  
  There is also the "classic" mode which is as it's name states: classic. If you enjoyed the classic 
 Tony Hawk you'll probably like this.
  
  Rent this game first to see if you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  "American Wasteland on the 360 runs in a high-enough resolution to show off every single ugly little 
 flaw that isn't as apparent in other versions of this otherwise-decent skateboarding game."
  -Gamespot
  
  If this is what gamespot wants to base their review on, then they can go ahead. 
 HOWEVER, there is no reason to give Tony Hawk's American Wasteland a 6.6, because this is entirely 
 not true and definitely not an overwhelming flaw. This game takes Tony Hawk and boosts it up to 
 a new level. I have seen the graphics for this game on PS2 and they are significantly better on 
 the 360. Also, the new Story Mode in THAW is very interesting and has lasting appeal, taking you 
 from a noobie during the roots of skating in L. A., California, to somewhat of a legend as the story 
 mode draws to a closure. This game has been severly underrated by many gaming sites because of 
 slight flaws, but it has all that you would expect from Tony Hawk and even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 7, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is alright but not the greatest xbox 360 game you'll find, I made a mistake by buying 
 it for the 360. This game just gets boring right away the story is okay I guess but the thing I 
 really hated about the game was the stupid comic cutscenes, those scenes annoy me. I find them 
 just plain cheezie yeah it's new to the Tony Hawk gemes but it's just dumb I didn't like it at 
 all and I bought this peice of crap game, it blows and I really wish I could return it but I can't 
 because the recept's missing. The free roaming is bull and crappy, you can totally tell it's loading 
 when you have to run to a new location and it get's boring running back and forth. So if you like 
 skating games you'll probably like this game or if you hate games that get really boring skating 
 the same spots grinding the same old rails and doing the same fliptricks over and over again. Don't 
 buy it because I made a huge mistake and bought the peice of $ I recommend renting it first, 
 I should have, now I regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_v12
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I have played and passed every single Tony Hawk game there has been and THAW was a bit of a disappointment 
 to me. I did enjoy playing the game alot, just like i enjoyed all of them. But it seriously did 
 feel like every single mission was just handed to me with instructions... made things a little 
 easier but even playing on Sick mode it got kinda boring and annoying. The Bike thing didnt impress 
 me much either. The online multiplayer thru Xbox live was fun but lacked the consistency of playing 
 with people that are at your level. I really liked the new moves they added to THAW but the only 
 times i really used them was in the missions where i was required to use them... Overall the game 
 was ok, but left me with an empty feeling that im pretty sure TH fans will identify with. The fact 
 that I only played the game for less than two days and i had already completed the sick story mode 
 kinda bothered me also. So this game is definitely a rental and not a keeper for me.
  
  Love and Peace, Hate and Wrath
  
  Master V12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool-fuzzy457
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This Game Rocks and I Tried it right when i got it!
  I Like this game and it is one of the greatest games i got and i'm almost done its story mode i 
 like the no loading screens and changing of your look in-game.
  So i would like it if there was no quiting games after a ranked game in 
  Xbox 360 Live but still 
 its a great game!
  I like all the new moves they added and the stuff you can do when you are in a certain move (Manual, Natas 
 Spin, Lip Tricks) .
  
  
 
  ddddddddddddddddddddddd
  dddddddd
  d
  d
  d
  d
  d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland is identicle to the Xbox version of the game. This was a disappointing 
 Tony Hawk title, because it used none of the Xbox 360's hardware power to make the game, instead, 
 Neversoft made an exact port of the last gen version to the Xbox 360.
  
  If you own an HDTV, the game looks much better when played in 720p, but it's not dramatically better 
 when being played on a standard television set. Another issue that bothers me is the game does 
 not support Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound, which is a surprise, because most Xbox 360 games 
 support this audio output.
  
  If you have played THAW on any other console, don't even bother with this version. The lame Story 
 Mode is fully intact. The only bonus this game has is the Casino level, which was featured in the 
 THUG 2 Remix game.
  
  Another disappointment with THAW is the online mode. It is a rarity to find anyone playing this 
 game on Xbox Live, and if you're lucky to get a player, expect a head to head match, because I 
 have personally never had a game with more than 2 players.
  
  For all of you who are self conscious about your GamerCard Score, I would advise renting this game 
 because the Achievement Points are easy to get. When you first start the Story Mode, you automatically 
 get 50 points just for going into a barbershop!
  
  Still, THAW is a solid Tony Hawk game, don't get the impression that it's worse than it's predecessors. 
 The game has a way of making you feel you are really skating in real life.
  
  Some of you may be die hard Tony Hawk fans, as I am, but I would strongly encourage renting this 
 game before you drop 60 bones for this this shoddy port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumerdude361
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit some of the other tony hawk games gave me high hopes for this one. The graphics 
 are ok but the cheesy catch lines really get on my nerves. The gamplay is a little confusing but 
 the tricks are cool. I especially like how you can change the look of the characters. Finally, 
 I dont have to look at the same old character the entire game. It kind of gave the game a little 
 bit of a grand theft auto feel. Another plus is the fact that you can ride a bike in the game and 
 a skateboard. Overall i would still say rent the game before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  With almost the same frequency as an EA Sports series, Activision and Neversoft have been cranking 
 out Tony Hawk games like clockwork since the revolutionary extreme sports series started. Now in 
 its seventh iteration, the series, much like Mr. Hawk himself, is starting to get old. 
  
  Big DreamsSmall Wheels
  
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland doesnt try to expand on the gameplay 
 so much as the environment. The big selling point in this edition is the open LA environment and 
 an actual story mode, which previous versions have toyed with, but Wasteland plunges right into. 
 Admittedly, its not much of a story. You play a no-name skater wannabe from the Midwest who comes 
 to LA to connect with the roots of skating. Your dream is to be the best, mingle with the pros, 
 and become the next Tony Hawk. 
  
  Unfortunately, as soon as your hayseed skater boy gets off the bus, he is attacked and mugged, 
 only to find a hottie skater groupie named Mindy to take pity on him and help show him the ropes. 
 Mindys first goal is to get rid of your Midwest look and make you more LA, introducing the ever-important 
 aspect of shopping to the skating culture. Youll be able to buy an incredible array of clothes, 
 gear, and other skating merchandise in American Wasteland, making the need to earn money through 
 competitions important. Once you get your new do and outfit, youll be introduced to local skaters 
 who give you tutorials on tricks and controls.
  
  Soon after, you make it to the skate ranch with your newfound buddies, and get clued in on the 
 main plot which basically entails an evil real estate developer trying to take the place over. 
 Yes, the Man is bad, and is always trying to keep those heroic skaters down! The storyline sets 
 up plenty of opportunity for ripping through various locations in LA, skating off any surface you 
 can find, spray painting your logo on walls, and, of course, stealing parts of the landscape to 
 take back to the ranch. 
  
  Biking, Skating, and Secret Load Screens
  
  Theres even a BMX riding element. Though not central to the game, you can choose to drop the board 
 and compete in cool bike-based trick fests. Although a fairly minor element, the BMX sequences 
 are remarkably well done with solid controls. The general skater controls are exactly what youve 
 come to expect, and veterans will be instantly at home with the excellent playability of the series. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, vets might also be annoyed at how similar the main game is to a glorified tutorial. 
 You cant perform even familiar tricks until you learn them, and whenever you are given a wacky 
 task (such as grinding a pole, or jumping over a Ben Affleck-lookalike) , the game drops you down 
 right where you need to be. There is also the gimmicky nature of no level loading times. Basically, 
 the game loads while you skate through overly long corridors, or walk around on a bus that drives 
 to another section of the city. In other words, the no loading time thing is total garbage. 
 
  
  Level-based though it might be, the skate areas here are quite large, and designed so that nearly 
 everything is absurdly skate-able. Youll roll through downtown, Hollywood, a casino, Santa Monica, 
 East LA, Beverly Hills, and other very-LA locales that have been altered to be a skaters paradise. 
 The levels look good, but not great, and the graphics seem to be aging with the rest of the game. 
 Even so, nothing in American Wasteland looks really bad and the character models are improved over 
 previous versions.
  
  Its a Classic, Man
  
  For nostalgic gamers, theres the classic mode, which offers up a slew of mostly familiar levels 
 with two-minute timers, and secret tapes and letters to catch. Much like the original Tony Hawk 
 games, youre tasked with completing a list of goals in a limited amount of time to unlock new 
 levels. The creation mode is also back, allowing you to come up with your own skaters, parks, graphics, 
 and to customize the traditional game modes.
  
  The biggest draw for Xbox gamers is undoubtedly the online play. Up to eight can play in a variety 
 of games, ranging from capture-the-flag, goal attack, graffiti, and trick off challenges to score 
 the most points or combos. Theres even a bizarre new firefight mode, where you chase after your 
 competitors shooting fire balls from your board. 
  
  Not Quite Wasted
  
  Tony Hawk's American Wasteland proves that the series still has legs, and it is fun. Unfortunately, 
 theres very little actual innovation in the gameplay here, and the overall package is just starting 
 to feel old. Everything youve come to expect (or take for granted) in the series is here, but 
 at this point it feels as if the developers are simply going through the motions. For players new 
 to series, this is definitely a good place to start, but most other players will realize just how 
 ironic the name of this game is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmAn_0
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  "I was hoping that the new tony hawk game would have some new create-a-modes' or at least a new 
 variety of options for things like decks, things for your character, a handful of new objects for 
 create-a-park, or some new and creatrive gameplay. When i first played the game the story line 
 seemed "ok," but not that interesting. However i did like the sort of "in game menu" where to change 
 your appearence, deck, or other things normally done on a seperate menu you did not have to leave 
 the main game area. As far as the rest of my expectations there wer maybe around 10 to 13 things 
 i noticed knew for the creat-a-modes (each) ,and even though these things are a more trivial thing 
 compared to the gameplay, they could have been at least a bit more refreshed for new options. Most 
 items could be found in Tony Hawk Underground 1 or 2. Overall I did not like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  Definitely improved but the gameplay almost the same one thing i noticed was the improvement of 
 sound like the deck landing but not necessarily grinding. The game is still good the environments 
 have improved, but its basically the same game if you already have this on ps2 or gamecube just 
 keep it dont go for the 360, even if you have THUG2 you shouldnt buy this maybe rent it to see 
 the new stuff but if your a diehard Tony Hawk fan a must-buy. 
  
  The reasons this game isnt really a must-buy is the story is about the same the new tricks are 
 NOT useful the create a park is the same. The customization 
  in my words "sucks" just not good though if your a fan of neversoft and are sick of tony hawk games 
 you should check out neversofts new game GUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it.. Tony Hawk's: American Wasteland does not fit in the 360's lineup. It looks ike 
 a "Last-Gen" game. The graphics are absolutely horrible, and glitchy (especially in HD!) . Sometimes, 
 player's legs will be in the concrete like QuickSand yet running around like Sonic the Hedgehog.
 
  
  The game does have a lot of features to offer however; you can play the original classic mode which 
 will be extremely time consuming. The story mode will last you a while as it has lots of mini-quests 
 along the way.
  
  The online was a definite disappointment. I can NEVER find a game while playing this. I've only 
 been able to get matched up once - and when I joined the game it was well.. Laggy.
  
  Tony Hawk games could have a great future in the NextGens.. However; they need to spend time on 
 thier games and stop throwing this crap at us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  With the exception of ok graphics, this game is AMAZING! What on earth is wrong with you people 
 giving it a 7.7? I give it a 9.1. Kn00bs. The gameplay is flawless, if you know how to play. The 
 Audio/Video might be mediocre but the story and game are not at all! You should all revote cause 
 this is totally a [bold] bad community of voters [/bold] . Games like perfect dark; zero have the 
 worst narrating EVER and it got a 9.5. I know its sorta "been there done that" but if it were a 
 new game, what would you give it then? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game may be all peaches and cream on the XBOX, Gamecube or PS2... But the fact is, these second 
 rate graphics do NOT cut it on a next-gen system. What were Neversoft thinking? So the developers 
 say the higher price for next-gen games is because they take longer to make. Then why is T. H. A. W 
 near enough exaclty the same as the XBOX version? Neversoft might as well be stealing money from 
 peoples wallets, because having this game 10 more expensive on 360 for no apparent reason is theft. 
 Neversoft should be ashamed of themselves. And on top of all that, it's just not as fun as the 
 previous Tony Hawk's games. This game's only redeeming factor is the good old T. H. P. S gameplay, 
 and even that takes a beating in this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  "American Wasteland on the 360 runs in a high-enough resolution to show off every single ugly little 
 flaw that isn't as apparent in other versions of this otherwise-decent skateboarding game."
  -Gamespot
  
  If this is what gamespot wants to base their review on, then they can go ahead. 
 HOWEVER, there is no reason to give Tony Hawk's American Wasteland a 6.6, because this is entirely 
 not true and definitely not an overwhelming flaw. This game takes Tony Hawk and boosts it up to 
 a new level. I have seen the graphics for this game on PS2 and they are significantly better on 
 the 360. Also, the new Story Mode in THAW is very interesting and has lasting appeal, taking you 
 from a noobie during the roots of skating in L. A., California, to somewhat of a legend as the story 
 mode draws to a closure. This game has been severly underrated by many gaming sites because of 
 slight flaws, but it has all that you would expect from Tony Hawk and even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  i just like to unwined by jumpin massive jumps rolling around and skating like ma with some massive 
 tricks even on a bmx this time. i especially love the free skate doing whatever wherever whenever 
 just a really cool. cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
  cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
  cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menikmati1057
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of any Tony Hawk Pro Skater or THUG, youll love this game. It goes beyond evey other 
 skating game made. The levels are all connected so you never get bored of skating the same place. 
 The storylines is still kinda lame but thats to be expected. They could have done a better job 
 on graphics too. They have tons of features, you can create you own skater, your own skatepark, 
 and even your own tag to spraypaint on walls. On XBOX live you can play many types of games from 
 original Trick Attack to King of the Hill to Firefight. This game has plenty to do to keep you 
 playing for hours!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerstmannownz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:01 am PT
Review:  Us skaters love our Tony Hawk games. We love every TH game. We are never dissappointed with a new 
 TH game. New moves are always added (check the bert slide... SWEET!) in every installment. New 
 rock, punk and hip hop choons (THAW features covers of old skool punk songs by new punk bands) 
 If you are a skater or a fan who loves every TH game so far, this will blow your mind. If you're 
 not. Don't waste your time critisising something you don't understand. Now if you'll excuse me 
 I am on my way to tre flip a sketchy 3-set. Later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino123456
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  so far all the games on the Xbox 360 have wonderfull real life graphics but then came along tony 
 hawks american wasteland.... these graphics are just plain ugly .. they look like PSX graphics... 
 even supernintendo graphics are better... this is such a letdown do to the potential of the 360 
 and the amazing graphics it can provide for games activision let this game out to soon and the 
 sound isnt all that great... i give it like a 3/10..... some people might like the game but 4 me 
 its a reall dissapointment.. i was hopeing for more in this years tony hawk..... gonna go sell 
 the game on ebay get my money back :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainbramaged144
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  It has a good story line, but it is to short. The characters are better in this than in T. H. U. G. 
 and T. H. U. G. 2. It has easier missions than before too. You can ride the BMX bike and learn how 
 to do tricks on it which is better. There aren't any loading screens once you get into the story 
 mode which allows more time for playing the game. The new controller for the XBOX 360 works great 
 with pulling off all of the tricks because of its 4 shoulder buttons. American Wasteland has a 
 lot of the old school tricks like the bert slide which was used in Dogtown and Z-boys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  This is Tony Hawk's best game yet. I don't care if it's not next gen, the gameplay is lots of fun 
 and no matter where you are in the game it's running at a strong 60+ frames per second. If I were 
 to change anything about it I might add some more details to the graphics. Then again we probably 
 would not have the smooth silky frame rates that we are getting. It really makes the game easy 
 to look at and spend hours in front of without eye strain. The multiplayer rocks! When running 
 it on my xbox 360 it doesn't run like a heavy game. For instance, during game play I can go in 
 and out of the dashboard or my personal settings to change music or whatever without a hiccup. 
 I can't say the same for pgr3..;-/ That's too bad because I love pgr3 and would love to have givin 
 it a higher mark. I've been a huge Tony Hawk fan since THPS2 on the pc. I am very familiar with 
 the game and what makes a good skating game. This game in my opnion is the best in the series. 
 It has everything the others had and more. It's got way better visuals (at least on the 360) , gameplay, 
 music, more eye candy and most importantly it has online multiplayer for the console... yeaaaa! 
 I think I speak for all of us when I say this game was really needing multiplayer for the console. 
 The multiplayer part of this game is so much fun. Check it out!
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of Tony Hawk! This game is so much fun on and 
 off line! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthZure01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  yo whats up my homies out dere that love THAW just joking but dude you have to say THAW rock more 
 than Finch so keep em coming Activision well thats all later!!! ok well i for thinks it sucks how 
 you have to write a houndred words on this reveiw crap well fine this will make it easier fu fu 
 fu fu fu fu fu fu fu fu fu za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za za 
 za za zaz a az az a z a za a az a a a az z z z az az az za a za zzzzzazazaza z az a aza a za a 
 a a aaazazzzzzzzzzzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakmanZak
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ever since THPS was released, Neversoft had introduced gamers into the world of pro skating. However 
 as Tony Hawk games took a spin into the underground, Neversoft wanted to add a story to the genre. 
 By doing that, it seems as though every new TH game becomes more easier. THAW is no different.
 
  
  Gameplay 7/10:
  They story in THAW is a lot better than THUG and THUG 2. You play this mid western kid trying to 
 run away from a strict cop, a cheating girlfriend, and your old man as you try an make a living 
 in the city that made skating its Mecca: LA. However when you arrive there, accomplishing this 
 is going to be alot more harder than it sounds. The gameplay has the same moves you know from the 
 THPS to the THUG series. THAW adds a little more moves to the current moves by adding the Bike 
 for bike tricks, some more walking tricks, and some oldschool skating moves based on the movie: 
 Lords of Dogtown. The way the 360 controller was designed is almost close to the PS2 dual shock 
 controller. Thus it makes the game control feel near perfection. As far as gameplay goes: the game 
 is easy. Whenever you play a mission, it puts you right where you are supposed to perform the challenge. 
 The bad part is that it does that for every difficulty. This reviewer thinks it is because the 
 developer wanted the story to progress more quickly. THAW brings also a somewhat mock of GTA that 
 you can skate all of LA "without load times". Sorry to bust the bubble, but even an average gamer 
 can tell there is loading only that THAW tries to cover it. To finish it off, the classic mode 
 is not very classic. Neversoft is now just digging in the THPS bin to pick up levels they had never 
 used.
  
  Graphics 6/10:
  Now the 360 version of the game, in regards to graphics, is more crisp in resolution, but the texture 
 of the characters make it look as though this game had been rushed just for the launch. Neversoft 
 just added a few more light effects and graphic touches to the levels, but as far as the characters 
 and car models look: they do not appeal to the 360's standard (which is HDTV) . On the other hand, 
 the animations and levels are more crisper than the Xbox. If Neversoft had more time, we would 
 be looking at an almost realistic Tony Hawk or Bam Margera.
  
  Sound 9/10:
  Neversoft had perfected the sound effects of a skateboard quite well, so there is no reason to 
 change it... well most of the time. The bike sound effects also make it seem like you are actually 
 pedaling a bike. The graffiti noise is also perfected. Almost nothing is wrong except for the cars. 
 The way the cars sound is like it was done in a pre editor studio and not in real life.
  
  Value 7/10:
  THAW is a great game for those who love skateboarding, Tony Hawk, and GTA based 
 games. Even though THAW is a bit short, its buy or rent factor is clearly a choice you, dear reader, 
 should decide for yourself. For those who didn't play THPS or THUG, this will be an example as 
 a tutorial based game into the skating genre. I would suggest you rent the game before any consideration 
 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullen1200
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Really now. There are some glitches, and they do make a good point about it being ten dollars more 
 expensive for no reason, and the graphical glitches. Lets see.... where to start
  
  Its really exactly the same as the Thug versions. I havent played any of them recently so I cant 
 compare. But basically all the controls are the same from the ps2 to the xbox so I was already 
 quite skilled at the game. I havent even played classic yet so I cant comment on the maps. I DO 
 like the level design for every level. Only a few objectives have really had me racking my brain 
 for what to do. But once you figure it out its not too hard to actually do. Only play is good. 
 LOTS of modes. Including weird ones like shooting each other with fireballs. I really dont see 
 what they are talking about when they say the textures are messed up, but then again Im not playing 
 HD. I dont think *THAT* many people play high definition anyways. The game can be pretty funny 
 at times
  
  EX. *chinese farmer kinda guy* "Even tho joo bloo up like eleventy cars!!"
  
  It may have been the same, and had a few things wrong with it. But all of you people giving 
 the game ratings below 5 are just blowing it way out of proportion. 
  
  Same game? Yes
  Bad game? No 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  Another year another Tony Hawk game that the rutine Neversoft have done over the past 7 years now 
 have have released Tony Hawk American Wasteland but is it as good as the previous Tony Hawk games?.
 
  In the games story mode you have escaped from your hometown and are going to Los Angeles but 
 in Los Angeles youll get knock out and mugged when you wake up youll meet Mindy shell help you 
 retake your stolen items and help you learning tricks later shell introduce you to her crew which 
 skate in a place called Skate Rance.
  Already at the beginning theres problems you cant do a cirtan amount of tricks like at the start 
 you cant do spicial tricks or manuel which is kinda bad but youll quickly get to learn them back.
 
  Tihs years improvements includes the abilty to ride on BMXes ride in Cars between areas and theres 
 no loading times however to get between areas you have to ride in a long corridor while the game 
 loads which is a little drawback luckly the corridors are filled with rails so it dosnt get boring 
 also you can buy clouths hair and skatebording equipment to your character
  but the bad thing about it is that the character youll create in story mode cant be used in other 
 modes which makes the items buy thing useless.
  As in THUG2 theres a classic mode however this time it only contains 6 levels with 10 goals in 
 each and and the goals are easy even on sick (more on that later) . Most of the levels in classic 
 mode are from Tony Hawk Pro Skater which is from 1999 its might be good for some fans to see the 
 old levels recreated because its good levels however Neversoft have done this for years so its 
 not good to see these levels also theres 3 levels from THUG2 Remix (theres a collectors edition 
 which contains all 4 levels from THUG2 Remix) and theres a brand new level which is not good at 
 all.
  The sound is pretty good the voice acting are done really well and the soundtrack are also good 
 including My Crimial Romance and Green Day the Xbox and Xbox 360 version lets you use custom soundtrack 
 if you dont like the soundtrack. The sounds effects are also good the old jumping sound on the 
 skatebord is gone (at last!) and the new one sounds good.
  Unfortonley the game is easy even on sick itll take you about 5 hours to complete the story mode 
 and around 1 to 2 hours to complete the classic mode.
  For the first time the Xbox version features Online but the PS2 and Xbox 360 features online mode 
 too and again its great like in the other Tony Hawk games on PS2.
  The game has been released for PS2 Xbox Xbox 360 and Gamecube the Xbox version has the best graphics 
 and online but the the controls isnt good on Xbox the PS2 version dosnt look as good as on Xbox 
 but it controls well and it has online feature the Gamecube version of course dosnt have online 
 play but it looks a little better than the PS2 version but if you own the current consoles the 
 GC version should be your last choice (unless you cant play online) the Xbox 360 version should 
 have looked better then the other versions unfortonley it dosnt character models and textures 
 looks bad in HD resolutions theres also some graphical glitches further that mar the game's visuals 
 also it costs 10$ more then the other versions so it hasnt the valve like the other version does.
 
  Overall Tony Hawks American Wasteland is probaly for newcomers but even they will find the game 
 easy so its completed fast its not the worst Tony Hawk game but its isnt the best either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr12391
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun playing this game. It had the perfect mix between new and old school T. H. games. 
 I thought that the bert slide was the icing on the cake. It alows you to do things you could never 
 do in the other games. Although, I have a few downers. First off, it was to short. Second, the 
 game got a bit repetitive after a while. Finally, it was way to easy. I beat the game within a 
 day. But what I really liked was that you could do plenty of other stuff after the story is over. 
 So it was mostly good and a little bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lollishock
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is possibly the worst game I've ever played. Not so much because of the game itself, 
 but because of how it ruined a perfectly good franchise. I know, I know, if you want to enjoy a 
 Tony Hawk game, don't play it on the Game Cube. But that's what I have, so I'm forced to live with 
 it. But even so, the graphics have no excuse for being this horrible. The voice acting is almost 
 as half-hearted and un-believable as the writing. The level design basically spells out all of 
 the various uber-huge trick lines for you and allows no room for creativity, and the goals are 
 bland and unimaginative. But let me tell you why this game for me is such a colossal failure.
 
  
  One of the things I love about a lot of video games in general is the chance to be creative, put 
 your own personal spin on the game. I'm talking about create-your-own modes (one reason I'm such 
 a huge fan of the Time Splitters series) . Ever since THPS Two the franchise has been known for 
 fantastic create-your-own whatever modes, and the number and size of the modes has grown continuously. 
 The epitome of this trend was THUG where you could virtually create your own game with the create-a-goal 
 mode. I was ecstatic, and all was right with the world until this game came along.
  
  Creating a character in the story mode requires money for each individual item. Oops. Okay, you 
 can create your own character outside the story and then it doesn't require money. But then you 
 discover that there are, like, three types of each piece of clothing all depressingly generic and 
 then something random like a parrot perched on the skater's shoulder. Double oops.
  
  Disheartened, I move on to the create-a-level mode. Where's the create-a-goal tool? Gone. Where's 
 the luxurious selection of pieces? Gone. In fact, there are about seven different pre-made parks, 
 one of which is simply rows of half pipes and the other is that dumb recurring level with nothing 
 but a tree in the middle. Apparently even the developers couldn't find anything to do with it.
 
  
  I desperately go to the create-a-move tool. I always found this tool to be rather limited in it's 
 use. Actually, they for whatever reason decided to expand this tool. Now you can create grinds, 
 but it's very cumbersome.
  
  In all, they got rid of ten times more then they added to this installment, and it really is simply 
 embarrassing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss00
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  The newest tony hawk game is not all that great. You play through big levels that say they have 
 no loading sreens but traveling through large tunnels provides the loading. The graphics even on 
 the xbox 360 is a major disappointment. The gameplay is not new at all since the conrols don't 
 change from game to game. The best thing about it is that it got a story that didn't completely 
 suck. The only way you will like this game is if you are a big Tony Hawk fan. I say even if you 
 are a Tony Hawk fan don't buy it rent it or you will be kicking yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace9590
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I cant really rate how the game play for this game, or sound but i can tell you by looking at screen 
 shots that this game is very poor and what a waste of time to make a game that you can just buy 
 for cheaper for xbox, i will be very impressed to see a 6.0 overall rating for this game when it 
 first comes out. and thats all i need to say about this game, and im just trying to take up space 
 to get 100 words in because i dont think this game needs 100 words just look at the screen shots 
 and that should explain it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Everything is too different from the other games, and i don't like the difference in it. The gameplay 
 is still the game, but the free roaming is just a bunch of nonsense, and i dont like it one bit. 
 I wish they woulda stuck to the last two games they have made, because this game is just disappointing. 
 The graphics are okay, the game play is okay, but it's just the free roaming that gets me. I really 
 would have loved to see a better game, but i guess now that it's out we have to deal with what 
 we got. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
