-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Too Human
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/toohuman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A constant supply of interesting weapons and armor.
 Combat can be fun when it gets in a groove.
 Skill trees give you a lot of room to mold your character.
 Co-op play can be enjoyable as long as both players are around the same level.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The story doesn't get interesting until the final minutes.
 Too many elements chop up the pace.
 Area attacks and status effects are poorly implemented.
 Ranged combat is unsatisfying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 3,093 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Silicon Knights
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Aug 19, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This action/role-playing hybrid is too unbalanced and too frustrating to recommend. 

  Too Human drops a juicy plot development at the most inopportune time: its very end. It's the obvious 
 manner of setting up a sequel, the infamous "to be continued..." we've come to expect from television 
 shows and, yes, even some modern video games. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it exemplifies 
 the core experience of this action/role-playing hybrid. Too Human is a game of false starts and 
 unrealized potential that infiltrate almost every aspect of the game, from story, to combat, to 
 balance. Its elements feel stitched together, making for a patchwork quilt of a game that's fraying 
 at the seams.  

           If you want to make sense of the story, it helps to know your Norse mythology.      

 
  As for the dangling story threads, the disappointment is compounded by the thin narrative that 
 leads to them. Too Human is a retelling of Norse mythology with a cybernetic twist, in which the 
 gods are bionically enhanced humans protecting common men and women from the onslaught of Loki's 
 army of machines. There's some backstory to wrap your head around, and Too Human drops you into 
 the world with little sensible exposition. A good narrative doesn't need to spoon-feed plot points 
 to you, but Too Human would have benefited from a better introduction to its unusual universe. 
 The game does offer a few meaty moments, many of them involving Hel, Loki's beautifully twisted 
 daughter. Yet ultimately the story rings hollow because developer Silicon Knights expects you to 
 fill in the gaps on your own.  

  You play as Baldur, one of those gods. You'll take on four main missions during the meager 10-hour 
 story and while Baldur has a number of different goals, the process is the same: beat up a bunch 
 of mechanical monstrosities en route to an end boss. The trek is linear, taking you through a series 
 of large environments that cover the usual science-fiction standards. You'll also spend some time 
 in Aesir, your home base, where you're able to purchase weapons and armor, and continue the story 
 between combat sorties. These areas have a commonality: They are too big. This isn't an issue when 
 you are beating up hordes of robotic beasts, but when you aren't fighting, Too Human slows to an 
 insufferable crawl. Aesir in particular is unnecessarily vast and underpopulated. As you make the 
 long, boring walk to find out your next mission, or move to the next wave of monsters, it's hard 
 not to wonder if there was supposed to be more stuff there. It's one of many examples of Too Human's 
 most glaring deficiency: poor pacing.  

  You'll also make a few trips to an idyllic world known as cyberspace, which you access via glistening 
 pools scattered around the levels. As you explore cyberspace, you will learn new abilities that 
 you can only use there, such as being able to telepathically lift doors or set vegetation ablaze. 
 You unlock new areas in the main world when you visit cyberspace, and you find some interesting 
 loot, but these visits don't flow from the gameplay proper, and they slow things down too much. 
 And, like the rest of the areas that you visit, this pastoral realm feels too large, particularly 
 because you're not really  doing  anything there except walking and occasionally pressing a button. 
 It's not engaging and ultimately feels unnecessary.  

  The good news is that when you are in the thick of combat, you'll find yourself having some fun. 
 There are five different classes at your disposal, but regardless of which you choose at the outset, 
 you can use both melee and ranged weapons. Close combat is where the game shines, and in those 
 moments it plays like an action game with a control-focused twist. Rather than mashing buttons 
 to swing your dual swords or bash your hammer, you press the right analog stick in a certain direction 
 and connect with the closest enemy in that area. Provided that you're within range of a target, 
 you will actually slide in that direction; at later levels, zooming among techno-goblins and slicing 
 them up in this manner is easily Too Human's greatest thrill. There are also some other stick-based 
 tricks at your disposal: Using the left and right analog sticks in combination, you can toss enemies 
 into the air and juggle them, or fling magic energy in their direction.  

           The action is sometimes fun, but you'll never get into a groove.      

  The resulting 
 mayhem looks more like an action game in the vein of Devil May Cry or Ninja Gaiden, though it doesn't 
 really play that way. Nevertheless, it works well some of the time, and Baldur will slip and slide 
 around as you hold and tap the sticks, carving up lesser enemies without much effort. At other 
 times, you'll swing at nothing in particular, though it seems that you're aiming the stick in the 
 right direction and that the enemy is clearly in range. Although it isn't the heart-pounding array 
 of button-based combos that you'd see in a more traditional action game, you'll still sometimes 
 find morsels of that smooth groove so important to action RPGs.  

  Unfortunately, Too Human never maintains that groove for long. You have guns to shoot -- pistols 
 and rifles -- but using them isn't as satisfying as using melee weapons, even if you are playing 
 as a commando, the primary ranged-based class. They can be fun when used in conjunction with melee 
 attacks, such as juggling a foe from a distance after launching him into the air with your staff. 
 But the targeting system is unintuitive and sometimes broken, failing to lock on to an enemy even 
 if there are monsters in range and directly in front of you. Should you try to switch targets, 
 you may target an enemy outside your field of view, or find yourself shooting at nothing at all. 
 Oddly, if you keep the trigger pressed after you've killed your target, the reticle stays pasted 
 to the corpse instead of flipping to another target, so you need to switch targets manually, even 
 after your victim has already fallen.     

   

  Other issues make the combat even more frustrating. Eventually, your foes will pummel you with 
 knockback attacks and various status effects, such as freezing you, slowing your movement to a 
 crawl, or irradiating you. These attacks are poorly implemented and point to Too Human's balance 
 problems: They last  far  too long and slow the tempo far too much. For example, if you get irradiated, 
 you will take damage over time that could very well take you from full health to death. Unless 
 you are playing as a bioengineer, a class that has healing capabilities, you must rely on finding 
 health drops from enemies or from breakable containers, given that there are no potions or similar 
 items. But getting such a drop is a crapshoot, particularly if you have just finished an enemy 
 encounter and have another uneventful walk for the next 30 seconds until you find the next batch 
 of baddies. As a result, you will watch powerlessly as Baldur dies multiple times due to the reckless 
 implementation of these mechanics.  

           It's a good thing the Valkyrie is so pretty because you're stuck watching her slow journey 
 every time you die.      

  So death is inevitable, but Too Human's greatest oddity is its method of punishing you. There's 
 a minor in-game consequence: Your weapons take some damage, which makes them less effective, and 
 you get deposited at the most recent checkpoint. However, all damage that you previously did to 
 your enemies will remain, so you are just starting from where you left off. Yet the real punishment 
 is aimed at your convenience. Every time you die, you will be forced to watch a Valkyrie slowly 
 descend, take Baldur into her arms, and lift him toward Valhalla. It's a beautiful animation, and 
 the stunning, glowing Valkyrie is one of the most wonderfully crafted character models that you're 
 likely to see in a while. But the quality of the vision is of little consequence considering that 
 it lasts seemingly forever, and you cannot skip it. It is impossible to imagine how a development 
 team could have thought this forced death sequence was a good idea -- and depending on which class 
 you choose, you could be seeing it rather often. It's one more example of the game's stilted, awkward 
 pace.  

  Some of these issues are mitigated by adding a buddy to the mix. Assuming that both players are 
 around the same level, online co-op increases the fun factor of Too Human's bright moments. When 
 you both face an onslaught of weaker foes, the resulting chaos is enjoyable, perhaps even a thrill 
 at its best. However, Too Human's inconsistent balancing and pace mean that double the players 
 can sometimes mean double the frustration. When the game throws in a sequence of ground-pounding, 
 grenade-launching, irradiating foes, the flow is ruined and the Valkyries will soon be making their 
 sluggish rounds. This issue is exacerbated when players aren't of the same level; the higher-level 
 player may face legions of enemies that feel designed to challenge two players at that level, whereas 
 the lower-level player will be essentially powerless to assist. There are other oddities here as 
 well, such as the game's random-name generation. In general, it's fun to see what cool, over-the-top 
 title Too Human will assign to its named enemies. How strange, then, that a different name will 
 be assigned to the same monster for each player. It's a small quirk, but one that, when you discover 
 it, seems like yet another sloppy oversight in a game that sorely needs some fine-tuning.  

  Though the combat itself can't consistently deliver the smooth, addictive action that you'd want 
 from a good fighting system, the RPG side of the coin is sometimes excellent. Probably the finest 
 aspect is the constant flow of helpful loot in the forms of weapons, armor and other goodies. There 
 are a ton of interesting weapons to equip and armor sets to try on, and once you reach the upper 
 levels, these items look incredibly impressive and make Baldur truly look like a god among men. 
 You can also find and purchase blueprints to craft armor of your own, and purchase runes that let 
 you dye your items to match.  

  You can further develop your weapons and armor by applying enhancement runes to them. These also 
 flow into your inventory in a constant stream, and you can apply multiple runes to your items, 
 depending on how many slots they have. Not every rune is helpful to every class (regeneration runes 
 are no help to a berserker) , but you'll soon have a healthy supply of useful enhancements at your 
 disposal. There's also the matter of class-specific skills and augmentations, which you develop 
 at first under your main skill tree, and then further tweak using a secondary tree that you later 
 unlock. Every class has a command called a battle cry, and depending on the skill tree that you 
 choose, that skill may produce flashes of lightning or increase your attack speed. You can also 
 summon a spiderbot to your side, and depending on the direction that you take, your bot may deploy 
 a turret that slows monsters down, or bomb nearby baddies, among other options.  

           Runes are a great way of tailoring Baldur to your particular play style.      

  The 
 game's visual bright spots -- the highly detailed Valkyrie models and the powerful-looking weapons -- are 
 worth calling out again, particularly because they are highlights in a game that is decent-looking 
 but not particularly noteworthy. Some of the environments feature excellent detail and lighting, 
 with towering statues lording over the proceedings and shafts of light spilling onto mounds of 
 snow. But don't expect to leave footprints in that snow, or see any other touches that will make 
 you sit up and take notice. Eventually, each setting seems much like the last, and the stiff combat 
 and facial animations become more and more noticeable. The sound design follows a similar path. 
 The musical score is excellent and dramatic, though some musical loops are awkward because the 
 end of the sample doesn't jive with the beginning of the next. Most of the sound effects are appropriately 
 rambunctious, and though the voice acting is hit-or-miss, Crispin Freeman, as Baldur, delivers 
 just the right mix of gruffness and vulnerability. However, one oddity that sticks out is the overwrought 
 sound effect assigned to Baldur's jumps: The robotic whoosh when he leaps and the crash when he 
 lands both feel out of place.  

  There are further idiosyncrasies to note, including awkward camera angles and the occasional glitch 
 (for example, doors that won't open when you approach them, but open if you leave and return) . 
 These and other issues don't make Too Human a bad game, but they make it a disappointing one that 
 revs its engine only to come to a screeching halt moments later. When that engine kicks into full 
 gear, the slicing and dicing can be surprisingly enjoyable. Sadly, these moments are too few and 
 far between, making Too Human stand out as a perfect example of awesome but unrealized potential. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (348 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  Too Human is a futuristic hack n slash type of RPG game where you through 4 different chapters 
 and ping pong your way through countless numbers of cybernetic enemies.
  
  Although the loot system and character level up system are very solid and addicting, the game falls 
 apart in too many areas to get a more solid score.
  
  My biggest annoyance is that the menu system takes too long!! There is too much delay from backing 
 out of the menus, salvaging items, and returning to combat from the equipment screen. It especially 
 sucks when you are equipping armor in a coop game, and then your character gets attacked. 
  
  Another huge problem is the camera system. It is just a mess and you cannot control it with 
 the right analog stick as that is used for melee attacks. The camera usually does something you 
 don't want it to do and you are forced to use LB to try and correct it. It's very frustrating.
 
  
  Aside from that, the combat is enjoyable and the character development is rather satisfying. Once 
 you get the poorly designed controls down, combat becomes a breeze.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyguy21
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  After several years of protracted development, Too Human finally sees a release on Xbox 360. The 
 first in a trilogy, Too Human casts players in the role of Baldur, a cybernetic God caught up in 
 a war between the mighty Aesir and an unending army of machines.
  
  The story of Too Human is based heavily on aspects of Norse mythology and many of the lead characters 
 are lifted straight from that material. The references extend beyond that though, with an early 
 sequence showing a large machine attack a lively tavern, obviously inspired by the tale of Beowulf. 
 This very quickly leads into a revenge plot, tinged with a little conspiracy for good measure.
 
  
  Despite adopting the Unreal Engine, and looking a little like both Gears of War and Mass Effect, 
 Too Human is actually a far more niche title. Structured like Diablo, the game pits the player 
 against mobs of enemies through a linear series of dungeons. These lengthy crawls are broken up 
 by story sequences and trips back to the Aesir, which functions as a HUB world. Every encounter 
 with the enemy results in numerous loot drops which can be equipped, sold or augmented for specific 
 use.
  
  The loot system is tied to a fairly elaborate skill tree progression system spread across five 
 character classes. These range from the Bioengineer, with healing attributes, to the Berserker, 
 which specializes in frenetic melee combat. Killing enemies is rewarded with experience points 
 and these points can be distributed across the character specific skill tree or the alignment tree 
 which opens up slightly later. This allows you to choose either Human or Cybernetic attributes, 
 depending on your preference.
  
  
  With so many different skills and so many different items being dropped for use by five different 
 classes the potential for character variety is already very strong. However, there are two more 
 systems to take into account. First up we have Runes. Runes are dropped by enemies but can also 
 be purchased from the various traders in Midgard. Runes can be slotted into all usable items, adding 
 further bonuses like health regeneration, attack speed and power. Combinations of these can really 
 bolster your character should you choose to specialize.
  
  Second we have Charms and these function like side quests. Charms require you to kill a certain 
 number of enemies or collect so many blueprints or even discover so many secret areas. They are 
 tiered, and reward you with armour or weapon stat increases. Again, choosing specific charms can 
 result in big bonuses if you choose to stick to one specific style of play.
  
  Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom, another loot heavy action RPG, suffered from monotonous combat 
 but Silicon Knights did well to revise the control system for use here. You are no longer required 
 to hammer buttons to perform combos instead all attacks are tied to the right analogue stick. Holding 
 the stick towards your target automatically sends Baldur into attack mode and various flicks of 
 the stick can be used to juggle enemies or perform finishing strikes. This system keeps the action 
 fluid and, depending on your stats, changes the results depending on your effectiveness in various 
 areas. Ranged weapons are also available, with their operation naturally tied to the triggers.
 
  
  There are four dungeons in Too Human, each with their own challenge rooms and secrets to discover. 
 Your enemies scale to your level, to keep the challenge consistent, and your max character level 
 is set to 50. It's unlikely you'll reach level 50 in just one play through of the story, which 
 will last anywhere from 6 to 8 hours, but there huge value to Too Human beyond the main campaign. 
 Each of the dungeons can be played through cooperatively over Xbox Live and the performance is 
 rock solid.
  
  
  When playing online with a friend Midgard functions as a lobby. From here any level can be played, 
 starting at any unlocked section, and all story sequences are removed. The enemy spawns also change, 
 as do the layouts of some maps. Loot rates can be altered and items can be traded between players. 
 It's so easy to sink hours into Too Human's cooperative mode and this mode is certainly the biggest 
 reason to continue playing.
  
  Despite the above, Too Human does suffer somewhat when played alone. The story, whilst undeniably 
 a fun marriage of sci-fi and mythology isn't quite as interesting or as involving as you may expect. 
 The games title may suggest a moral choice between your humanity and the lure of cybernetic augmentation 
 but it's not explored here.
  
  The pacing is also a little inconsistent, with regular trips into Cyberspace amounting to little 
 more than an elaborate method to open locked doors. The story, no doubt, will improve with the 
 sequel, but it would also be nice if Silicon Knights could do more with the sections spent between 
 combat.
  
  Too Human is very good at what it does. The team at Silicon Knights always promised that the game 
 would deliver a ton of gameplay, with thousands of character permutations, and they've certainly 
 delivered on that.
  
  Fans of loot heavy action RPGs should absolutely dedicate the hours required to reach the Epic 
 content. With development already underway on the sequels, hopefully we won't have to wait too 
 long before the grind to level 100.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_knight16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  Too Human, I lament thee. Seriously. You will not be appreciated for what you are, simply due to 
 the inflexibility of the internet.
  
  Sometime ago (ie, August 2008) , a good friend of mine bought Too Human, at a time when I was walking 
 into university for my third year of studies and had no money to buy the game. I remember, vaguely, 
 the hype, "Ten years in the making!" and all that jazz. My friend, a superb gamer of the highest 
 caliber (based solely on xbl performance and my admittedly biased opinion) , originally loved the 
 game. A few months later, walking into the Christmas Holidays, and he would not touch the game, 
 disgusted with it.
  
  Not playing the game myself, and barely remembering the hype after dozens and dozens of hours reviewing 
 Neuroscience, I asked if I could borrow it. I fell in love instantly.
  
  This game is something different, and not the garbage that the masses tout it as. If you forget 
 the hype (which you probably have) , you could enjoy this, but you need to like a few things first. 
 Norse Mythology, Diablo II, and WoW (World of Warcraft, for the unintiated) . 
  
  If you enjoy Norse Mythology, this take on a classic is invigorating. If you like Diablo II, the 
 *huge* amount of items that drop will amaze you. If you like WoW, the grinding that you have to 
 do to get to the elusive Level Cap of 50 (27+ hours) and the as-of-yet impossible 7 piece Ancient 
 Armour set should not bother you. If you do not like those, you probably shouldn't bother. Especially 
 if you don't like the last two, because admittedly you can fly through the online mode and not 
 catch a whiff of a story. 
  
  The character design is meticulous and I mean VERY meticulous. If you are not in battle, and you 
 click the right joystick down (as if it were a button) , you will get a circling view of your current 
 character. As you use more and more advanced armor and weapons, the details become eye-widening. 
 I admit, I am using a 1080p HDMI cable, but still... crisply seeing individual rune glyphs glowing 
 on the shoulders, a faint pattern of repeating black hexagons covering the whole under armor... it 
 all *pops* out at you, and it is very nice to see (after staring at garbage character models for 
 so long) .
  
  The cinematics are in-game and potentially grandiose (especially the beginning) . The musical score 
 is good, but not great. I humbly feel that I shouldn't notice music coming in (I don't) or fading 
 out (I do. very much so. especially after battles) .
  
  Online, this game is just bundles of fun. Set up a private match, have one of your friends join, 
 and beat the hell out of a whack-load of guys. Only back in the hey-days of Halo 2 could I blow 
 two hours so quickly and not notice it. As for the afore-mentioned friend who wouldn't touch Too 
 Human. Well, he won't let me borrow it anymore and has a 37 champ, his second is a 24 Beserker, 
 and we've recruited another friend to play with us.
  
  Now, for the 'dreaded valkyrie scene'. No, seriously, stop for a second. Forget what you were told. 
 Realistically, once you learn to juggle (tap forward on the right joystick when you are near an 
 enemy) , you should *not* die. Really. My first is a cybernetic bio-engineer, spec'd for damage. 
 I played him through to 50, by myself, something you are advised (humorously, I might add) NOT 
 to do. It's supposed to be too hard, and I really only had myself to blame when I rushed into a 
 group of 10 elites and got wiped. Even spec'd for damage with a lvl 50 Ancient-Grade sword (ie 
 highest possible) , a 35 champ out damages me 3 to 1. So, when you die, you probably deserve it, 
 barring some unfortunate glitch. As opposed to being reset to the beginning of the level, or to 
 a previous checkpoint, you are reset to just outside the fight, with all of your previous damage 
 still applied. What do you relinquish for this? A 15 second death scene. Time to sit back, say 
 '*sigh* Let's try not to do that again, shall we?' and then you're in it again. My humble opinion? 
 15 seconds for a mistake is fair enough when you may very well log one hour before giving up.
 
  
  This game is a modern take on the classical hack-n-slash. Perhaps it is an acquired taste, but 
 I prefer RPG's, my original friend prefers JRPG's and Action/Adventure games (a la Spiderman Web 
 of Shadows) , and the new friend prefers shooters (Halo 3) . Perhaps a little too much anticipation 
 when the game came out (from us, the gamer's) , a little too much ego (on Silicon Knights part) , 
 and critics who are given a little too much credit for their opinion are all to blame for this 
 colossal mistake.
  
  All I can ask is that you rent it, preferably with another friend and play beside each other (I 
 know, 2 xbox's, 2 tv's, super hard to do) , or online. Sitting side-by-side is incredible and will 
 allow for simple understanding of what the other is doing/learning. Give it a chance. At worst, 
 you spent $10. A coffee date, a fast food meal. At best, you found a game you never really believed 
 you could like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Jubb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  While there are a lot of things wrong with this game it does have its good qualities. The graphics 
 are not that bad, thestory itself is interesting and original, the ability to craft weapons and 
 armor deffinatly gives you something to work for. That, however, is where the main problems with 
 the game come in.
  
  While the combat system is easy to use, it is extremely repetitive and leaves little to the imagination. 
 There is little chance for diversity in the storyline so once you have played through once there 
 is nothing really new to see. In order to use / make the better items in the game you need to have 
 played through the game at least three times. Due to all this, while Too Human may be fun to play 
 through once, after the first go it becomes boring and repetitive. To top it all off the ending 
 is probably one of the most unsatisfying and open endings I have ever seen.
  
  Too Human has a lot of potential in my opinion and is still worth a look. Fingers crossed the second 
 game in the series will be what this game could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  I have so far played for 2 hours... and unlike other people who have played this game... I have never 
 died... yet.
  
  I fought the boss... killed loads of enemys with my hammer.. and when I had low health.. fell back 
 and shot the enemys with my rifle.
  
  Now that's how the game is ment to be played, then I smashed some crates open to get health, and 
 other items.
  
  Now when I read the review done by crapy OXM I thought this game would suck if you die after every 
 fight like they say you do... I didn't ,so I think they need to get people who CAN play games before 
 they review them.
  
  Anyway enough about those liers who are BIG hypocrites and can't play games..
  
  
  The land 
 of Too Human is intresting... it's winter there and has been for years... robots roam the land and 
 Humans and Gods are fighting to clear them out.
  
  Else where there is Vallhalla which has trees... clouds... it's really great looking when you see 
 it, Then there's cybarspace which is.... ugly! (The clouds don't move and it's really boring there)
 
  
  The graphics of Too Human are good... but somethings could have been improved.
  
  The combat is... new. You use the RS to swing your sword or hammer or whatever melee weapon you 
 got, you can also use guns which you need to use sometimes, and that is controled by RT and LT 
 aiming is RS, the controls are not bad and you get used to them quick... but I wish the melee combat 
 was with the buttons.
  
  I don't really have anything about the story yet.. there is a plot.. But I have not got in it yet.. but 
 you feel it heating up.
  
  
  Now the RPG elements...
  
  There are tons of weapons, armor, Runes and blueprints to get, Blueprints allow you to make your 
 own armor and weapons, Runes allow you to upgrade armor and weapons and some change the colour 
 of your armor allowing you to make your own character different than others.
  
  
  There are  all there, and what you use is 
 up to you.
  
  There are 5 classes to choose from, each giving different skills, each for different players.
 
  
  
  All in all this game is a good RPG and for 10 it's worth it.
  
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DO646260
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  All in all I did like playing the game Too Human, it definitely has its flaws but there are many 
 fun elements that I think make it worth playing! First the Cons: 1) The levels are very repetitive, 
 and the monsters not very creative.
  2) The guns in my opinion are completely weak as a whole.
  3) Grinding can be a bore (When isn't 
 it though?)
  Now the Pros:
  1) Fun hack'n'slash game!
  2) Good storyline, with sufficient dialog!
  3) Ability to reset your skill points
  4) Customizeability 
 of your equipment
  I have had a fun time playing this game, and I also think the Norse mythology+technology works 
 surprisingly well. I would recommend you at least pick up the game and give it a whirl, before 
 passing it over just because of what others have said. I almost didn't play it just because a few 
 people I knew said it wasn't any fun, but I tried it anyways and was happily entertained for a 
 couple weeks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrjpo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was not on a lot of people's radar, but a friend of mine picked it up and lent it too 
 me. I must say with my expectations being low, I was surprise that I spent as much time playing 
 as I did.
  
  The game sets up as an action/rpg hybrid set in the future with ties to mythology . Confused yet? 
 Sometimes you find wishing the game would just make up it's mind; are you a shooter or RPG. The 
 action side of the game is good. The battle scenes, although repetitive, keep things interesting. 
 After a while, you keep fighting the same enemies over and over and it gets to be more of a chore 
 to finish than anything else. 
  
  The RPG side of things is a bit underdeveloped and sometimes just annoying. The game is short, 
 just four acts, and should take most players 10-15 hours to finish. In between acts are these debriefing 
 interludes that are more of the RPG side of the game. I could have lived without it.
  
  Unfortunately, the worst aspect of the game is when you die. You are saved by a Valkorye. She descends 
 from the heavens to resurrect you. It takes about 20 seconds to watch and YOU CANT SKIP IT. Annoying.
 
  
  The overall gameplay is pretty basic and the story is mildly interesting, but a little hard to 
 follow. The boss fights are tough and there are lots of achievements to be had. One playthrough 
 will earn you between 500-700 points depending on whether your looking for them or not. 
  
  I know I piled on the game with negative feedback, but there's something about it that pulls you 
 back. Annoying
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  No Question TH got a lot of attention last year, which was inevitable considering how long the 
 game had been in development. Like most people my first experience with the game was the demo that 
 was released last Summer, and like most people I wasn't overly impressed. However, it did intrigue 
 me enough to get the game eventually, after it had a price drop. Here are my thoughts.
  
  GAMEPLAY (6) What strikes players right off the bat is the fact that you attack with the right 
 analog stick as opposed to a face button. This also keeps you from having camera control, which 
 is not quite so bad after you get used to it but there are still times when you can't face in the 
 direction you want, and that just shouldn't happen. As for the combat I think the developers had 
 a good idea in using the stick because it enables you to rapidly slide from enemy to enemy, dealing 
 out devastating hits that will send monsters flying. This gives you the opportunity to use the 
 trigger for ranged attacks, which can be useful but overall is quite a bit weaker then melee. As 
 the game goes on you will run into areas where you will face an overwhelming amount of enemies 
 and the ability to rapidly move from one to the other does work better then manually moving while 
 mashing a face button. The problem I had was that many times the sheer number of enemies meant 
 there was no way I was going to survive the battle, especially when many of the enemies were from 
 a far distance and constantly hitting me with ranged weapons while I was surrounded in melee combat. 
 This results in a scene with a Valkyrie descending from the heavens and taking your lifeless body 
 away from the action, but then returning you back to combat. The good thing is that w/e damage 
 you did to the enemies will still exist, so eventually you will win the battles just through sheer 
 attrition. The negative is that your armor and weapons will take damage every time you die, plus 
 the whole scene with the Valkyrie takes about ten seconds, which can really add up after awhile. 
 Also of note is that you can't carry healing items, you have to just hope that a defeated enemy 
 might occasionally drop a healing orb. I will say that the game does have a lot of depth in that 
 you can choose from five different warrior classes, each of which has their own advantages, including 
 what types of weapons can be equipped. Speaking of weapons, there is an incredible amount of weapons 
 and armor to be picked up from both fallen enemies and obelisks, each of which will change your 
 character's appearance. In addition there is a pretty extensive skill tree that you assign your 
 experience points to. So, while the loot collecting and skill tree were very good, and I enjoyed 
 the rapid movement in combat, the many inevitable deaths and lack of camera control were issues 
 that need to be addressed if they put out a sequel.
  
  GRAPHICS (7) Another mixed bag here. Again, I loved the concept of creating worlds that were a 
 mix of futuristic technology with Norse mythology, but at times the graphics seemed last-gen as 
 backgrounds tended to lack textures and details. I admired using close-ups of characters, but at 
 times the faces just weren't put together very well and came off looking too blocky.
  
  AUDIO (8.0) Overall the audio was quite good. The background music during combat added adrenaline 
 and the weapon sound effects were generally on target. There are stretches of extended conversations 
 and I felt there were done professionally and believable.
  
  STORY (8.0) I happened to enjoy the story of Too Human. I won't get into much detail other than 
 you play as a futuristic Norse God, Baldur, where the God attributes come from cybernetic enhancements. 
 No surprise in that you are battling against Loki but there are twists and betrayals. The game 
 ended without most issues being resolved as this is obviously meant to have a sequel, and the story 
 is interesting enough that I hope they do make the next game.
  
  VALUE (7.0) I have to admit this game took me longer than it did for many others who apparently 
 had a better grasp of the combat and were able to move through areas quicker and died a lot less. 
 For me it took about 18 hours to finish this game while I've read of others taking 10-12 hours. 
 Either way, not too bad for what is basically an action game with some RPG elements. The game does 
 offer coop play, but interestingly enough coop takes out the story elements. You and your friend 
 will just go from battle to battle without any of the cutscenes. Some may prefer this but for me 
 the story was one of the hi-lights of the game so I don't think I'd be interested in coop.
  
  SUMMARY (7.0) - I have a hard time recommending this to everyone. There are certainly people 
 who will enjoy this, and there will also be those that will get frustrated with it's issues and 
 give up. I'm glad I stuck with it because i really did get much more comfortable with the combat 
 and I enjoyed the story. My hope is that they do in fact come out with a sequel, and for the second 
 game give it a bit more polish that could push it from an OK game to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:07 am PT
Review:  too human was being hyped back in the PlayStation one day. Now after 10 years we finally get too 
 human and maybe 10 more years in development couldn't hurt at all...
  
  Too Human is like if Norse mythology had a baby with Terminator and this is the bastard child.
 
  
  Too human is either the most simplest game ever because you go from point a to point b to most 
 likely a boss battle and it repeats it self over the course of the game. Or it could be the hardest 
 game you have ever played... using the sticks as a weapon and the deep class and tree menus. 
  
  You play as bauilder the game starts where you and a handful of men land and enter sort of 
 a dungeon where you find statues and either robots to make japan blush. You go through a few waves 
 and squads of robots and you come to a well. You look into the well and you transfer to a ''virtual'' 
 world you do some stuff there which seems to have an effect on something. Like in one mission you 
 push a tree over and when you return to the real world the tree bridge is now a automatic robot 
 bridge thing. Also using the sticks can be very hard or stick i should say. a good thing about 
 it is that when you hit and enemy in the air you can jump up start swinging like crazy. or shoot 
 it with your guns. Doing this might sound easy but after a few hours you get annoyed at the sticks 
 and just swing the stick like crazy when in battle. also if your thinking when you level up you 
 can just smash anything and fell like a bad ass. nope this aint your game... creatures level up 
 with you so if anything you really dont get stronger when you think about it. It also leaves you 
 open for some really bad deaths constantly being swarmed and since same level you cant do crap 
 and you die.
  
  the story it self isnt like a MGS story where its VERY DEEP. but it isnt a gears of wa story where 
 its very shallow it sort of in the middle. Humans vs Robots and your a god in a sci-fi Norse world. 
 its very good but the story is shined on in small bits and finally gets interesting at the end 
 when he light finally shines all over it.
  
  sound in this game isn't really at top notch theres hardly any sound when you swing or hit a robot. 
 sounds of guns get repetitive FAST and so forth. It doesn't wreck the game but for a game in development 
 for 10 years the sound should be good
  
  Too human is hard to describe because its like God Of War Future Diablo. You kill enemies with 
 your sword and you absolutely own them (God of war) and your laser guns (future) then you might 
 get loot/bounty (Diablo) . 
  
  Also in Too Human is the class system you choose from 6 classes: Defender, berserker, commando 
 ,bio-engineer, champion, etc each with their own strengths and weaknesses. If you really like the 
 game you can go back and do all the class and if you do the game will last around 60 hours so there 
 is replayablity if you want it. 
  
  but do you really want it? 
  
  Too Human its been in development for 10 years so its got to look good. well it doesn't to my eyes 
 it looks GOOD dont gt me wrong just not 10 years good. also the game has slight frame rate drops 
 here and their but doesn't render the game unplayable. also it seems like the camera hates you. 
 You never have full control over the camera. also dual wielding guns is a MASSIVE pain in the ass. 
 Your guns will target and kill good but after the kill if you dont move right analog or let go 
 of trigger it still targets dead person. Like before it doesn't make game unplayable but this shouldn't 
 have been in the game.
  
  Overall too human is a good game it just has alot of things holding it back from really shining 
 out.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Story: 8.6
  Gameplay5.9
  Sound4.3
  
  Overall: 7.0
  
  
  I personally would like for this to be a trilogy with a few more touch ups and a 4 player option 
 for campaign it could really be a good IP for the xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  After nine years in development Too Human has finally been released and i honestly have to say 
 after all that time i am confused how the game isnt as good as it could have been, but that will 
 all be explained later now for the review.
  
  Gameplay: Too Human is essentially a hack 'n' slash game but with one difference, instead of buttons 
 to control the combat you use the right analog to slide and attack your enemies with holding to 
 slide and do set combos and tapping to do specific combo's, this system works very well and is 
 fun and satisfying to use but sometimes it doesn't work so well as sometimes it has you swinging 
 your weapon in the completely wrong direction even when an enemy is right next to you. There is 
 also ranged combat with pistols rifles and cannons but the pistols are by far the best choice, 
 aiming varies as sometimes it works very well and others it just aims at an enemy which is of low 
 priority which leaves you sighing and just getting on with it. The story in Too Human is incredible, 
 yes i said it well it is if you know your Norse mythology and if you don't either go play age of 
 mythology or go to wikipedia if you are really eager, but still the story is told through some 
 awesome cutscenes and also narrated action but i will not give away of the story except the fact 
 that you play as Baldur a cybernetically enhanced human who is seen as a god but thats all your 
 getting. Now for the problems, the biggest one is the cheap deaths where you can go into a fight 
 and think i'm going to die at least 3 or 4 times here but dying isnt all that bad after a cool 
 cutscene where a valkyrie comes down and picks you up, the only problem is this sequence takes 
 quite some time so after a while you get frustrated at it but after the animation is over the game 
 resumes with you only a few metres away from where you died, it took me around 10 hours to complete 
 and that was not just rushing through the missions.
  
  Sound: This is generally great in Too Human with great weapons sounds and the explosions sound 
 pretty awesome too. But the voice acting by far is the best its brilliant with every actor lending 
 their best for every role leaving you immersed in the story.
  
  Multiplayer: There isn't much here just the story with two player online, originally there was 
 going to be four player co-op but it mysteriously dissapeared.
  
  Conclusion: If you are willing to look over some flaws Too Human can be a great game aand if you 
 are looking for a great story by all means go ahead but if you want a next gen ice breaker i wouldn't 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PenguinGod19
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  I bought a 360 recently to play this game and a few others, and I was not dissapointed. I love 
 norse mythology so that may make me a bit biased, but I really do enjoy this game.
  
  Does it have it's shortcomings, yes. The camera can be extremely frustrating at times, but after 
 awhile you learn to work with it. Also the battle controls can seem unresponsive at times.
  
  BUT when you get into the groove of sliding between enemies, juggling them in the air, and 
 then smacking a giant robot in the face you feel... very satisfied. The story is keeping my attention, 
 the setting is fueling my desire for more, and the battles and loot are keeping me coming back 
 for more!
  
  This is a good first step in what can be a potentially amazing franchise. They put something out 
 there and it's not perfect, but if they decide to continue working on the system and upgrading 
 it for a sequal then we may just have a future GOTY on our hands. 
  
  If you like dungeon rundding and awesome Loot then don't pass this game up. Take on the role of 
 Baldur and bring death to your enemies, for Odin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemistake2
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Too human is an 3rd person action rpg published by microsoft and developed by silcon knights. you 
 play as baldur a norse god also being the god of beauty, in my opinion he looks extremely ugly. 
 too human was originally planned on being a triology and planned on being a 4 disc adventure on 
 the sony playstation in 1999, then a year later it became a gamecube game in 2000 then into 2005 
 the rights went to microsoft to be made on the 360.
  now about the gameplay, when i got this game it was about 12 o'clock i was tired but decided to 
 play for about 1 hour, as i thought to myself this games pretty good. when i woke i started the 
 game but as much as i liked the game the previous day the more i decided the dislike it. one of 
 its "possitive" features is that the right analog stick is used for combat which took me long to 
 get used to. also if you die you spawn about 50 foot away with no penalty what so ever. at the 
 start of the game combat is predictable easy you fight these little robot things which i forgot 
 the name of, then suddenly comes this huge robot which takes ages to defeat just out of nowhere 
 and after that another, so the difficulty curve is sort of up and down and that pretty much covers 
 it. goodbye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ISargin
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Too Human . I will quote Gamespot on this one . "This action/role-playing hybrid is too unbalanced 
 and too frustrating to recommend."
  
  Really Gamespot , bravo , i think its safe to say we all agree on that statement .
  
  Now , 
 too human is a story that takes place in some kind of god world , upper and superior to the human 
 world , you serve as their protector and wind up fighting hordes of machine monsters of all sorts 
 to do so . sounds awesome right? unfortunately not so much .
  
  The story to too human doesnt really make much sense , between cutscenes from different dimensions 
 and flashbacks and different takes on flashbacks youll be lost before you know it . but at the 
 end , if you make it , it all comes together , and i must say the ending is pretty epic . the main 
 problem with too human is the sheer repetetiveness of it . they add many hours of gameplay just 
 from the obnoxiously stamina-boosted bosses and the hordes of enemies , which would be fine if 
 it was fun . 
  
  Too human is easy and hard at the same time , you see , you can;'t really die . when you do die 
 , these things called valkyries come and pick you up , and you are respawned in the exact condition 
 you died at . But in your first playthrough you will die frequently and it will become very frustrating 
 . 
  
  This game shines at its online multiplayer . it can be both enjoyable and handy to play this game 
 with co-op , as long as you have someone around the same level to play with . 
  
  The melee play features advanced combos you could use . but most of the time youll find your self 
 just holding the right stick . the gun play is very , boring . it will not humor you for very long.
 
  
  Now , for those of you reading this , your probably wondering why i didnt give the same number 
 as gamespot , afterall i do agree with them fully dont i?
  
  the only reason I boosted this games rating up a little higher is because 5.5 is listed as Mediocre 
 . I don't believe that . This game is beautiful and it does give a new way to give camera angles 
 at points , and a new combat system that could work in their next title . it brought something 
 new to the table and i feel it should be considered a little above mediocre.
  
  I think that fair is a good word for this game . thats why i boosted it up the .5 points.
  
 
  
  Game Rating: 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  There have been few games more universally panned by critics than Too Human. Look no further than 
 right here at Gamespot for a generally negative review of this game. One would be left with the 
 impression that Too Human is one of the worst games ever offered for the XBox 360. This is untrue. 
 Most of the negative reaction no doubt comes from the ridiculous over hyping done by the games 
 creative director Dennis Dyack. Dyack has been working on Too Human for many, many years and promising 
 a revolutionary experience when the game was complete. Well, that's also untrue.
  
  Graphics: Middle of the road quality. Some parts of the game look very impressive while others 
 look a bit rough. Framerate is often choppy and thier are a few graphical hiccups that give the 
 game an incomplete feel. It's not a bad looking game but it doesn't look like a game that has been 
 in development for several years.
  
  Story: You play as Balder, a Norse God in an Asgard merged with high technology. You progress through 
 the story persuing the evil God of Mischief, Loki and trying to find answers regarding the death 
 of your wife and your own grevious injury you had suffered. It's actually quite clever. It somewhat 
 illustrates the point that technology can be so great that it can be construed as magical. It's 
 an interesting take and a pretty good story all in all.
  
  Gameplay: Too Human is an old fashioned loot game at it's heart. You will be constantly gaining 
 new items, crafting your armor, leveling up, and gaining new abilities. The combat is a combination 
 of stick melee and normal shooting with special abilities mixed in. It works and it's fun. Flying 
 all over the screen hitting this enemy, tossing another in the air and using your guns to juggle 
 him until dead is simply a blast to do! The camera leaves a lot to be desired but it doesn't break 
 game. The campaign is not very long but you seem to be expected to use each of the five classes 
 to go through the game over and over. That is not realistic nor a very entertaining prospect. The 
 game could get very old and tiresome very quickly after too many play throughs.
  
  In summary, Too Human is OK. Pretty good even. I got it very cheap on Ebay and certainly would 
 not have paid full price for it but if you can pick it up cheap I recommend you do so. Judge the 
 game yourself, don't go by hearsay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burps_brasil20
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  too human has it's fair share of fun, slicing and dicing trough enemys can be awesome, but you'll 
 grow tired of it in no time... and the dieing cut-scene in which a valkyrie comes slooooooooooowly 
 to pick you up and sloooooooowly takes you to valhala just so you can re-appear next to where you 
 died in the first time kills most of the fun, since it can't be skipped... in the first 5 or so times 
 you die, it will look AWESOME, but as you probably die 6 or 7 times PER ENEMY WAVE it kinda makes 
 you wanna throw the CD trough the window and hope it falls on a trash compactor...
  
  overall, the right stick based combat style is fun and quite well worked on, but this game is WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY 
 too frustrating to be buy-worthy... but it defnetly is rent-worthy, specially to those who like Nordic 
 mithology
  
  so, it's not exellent as i could have been, but way too under-rated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  I tried to enjoy Too Human, I really did. However, it is simply a boring mess to experience. I 
 admit, the RPG style upgrade system is interesting and same goes for the way you can construct 
 your weapons and armor. Its actually the best part of the game, although even a game like Two Worlds 
 has this feature.
  
  The story in this game may be the worst written, most boring storyline ever. The cutscenes are 
 horrible due to dry, hard to understand dialogue. Luckily, by playing co-op, you can totally avoid 
 the story, which is what I did.
  
  The co-op, which works well, is an important addition to the game, since playing the single player 
 will result in a balance of boredom ranging to frustration when the bigger enemies are collected 
 in a large group. Surprisingly, there are plenty of people playing the game online, so if you want 
 to play with another human player, it will not take long for a player to join your game.
  
  The presentation like I mentioned, is not good. The graphics may look polished in one area, but 
 in other places (such as the outdoor bits) , they look terrible. The music is nearly unexistant 
 and forgettable.
  
  Finally, I have to mention the actual gameplay. At first, the fighting system seemed unique and 
 even fun, although unpredictable. After a few hours into the game, it turned into a repetitive 
 hack and slash, similar to a Dynasty Warriors game. 
  
  If you are interested it this game, I highly suggest you rent rather than buy it. I finished the 
 game in nine hours, which is terribly short for an RPG but thankfully it was over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjcritch
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Some serious time was put into the development of this game, you can tell. It really is a great 
 work. I think people didn't give it its due because the camera takes a little getting used to. 
 If you pay attention to the details you will realize the hard work that went into this game. All 
 that and breathtaking environments. The game reminds me of a cross between Diablo II, The Force 
 Unleashed and Legacy of Kain. Really an amzing mix. The coup de gras is the co-op. I really did 
 not expect that this type of game would ever be co-op on the xbox. I hope more developers realize 
 the fun of a Diablo type co-op action type RPG. What else can I say. Go buy it, rent it, get it 
 used at Gamestop whatever. Give it at least 4 hrs of gameplay before you form an opinion. Oh, and 
 by the way ... keep the camera in the ISO setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The game that took 10 years , and forfeiting release on the nintendo or the playstation during 
 the course of time and finally landing on the XBOX 360 as an exclusive . All I can say is that 
 I'm a little confused about this one , they did thing right , but with almost everything you will 
 appreciate has some drawbacks .
  
  The story is pretty fantastical , cybernetic norse gods is a very interesting take on norse mythology 
 . You play as Baldur , one of the gods who is brought back from death by fellow Aesir Gods . I 
 really like the cybernetic take on all the gods and the enemies , cybernetic goblins , elves , 
 undead etc. I was actually tired of seeing them as the green skinned baddies , or the long haired 
 bow and arrow weilding long eared enemies . So it was kind of a welcome relief for me to see these 
 creatures revamped in this futuristic world .
  
  Next , I wish to talk about the environments , these are probably some of the biggest environments 
 you will encounter in games these days . The environments are huge and beautifully lit.... But the 
 path that your character has to take spoils the scope of such environments , since you are allowed 
 to only walk along killing enemies and meanwhile looking at the beautiful structures around you 
 , on which you cant put a dent with your weapon , which is the least that all games do these days 
 while creating environments . If they would have incorporated an ability for our character to fly 
 around I would be a happier person . Also the paths you do get to walk along are empty as far as 
 any objects are concerned .
  
  The game play , this is something I felt Silicon Knights got right by allowing us to hack through 
 the numerous enemies using the right analog stick . You just keep the stick tilted towards your 
 enemy's direction and your character will keep beating them up until they fall allowing you to 
 build huge combos which is really cool.... But they haven't balanced the encounters , there will 
 be times when you are literally surrounded by hordes , which looks awesome no doubt , but without 
 having a system to defend , its basically who can hold out the longest . And not having a potion 
 system for this alleged action/rpg , you just pray that one of the enemies you kill is going to 
 drop a health orb so that you are allowed to kill a few more before you fall . This brings up the 
 most irritating reload sequence I have ever encountered in gaming, when you die , a kind of a cut 
 scene comes up , a valkyrie comes down to pick you up and you start again from a nearby save point 
 . But I want to thank the guys at Silicon Knights , that they dont reset the enemies' hit points 
 when you die , because if that would have happened , I wouldn't even dream of finishing this game 
 . Then they also gave us the option to use firearms , which hasn't been implemented properly , 
 there is absolutely nothing rewarding about pumping rounds in your enemies from a distance , and 
 since I played the commando class (firearms was my strong point) , pumping rounds was the only 
 way I could get through and constantly searching for better melee weapons so I can do considerably 
 more damage with it so that I could enjoy the hack'n'slash a little more .
  
  The AI , I'm not sure what to say about the AI , the enemies basically rush at you mindlessly , 
 and you will die ... a lot .
  
  The game has a lot of options for weapons and armour to make your character the most kick ass god 
 of them all . 
  
  In the end , the game had an interesting but predictable story , but I enjoyed the cybernetic twist 
 to the whole concept , the action using the right analog stick is definitely a smart way for hack'n'slash 
 but a little enemy balancing would have been welcomed .
  
  But all in all , its not all that bad , but for some reason games on norse mythology dont have 
 a good track record on this site , Rune which I thought was really good , then there was Viking 
 : Battle for Asgard which I havent played and now Too Human which I felt is good but for some reason 
 is way too under-rated .
  
  Looking forward to the next installment . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fissurestriker
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:38 am PT
Review:  Ok i have had this game since it came out and i got to say, it is a disappointment. this game has 
 alot of problems for example; the combat is slow and limited, the voice acting is armature, the 
 physics are a joke and the camera is jittery. there is limited to do and the game will get boring 
 quickly so i do ask DO NOT BUY!!! oh yea and i already mentioned combat but when combining the 
 camera with combat it gets even worse; when an enemy is shooting you it seems impossible to target 
 them and you cant target the enemy nearest to you which results in heavy damage. you can only hope 
 your player will spot them and shoot across the room and stab them. what i mean by that is a dash 
 move you can perform where you press the right stick towards the enemy and you shoot over to them. 
 the cut scenes are long and unskipable and are structured badly. you watch a cut scene which takes 
 5 mins of your life you cant get back and you play for five seconds and only manage to walk 5 yards 
 before running into yet ANOTHER cut scene (if i wanted to watch so many cut scenes i would of bought 
 a bloody movie FFS) do not buy as you will be disapointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cainetao11
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  A game that took ten years in most opinions better be perfect. Well this one isn't! But neither 
 were GTA4, or MGS4 imo. Too Human is frustrating to get into because of the fact that you will 
 die a lot, and you must watch the cinematic of the Valkiri taking you to Valhalla each time. Sticking 
 it out, and overcoming the learning curve as well as paying close attention to story and character 
 developments can feel like a chore. Games won't succeed this way. I guess I am a glutton for punishment, 
 because I have really gotten a hang on the combat (which is so satisfying) , and dig the story/characters. 
 The story is a Wachowski brothers like redo of Norse mythology. Wrapping your brain around the 
 terminology and subtitutions for magical references is daunting at first. I hung in there after 
 experiencing my first flowing battle in which I wasn't killed. It kept getting better. This game 
 is flawed, but I recomend it to anyone who has stuck it out against bosses in Ninja Gaiden when 
 it seemed like you Couldn't beat them. Put your attention and time in and I think you'll see this 
 wasn't a bad game after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I think that too human was very successful, and way too underrated. The game has TONS of customization 
 for your very own character, Baldur. You can choose from five different warrior classes, either 
 Beserker, Champion, Bioengineer, Commando, or Defender. You have three ability trees, and two path 
 trees (for either cybernetic or human warrior) . The fighting is really nice if you get used to it, 
 and the graphics are awesome. The one thing that it is recognized for is its HIGH customization. 
 There are AT LEAST one hundred of all of the item classes!!! For your weapons, you have these classes: 
 Pistols, Rifles, or Cannons (you must get a special cybernetic upgrade for Cannons) in the gun category, 
 Swords, Staves, or Hammers for the melee category. There AT LEAST thousands of armor items!!! Here 
 are the armor categories: Helm, Shoulders, Arms, Gauntlets, Torsos, Legs, and Boots. There are 
 also blueprints that you can collect around the game, and to use them, you must use your "bounty" (money) 
 and make them. You of course, can buy all of the things in the Aesir stores. NOT TO MENTION THAT 
 YOU CAN BUY RUNES AND COLOR RUNES FOR EVERY SINGLE FREAKING ITEM!!!! I think that the superb customization, 
 great storyline, and good fighting mechanics make this a must get for sci-fi and RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  simple explanation behind my title is that for what Norse Mythology was a futuristic world just 
 doesn't fit it. Too Human is not bad but the game is annoying as heck. One of the first complaints 
 that I have about the game is the long death scene it was cool the first time I saw it but after 
 seeing over, and over, and over............. it gets old fast cause you just want to get back to 
 playing the game but you have to endure a long and boring cinema every time that you die. Another 
 flaw that drives me batty is the fact that almost 9 times out of 10 your enemies have the advantage, 
 maybe I just suck but when you get ambushed and watch the crap get beat out of you because there 
 a to many enemies flying around it gets old. It was as if the creators wanted to game the game 
 so challenging and skilled that only the best of the best could play it the succeeded. Too Human 
 does have many unique features one it tries to take a unique twist on Norse Mythology that is not 
 a bad Idea but doesn't fit. another postive to the game is the fact that you get alot of room to 
 customize your characters. The game is enjoyable and the controls are not as bad as it seems but 
 the game is so frustrating that it makes it hard to sit down and enjoy. Recommended to people who 
 have alot of patents. I mean alot of patents. 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estromq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Sure it may have been a let down to all those who were expecting an amazing game since the game 
 has been in the works for over a decade but I kept my expectations low and was rewarded for it.
 
  
  The Story: The story wasn't anything spectacular but it moved the game along. Mythology is great 
 and welcome to any game. Story didn't get really juicy til the end though. 
  
  Gameplay: I had played the demo before renting this sucker so i knew what to expect as far as battle 
 mechanics. This IS the most mindless game if you want it to be (if you were lazy and stupid you 
 could point the analog stick at an enemy throwout the whole game.) The best thing about this game 
 is the loot. You will constantly be rewarded with tons and tons of beautiful armor over and over 
 again. 
  
  Graphics: Running threw Asgard and all its glory was terrific. The character models were easily 
 the best I have seen (you could see the blackheads on Thor's face.) Armor looks terrific, effects 
 and enemies are good. The only bad thing is the environment sometimes lacked alittle somethin somethin. 
 
  
  Overall: This isn't a action/rpg. Its a hacknslash dungeon crawler that provides a fix for all 
 those people who love collecting new armor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Saying "the best Action RPG I've played all year" is, in 2008 at least akin to saying "the best 
 poo I had when I was suffering from gastric flu" but Too Human has the rather depressing honour 
 of being just that. Too Human is a futuristic action RPG based on North Mythology with beautiful 
 cut scenes and fast, addictive gameplay mired by controls that were evidently decided on by someone 
 playing the 360 holding the controller upside-down and the common action RPG mistake that everyone 
 playing single player wants to spend 4 hours fighting a boss. 
  
  In Too Human you start off by picking your usual beefcake Norse hero and leap straight into kicking 
 the arse of your enemies with sword and gun. Ok there is the small matter of the opening story 
 cut scenes but in general the story of Too Human isn't too gripping. Usually I'm always one for 
 good stories, but Too Human while it has some amazing cut scenes didn't have a plot that grabbed 
 me and I found myself skipping a lot of them (and some of them infuriatingly don't seem to be skippable 
 at random) . If you're a fan of Norse Mythology it's certainly all there, Thor with his massive 
 hammer, Loki suffering torture and references to many another part of the more traditional stories 
 but for me it didn't grab. This is probably down to me just not being that into the world rather 
 than it being bad so I'll let those of you who decide to play it make judgement. 
  
  Combat in Too Human is where the game shines, essentially like all good Action RPG's you kick a 
 LOT of ass, chew a lot of gum, and pick up so much crap your surprised your character can move. 
 You'll spend a lot of time button bashing, hurting your fingers and swapping equipment around being 
 as uber as possible and it's very addicting a lot of fun. Enemies die in a variety of interesting 
 ways too; you can dispatch with sword or melee weapon or knock them in the air Dante style and 
 keep them airborne with bullets. You can also use lasers, explosives, special attacks, landmines 
 and a variety of other devices of destruction to kick enemies' backsides. It's especially satisfying 
 to leap on the back of huge robots and cleave them head to toe in a mini cutscene and it never 
 gets old as you fight to keep balance on them as you do it. As you kill you level up a Diablo style 
 skill tree too and the game is replayable online and offline to beef your character up to ridiculous 
 heights. In terms of ticking the majority of important boxes for a JRPG Too human delivers.
  
  Behind the adrenaline pumping gameplay though there are flaws, the most glaring error of which 
 is the controls. Whoever decided that right stick should be attack and not camera is responsible 
 for some of the most terrible camera angles ever to be in a video game. Seriously you will sometimes 
 have to bring your head right into the TV screen to see what's going on as the camera has decided 
 the best view for combat is that of a satellite in orbit around the planet rather than close to 
 the action and it could have been easily rectified by having a working camera on the right stick. 
 Using the stick for combat is a nightmare too as it just doesn't deliver the feel of a good button 
 bashing that it should and disjoints the flow of battle to some degree. Another big problem with 
 the game is the boss battles, these aren't as much challenging but LONG , the final battle in particular 
 really drags with endless death upon death (death merely damages your equipment and you infinitely 
 respawn so it's not much of an issue) as you chip away at her enormous hit point pool. The game 
 seems to assume you'll be playing it multiplayer (double the damage!) which I wasn't, Silicon Knights 
 should have throw in a offline co-op if they even vaguely wanted to entertain the fact everyone 
 would play it co-op. The boss fights taking forever seems to be a common problem in recent action 
 rpg titles, really would it be so difficult to stagger hit points of enemies depending on number 
 of people playing? Oh and the game is also pretty buggy, I fell through the floor and had to replay 
 big sections on three occasions, very frustrating.
  
  Too Human has a lot of potential let down by some frustrating a noticeable flaws that prevent it 
 from being a true classic, however it is still fun. If your looking for a compelling addictive 
 title and can overlook it's issues Too Human offers a fun monster slaying experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Few games in recent memory have been as controversial as the Norse mythology epic from Silicon 
 Knights, "Too Human." Purportedly in conception across multiple platforms for close to a decade, 
 the game generated incredible hype after the first trailer was released.
  
  But upon its first gameplay showing, "Too Human" was universally panned by journalists for its 
 poorly designed camera system and jarring performance issues. Lead designer Dennis Dyack responded 
 by promising that the review community would eat their words when the game released.
  
  Unfortunately, while the performance issues have been largely alleviated, "Too Human" still contains 
 a broken camera system and a hack-and-slash gameplay system that feels clumsy and imprecise. Instead 
 of using buttons, "Too Human" relies upon the right analog stick for melee attacks. While this 
 is a unique setup, it also makes it impossible for the player to learn or execute any precise move 
 set. As a result, combat generally involves rotating the analog stick every which way, hoping that 
 the game's protagonist will react accordingly.
  
  The camera system was another purportedly innovative change promised by Silicon Knights, but the 
 developers' intention to alleviate the player's need to control the camera manually made the game 
 worse, not better. The camera seems to have a mind of its own, spinning this way or that, oftentimes 
 making it impossible to see or aim at your target.
  
  What's more, the game sports eye-numbingly repetitive levels and enemies, making the grind that 
 much more difficult to bear. There were occasions when I got into a good "rhythm" hacking strings 
 of enemies, but these moments were too few and far between. 
  
  Visually, "Too Human" isn't easy on the eyes either, with poor textures and character models, and 
 even poorer animation.
  
  "Too Human's" saving grace is its setting and art style, which combines Norse mythology with a 
 cyber-punk aesthetic. The story contains some interesting twists, but It's a tragedy that the dialogue 
 and voice acting were so sub-par. 
  
  "Too Human" reaches for the stars, but fails to get the basics right. The game is in some ways 
 innovative, but innovates in the wrong direction. If Silicon Knights makes a sequel (the franchise 
 is planned as a trilogy) , they will need to go back to the drawing board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3R0B4NG
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I have now 5 maxed out LVL 50 chars and 995 Gamerscore on this Game.
  
  The Game is good, it has a very good story (with lots and lots of cutscenes) and a very nice gameplay.
 
  
  After you'r done with the Campaign you see one of the worst cliffhangers since Assassins Creed, 
 the Story is nowhere near finished but still worth playing I WANT MORE! AAAAH!!!
  
  After the Shock is over you can start a new campaign with the same Char and Items... if you want 
 with cutscenes or you just go straigt to the Terminal and run through the Levels kicking some Robots 
 arround just for lvling up without any disruptions.
  You also can play online with one more Player.
  Would be more fun with maybe 4 Players but the 
 Levels are just not designed for more than 2.
  
  The real Diablo 2 Style fun starts with lvl30 when you get better weapons, armors, skills and runes.
 
  
  When your done with the first char you might want to see the skilltree of the next Char... on that 
 point you are not gonna be intrested in the Story anymore you just gonne start playing coop.
  
  When your done with all classes and have done like 100 runs through every level it starts to 
 suffer from burn out because you hit the point where is nothing more to find nothing more to do... 
 by now the game needs a big bad ass add on with lots of new Enemys, Levels and Items.
  
  I'm waiting.
  
  Until Sacred 2 is released this is the best thing for the 360 if you want that 
 old Diablo 2 feeling back.
  
  Some people complain about the camera or the long sequence when you die... well i can just say 
 they are n00bs... don't die every 2 inches and the sequence won't be annoying and the camera? You 
 ever played Ninja Gaiden 2 or Star Wars - The Force Unleashed? Those cameras are way more annoying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerTReveiws
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This action RPG developed by Silicon Knights. Awesome loot, cool classes, and amazing story. The 
 fact that it got a 5.5 is amazing, an 8.0 is just right. The customization is terrific. Also the 
 colors you can customize with are just superb. I mean the combinations of gray and blue, black 
 and gold, way cool. The story is the main focus. It takes place in norse mythology with all your 
 favorite gods. That was a joke not alot of people know norse mythology. They will just sayOh 
 norse mythology, like Thor and stuff". But there is alot more to that. Get the game at EB games 
 for 34.99 ( I just checked ) . And the choices, wow. What class, what weapon style, what color, 
 what faction, and what skill tree. This game is also quite long. Being a reviewer I need to complete 
 games ASAP. So i beat Fable 2 in 3 days, Halo 3 in 2 days, and Too Human in 5 days which is kinda 
 long considering my standards. Well I hope this review will convince you to but Too Human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Too Human.
  
  
  Released: Aug/19/08. Difficulty: Varies.
  Developed by: Silicon Knights. Learning curve: 30 - 1 Hr.
  Published by: Microsoft Game Studios. 
 Platforms: Xbox 360.
  
  
  Pros: + Inspiring art style, + Innovative Control Scheme.
  
  Cons: - Uninteresting story, - Sticky and unresponsive control scheme, - Pointless Leveling, 
 - Co-op feels tacked on; - Range combat is unsatisfying, - Short, - Bad Camera, - Short.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Review.
  
  Too Human is been under development for around eleven years until Silicon Knights finally was able 
 to release it for the Xbox 360 in august of 2008. In This time they when through numerous changes 
 in development for the change of story, character and even the well heard "Unreal 3 engine" problem. 
 When hearing things like this is only reasonable to believe that Too Human wouldn't live quite 
 up to what people wanted it to be? This of course is very true unfortunately, the many changes 
 made to the game recently have both helped in some ways be killed it more in the process. 
  
  But first I should tell what "Too Human" is about? What Too Human ended up to be was a Cybernetic 
 version of the inspiring Norse Mythology. In this story you play as one of O. D. E. N.'s sons, "Baldur", 
 who was the god of Light, joy, purity, beauty, innocence, and reconciliation. Most of the stories 
 in Norse Mythology involved Baldur's death and his dreams involving so. Because of this "Frigg", 
 mother of Baldur and Hod, took it on her behalf to set an oath to all creatures, object and force 
 in nature to never harm or assist in harming him. Now on to the game it's self. When your start 
 the game you will have to chose from five different "Archetypes". These being Berserker, your basic 
 power house that excels in combat but proves quite useless in the health department; the Bioengineer, 
 A run of the mill healer who has a high amount of heath as we'll as the only class to be able to 
 heal but lacks in all other skills; The Champion, who is a we'll balanced class who excels in all 
 categories but does not exceed very high; The Commando, who is a gun nut who has high gun skills 
 and is able to diminish melee damage but lacks the ability to use melee weapons we'll or has high 
 health; and the Defender, this is good for people who want to be a good tank based character due 
 to its high health and armour skills but lacks in the range an melee skills. 
  
  When you have finished picking your class you then thrown into the world of Too Human. This is 
 when the game will live and die over and over again, no joke. When you're first introduced to the 
 combat controls you can help to feel inspired by the new and unique scheme that "Silicon Knights" 
 were able to come up with, but that dies relatively fast when you're forced to face against a large 
 group of enemies. The combat fails because it's not been developed enough to maintain a large amount 
 of enemies and still have the preseason that you need to have to take down you major fighting problems 
 . A good example would be like a large group of goblins, say 30, attack you and two of them happen 
 to use rocket turrets you would first want to take down your major problem, the turrets, but since 
 the control scheme isn't really built for such a large group it will not allow you to easily target 
 them. Instead it will target on unnecessary things like dead bodies or a useless enemies. This 
 cause the game to become very frustrating after so many battles which usually result in death or 
 brutally injured, unless you have the skill to heal, because health will very rarely drop when 
 you need it and only pop up when your full health resulting on wasted items. 
  
  Not when Death dose become a reality, which it will very often, you are shown to a beautifully 
 done cutscene, will at first, of a Valkyrie slowly lowering down from a bright Godley light and 
 picks of Baldur and then slowly rises up to the sky to which you are then resurrected to the beginning 
 of the area. Now it seems nice to watch but when you are faced with death at an average of 10 mins 
 it becomes very annoying and makes you wonder if you were able to skip it, how long would this 
 game be? 
  
  This now leads me to what the games major problem is, the levelling. This game is supposed to be 
 an "Action/RPG" yet it seems to lack something, oh I don't know. Maybe the advancement of leveling; 
 for some reason they made all the creatures level up with you, no correction everything level with 
 you (not including the random elite creatures that are 10 levels above) . This leaves major problems 
 with the games major category, since everything levels with you, you never get the since of progressing 
 anywhere; this often brings up the question, "what's the point?'. And you might think that weapons 
 would be more powerful? We'll yes but that doesn't matter when the enemies move faster than you, 
 have incurable effects, and level up with you!! 
  
  Now this game also happens to have an online co-op added with everything else that's broken, and 
 I have to say it's not too bad compared to the rest. But that's not to say it's good now, god no, 
 far from it. Now in co-op you can add any friend on Xbox live to help join up in your or his/her 
 campaign. This is good since it allows for you to have a break against the large hordes of enemies 
 that cause massive death. There's only two major problems; one, you're going to have to be roughly 
 the same level to get a good game cause the level changes to the characters level who is a part 
 of the campaign and secondly they skills given to each class are more geared to a group effort 
 then a 2 team effort, leaving me to think that it was originally going to be a four player mode. 
 
  
  Now I know I'm ranting on and on about the bad parts, but with all its flaws (and there are a lot) 
 there is still a fun game to be played; Even if you have to search very, very, very hard for it. 
 Which is why I say if you're looking for a dungeon crawler that you haven't played and you see 
 this on a shelf, rent it first, because you may end up with the same problems I and many others 
 have had. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeigzero
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I disagree with most mainstream reviews of this title, which are responsible for my delayed play 
 of this awesome loot-grind. Apologies to Silicon Knights - who deserve a sportsman cookie for creating 
 this entire engine in the wake of the Unreal3 madness they went through - for waiting so long to 
 pick this up, i gladly would have if i'd read a fair review. My adoration is clear in the references 
 at top. I don't compare art to Blade Runner lightly, nor do bring up Dante for no reason. While 
 Baldur isn't much to look at - should have stuck with original concepts SK, thanks focus groups! 
 - there are environments and set pieces that haunt my dreams like the Tyrell Corporation pyramid 
 still does. The control and targeting problems i've read about just aren't there. I am the God 
 that SK wanted me to be, moving through air and across land with smooth, perfect controls that 
 beg for application to any Diablo style game. **** why not just release the final, expanded diablo 
 2 on 360 with an evolution of this control scheme? I never want to go back to button mashing in 
 a console loot grind again, sorry Dark Alliance...
  
  Here's a breakdown:
  Graphics : 10 (I drool at the backdrops, then wet myself at the armors. Some textures rushed, but 
 the overall quality is sick)
  Sound : 7 (stale reads for voices, no sound options)
  Control: 9 (blade control gets a 10, gun control gets an 8)
  Fun: 9 (obviously varies for the 
 player, but i've waited years for something like diablo to really work on a console. Now i've got 
 it, it's constantly amazing me, and i feel like most people just don't care. crazy.
  Replay: 9 (nothing but. the game scales replayed levels with new enemy types from later levels. 
 you can't stop the loot train.)
  
  While the future looks bright for loot fans on the consoles, I'd also say the future looks grim 
 for console reviews. Don't trust 'em.
  
  PS - Listen to some Vangelis while playing this - Direct, Soil Festivities or around that time. 
 Absolutely perfect complement to the insanely epic, futuristic settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioShockOwnz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is a game developed by Silicon Knights. It has been on and off for 10 years. Finally, 
 the wait is over, and Too Human is here. Was the wait worth it?
  
  Story:
  
  Too Human tells the story of Baldur. The story is a fusion of Norse mythology and cybernetics, 
 and that's where the title of the game comes from. You can choose to go a more human route, or 
 you can choose to go with cybernetics. Earlier, Denis Dyack said that this would have a big effect 
 on the story and how it progresses, but it doesn't. There's not even a cutscene or anything to 
 show the choice you've made and the route you've taken. It's quite disappointing. The story of 
 Too Human is VERY linear and doesn't offer different paths you can take, like a Mass Effect or 
 something. 
  
  Also, the story of Too Human takes a long time to get its feet off the ground. Actually, the end 
 is pretty much the beginning, which left a bad taste in my mouth. I won't spoil it, but let's just 
 say that some things happen in the end that will leave you starved for more, yet still ticked off. 
 The story in Too Human was satisfying enough, I guess, but the majority of it still felt like an 
 afterthought to me. Only at the end did things start to pick up, which is a shame.
  
  Design:
  
  The level design in Too Human can be best summed up in one word; uninspiring. There 
 are 4 worlds in Too Human, not including the main hub world; Aesir. Each world is massive in gameplay 
 length, but quite linear in their structure. Each level consists of linear corridor after linear 
 corridor. It almost felt like the levels were designed back in the Quake days. All the levels have 
 a few differences in the looks department, but they're almost all the same when it comes to the 
 design of the levels. There's really no variety offered whatsoever, which is disappointing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in Too Human consists of hacking and slashing, but with guns 
 and some special attacks thrown in the mix. 
  
  First, the hacking and slashing. The melee combat in Too Human is very satisfying. It's all done 
 with the right analog stick. Move the analog stick in the direction of the enemy, and you'll hit 
 him. Move the analog stick twice in the direction of the enemy, and you'll hit him up into air, 
 then you can either jump and attack him in the air, or you can use a gun, and juggle his body. 
 The right analog stick combat feels simple and intuitive. I know it's a love it or hate it way 
 to play a game, but personally, I loved it.
  
  Second, the guns. This is where things can get iffy. Using the guns can be very fun, but getting 
 them to aim at the right enemy can be a lesson in frustration. The aiming system for guns feels 
 like a real chore at times. I won't spoil the last boss fight, but it really will try your patience 
 there. You want to target the boss, but you keep locking onto the bosses minions, so it becomes 
 very annoying. You'll be trying to lock-on, then it keeps locking onto the wrong enemy, and while 
 doing this, you'll be getting hit with projectiles from every direction. I hope they can fix this 
 in the sequel, because it feels a lot like Advent Rising in this area.
  
  Third, the camera. The camera in Too Human is just an atrocious trainwreck. Now, I can see what 
 Silicon Knights was trying to do, but it just doesn't work. The camera freaks out a lot. It's a 
 gigantic pain to fight huge groups of rather powerful enemies, while jump and dodging, then the 
 camera losing focus and always havng the need to manually put it back in focus during the heat 
 of battle. This just does not work. Denis Dyack made a big deal out of the camera system they were 
 putting in Too Human, but sorry Denis, it's a mess.
  
  Fourth, the loot! Now, this is the reason to play Too Human. Nothing is more fun than searching 
 around for all the rare loot. It'll keep you coming back for more. Some of the armor you collect 
 along your journey does look just downright silly, though. I would've liked more badass-ness.
 
  
  Fifth, the increasing difficulty. The first world in Too Human is quite easy, and it offers little 
 challenge. But then, you get to the other worlds. Starting with the Ice Forest, the difficulty 
 increases dramatically, with insanely cheap enemies swarming you and taking any shots they can 
 at you. I wish Silicon Knights would've found a balance between the overly simplistic and overly 
 frustrating, but alas, they didn't. 
  
  Presentation:
  
  Too Human looks good, but not great. Silicon Knights had been using the Unreal Engine 3 for Too 
 Human, but they had to build their own engine after some issues with the Unreal Engine 3. With 
 that said, Too Human still looks like an Unreal Engine 3 game. With the exception of the main hub 
 world; Aesir, everything looks kind of dark and gloomy. Still, there are some impressive textures 
 and lighting on display here. The character models don't amaze, but they're not awful, either. 
 Baldur is the best looking of the bunch, though. 
  
  The animations in Too Human are usually quite robotic and unimpressive. Sometimes things we'll 
 animate beautifully, but it's very rare.
  
  I can't say enough good things about the epic score on display in Too Human. The soundtrack is 
 just as good as what was offered in other sci-fi epics, such as Mass Effect or Halo 3. Turn up 
 the surround sound and get ready to be blown away. This one's a keeper in this regard.
  
  Overall:
  
  Too Human is a very ambitious title, and it fails more than it succeeds, sadly. 
 There are true moments of brillance here in terms of storytelling and gameplay, but as the title 
 suggests, it's all too little and too late. Still, if you enjoy dungeon crawler hack n' slash games 
 with a ton of loot, then you'll definitely get a lot of enjoyment out of Too Human. Just dial back 
 your expectations a tad, forget that this was supposed to be one of the best games since sliced 
 bread, and enjoy it for what it is; a decent, yet flawed experience. All in all, it's a very addictive 
 game, and it has pick up and play simplistic combat that will dig its hooks in you from the very 
 beginning. Even with this rather negative review, I still loved this game from beginning to end, 
 and that's why I'm so harsh on it. When a game has so much potential, yet still shows so many flaws, 
 it hurts even more. Please don't give up on this one. Buy it, rent it, try it -- give it a chance.
 
  
  
  7.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarhead20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game recently despite the crushing critics I saw on several pages because I kinda 
 liked the cyber-godish theme and the story. After playing the game for the first five minutes I 
 felt that all the reviews were actually right but after I got used to the control scheme I really 
 started enjoying the game very much. The combo system is very intuitive once you get used to it 
 and the battles are intense and give you the feeling of being really unstoppable. One of the weak 
 points of the game is the Shooting mechanics, they are very clumsy and the lack of any kind of 
 sight or mean to aim more accurately make them at some points frustrating.
  
  The game has sharp graphics and an attractive art design that goes well with all the nanotech society 
 that is presented.
  
  So after playing it for a while the game grows on you, it offers a good customization of character 
 via armor, weapons and such and also differents paths that give somewhat different styles of gameplay. 
 Its not the best game that has come out this year, maybe not even a top 15 but the game is by no 
 means a 5.5, its a good game with some annoying quirks that many fans of action rpgs would easily 
 overlook.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psdsoldier25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Too Human is based on Norse Mythology. You play as Baldur an Aesir and basically you are humanity's 
 protector. One of the things i really liked about the game, were the different classes. You can 
 choose one of the following, Champion - all around type of class, Commando - long ranged attacks 
 sorta like a sniper, Defender - can take a great deal of damage in melee situations, Bio-Engineer 
 - specializes in cybernetics and robotics, Berserker - a master of close quarters combat, deals 
 massive amounts of damage in melee combat (my favorite) . As soon as you pick your class you take 
 the fight to hel and the undead army. The more experience you get, you are awarded with skill points 
 to add to your skill tree making you more powerful.
  
  Too Human plays out through basically 5 missions each leading up to a boss fight. This was another 
 impressive part of Too Human. Each boss fight was better than the last, with each boss getting 
 larger and larger. As far as your basic combat sequences, they get larger and larger as well. They're 
 were several times when i could count 30 or 40+ enemies on the screen. One thing i did notice was 
 that i died more times in the first hour of this game than i have ever in any other games. As a 
 result of dying, you are treated to an annoying scene of a valkyrie coming down to get you and 
 bringing you to valhalla.
  
  As you play further through the game and you start to level up you start to get new armor, weapons, 
 and power runes. This was without a doubt the coolest part of the game. Everytime you defeat a 
 foe they drop new weapons or pieces of armor. You can even customize your armor with color runes. 
 As far as weapons go, if they have rune slots on them you can basically give them special powers 
 to deal extra damage.
  
  Now on to the annoying parts of the game. During the game especially during combat sequences the 
 camera would go kind of crazy. They're were times when i would have to run in circles or jump up 
 and down to try to get the camera to center. This resulted in alot of cheap deaths. Also the targeting 
 system seemed to be flawed. During combat i would lock on to an enemy and open fire. Once i had 
 killed the enemy i would have to manually lock on to another enemy, i could'nt just switch targets 
 quickly. This also resulted in alot of cheap deaths. And last but not least the game was alittle 
 glitchy. Several times i had to re-play scenes to get doors to open.
  
  Overall Too Human did have its flaws but was a game worth playing. Once i started playing it, i 
 found myself inclined to keep playing it. One thing is for sure, its going to be a love it or hate 
 it kind of game........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bastila19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is a third person action RPG by acclaimed developer Silicon Knights (Eternal Darkness: 
 Sanity's Requiem, Legacy of Kain) . This game has been widely known for its development time and 
 a lawsuit with Epic along with Dennis Dyack, the company's president, voicing his opinions. Unfortunately 
 that has skewed people's views and opinions about the game. Some people won't even give it a try. 
 Hey... their loss.
  
  The story takes place in Norse mythology with standby favorites Thor, Odin, Freya, and many others 
 showing up in one way or another. Although you play as a lesser known god named Baldur who's past 
 is slowly revealed throughout the story. There is a twist to the story however. The ancient mythology 
 is fused with cybernetic and future technology. While some say the combination may sound clunky, 
 it is an extremely interesting concept. If you think about it, it really isn't that difficult to 
 come up with. Future+Past=Awesome, but the way they implement it is phenomenal.
  
  The gameplay in Too Human is almost taking a cue from current gen sports games like the 2K Sports 
 basketball games and Tiger Woods games by having the main combat take place on the right analog 
 stick (actually Too Human has had the concept longer) . To attack an enemy with a melee weapon, 
 you must simply point it in the direction of the enemy. Of course having the right analog stick 
 control combat, there is no manual camera control which is not a problem because 99.9% of the time, 
 the fixed camera is always in the best possible position. There is also gun combat in which you 
 pull one or both of the triggers and the gun (s) is automatically locked on to the nearest enemy. 
 Sometimes the targeting can be a bit finicky, not targeting the correct enemy. As an example that 
 many people are getting annoyed with, once you kill an enemy with guns, the auto-lock will stay 
 on the dead body. Apparently people don't have the patience to figure out that if you let go of 
 the trigger for just a split second then press it down again, you will target the next enemy. The 
 combat is deeper than most people give it credit for with air juggles, very strong AoE attacks 
 called ruiners, sliding, and a few others. People might complain about the consequences of death 
 in this game. When you die, a Valkyrie comes down, picks you up, and carries you away. It lasts 
 about 15 seconds and is unskippable. This is getting a ton of flak, but I see a popular game that 
 has a very similar consequence for death. When one dies in Bioshock, they revive at the nearest 
 vita-chamber with little to no penalty and all enemy's health is what is was when you died. Ok 
 the Valkyrie scene is about another ten seconds with a more strict penalty in damaging the state 
 of your equipment. If you are even remotely good at the game, you won't have to deal with it much.
 
  
  Now as said earlier this is not just a third person action game. This definitely has some heavy 
 RPG elements with skill trees, skill points, weapon customization with runes, percentages, there's 
 loot all over the place; in short not only is the action gameplay addictive, but trying to get 
 better and better loot gives you the "I'll finish this room then I'm done... ok I'll be done after 
 this one," syndrome. In short, the RPG elements are implemented beautifully.
  
  As far as graphics go, it is no MGS 4 or COD4. Sure the character models aren't 100% crisp, the 
 framerate in the cutscenes can drop, and there are some clipping problems. However artistically, 
 the game is beautiful. The integration of futuristic technology into ancient mythological ideas 
 brings a very interesting fusion. On a slightly separate note, all armor and weapons show up uniquely 
 on your character so it is very unlikely that any two Baldurs will look alike.
  
  When it comes to the audio, Too Human is outstanding. The music really encapsulates the epic sense 
 of the game and the voice acting is brilliantly done. The sound effects also all sound as they 
 should. However a reviewer on a big games website that will remain unnamed, complained awhile about 
 the sound when you jump then land just sounding "wrong". If you are really going to nitpick a game 
 over the landing sounds, that is going a little bit overboard. Does it really affect your experience 
 with the gameplay or the game itself? Yeah I didn't think so.
  
  The single-player campaign in Too Human lasts anywhere from 8-30 hours depending on how much time 
 you take to find the secret areas on each level and tweak your equipment. The game has five different 
 classes, each of which can be taken down two differently aligned skill paths, along with campaign+ 
 equals a ton of replayability. That's not all! There is also a two-player online co-op mode that 
 is very fun. You and a friend can play through the whole campaign together although this is probably 
 my biggest criticism of the game. It seems that Silicon Knights took a step backwards with the 
 co-op not including any of the single-player cutscenes. So multiplayer is basically the single-player 
 with no cutscenes which is disappointing. If I have an awesome game that has online co-op, I'd 
 like to experience the whole story with my friend. If you can get past that, this game could be 
 on the same level of hours put in as Oblivion if you like the game enough.
  
  Too Human is the unfortunate recipient of what I call the Duke Nukem syndrome. This game has been 
 announced and planned in one way or another for over a decade (development started on the Playstation 
 1, then moved to Gamecube, then to 360) . When a game is on hold for that long, impossible expectations 
 accompany the game at launch. Is Too Human perfect? Of course not, there are things to be fixed 
 and guess what? Silicon Knights knows it and are already working on the second game of this trilogy. 
 If you can get past all of the undeservedly terrible reviews and like action games, RPGs, or both, 
 definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentpeg
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Too human has a great story and the concept of a virtual reality affecting the real world breaks 
 up the repetitious levels and battling nicely. The level design looks great but stages of endless 
 battles grows tiring although storming through endless enemies is a thrill at first. The battle 
 system is tough to learn and until you get used to leveling up and keeping your equipment from 
 being overly damaged you will die often... this is the worst part of the game... everytime you 
 die you have to watch the whole movie of the "silicon knight" figure come down to save the character... 
 no way to skip this scene unfortunately, and after seeing this several times you'll hold your head 
 and reach for some tylenol. If you like plenty of variety in armor and weapons this game is great... 
 if you have patience for endless battle on repetitious levels that seem to never end you won't 
 mind this game... otherwise spend time on another more worthy game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostman96
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Too Human is game about entering a wide open space and facing a tide of enemies, which when clumped 
 up around you all look the same. When they are dead, you proceed to another wide open space and 
 do it all over again. In between mission a bunch of high school math teachers read the stories 
 of the Aesir, Midgard and Ragnarok to each other while dressed like Marcus Fenix. I do not know 
 what Silicon Knights were doing with 8 years of development except possibly inflating their heads. 
 
  
  Avatars that are not from a game with Unleashed and Forced in the title cannot act. Shooting a 
 cut-scene movie-style in a video game tends to come across as GI Joe figures talking to each other. 
 Good voice acting can help, but it works better expressed from within the game while you are still 
 playing. Watching them blab at each other gets old after a couple minutes once you stop listening 
 to what they are saying and start looking at them. And the longer you look at them the more little 
 flaws you see, like they all look malnourished and blotchy. Not much sun in Midgard, eh? As if 
 that does not get tiresome enough, you will occasionally have to enter cyberspace to open doors 
 or speak to the Norns, and this means walking. Cyebrspace is an almost pretty forest with doors 
 to sepearated by long, uneventful, time-sonsuming, long walks. The puzzles are not anything more 
 than push the thing that can only be pushed, or lift the thing that can be lifted, and the door 
 in the real world opens. My kingdom for a breaching charge.
  
  Frantic button mashing in the right combination is invigorating. Holding the right stick in the 
 direction you want to attack and then watching the attacks play out on their own saves your thumb 
 but feels awkward, inconsistent and it means the camera acts on its own. I will get to the camera 
 later, though. Sometimes you tap the stick to toss enemies in the air so you can jump up and hack 
 at them in the air. In fact, I found this necessary against Dark Elves because staying on the ground 
 letting a bunch of them pound is a quick way to meet a Valkyrie. I will get to the Valkyrie later, 
 though. It is just that the attacks respond slowly to your command, you target the wrong enemies 
 too often, especially when you are shooting and not using your melee weapons. They happen slowly, 
 too, so if you combine the movement of the sticks to perform a finisher, you can get caught watching 
 while you do a cool sword toss as your body parts get separated by your enemies.
  
  The "spells" (for lack of a better description) are absolutely uninspired and stale. A ring glows 
 at your feet to represent your battle cry, or a low-vertex... something... comes out of the ground 
 for one of the area attacks. The end of the skill tree you slog through to get these abilities, 
 the be-all-end-all of the list is a devastating attack that send your weapon off to fight on its 
 own. The missiles and lasers fired by your enemies look cooler than your attacks. The rest of the 
 graphics are flat, surprisingly muted for such a varied palette, and unpolished. The backgrounds 
 look great but the being populating the environment look tacked on.
  
  The score is beautiful, however. The orchestral tracks rise and fall appropriately with the actions 
 on the screen and bring out some of the feelings of the epic battle taking place. The combat sounds 
 are less thrilling, making me think of a MIDI drum kit cymbal getting pressed really fast.
  
  I cannot be bothered to look it up, but I hear Denis Dyack is getting the camera patented because 
 of the technology behind it. Clearly he had money thrown at it for its development but never actually 
 used it. It is easily the second most frustrating aspect of the game, most of all because you cannot 
 control it expects to restore to looking straight ahead. Each fight was hack, hack, click camera 
 button, hack, hack, click camera button, hack, and swear. It seems more interested in showing your 
 battle Hollywood style, with you at the centre hewing scores of goblins. So you cannot see the 
 support troops bombing the piss out of you. It is a failure of a design that needs to be forgotten, 
 not patented.
  
  The clunky controls and antagonistic camera combine forces to put Baldur on his back over and over 
 again. Death's price is twofold: Your equipment is insignificantly damaged and you are carried 
 away by a Valkyrie so you can pop back into being a hundred feet away while the battle rages on. 
 Seems light except that the Vakyrie's arrival, survey of your corpse, and ascent with you in her 
 arms takes 20-30 seconds and cannot be skipped. You have to watch it a lot, too, when you are getting 
 the hang of enemies you have not fought or when they combine sub-bosses on you. Someone back in 
 St. Catherines was either so arrogant they thought you would be awed by her even after the 100th 
 time seeing her. Or he/she was so sadistic he deemed punishment for death should be the blatant 
 theft of your time. That being said, it is impossible to actually fail at the game because all 
 you need to do it is keep slogging in and you will eventually make your way through whatever punishm- 
 er level you are on.
  
  There are apparently two more on the way. I dread the thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgamebird
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Honestly I can't recommend this game. I would say to rent it, but I wouldn't pay that much for 
 it. The combat in the game is shallow. You use the triggers to fire your ranged weapons, with a 
 nearly uncontrollable aiming system. The right analog stick controls your melee, flick it in any 
 direction and your character scoots over to the nearest enemy and attacks. Then, you repeat. Over 
 and over again. The bosses, which were sometimes pretty cool looking, took less time to kill than 
 the hordes of basic enemies. I got no satisfaction from finding new weapons in this game as they 
 all did the same basic thing, and didn't really change that drastically in appearance either. I 
 didn't like this game at all. It is a definite, "Try it before you buy it." The only good thing 
 I can say about this game is, it had a nice trailer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtwisdom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  This is one of the games that pushed me off listing to Game spot about reviews. Too Human deserves 
 much better than a 5.5 no matter how you look at it. Game spot relies too much on hype rather than 
 actually learning how to play a game and putting in the time. The list of bad parts to the game 
 is too short to even bring it that low, I've seen larger list with better scores. The one thing 
 i agree with them on is that the story leaves you wanting if you don't know your Norse mythology, 
 which by the way is easily obtained in a matter of minutes at the right sites. But, they are releasing 
 two more games for sure. Gears of War is the same way, but there is no way to look up background 
 on that story. The fighting in the game takes more than the average game to get used to, but it 
 is not an average game. The most similar game to be released was Diablo 2. No, this game is not 
 as good as Diablo 2. But, it is close. My main statement in this is PLEASE Game spot PLEASE, become 
 more mature gamers please, or stick to being a database and leave the reviews to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Brought to us by Silicon Knights for the Xbox 360, Too Human is an action role-playing game built 
 around the very bloody myths and legends of the Norse. Steeped in thick folklore, Too Human is 
 a game that despite all the effort poured into it, just does not manage to score as highly as the 
 developer were aiming, however that aside it is still a fun, entertaining and beautiful looking 
 game to play.
  
  Set far into the future where cybernetics have elevated mankind to "God-like" proportion, the gamer 
 takes on the role of Balder, one of the Aesir, a council of the top most Gods in Norse myth charged 
 with safeguarding humanity.
  When the Pact of the Fallen is broken and the Aesir attack Hel in her Undead domain, a war breaks 
 out, and it is up to Balder to uncover the secrets of the conflict and indeed his own past.
  
  Although Too Human has been touted as primarily an action game, the element of an RPG is all 
 too apparent. There is a definitive levelling system, gained through the experience granted from 
 killing various creatures and monsters. There are simply thousands of items to choose from as rewards 
 for battle, conveniently dropped by said attackers no less. To top it all off there is a plethora 
 of skills and alterations you can make to your character and his chosen class, of which there are 
 five by the way. 
  
  You can choose a Champion, an all around class. The Commando who is more suited for long range 
 conflicts. A Defender designed to be able to survive the longest in melee confrontations, the Bio 
 Engineer is a master of cybernetics and support and lastly there is the Berserker a class designed 
 for pure damage.
  
  There is plenty to work with from the offset and each class sticks close to conventions of an RPG.
 
  
  It is when you begin the game, and see just how complex, yet simple the control system is that 
 the game hits its first hurdle, you are likely to die several times in the first half an hour. 
 
  
  Basically, you control firing your ranged weapon with the right trigger, while targeting with the 
 right stick. You then have the option to attack with a melee weapon assigned to the left stick, 
 and how you twist and turn said stick controls the style of attack. As you can see, it's quite 
 complex already. However, once you get into the swing of the games controls and master the various 
 nooks to the controller. The game flows quite fluidly, and more importantly it becomes fun to wade 
 through groups of Dark Elves, Trolls or even the annoying little Goblins.
  
  Once you have earned your first few levels, extra items, weapons and armour, and begun to assign 
 characters skills, the game begins to open up and the sheer volume of customization becomes strikingly 
 real. Not only can you taper the character, but how they are dressed and the very colour of their 
 armour using colour Runes.
  
  If that was not enough, the game also provides other Runes that can be adapted to fit weapons and 
 other personal skill altering Charms. 
  Too Human throws a lot at you all at once, which can detract from the game if you don't want to 
 take the time to figure it all out, but, saying that if you do, the game is extremely rewarding.
 
  
  The game will play out over 5 large missions, wherein fighting your way to a boss is the main premise. 
 This for some gamers can be repetitive and boring, but for those with a flair for action, and the 
 underlying story, will glean a great deal of excitement from carving their way through a daunting 
 looking field of foes.
  
  The story itself, for those into their mythology, more notably Norse myths will simply be in awe 
 at the detail, this mixed with the mesmerizing visuals and cut scenes combines to provide the more 
 refined gamer a wonderful experience. Watching Loki use his staff for the first time is inspiring.
 
  That being said however, sadly, the game attempts too much at various times with its visuals and 
 there is noticeable slow-down, not too much, but enough for you to see it every once in a while. 
 It is not quite Mass Effect, but graceful all the same.
  
  Musically Too Human is a marvel of orchestral work, with haunting tunes thrumming through your 
 cavern exploration to dramatic overtures pumping the boss fights into adrenal confrontations; you 
 will be hard pushed to say the music is bad. There were a few points though where a new score would 
 have been nice.
  
  The voice acting of each character is convincing and more importantly relevant to each "God" they 
 represent; Odin is grandiose and booming, where Heimdall is informative and calm, the real treat 
 is Thor's gruff and overly macho persona. All top notch work, especially Balder and Hel.
  
  With plenty to see, do and customize and the staggering variety of Xbox Live achievements to be 
 unlocked. A serious gamer or even the Norse fan will have much to enjoy, alas this is where Too 
 Human falls again, as it is very much a connoisseur's game. Personally, I adored it, but, I am 
 a more selective gamer, and I love the Norse legends, and I would recommend this game to anyone 
 of the same ilk. As much as I would love to score the game 10/10 I cannot in all good conscience, 
 I must award it a 6.5/10. Don't be fooled though, I am still playing this game and loving it two 
 months after I purchased it.
  
  Go on, take a risk, I did and I was more than satisfied.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFares
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is not a good role-playing game. The five available character classes (Berserker, Defender, 
 Champion, Commando, and Bioengineer) initially offer some strategic gameplay differences because 
 of their proficiency in certain skills -- the Berserker is better with melee weapons, while the 
 Bioengineer has regenerative health. But beyond the first level, these differences become less 
 substantial. Methods for defeating enemies are largely the same for all classes because almost 
 every single enemy attacks with the same rushing-horde mentality. Too Human is also not a good 
 action game. While it deserves some applause for a reasonable translation of PC classic Diablo's 
 mouse-driven controls, its reliance on the right analog stick as a means for attack only works 
 at the most basic level. Attempting fancy aerial attacks exposes just how inadequate and unresponsive 
 this control method is -- you repeatedly swing at nothing but air in midjump. Long-range attacks 
 aren't any better; it's often a struggle to get the camera into an optimal tactical position and 
 to manually select targets. And it's especially irritating when -- even after letting go of the 
 trigger and pressing it back down to lock onto a new target -- guns continue to lock onto an enemy 
 that's already dead.
  
  Interestingly, multiplayer action fares a little better, as long as one player focuses on guns 
 and the other on melee weapons. In fact, Too Human's cooperative mode as a whole is far more entertaining 
 than the single-player experience -- not only does it involve a tiny bit more strategy when two 
 players are going at it, but it also has the additional benefit of not having the horribly animated 
 cut-scenes or rudimentary plot of the single-player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game promised so much but unfortunately fell short in the end. One of my best friends was 
 a developer working on this game at Silicon Knights (from the makers of Eternal Darkness and Legacy 
 of Kain) and I've watched it grow and take life from day one. It's such a shame the end product 
 failed to deliver.
  
  The game is beautiful to look at from characters to enviroment. Animation is superb, combat is 
 fun and intense. The sound is great and the idea was sound.
  
  Gameplay is simple and easy to pick up even for a very casual gamer like me.
  
  Co-op mode 
 is fun as you can play along with a friend.
  
  I found the menu screen and navigation to be a little too confusing and hard to navigate.
  
 
  As well, for a game that has been in development for the better part of 10 years I was dissapointed 
 in all the invisible walls.
  
  Over all it was a fun game, but alas, this one is a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prisonofhope
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  With how much everyone still goes on about how great diablo is, yes still even to this day. It's 
 odd to see this decent rip off get a bad review, i mean it is basically diablo in the third person 
 with better graphics and a different combat system. The whole goal of the game is just to find 
 endless waves off the level or zones designated creatures, nothing more nothing less. Some of the 
 boss battles are a little awkard and take somtime to figure out. The graphics are decent and don't 
 really lack much in any area. The multiplayer is a little frustraing due to the fact that you are 
 constantly waiting on the other player to join you are meet you at a specific area so you can carry 
 on to the next zone and yes even in the waiting room or hub before you enter the actualy level. Granted 
 the story required a little research before playing and was a little flipped around this game none 
 the less is a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  My friend and I had such high hopes for this game. I had various ideas of how it would turn out. 
 Silicon Knights has delivered on some of those ideas, while the most important ones are sadly ignored.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good. it isn't the best looking game ever produced, but its still nice 
 to look at. There can be a huge amount of things happening on-screen, and the framerate somehow 
 manages to keep up smoothly the entire time. Ironically, during cinematics the framerate stutters 
 and there can be a little bit of texture pop-in. I haven't run into any bugs throughout the game, 
 but it is littered with invisible walls. I think the sci-fi art design mixed with norse mythology 
 turned out well and gives the game a unique and attractive look, although I'm sure there are plenty 
 who disagree with me. The main city is gigantic, while the levels are narrow, streamlined, and 
 cramped. The lighting effects are great, but I didn't really notice any shadows at all. The character 
 models are well rendered for the most part, with a couple of exceptions. Baldur especially looks 
 good, they put a lot of work into making him the standout. Character animations are lacking and 
 very stiff, but your attacks do a good job of poprtraying a sense of power, and sliding across 
 the floor looks just plain cool. Overall its a technically impressive game.
  
  The soundwork is great. The voice acting is pretty good for the most part, with a few cheesy moments. 
 The music is perfect and dramatic, and it reacts to your situation. 
  
  The storyline is awesome if you're into norse mythology, although not entirely accurate. The game-play 
 is another thing that makes this game so unique. Instead of using your traditional XYBA buttons 
 for combat, you use the right control stick. Normally this would be a major problem concerning 
 the camera, but Silicon Knights has done a great job of using cinematic camera angles that allow 
 you to see the action pretty well, plus you can center the camera back on Baldur with the press 
 of a button. I still had the urge every once in a while to move the camera though. The right control 
 stick works out better than msot were predicting, but it is still alittle clunky and can sometimes 
 be unresponsive. The targeting is solid for the msot part, with the occasional quirks. Your enemies 
 are very are tot ake down later in the game. It ends up feeling like you're banging your head against 
 the wall and the game gets intensely frustrating. I had to turn it off many times due to frustration. 
 There's a bunch off loot for you to customize your character with. Its very fun at first, but gets 
 old after a couple fo hours.
  
  When you play this game, you can tell that a lot of work went into it. Its very polished and there's 
 a ton of little details that let you know the developers genuinely cared about this game, it was 
 their baby. Unfortunately it just doesn't work out in the long run. I'm sad to say this is a solid 
 game, and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadxEyE-gamer
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  All i have to say about Too Human is rent it first. You will probably get about 10-20 hours out 
 of this game. My first playthrough of the game was actually really fun. I believe all the classes 
 are unique in their own way. One thing that really makes the thing bad is its really repetitive. 
 Once I beat the game once i couldn't finish it the second time. This game is repetitive due to 
 every level you're hacking and slashing. EVERY LEVEL, and while it might seem fun at first it gets 
 old and very boring. Also the combat can be a bit choppy at times. And whats with the death cut-scene, 
 if you see it once you shouldn't have to see it over and over (feel sorry for beserkers i made 
 one and kept dieing lol) . Don't even bother using guns when a horde of enemies are chasing you. 
 You'll have a better chance throwing your gun at them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Too human has been cooking along time, it never lived up to the hype but was still a great game. 
 I will touch on what is bad first well, the story is fairly slow, the camera can be horrible some 
 times, the combat is hard to get used to and some levels are really unbalance espiecally when some 
 times you get 5 shielded guys and 5 bombing guys shooting all at once (the death sentence will 
 make you want to die) and in some places it way to easy for my liking. Now the positives, The armour 
 is some of the coolest ive seen in future sets game, the rpg element hold them selves fine, some 
 moments are truly great fun to play through, boss fights can be ok. the pure amount of weopons 
 available to pick up i great. And every enemy you kill u get armour which can be instantly converted 
 into money.
  
  sooooooooo this game is a winner and i dont care what reveiwers say. this game was well worth my 
 money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aravind_1979
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The game has some new great ideas, but very poor execution. The combat system is the first that 
 comes to mind. Using the right analog stick is a great idea, but the targeting system is a joke, 
 the game sometimes locks on to a dead enemy or to an enemy far away rather than an enemy right 
 next to you. Sometimes Baldur just looks at the wrong direction and is just doing nothing, while 
 the enemies hack away at you. The second thing is the game play balance, sometimes the game is 
 very easy, just hack away at enemies, other times you get a whole lot of nasty enemies at one time 
 and there is no option of healing. the most frustrating enemy is the poison snipers and freezing 
 rocket launchers. The snipers take away a huge chuck of health when they hit you and they poison 
 you doing a huge DoT, there is no way around this and you just watch helplessly as baldur dies. 
 the freezing rocket launchers are another pain, they just freeze you in place and the other enemies 
 just maul you to death. The Boss fights are a big letdown, when compared to the regular fights 
 you had to go through to get to them. They are boring and takes too long. The last thing is just 
 the levels themselves, there are only 4 dungeons and after the 4th or 5th time it just gets too 
 boring. The game would have been much satisfying it it rewarded really cool armors and weapons 
 for killing bosses and finishing secret areas instead of just plain vanilla weapons and armors. 
 All things considered novel combat ideas does not justify spending $60 to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Too Human tells the story of the very begining of Rgnarok with a cybernetic twist.
  After being killed in treachery Bladur is rescued from Helheim, breaking a pact with Hel, mistress 
 of the underworld. Very angry she and her father Loki (who's an imprisoned God) decide to take 
 revenge upon the other Gods.
  You'll be controlling Baldur himself as he fights his way amongst armies of monsters to find the 
 secret the Gods have been hiding from you and to take your revenge against the ones who killed 
 you.
  The storyline is wonderful, it's exactly like the original myth, only it has the cybernetic features, 
 however the story looks a LOT better to those who have read the EDDA or any other versionb of Norse 
 Myths.
  Graphics are good enough but the design is pretty cheap for most of the time. The armor you use 
 looks pretty "power rangers" unless you find one of the so-called epic armours, those are really 
 gorgeous anbd very powerful. Facial modeling is amongst the best in the system.
  Gameplay feel very strange at the begining but once you get the hang of it, it gets very easy. 
 Basically the weapon triggers are the usual triggers of the cpontrol, but the sword is controlled 
 with the right analog stick (like in Metal Gear Solid 2) , all you have to do is point the way to 
 baldur and he'll rip the legions of elfs, goblins and zombies apart!
  The music is great really placing you in the game's epic mood.
  Mostly the game is like Diablo, 
 you can go to Aesir to restore itens, buy new stuff, enhance weapons and armour etc. But most of 
 the time you'll be killing enemies.
  The game has only about 12 hours of gameplay, but if you really get in the game and want to level 
 up your chracter, get all the epic armor sets and stuff you'll be spending more than a 100 hours 
 easily with it.
  Too Human is the first step of a hack and slash classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Too Human had been in devoloupment for over 10 years, thats a long time! You can pick a class each 
 differrnt with powers. The story is like asgard in space and sci-fi setting, which is very origanl. 
 the gameplay is as simple as it gets, you have melee combat and shooting attacks. Athough it can 
 get boring after awhile.
  The controlls are weird not bad weird. You have to move the right analog stick in different directions 
 to do meelee combat, they try to make it real but it's sloopy.
  The camera is auto which is a no no, you should have complete control over the camera! It can get 
 out of control! The graphics are pretty good there were no glitches or slow downs or slow downs 
 in sound, the graphics are good enough for a xbox 360 game.
  Overall Too Human is a good 3rd person action game with good graphics, combat but a bad camera 
 and weird controlls, if your a hardcore action game fan get it, if not into that type gaming give 
 it a rent to see if you will like it.
  Graphics: 9.3
  Story: 8.4
  GameplY: 8.2
  Replay Value: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsAxiomatic
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The Ups: Innovative combat; interesting storyline; endless number of armor & weapon combinations; 
 high replay value.
  
  The Downs: Horrible, frustrating targeting system; bad use of status-effects; poorly coreopraphed 
 cutscenes; no local multiplayer.
  
  The Bottom Line: Despite a few problems, definitely a fun game to play through more than once.
 
  
  ------
  
  
  PLOT/STORYLINE: Very creative plot, which is based heavily on Viking/Norse mythology. The great 
 thing about it, though, is that you can know nothing about Norse mythology -- like me -- and still 
 get a good deal of enjoyment out of the plot. The storyline does not give you the same feeling 
 of interest, however. There are countless loose ends within the game that don't get tied up until 
 the very end, if at all. The mediocre cutscenes during the game seem to come at awkward times, 
 and don't do a whole lot to move the story forward, often forcing the player to fill in the blanks 
 afterwards. The game also ended VERY abruptly, much to my dismay.
  
  GAMEPLAY: I actually really enjoyed Too Human's gameplay, despite a few shortcomings. Very "Devil 
 May Cry-like", in that Baldur is equipped both with a melee weapon as well as a gun (two pistols, 
 or a rifle) . The levels were fun to move through, and the almost constant onslaught of enemies 
 to destroy kept me wanting more. The infrequent requirement to travel into Cyber Space in order 
 to get a door open in the "real world" was an added bonus. 
  
  
  CONTROLS: The combat system is very interesting, leaning more towards a Geometry Wars-type set 
 up, in which the player flicks the right thumbstick in the direction of attack, as opposed to the 
 standard button-mashing combo system. This innovative approach to the hack'n'slash genre makes 
 for some very fun battles at first, especially when combined with Baldur's ability to "slide" certain 
 distances to out-of-reach enemies. The horrible targeting system sort of hampers the "funness" 
 of it, though. I can't count the number of times I found Baldur simply standing in one spot, flailing 
 his weapons out in front of him, even though there was an enemy CLEARLY in targeting/sliding distance. 
 On that note, Baldur rarely attacks the enemies you want him to, often sliding right into the more 
 dangerous foes, namely the explosive ones. Knowing that, I think any gamer would resort to using 
 long-ranged attacks when he/she sees such an enemy approaching. But the targeting system for guns 
 is even worse than it is for melee. If you can ever actually get Baldur to shoot at the enemy you 
 want him to, he will continue to shoot it, even when it has been reduced to a bullet-holed corpse. 
 If these explosive enemies DO explode near Baldur, they effect him in a variety of ways (slowness, 
 freeze, poison, etc.) . This can be extremely frustrating, because the status-effects seem to last 
 FOREVER, and can very well reduce Baldur from full health, to no health.
  
  
  GRAPHICS: The in-game graphics are fairly decent. They did a good job of making Baldur's armor 
 look really good, no matter what permutation you develop (there are countless combinations of armor 
 types, which is nice) . The environment was very well made as well, especially the Aesir HQ, which 
 is GIGANTIC. The surfaces are very detailed, and highlighted in all the right places. The cutscene 
 graphics are exactly the same, but fall short camera placement. I must have missed at least a quarter 
 of each cutscene looking direcly at Baldur's enormous shoulder pauldron as opposed to the actual 
 focus of the scene. 
  
  The best part about the graphics are the Valkyries. They come down from the sky to pick up Baldur's 
 corpse and take him to Vallhalla (a. k. a. re-spawn you so you can try again) , and it's probably 
 the most gorgeous character model I've ever seen. Even that gets old, however, when you have to 
 watch the animation of the Valkyrie floating down, lifting Baldur, and carrying him back up EVERY 
 TIME YOU DIE. I can't even imagine what the devs were thinking when they thought it would be okay 
 to force the gamer to sit through the animation, especially considering the number of times Baldur 
 will die.
  
  
  MUSIC/SOUND: The music is awesome. The epic opera/choir-type songs really kept me involved in the 
 game, especially during big battles. It really gets your heart pumping. The sounds were okay, but 
 not great. A few of the magic-type attacks sound exactly the same, despite being different attacks, 
 and the mundane metal-on-metal noise got old after slashing through the first 1000 mechanical goblins.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: No clue. For some reason, there's no local multiplayer available. If you want to play 
 co-op through this game, you will have to do it online, which I haven't subjected myself to. I 
 have no idea why this game doesn't include local co-op; that would probably boost its overall score 
 at least 1 full point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I buy almost all games on xbox so but if you cant spend a lot of money games the master advice 
 here is rent before buy it.
  To really enjoy Too humans you will need 3 things 
  1 - You will have to like and know about Norse mythology or you will get really lost on the history 
 of the game
  2 - You need to really like some Rpg (because there some several mistakes in this game.
  3 - 
 Time. A lot of it.
  
  Now lets talk about it a little. I really enjoyed this game because i like and a lot about mythology, 
 you also going to need like bad rpg's. There are some serious issues in this one. The camera control 
 is poor, enemy's AI are poor as well, some major bug's. But is not that bad, thats why rent it first 
 , you cant believe in all things that gamespot and other ranking sites or magazines say. Sometimes 
 you have to see for yourself.
  
  I cant complain too much about the game because i have spend a lot of time playing it so all you 
 have to do is experience it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blink182man4lfe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Having lost all faith in the way gamespot rates games the 5.5 did not stop me from wanting to play 
 the game. I will address the problems with the game quickly. Like most of the reviews the controls 
 really are a bit of a problem. Not enough to make the game unplayable but you do notice it from 
 time to time. The major part of the game that I have a problem with is dying. There is like a 5 
 or 6 second cut scene every time you die of a Valkyrie coming down and all that jazz. Cool once, 
 annoying the rest. Besides that there really isn't much of a penalty for dying so it's kinda like 
 playing lego too human with smooth graphics haha. The story line of the game is a bit broken, but 
 there is plenty to keep you entertained while the story catches up.
  On the flip side to that there are pluses to the game as well. The RPG style to game is a nice 
 touch and every time I level up I always head right to the menu screen so I can add in my skill 
 and check out if there is any new armor I can wear or weapons I can yield.
  The customizing options of your armor is a lot of fun. Seeing your guy look more and more touch 
 as the game goes a long is part of the reason you get hooked.
  In all Too Human isn't a bad game. Having purchased it I am by no means upset that I did. You can 
 live with the games flaws to have fun with the positives in the game. I would recommend renting 
 it first before you buy it or buying it used from gamestop and returning it after you beat it within 
 there I believe 7 day return policy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  When i was first told that this game was originally meant to come out for the PS i realised why 
 all these buggy incidents were happening, why the graphics werent the best, why in general the 
 game felt old and used. it does because it is, for the first time i think that it would have been 
 better for a game to come out earlier, all those bugs and small glitches would have gone unnoticed 
 if the game had come out on the last generations platforms but now you just think that the designers 
 are lazy and stupid, and have tried all these new things but stuffed them up, well its true, theres 
 no excuse for the problems it has but the game isn't really that bad, so if your looking for something 
 with great rpg counterparts and includes a bit of norse mythology, then you might just enjoy the 
 game, too bad the game doesnt stick to what it does best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hecdar22
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The thing is that I really liked the game, but, come on, eight years in the making for ten hours 
 of play and just how much hype the game did go through. The graphics aren't really the most brilliant, 
 but it fulfills its purpose. The story is the bright light in all the mediocre stuff, if you are 
 familiar with the Scandinavian mythology you'll understand most of the plot, if not, use Wikipedia. 
 I personally enjoined the game, but that's me, if you plan to buy it, download the demo firs, it's 
 pretty long and you can make an idea of what to expect. The thing is that I really liked the game, 
 but, come on, eight years in the making for ten hours of play and just how much hype the game did 
 go through. The graphics aren't really the most brilliant, but it fulfills its purpose. The story 
 is the bright light in all the mediocre stuff, if you are familiar with the Scandinavian mythology 
 you'll understand most of the plot, if not, use Wikipedia. I personally enjoined the game, but 
 that's me, if you plan to buy it, download the demo firs, it's pretty long and you can make an 
 idea of what to expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Guards
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I thought that the stupid AI was refering to the team that I would be 
 fighting with or the bad guys that I would be fighting against. But nope, its the main character 
 himself. The game controls are a real pain, to a certain point frastrating too. I had lost substiantial 
 health and even death due to the controls and the auto aimming. there is no cross hair for you 
 to aim, the game targets the nearest enemy to you or any missile or arrows fly your way. 
  
  Running away from enemy is impossible, its almost like they fly and you crawl. Weapons are 
 great, we pick up upgrades and more powerful ones as we progress through the game. But the major 
 pleasure is that you die and come back where you left off. However save and quit the game and you 
 start right where the level started with all the enemies waiting for you minus the goodies and 
 health drops, because you had already picked them up from your previous walk though.
  
  Could do better on the controls and on the game play itself. Maps and graphics are good, always 
 a change in background. Some games looks the same as if you're going in circles, Too Human doesn't 
 give you that feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentluap
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to just say ignore the low scores the game has been getting by some reviewers. 
 Give the game a chance before you condemn it to Hel and you might actually enjoy it.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: At first when you fight the first group of monsters and the first mission I didn't 
 think the game was that visually impressive. But once you get into the game you start to notice 
 that the visuals on the game are better than you orginally think and relise they've pushed for 
 the best visuals they can on the game. I'm not saying the visuals are the best you will see as 
 it's no where near the standards of some of the games to grace the 360, but the visuals are not 
 as bad as some games that have been released also. The only issue with the visuals that I can really 
 complain about is some of the environments are bland and seem to be dull. But your attention is 
 really drawn to this as you are usually to busy fighting. The environments weaknesses are also 
 easily ignored as well because the character models are great and the enemy designs although theres 
 a small ammount are also detailed and take help take you focus from the environments.
  
  THE SOUND: The sound on Too Human certainly brings some excitement into the battles sequences, 
 the pace and sound of the music playing over the battles adds that extra feeling to the fights 
 and help you get into the game a lot more. The voice acting in the game is also one of the strong 
 points, it sounds like the time has been put into getting each characters voice to fit them perfectly, 
 so the cut scenes are easily followed and it's easy to pick out who's talking in what sequences, 
 even when you have another main character with you in battle.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: This is a point that most the reviewers have picked out as the games main weakness, 
 but in my opinion it's one of the best parts of the game. Once you've given the game sometime you 
 get used to using the right anologue for attacking enemies and you'll eventually realise how well 
 it works aslong as you are willing to put the time into using it, by the end of the game I found 
 myself ingnoring the guns (apart from where it was vital) and using the right anologue stick attacks 
 to do the main damage on the enemies. The gameplay also uses the leveling up system for improving 
 your characters skills and abilities and also what weapons you can use. This adds to improving 
 the gameplay also as the customization options are massive. I found myself constantly checking 
 for my armour and weapons upgrades, doing this also changed the combat I was using as well. The 
 two issues I had with the gameplay was I found the levels very liniar, which took away for the 
 action RPG feel, I orginally thought the game would let you explore a lot more. Also at times the 
 game can become repetative and annoying especially when you keep dying because you have AI to help 
 but they normally die in the first 30 seconds of the battle.
  
  THE LIFESPAN: The lifespan of Too Human is decent, although the game is short in lengh it offers 
 5 different classes to play through, the only problem with this is each class doesn't really seem 
 that different which was a bit of a let down. The ammount of options for customizing the character 
 does offer some extra lifespan.
  
  OVERALL: Overall I would say Too Human got a slack from the reviewers that it didn't deserve which 
 is a shame as this has put some people off playing a game that is certainly worth a purchase. The 
 game is decent once you give the combat system time and get used to it, but I would advise if you 
 hated the demo with a pasion I would stay away from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhireStorm007
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  no, it didn't. It fumbled with it for about 20 yards though. 
  
  The first thing off the bat is some are going to love this game, and others hate it. It boils down 
 to how you approach the game.
  
  Story: The story could be better. I love norse mythology, but if your one not informed on it, your 
 going to be scratching your head a whole lot. If you do know it, your not going to be that surprised, 
 but will find pleasure in the accuracy. I've seen worse stories, seen better
  
  Gameplay: Its fun! this game is really fun. Classes are unique, armor is always dropping, and being 
 able to rush through massive amounts of enemies is always great. I think they could have use a 
 little more variety however.
  
  Graphics: colorful, nothing too amazing though
  
  Overall, i'd say if you liked the demo, you'll like the game. If you didn't, stay away. so, it 
 fumbled for 20 yards. wasn't balanced, didn't keep a good rythm, and could have been better. Was 
 fun and exciting though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellhound1345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  When i first read all the reviews for this game, they all pretty much said the game was horrible, 
 which is why im glad i didnt really read all that much about the game before it came out, so i 
 had no huge expectations of it. 
  
  First of all ill start off with the visuals of this game. Now this game is weird, most of the character 
 models, like the main characters are pretty amazing to look at, but i found that alot of the character 
 models for the enemies, were really plain and boring. Alot of the enviroments felt as though they 
 were rushed, and really did feel too big for the amount going on. 
  
  The one thing i really did enjoy about this game was, the pick ups. Reminds me of all those old 
 school RPG's like Diablo, champions or norath and so forth. The different types of armor were very 
 well presented, you could make some sweet looking sets, and then being able to change the colours 
 so its all matching. Some minor issues i found though, was it only askes you if your sure if you 
 want to sell SOME items, not all of them, and its rather annoying when you accidently sell the 
 weapon your holding, cause it doesnt ask you if your sure you want to sell it. The Valkrye (or 
 how ever its spelt) scene becomes really annoying after a while, they should of made and option 
 to skip it, cause it takes you away from the "momnent". 
  
  But overall Too Human isnt really a bad game, it has some minor issues, but you grow to ignor them, 
 alot of people have complained about not having controll over the camera, but its really not that 
 much of a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  This game grabbed my attention for about an hour and a half. shortly after that i asked myself, 
 is this all i get to do? run, shoot, slice, run, shoot, slice? 
  
  this game was just another one of those crappy "wade through hordes of identical and stupid baddies" 
 kinda deals.
  
  everyone is saying the guns are useless, but i call bullsh1t! i found myself using the guns alot 
 more than the melee weapons simply because i got sick of watching my guy go through the same three 
 motions over and over and over that i get from so many other games...
  
  now im not going to do the whole "oh the valkrie, oh no i lost 20 seconds of my life that would 
 otherwise be wasted playing a game anyway" thing... 
  
  what i will say is this, just because you are in control of your guy does not mean you are playing 
 the game... such as in the mystical forest of bullcrap and sunshine that you are forced to endure... 
 please will someone explain why i have to prance through a virtual forest (completely devoid of 
 critters BTW) just to open a damn door in the real world?
  
  
  the bottom line: just another "face hordes of mindless baddies with an over sized sword" piece 
 of crap that we have come to know and love... Some may like it, so please don't be swayed by this 
 little review... but if your anything like me i would avoid it at all costs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fodpea
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  The gun making way sucks. Every minute i get 500 loot. Enemies are cheap. Bosses take a long time 
 to get. The story sucks i dont even know the norse mythology at all. You think speading 12 years 
 on a game on it would be good. Near the end of the game i couldint play it anymore since it was 
 so bad it hurts. Every 5 seconeds you die but nothing happens. What was going on when too human 
 was being made. The game is dull till the very end but the ending is awful its worse then the ending 
 to half life 2 ep. 1. Guns are useless you can kill an enemy so much faster by useing swords why 
 do you even have swords if its in the future. So much potentiall to be a great game. Honestly what 
 were they thinking when Too Human was being made. To thoose who say the game is good what are you 
 smoking. This game is bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsSentry
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Many reviewers and game critics have proclaimed that this game simply isn't up to par with what 
 should be in a next generation game, that there are many technical issues to be dealt with. Personally, 
 I also thought this streaming online reviews and just heeding third-party opinions. After beating 
 the game with three different class types (out of five) , I have yet to experience any "technical" 
 flaw. Oh sure sure the cut scene which initiates when the player dies is annoying as persistent 
 crying child, but depending on player skill you don't die that often anyways. The online play is 
 a great addition to this game but unfortunately only supports two players but all in all you can 
 have some pretty interesting encounters. There is much to be credited for the variety in weapon 
 choices, armor types and the amount of customizations you can add. One major con about Too Human 
 is the short story-line which amounts to about 30 hours non-stop. Yes I said 30 hours and I bet 
 you're asking "and he thinks that's short?!". Well with gameplay as addictive as this, yes it is 
 short. The ending leaves you twitching and wanting more so hopefully Silicon Knights will deliver 
 the remainder of this trilogy of epic-ness shortly. All-in-all this game is worth the money. It 
 offers hours and hours of fun gameplay, crazy abilities and interesting characters who may have 
 lost more than their right arms playing (Inside joke, play it understand... play it) the game and 
 fighting the good fight. 8.0/10 May Odin Guide Us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madroxide87
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why everyone is giving this game such a bad rap. Sure, its kind of easy, and 
 the controls are fubar sometimes.... but other than that, it plays pretty well. Constant action, 
 cool gadgets and armor that are customizable ( some more so than others ) If you had fun playing 
 Diablo games... you should appreciate the hell out of this. I honestly feel like its a lot of fun 
 to sit down and play this game for hours on end.. enjoying the mindless killing that is available 
 in several different forms. There's nothing like mowing down crowds of goblins with a massive doom 
 cannon that you've built from scratch. Or for that matter... showing off your armor crafting/hunting 
 abilities with 7 piece elite suits of armor that are very very well crafted and designed. I give 
 this game an 8 at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisGamer5757
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I had to rent this game first too try to understand all the mixed reviews on it. It's easy to see 
 why a lot of people aren't fans of it. The one big issue i found with this game was it's camera 
 angels, which could be described as frustrating. Too many times it was the cause of my frequent 
 deaths. In additions, the difficulty throughout the game is quite unbalanced. The fighting system 
 is fun and the storyline is compelling but you really gotta know your Norse mythology to understand 
 what is going on.
  
  This game is an honest effort for what was a creative and big sci-fi idea to bring a futuristic 
 Norse civilization to the 360. To many anooying tendencies and frustrating battles pulls this game 
 down and keeps it from being Great. The potential of this game can be reached if they Fix the technical 
 issues and some unbalanced difficulty issues in next installment in this series should be 10 x 
 better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlwood830
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that I was pleasantly pleased here. From all the hype and negative ratings I started 
 to just pass on this game but I read some players' comments and decided to see for myself. Too 
 Human is a fun game whether you are playing by your lonesome or with another player online. I didn't 
 try multiplayer until I had finished the single player game and playing back through my choice 
 of missions with someone else made it even more fun. Definitely a worthwhile experience that I 
 shall not soon forget. Take my advice, forget the hype and take a look for yourself, even if you 
 have to borrow a copy of the game to do it. You'll see what I'm talking about. It almost makes 
 me wonder if game ratings are getting to be all about marketing programs and budgets as opposed 
 to the objectivity I had come to expect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Too Human. Gets lots of hype, and then tons of bad reviews. But seriously, it ain't that bad.
 
  Alot of people seem to complain that its just too hard to get into, and when you first start, 
 that may be so. But when you've played it through once, and you start building up a good arsenal 
 of weapons, and a great armory, then it really becomes a great, fun game. 
  Not to say that before then its not a good game. I mean, I played it all the way through in one 
 sitting nearly, and immediately went on to my second play. The sense of achievement you get from 
 getting a decent way through a level without dying is surprisingly great, and it drives you on, 
 all the way through the game.
  Alot of reviews also seem to suggest you have to have LIVE to get any real enjoyment from this 
 game. That is so not true. If anything, (and this is just a presumption) , I think it might even 
 spoil it. You may lose out on good items, or the fighting may become too easy. I'd rather just 
 keep playing it on my own, playing through numerous times. And that sense of achievements still 
 going strong.
  
  It may look like 9.0 is too high a rating, surrounded by all these lower scores, but I genuinely 
 feel its worth it, as it has become one of my favorite 360 games of my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamarke
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Can't really rate the story to tell the truth. You're some sort of god trying to better mankind 
 by fighting a bunch of cyborg looking gremlins along side regular solders who closely resemble 
 marines from Halo. It has a lot to do with Norse mythology so if you're the type of guy that gets 
 a hard on for those things this is the game for you.
  Even though there are 5 classes to choose from this game is full of repetitive gameplay. You walk 
 around and then get attacked by a bunch of enemies. Then you open a door and you repeat the same 
 thing over again. Along the way, you find equipment you can upgrade your character with. The sad 
 part about that is your equipment is only good for about 10 minutes and its back to the pause screen 
 again. This makes the entire experience of Too Human incredibly choppy and kills any excitement 
 you may have worked up slashing up the baddies.
  The control scheme is also pretty bad. If you use the Commando class (Long Range) , the auto-aim 
 feature makes the experience quite annoying to say the least. All that matters is if you are facing 
 an enemy and have the trigger held down. The Berserker class (Melee) isn't that much better off. 
 The controls are just a matter of pushing the right analog stick in the right direction. Combos 
 and variety is limited and very unrewarding. The guns also deliver a very unsatisfying punch to 
 the opponents making only the melee classes the fun class to play.
  The camera is also poorly implemented. With no way to rotate it freely, you are left only with 
 a sudden jerky re-centering by pressing LB.
  The graphics are not too bad. Of course, this game took over ten years to develop so it better 
 be pretty good.
  If you have every played Marvel Ultimate Alliance, this game kind of like that. It forces you to 
 pause constantly to see if you have found a better weapon/armor. The long range mechanic is weak 
 and pathetic, the camera angles are nauseating, and the entire game is repetitive and bland. Once 
 you get to the interesting last part of the game, you'll realize you've wasted over 10 hours just 
 to see 2 hours of something you should have seen throughout the entire game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Too Human has been shrouded with bad press. With gaming forums talking both the game and Denis 
 Dyack down, it could of been easy to put this game off to the side. I went into the game with a 
 lot of negativity, but it quickly flew out the window. Too Human, at its core, is a very fun game. 
 With an interesting story, addicting gameplay, and so much loot to wrap your head around, Too Human 
 is absolutely worth giving a shot.
  
  The game's story is based around Norse mythology but is set in the far flung future. You'll play 
 as Odin's son, Baldur, who is basically a Cyber Viking God. Throughout the story you'll be fighting 
 off hordes of robots and eventually zombies who are attacking your city. The first half of the 
 game will have you watching flashbacks to catch up on what's been happening. This God named Loki 
 has escaped prison and is out to kill the rest of the Aesir Gods. The whole story will last just 
 over 10 hours and remains pretty interesting throughout, with an ending that sets itself up nicely 
 for a sequel.
  
  Besides the single-player mode, there's online co-op. You and a friend can fight through hordes 
 of enemies, trade items, and collect loot together. Unfortunately you won't be able to view any 
 cut-scenes while playing co-op, which might lead you to wonder why you'd even want to do that. 
 The answer is simply the game's five different character classes. From the Berserker; who specializes 
 in melee combat, to the Champion; a well-rounded fighter, to the Bio Engineer, who acts as a healer 
 class. These different classes all work well together, as one class can always benefit from another. 
 No matter which class you choose to play through in the single-player campaign, it won't make much 
 of a difference since you'll mostly be hacking through hundreds of enemies.
  
  As I previously stated, an interesting aspect of the game is that quest for more loot. Almost every 
 piece of loot looks different, something sorely needed in more RPGs, so no two characters will 
 look exactly alike. As you start to ascend to higher levels, the armor and weapons start to look 
 more impressive as you'll improve on your God-like status. Aside from the loot looking cool, the 
 character models look pretty good themselves. On a close-up shot of Baldur, the blue lines on his 
 face look great. On the down side, facial expressions seem to be non-existent, which hinder in 
 the telling of the story.
  
  The four environments you'll travel through look pretty good for the most part. One part that sticks 
 out in my mind is the beginning of the last level. Fighting through a horde of zombies while these 
 huge tanks in the background move around and try to shoot down a wall was pretty impressive. Not 
 everything looks good in Too Human though. Some stiff animations, visual clipping, visually rough-looking 
 levels make the graphics seem a tad dated.
  
  The gameplay isn't very challenging due to the lack of a real death penalty. When you die you'll 
 be forced to watch a beautiful Valkyrie come down from the sky and carry you up to Valhalla so 
 you can resurrect. This whole scene will take about 10 seconds. Once it's over, you'll continue 
 exactly where you left off in the battle. Personally, I'd rather watch that than start over at 
 a checkpoint and re-clear a room. In single-player, you'll be be teamed up with some AI teammates. 
 They aren't very smart or useful. Instead, they like to stand back and tell silly jokes about the 
 situation.
  
  The musical score in the game is nice to listen to, but it can become misleading at times. Sometimes 
 when you pick up a certain item or are just running through a room, some over-the-top epic music 
 will start playing, making you think something important is going to happen when, in reality, there's 
 nothing going on. To help with the lack of facial expressions, the voice acting is good for the 
 most part, but nothing really memorable.
  
  Too Human is not a bad game. It could give you 20 hours of enjoyment if you'll just let it. It's 
 best to put all the bad press aside and give the game a shot to see what it's all about. With downloadable 
 content and a sequel clearly on the way, I recommend giving Too Human a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Span5
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt one of the worst games that I have ever played! It is straight up broken! 
 I honestly can't believe that this thing was ever released. If you are like me, and absolutely 
 need to see this game for yourself then do yourself a favor and rent it. You will only need to 
 play it for about 15 seconds to see all of the game that you need to see... It's amazing, because 
 there is a leveling system but that leveling system doesn't further the gameplay what so ever. 
 Actually, it seems like the more bad ass that your character gets the more ridiculously hard the 
 game gets. I made it to level 26, but stopped playing when it took me 25 minutes to defeat a boss 
 with a sword that supposedly was doing 429 damage points per strike... I actually feel like I should 
 contact the devs for a refund of my rental fee and compensation for my time playing their horrific 
 excuse for a game. The Devs should do everyone a favor, and next time they are thinking of making 
 a game they should simply crap in the box and ship it out like that. That way us gamers will get 
 more for our money. 
  
  
  The End. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:37 am PT
Review:  I have seen that most sites are rating this game pretty low. I don't know why. I think it was a 
 let down because of the hype and the long wait, but it was still a fun game to play. The graphics 
 were good, the story was intriguing, the music was fine. The controls were a little ackward and 
 the camera could be iffy but the gameplay was fun. The game was definitely too short, but it seems 
 to be the case in almost all games now. I think the pressure to produce a visually appealing game 
 has become so paramount that many developers are not putting in enough time and effort to round 
 out a good or great game. This game should have been better. They took a looong time making it, 
 so I expected it to be epic. This is certainly not the case. I know that it is Action/ Adventure 
 and not RPG, but it could really have used some RPG elements. It is fun, but very repetitive and 
 largely unrefined. The inventory system is ackward, especially the runes. It is fun being Baldur, 
 but you don't ever get a good enough look at him except in cutscenes and there are no choices to 
 manipulate the storyline at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  During my first play through of Too Human, I kept saying to myself, "man this game would have been 
 great if it was bit more polished". The little issues distract you from a solid combat system and 
 an interesting world. Yes, the story is confused and the interface, camera, death sequence all 
 could have been handled better. Yet, after some 60 hours of play I am still coming back to it, 
 trying to get my epic set. 
  
  Simply, the core combat system is fun and once you are all tricked out at level 50, even more so. 
 Especially because death becomes much less of an issue as you are much better equipped to deal 
 with the large mobs the game throws at you. 
  
  The real longevity of this game has come in the co-op play, sure it would have been better if it 
 had been four or three player, but two still gets the job done. I wonder if my view on this is 
 coloured by the fact that I've got a buddy who is willing to participate in my irrational loot 
 obsession. If you are looking to play a game co-op with one of your buddies this is a good game 
 to add to your collection. 
  
  After this many hours of play my biggest gripe with the game is the lack of levels, four is simply 
 not enough for a game that expects you to grind this much. Maybe this could be resolved with some 
 DLC. I really hope that we get to see a Too Human 2, so that most of the issues that are present 
 in the game can be ironed out, because under all that rough rock there is a diamond waiting to 
 be crafted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: couch2563
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for Too Human to come out expecting it to blow my mind, i dont buy games first i 
 usally rent them then if i liked it i wil buy it, im glad i rented it first cause i wouldn't spend 
 $60 on it vor whatever like i said the fighting was okay, graphics was okay, and story was ok and 
 the speech was good. but the worst thing about it was the camera when im fighting i cant do the 
 combo becaseu im backwards or something. but i woulnd't give it a 5 i give it a 7. when playing 
 games i like the emotion from there voices in this game i felt the emotion and the anger when baulder 
 or whatever went against pool or something who killed his wife i felt his anger. The stORY was 
 very creative i like the viking myth stuff it was new and i liked it. the graphics wernt' bad but 
 they seemed like last gen grapahics. the Camera well i realdy said it was horrible. That's it i 
 guess but rent it first then buy it if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_ReVeLaTi0n
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  For starters the team behind this game said this game is gunna be a trilogy. Wich with a story 
 like this is great, but siriously on the other two games TAKE OUT THE LONG DEATH CUT SCENE. It 
 is a good idea but i far too long. When you get surrounded by enimies and you keep dieing it just 
 gets terrible. At one point i got so frustrated, not by the hardness by the cut scene, I almost 
 put my fott through the TV! But at least when it finishes you start from where you died and if 
 your on a boss this is an especially godd idea because you dont have to start over and over and 
 over agian. The game is more like an dynasty woarriors style hack and slash with RPG elements tossed 
 in than a proper Action RPG. I spent abou 16 hours playing the game. I collected every token smashed 
 every contaianer and unlocked every obelisk and it still felt like I spent more time watching the 
 Valkrie taking me to valhalla and back than plaing the game. Wich is a real shame. Over 10 years 
 in the makin, originally planed as a PS1 release, Too Human is definately a Big disappointment. 
 If you are reading this review to decide weather to get this game or not i would recommend it to 
 some what patient hack and slash loving people. Instead on RPG loving people. If you are looking 
 for a great RPG go for Mass Effect or wait for fable two in October. If you are going to get this 
 game. however, go onto GAME. CO. UK. and get it for 19.99 New. Instead of 39.99 New in other shops. 
 The story for this game is verry good but the camera controls and general gameplay is not. 
  
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Ten years took the developers to make this game, or were there only 4 or 5? Well who cares? Now the 
 game is out, and for some of us it's worth checking out. I remember when I first heard about this 
 game about 3 years ago, I thought that it could be great, but I wasn't that impressed. I forgot about 
 it until I saw the video review from GS, where I saw some pretty good looking shots from the game. That 
 made me buy the game.
  This RPG combines the North mythology with mechanics. It sounds pretty weird, and it is. The theme 
 of the game is not very appealing, at least not for me. But besides that the game is pretty good. Visually 
 it looks great, with good animations and some pretty good looking landscapes.
  The gameplay is pretty good. You have to swing the right analog stick in the direction you want 
 swing your sword, and you can perform many combos. It is a nice change from many other RPG's but 
 the main problem is the camera. As the right stick makes your sword swing, you can not change the 
 direction of the camera. This could take some getting used to, but in the end it's a nice change.
 
  The game sounds pretty good, and the voice acting is pretty much over the lines of good taste. Eventhough 
 the storyline isn't that engaging it still delivers a feeling of question and makes you go through 
 it.
  I would recommend this game only to those who simply have to have every single RPG out there, but 
 for those who are just starting with RPG's Too Human is not the starting point. Also if you are 
 not fond of the North mythology or mechanics, or the two mechanics, this game won't change your mind.
 
  
  My Score 7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad-Zealous
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The name of this game should be "Death" and not "Too Human" because I feel like I spent more time 
 watching the Valkyrie than actually playing the game. Now I like to think of myself as a pretty 
 good player. I've finished some hard games before and I've died before but I must say that 95 deaths 
 in one game is a new record for me. People keep saying that "Too Human" tried to copy "Diablo" 
 or "Titan Quest". I've play both games and died around 20 times and this is on a game that takes 
 about 30 to 40 hour to complete. Overall the death toll killed this game for me. You feel powerless 
 in all your shiny armor. You die just as easy on level 27 as you did on level 1.
  
  Yes I know the story is weak, the areas are too big, the camera is funny and the controls are a 
 little buggy but I could deal with that, I finished the game and enjoyed myself for the most part. 
 My point is that this game does a great job of making you feel powerless and that my friends is 
 wrong. When I level up I want to feel the power of that level up, but no not in "Too Human". Oh 
 but wait, I guess the name is fitting because the game continues to remind you that you are just 
 mortal. Too Mortal!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is the latest game from the Eternal Darkness creators Silicon Knights. This is there 
 first original game, since the last game they made was actually the Metal Gear Solid 1 remake for 
 the gamecube. 
  
  The game can be described as an action/rpg hybrid type game. Its light RPG elements add a fantastic 
 layer to the depth of the combat, and that is what is probably the best aspect of the game, its 
 combat. There are 5 possible classes from Berserker (the more action oriented) to Defender (defense 
 oriented) to something like the champion (all around) . Each weapon can be modified, each piece of 
 armor, and your deep skill tree. 
  
  Too Human's combat is also bolstered by your loot hunt. Too Human follows the sty-le of Phantasy 
 Star Online and Diablo, where you hunt for rare loot to strengthen your character. 
  
  Another positive is the entirely different concept of TOo Human's story. It takes the norse mythology 
 and then gives it a scifi makeover. Turns every thing around. Turning the fruits that made them 
 into gods, into machinic enhancements. 
  
  This coupled with pretty good visuals, and some interesting dialogue and you would think this is 
 a complete package, especially with the addition of coop right?
  
  Wrong!
  
  Too Human's best aspects don't come without some flaws. 
  For one the combat lacks an umph. The 
 weapons almost feel like your hitting air, there is not satisfaction to your massive hits. Where 
 as games like Devil May Cry and Ninja Gaiden's audio department give every hit a satisfying feel. 
 Then there is the level scaling. It turns rare loot to just average. Completely taking away and 
 almost negating all the character creation options you have. 
  
  Then there is the no death penality which makes the game way to easy. The story is hampered by 
 a lack of backstory, very little continuity, and many, many missed opportunities with the dialogue. 
 Only Baldur comes out an interesting character, and everybody else (even someone like Thor) just 
 comes out a bit "meh"
  
  The game design in the game just seems stuck in the past. HUGE environments, that are striclty 
 linear and filled with invisible walls. It just makes the battlegrounds feel empty. 
  
  That said the positives and creative aspects do save this game. The combat is still deep, the hordes 
 of enemies are fun to battle and can be thrilling, the story gets especially interesting around 
 the end. If Microsoft does pick up the rights to the sequel i hope some major improvements are 
 made to the game game design, and all the negatives of Too Human 1 are fixed. 
  
  Because no matter how many different concepts this game brings, all its negatives make this an 
 average experience at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firewall
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I really don't know where to start. After seeing the reviews, I thought maybe everyone was being 
 a little harsh, because everyone's expectations were so high, due to the fact that this game was 
 10 years in the making. Plus don't forget all the peddling the game got on all the video game shows 
 (i. e.; x-play, gametrailers, etc) . When I started to play the game I didn`t mind it much, now I 
 just want to take a sledgehammer to this piece of crap of a game. Now I could go into detail and 
 explain all the things I believe are wrong with the game, but I believe it`s all been said. So 
 my advice to anyone considering to check this game out, `DON`T`. Honestly, it really isn`t worth 
 the frustration, save your money for another game or spend it on sxomething else. This game is 
 really not worth your time, unless you like to just constantly get spammed by grenades and fight 
 the same pathetic enemies over and over again. Trust me, it`s not even worth the rental; ahhh this 
 game has pissed me off so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lulu85forever
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  firstly. coz of gamespots review.. i waited an extra 2 weeks to get the game. gamespots reviews are 
 crap. so far playing this game for about 4 hrs. i find the game quite interesting.... using the 
 analogue stick to hit opponents seems more of a challenge than button bashing.. it does take time 
 to get used to... also there are s many cool weapons etc to get... and extra ability and moves to 
 learn... graphics are great as the environments.. dont know why it took 10 years to make butit sure 
 seems a wonderfull game especially with the online capabilities too.. makes levelling up fun and 
 easier. i dont know how many hours it takes to complete but i can see myself playin it over and 
 over. 
  
  in the game there a diff classes... most of them familiar in every rpg... this also makes the character 
 look diff.. although the game is linear.. there are world within the world that u hav to explore 
 in order to progress or find items or secrets.. its all good fun smackin creatures with the hammer 
 or swords or blasting with guns... PLEASE BUY THE GAME.. RPG FANS OR NOT U WILL DEFINATELY LIKE IT 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Nine Years. That's how long this game has been in development.
  
  Seven Years. That's how long I've been waiting for it.
  
  12 Hours. That's how long it took 
 me to complete the game.
  
  1 Hour. That's approximately how long I enjoyed the game.
  
  Basically, all you need to know, is that this is not a very good game. In fact, it is a mess. 
 The long years of development were marred by a myriad of problems, and it clearly shows. The game 
 feels incomplete. It feels like someone kept passing it around to different designers who threw 
 something in half-assed and expected it to somehow magically form a game.
  
  It's a real shame too, because it had such amazing potential. The concept is unique; Norse mythology 
 re-imagined as an epic science fiction story. While the story could have been it's one saving grace, 
 it is terribly underdeveloped, like the rest of the game. They don't explain who or what, or even 
 why. One level sees you looking for a powerful weapon to use against the enemy, but the actual 
 level design and structure don't give you the impression you're working towards a cause, or a mission. 
 It's just wave after wave of the same enemy types as you make your way through boring areas trying 
 to get to the end.
  
  It doesn't help that the combat is so clunky and awkward. The right stick is used for melee attacks. 
 This may seem like a good idea but it's not pulled off well. The combat should have been dynamic 
 and visceral, like God of War or Devil May Cry (oddly cited as inspirations apparently) . Instead, 
 it's just stupid. It feels like you're playing one of those RPGs where you select attack and watch 
 the characters battle. Except that it's interactive, so you fiddle with the right stick, pulling 
 off accidental moves. It does improve slightly as you level up and you unlock more abilities.
 
  
  The problem with this is that enemies level up with you, making the game and all it's enemies, 
 the same difficulty level throughout the game. Pointless. And don't get me started on the customization. 
 While the armour sets and weapons look cool (the art direction is the best thing about the game 
 in fact) , it's overwhelming at first and is simply not thought out. You'll 'loot' about 100 items 
 every 10 minutes and you won't use 90 of them. The pace is painfully slow too. When you die, you 
 only get punished by having to watch a boring UNSKIPPABLE cut-scene of a Valkyrie coming to take 
 your body to Valhalla. Except that you simply spawn at the start of the room, with all your stuff 
 intact and the area in the same state as before. That means that it's not a checkpoint, because 
 the enemies you already killed are still dead. This makes the game easy in a way, but the amount 
 of times you'll die is ridiculous. I thought I sucked, but then I realised that I had been playing 
 Ninja Gaiden 2 before this and the combat in that game is superb. You can't even block in Too Human!
 
  
  The graphics, despite what many people will tell you, are NOT good. The whole thing looks like 
 some generic PC RPG from 3-4 years ago. It should be another Xbox360-exclusive AAA title like Mass 
 Effect, Halo and Gears of War. That was the intention anyway. The textures are bland, the character 
 models poorly animated and the colour scheme is dull. Again, the art direction (designs of creatures, 
 weapons etc) is cool though. Then you have cyberspace, a realm where you learn to manipulate real 
 life objects in a virtual environment that looks like a forest. By God, I fell asleep walking through 
 it. There is NOTHING to see, and it takes hours to trek through it.
  
  I did start to enjoy the game a tiny bit in some cases. The story is interesting but if you don't 
 know anything about Norse mythology, you will be completely lost. It doesn't draw you in, and you 
 won't care about the characters.
  
  Everything about this game is pointless. The combat, the story, the customization, the idea of 
 'Cyberspace', and anything in between.
  
  I'm going to spoil the story right now to save yourselves the trouble of trying to understand it 
 if you don't.
  
  Your character, Baldur, is a member of the Aesir, a race of cybernetically-enhanced humans who 
 are viewed as Gods by the mortal humans of this world. Their enemies are the Giants, represented 
 in the game as machines, or mechs. Cool so far, yes?
  
  Baldur was killed by another god, called Hod, for some reason. Baldur is then brought back to life 
 and he has amnesia. He battles a mech called Grendel (familiar?) and breaks his arm off. He is 
 sent to finish Grendel and his memories start coming back. Next, he hunts down Hod, who thinks 
 he is Loki, the god of mischief, currently held in a prison cell for some reason. Baldur kills 
 Hod, avenging his wife (?) . Next, Baldur and Thor (the one with the hammer) go to find the World 
 Serpent, a massive weapon that does something. Thing is, Loki's mind manages to escape and messes 
 up their journey. Then some weird stuff happens, and you'll soon forget about the World Serpent 
 because apparently it was never important to begin with. Loki's minions free his body and they 
 escape the Aesir (who live 5 minutes away from the prison and could have killed him easily) . Loki 
 contacts his daughter, Hel, who is the administrator of the graveyard, Helheim (underworld) . She 
 promises to kick ass while he's away doing something. Boss of the Aesir, the AI OD1N, sends Baldur 
 and some other Aesir, including God of War, Tyr, to attack Helheim. Tyr sacrifices his life battling 
 Genrir, a big wolf mech. Baldur battles Hel who tells him that she is responsible for resurrecting 
 him or something. She also reveals that his wife has been brought back. Angry, he kills his wife 
 and Hel.
  
  Later, he returns to the feasting hall and tells the other Aesir off for being silly. They must 
 prepare for the Final Battle known as Ragnarok, which will end the world. The game ends with a 
 cliffhanger scene of Loki meeting with a huge mech in a snowy wasteland.
  
  Throughout all this, Baldur has a mini-romance with a female Aesir and occasionally travels to 
 cyberspace to consult with three crazy oracles. This is the first part of a planned trilogy, though 
 they should completely overhaul the game before they release another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Too Human creators wanted to make Diablo so bad that this game tries to hard, and ultimately gets 
 none of it right! It had many of the parts (Random Items, lots of levels, skill tree, etc) , but 
 the creators got to hung up on telling story and not hung up on giving the player really good game 
 play. . Its all thereits just so bad that you really wont care by they time you get to it all.
 
  
  One problem is that the story they were trying to tell is steeped in thick impossible to know or 
 difficult to learn Norse Mythology full of unpronounceable names of both characters and placesso 
 obscure that the "Average" player will be falling asleep during the cinematics. Its impossible 
 to care about any of the characters because they all look like mannequins that have been animated. 
 The voice acting is not bad, but again the story is near impossible to followunless you already 
 know Norse Mythsbut if that's the case the Sci-Fi alternative will leave you just as confused 
 and annoyed.
  
  The next big problem is your safe town area. its so beautiful. and so much to look atand you cant 
 do anything with any of it and its massive.. sprawling and dizzyingly big that you can spend the 
 better part of 10 minutes just running through town as you travel from one NPC who has the next 
 story piece for you to the shop to the exit.
  
  The downfall was the endless wandering through "Cyberspace" where you are in a virtual world where 
 you never have any combat even though it looks like the real world, you run you jump, you still 
 open chests and get items that you can use in the real world but its just wandering around with 
 nothing to do, no one to talk to (except for where there is a key cinematic) and there is not any 
 experience to gain. who thought that was fun? 
  
  I might try to get back to it, but the reality is that I most likely never will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Lets get to the point, Too Human is a dungeon Crawler pure and simple. While the combat mechanics 
 are far from perfect, Too Human still manages to deliver a great gaming experience.
  
  The action in the game is just plain fun. With tons of items, weapons and armors the options you 
 have to customize your character are Huge. plus you can choose from 5 of the different classes 
 in the game. And with thousands of monsters to kill, there is plenty of time to try all of those 
 5 classes.
  
  The In-game music, sound effects and voice acting are all very well done. The story while simple 
 and short is still very entertaining and the main character Baldur is just pretty Badass ;)
  
  Overall I had plenty of fun with Too Human. I would still recommend renting the game before 
 buying It. But for all you RPG and Action fans out there this is worth your time =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjct212
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow where to begin with the games build up, anticipation, reviews, and my own opinion.
  
  As we all know the game has been in development for ten years. I don't count all those years as 
 they kept changing consoles which means major reprogramming. Over those ten years we should have 
 one of the most developed and refined stories to ever exist in a game. Did that happen? Maybe, 
 not quite, and the jury is still out. The game is supposed to be a trilogy so I dont know where 
 the story is going. I do feel alot was set up in the first chapter. I thoroughly enjoyed and want 
 more. 
  
  The graphics are guite stunning with some minor complaints. The tank vehicles are a little weird 
 looking with their short length. The characters look and move splendid but I dont like their eyes. 
 I cannot put my finger on it but something bugs me with the faces. Backgrounds are stuning.
  
  The customization is incredible. I have only played the berserker and am just starting on a 
 second play through. I guess the fact that I am willing to play it again should say something. 
 From guns to handheld weapons and armor to runes you have unlimited variation. Skill trees are 
 also available to manipulate. I have heard complaints about the fight mechanics and agreed at first 
 until I bought the game guide and really got into the options. I know find them guite deep.
  
  The bad is camera angles, repetiveness, and it is a little short. I dont know why but a lot 
 of games seem to be having camera issues and I dont get it. These issues add up to some problems 
 and the GS review of 5.5 almost prevented me from buying the game. 
  
  So my final opinion is the game takes some time to get to know and take full advantage of whats 
 available. It is not a 5.5 by any means and is definately 6-7.5. I love rpgs and Diablo-esgue loot 
 drops so I may be a bit bias. Thanks and I accept any feedback and constructive criticism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I rented it two weeks ago and was an average RPG game. MOST professional video game reviewers grind 
 "Too Human" into dust for legit reasons or unfair blast it into space for inconsequential reasons. 
 Too Human could have been one of the most underrated games of 2008. But some flaws held it back. 
 Personally, I think Mass Effect and Too Human have good graphics and longer replay value than people 
 letting on. But in the end of the day, Mass Effect has stronger storyline, better gameplay and 
 sound than Too Human. Here's my pros and cons of "Too Human" for Xbox 360.
  
  Pros
  + Tons of looting and customization 
  + 15 different types of weapons
  + 5 different classes
 
  + level up and enemies does too
  + Ally A. I. are USEFUL
  + Death scene is cool, however...
  + Control scheme is different and fresh, but... 
  + Camera 
 angle options
  
  Neutral
  
  Story is about Baldur (son of Odin and one of Norse gods) protecting human race from extinction 
 at the hands of cybernetic humans and monsters. It's interesting and boring at the same time.
 
  
  Cons
  -The game crash on me three times
  -Target system is terrible
  -No 4 player co-op online play?!
  -Enemies are NG II cheap
  -Can't skip death scene 
  -Where's 
 the block button
  -Camera angle will be out of whack
  -Too Human plays more like Devil May Cry 4 ripoff than actual game
  
  
  I know I'll get smoked 
 by "Too Human" crowd, but hear me out. Anytime an game crashes on you three times, camera angle 
 doesn't want to help out at times, no block button to defend yourself, clone Devil May Cry 4 gameplay 
 and jumpy target system, it's going to get an average score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheldon07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  The Good-
  * very fun and addictive combat (once you get use to it)
  * great story line. Not confusing at all, like I heard before playing it.
  * good graphics
 
  * good voice acting
  * AMAZING armor and weapon customization. Although the talent trees could be better but there still 
 great for a counsel game.
  * tons of loot.
  * alot of different enemies that you have to kill in different ways which is alot of fun.
  
 
  The bad-
  * camera angle can be annoying at times especially at first.
  * die alot at first but once you get use to it not so much.
  * limited class selection. (compared 
 to say WOW or Oblivion)
  
  All in all this is one of the best action RPG games I have ever played. Completely blew Infinite 
 Undiscovery out of the water. Im not sure how it only got a 5.5 but in my opinion its alot better 
 then that. The story line is a little short but they say to get to the level cap and all the best 
 gear its 100 hours so thats worth my 60 bucks. When you play the game for a second time with your 
 high level charecter the AI will also be a higher level so you keep leveling and geting higher 
 leveld gear not the stuff you originally got on level 1. And by the way I enjoy the slow animation 
 of the angel coming down and picking you up when you die!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmond_villamor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Let's face it. Gamespot is usually not spot-on with their reviews, and as of late I find some reviews 
 quite questionable.
  
  The Good: 
  
  Story is based on Norse mythology and they just upped the ante to involve technology instead of 
 magic. It is quite intruiging entertaining and you'd like to move the story just to see what will 
 happen.
  
  Gameplay is addictive once you've learned the basics. Though I do have some qualms about the camera 
 angles but essentially it's pretty simple and you just slaughter hoards and hoards of enemies charging 
 at you.
  
  Graphics is very good, I don't understand the comments of the reviewer on graphics, its either 
 he needs to upgrade his glasses or he is essentially blind. The graphics is comparable to Gears 
 of War in terms of environment and background and everything is interactive.
  
  Sound and Voice acting is superb on cinematics, the in-game comments needs some touch, hopefully 
 they can correct this in the sequel. Your squad usually gets slaughtered but then they launch into 
 a bravado claiming that they still have a lot of bullets or that its way too easy. 
  
  Controls are okay but it takes around 30 minutes to get used to. 
  
  Everything is customizable 
 and your character looks way cool. This is like playing an MMO RPG without the interaction. Its 
 a must buy because you'd probably want ot play through it once or twice and use other kind of characters.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Load time upon death. I don't understand why they have to keep on loading the death scene over 
 and over again. They should have included life orbs or something that will give you 2 to 3 chances 
 of dying so you'll try as much as possible not to die.
  
  Dying has little or no consequence aside from you losing armor integrity which can last for the 
 whole chapter and you can repair it when you get back to base.
  
  AI is too stupid. This is the biggest gripe I get, they don't kill any of your opponents and they 
 leave very little distraction value. So even though you have a squad you still feel like you're 
 on your own.
  
  Here's my review I hope that its an accurate take for you as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Do not buy Too Human. Let me get that out of the way as quickly as I can, because you deserve to 
 know well in advance that this is not a good game. What on paper and in theory should be an incredible 
 adventure ends up being a game that is so frustrating and complicated that any of the time you 
 put into it will feel like a complete waste of time. The worst part is that you can see the potential 
 right there in front of you; the developers of the game just did not focus on the right aspects 
 and in the end everyone suffers.
  
  In order to get any understanding of Too Human you have to have some knowledge of Norse Mythology. 
 If you lack that you will have no idea on the history of the characters of the game and the future 
 titles to this planned trilogy. While there is an introduction to the game prior to the option 
 menu, it still does not give you enough background on the main character in the game, Baldur, your 
 main foe Loki or anything in between (eg. Ragnarok) . The game takes place in a futuristic world 
 where these Norse gods use technology to their advantage as they act as the protectors of humans 
 against the rise of the machines. While they try to protect humans there are problems within the 
 Gods and this will eventually lead to the battle of Ragnarok. Outside of little bit of information 
 here and there, you get nothing from the off-set and only bits and pieces are revealed in the first 
 game.
  
  Too Human is a 3D Action-RPG. Take the non-stop action of Diablo and Baldur's Gate and you get 
 what Too Human is trying to achieve. You have your wave upon wave of enemies; your containers of 
 items; plenty of customization with weapons and armour and five different character classes to 
 choose from. Each character class is different enough that it does create some variety to the game, 
 and is especially good for the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
  
  The problems of Too Human start right from the moment you being with its horrible control scheme. 
 In 3D action games, your right-analog stick is always the camera control, but Too Human goes against 
 that. Rather, they decided to map your melee attacks to it. While it's nice in principal, it has 
 been successful with other games (PS2's Rise to Honor) . To control the camera, you need to hold 
 the Left Bumper button then use the right analog stick, but often the controller doesn't recognize 
 this and you continue to swing your weapon instead. Also, the game relies too heavily on the cinematic 
 camera perspective, in which the game wants you to admire the game's large areas. Again, nice in 
 principal, but often can be really annoying and can cause your character to get stuck in some areas. 
 The camera's problems continue by making it harder to target and manoeuvre during fight scenes. 
 The game's auto-targeting system is never accurate and will often still track dead characters when 
 you should be attacking the enemy right next to you.
  
  There are four main quests in the game's story, each taking about 2-4 hours to play. To be honest, 
 the actual length is short, but thanks to the issues that plague the game mentioned before and 
 continuing on will force you to complete the game in about 10-15 hours depending on your character 
 class. 
  
  The problem with the length is that every level is the same. While they look different, they have 
 the same formula. You walk for a bit, fight a wave of enemies. Defeat them, walk a bit more to 
 fight more enemies. This time you also will fight a sub-boss, which is followed up with more walking 
 and treasure hunting. This pattern repeats itself over and over again until you finally reach the 
 stage's boss battle which each will take you approximately 30-45 minutes to beat with two of them 
 requiring you to chase your foe to different parts of the level.
  
  What adds to the problem of the length is that dying is a certainty. You may be a God, you are 
 still extremely weak against your basic enemies. With death comes a Valkyrie and you will see a 
 lot of this in the game. When you die, a Valkyrie descends from the heavens to lift you up to Valhalla 
 (which is according to Norse Mythology, Eden and where Odin gathers fallen soldiers for the battle 
 of Ragnarok) . But of course, you don't actually die, but are re-spawned only to fight some more. 
 There are two cases when you re-spawn. One, you will be spawned far away and must run back to the 
 action or two, you will be spawned in the worst possible spot only to get attacked as soon as you 
 start.
  While you do fight with a group, your group is there for show as the enemies know to attack and 
 love to 'gang-bang' you. Since you have to fight so many enemies at once, you will continue to 
 die. 
  Attacking the enemies can be done with your melee attack or with a ranged attack. Both are good 
 but neither stands out as you are almost suggested to use both to fight. Use your melee to lift 
 the enemy then finish them off in the sky with your ranged weapon. As a bonus, if you attack for 
 a long period of time without, your bonus attack bar fills up and allows you to use either your 
 Ruiner or Battle Cry attacks. These you unlock as you progress and level up your character. These 
 are extremely effective, but hard to get when you really need them. If you die, you lose them and 
 must rebuild that bonus bar. One of the problems I faced with the enemies is that once you hit 
 them they are immune. So if the enemy touches the ground, the1-2 seconds it takes for them to get 
 back up, they are invulnerable and any strikes you make on them are useless.
  
  Since this is your 3D-crawler, you do have a lot of items that you pick up. Weapons, Health, Rune 
 and other pick-ups should help you along the way, but rarely do they make a difference. Enemies 
 level up with you, so as you get stronger as do they. I completed the game with a Level 27 Bio-Engineer, 
 but apparently, you can reach well past the 40th character level, but it won't matter as your enemies 
 will get that strong as well. You really don't feel that gaining weapons means anything since you 
 are collecting so many different weapons and each one is better than the last. You can add Runes 
 to certain weapons which make them stronger, but it doesn't really show. The only interesting part 
 to the weapons is that their strength and value deteriorate over time. It's nice since it does 
 remind you that you need to upgrade your weapons after a certain amount of time. 
  
  The game's graphics are good but not great. Baldur doesn't look anything special but most of the 
 other characters do look fairly nice. The environments are nice in the beginning, but once you 
 see the same area time and time again, it does start to get boring. The Valkyries are stunning 
 and their scenes are nice, but again, once you've seen them 50 times, you're impression of them 
 starts to wane. Aesir is really nice but you spend very little amount of time there. Enemies are 
 ok, but suffer from the previous repetition problems. 
  
  The sound is also a mixed bag but definitely better than I give the rest of the game credit for. 
 The score is fantastic and really helps the game, but there were often times where the music goes 
 wonky. This occurs often during boss battles. Since they take so long, the music needs to repeat, 
 but it wasn't looped properly so it sounds really out of place. 
  In one battle it is really distinctive and becomes really annoying that you may want to play the 
 game without sound. 
  The voice work of the characters is top-notch, and probably the best aspect of the game. The only 
 problem I encountered with the voice-work was in non cut-scenes where too many people are trying 
 to talk at the same time. There will be times when Baldur is speaking only to be talked-over by 
 various Humans who are trying to comment on the situation you are in. If anything of importance 
 is mentioned there, you won't have the slightest idea what is going on. 
  
  Too Human could have been a really incredible game. Ignoring the whole 'this game was in development 
 for ten years' aspect that is greatly misquoted, you can see that Silicon Knights wanted to do 
 something different but just did not properly manage the game to its full potential. The developers 
 tried too hard to try to make the game a cinematic experience as well as a unique one but failed 
 to work out the quirks. Another problem the game suffers is that they wanted to make this a multiplayer 
 game. Originally, Too Human was intended to be played by four players cooperatively, but that was 
 then dropped to two. The difficulty shows that it was still built for four players. It is hard 
 enough to get two people to play so getting four would have been next to impossible. If you want 
 to go through this adventure on your own, you should be prepared for a challenge. The multiplayer 
 does make the game easier, but games like this should be made first to work properly for one person, 
 then tweaked for Co-Op play.
  
  I cannot recommend this game to anyone regardless if you are a fan of the Dungeon-crawler RPG games 
 that were once so successful on the PC. It really disappoints me to say that because I really wanted 
 to enjoy this game. It had a lot of promise and it even starts off on the right path game-play 
 wise. Once the difficulty kicks into full gear, the enjoyment factor drops and the frustration 
 goes through the roof. The game ends on a cliff-hanger but we already knew well in advance that 
 this is a planned series. 
  
  I do believe there will still be a sequel even with the problems of the first. I really feel that 
 there is a true gem under all this dirt and with a little bit more work, Too Human 2 can be really 
 incredible and make up for the mistakes of the first. Right now is what matters and Too Human is 
 just not a game that will get people interested in the series or genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: riastar15
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  don't listen to the people who say this is bad!! 
  
  GOOD!
  
  this one of the best action rpg games that have just came out. this game is defiantly worth every 
 penny it goes on for along time and there is 5 classes to choose from and the multiplayer is really 
 good if u got good friends who will play it with u and if u like diablo and devil may cry u will 
 love this. the camera is not that bad u can just use the press the right bumber to change where 
 u are looking at so that's not that bad and the controller is easy to use after the first 15min 
 of gameplay so it help alot. also the graphics are very good for the xbox 360 plus when u die u 
 see a angle pick u up and u just start where u came in through the room
  
  BAD!
  
  the game might do some crazy stuff sometimes and might make the gameplay a bit choppy and sometimes 
 if u don't know the controls u might axadently sell one of your items which might make u abit angry 
 and dieing might be a pain in the ass also enemy might fall of a the edge of a bridge or platform 
 witch make u not get the items u need from the robot (monster) and when u go in the menu it gets 
 kinda crazy when u need to put Armour on and do other stuff in the menu
  
  overall!
  
  the game is good with some great new features that other games don't have and its one that if u 
 are a fan of devil may cry and diablo u will love it. if u buy it make sure its cheap under $60-$80. 
 and also if u don't have a gold xbox live account u might wont to think about it before buying 
 Too Human.
  
  8.9 GREAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abelav78
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  While the game has some big issues like camera angles and repetitive combat, bugs, etc. it has some 
 moments and some cut scenes are good. It aint that bad but its not too good either. I tried it 
 cause i wanted to make my own mind about it, since lately reviews of games have been too harsh 
 and some stuff that us gamers look away as minor this guys make it a huge deal. Its fun for the 
 rpg crowd and some casual gamer, but I wont spend that many hours replaying it, the inventory system 
 is way better than mass effect and it has some deep on skills trees, although its hard to get used 
 to the RS to be your attack button and not your camera movement.
  
  The dying thing its frustrating but if you think about it some games have load screens and its 
 about the same time it takes to respawn you.
  
  The game has 5 classes, i just played champion and berserker since i like more meele and combos. 
 
  
  You ai buddies (soldiers or aesir) are kindda dumb and sometimes dont follow you all that well 
 or attack when they need to.
  
  Weapons are just a backup if you are not specialized in them i beleive.
  
  Its an ok game, 
 a rental for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigwhitcher
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  In Too human you play a god with guns to put it simply, in a game world set in a future based around 
 Norse mythology, sounds fun right?... afraid not the game is just dull, you simply work your way 
 through wave after wave of the same monsters through very similar looking levels.
  
  Its a shame i was really looking forward to this one, the cut scene videos which were shown on 
 live last xmas made it look awesome but its another case of failed delivery.
  
  In the game there are 5 character classes 3 based around using a close combat and 2 around ranged.... forget 
 the range combat because the guns fire peas and paper and do next to no damage. Malee combat is 
 your only real choice and is controlled by the right analogue and just does not work. The camera 
 in the game is **** and choices not to look where you need it to.
  
  Multi player is disappointing as you don't work through the game together and the creatures are 
 generated based on the higher levelled player so i would advise playing it with new characters 
 for the both of you.
  
  all in all im glad i got it for 25 at least the trade in value should be good. Dont bother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stryfe1000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  It may have a few faults but it can be huge fun and has great replay value.
  
  Despite all the negative reviews on this game, I bought it to make up my own mind. I'm glad I did. 
 Yes - the gameplay can get repetetive (But remember, it is a slash-em-up which by their very nature 
 are repetetive) . But this game crams in bags of fun. The combat gets very intense with seemingly 
 hundreds of attackers at once but the controls are very intuitive making it very easy to pick up 
 and play.
  
  The looting aspect of the game is great with a massive variety of armour and weapon combos available 
 to be upgraded and unleashed.
  
  I had been waiting on this for a while (Although not the full 10 years it is reported to have been 
 in limbo) and was disappointed when the negative reviews started coming in. I'm glad I decided 
 to stick to my guns and make up my own decision. It may not be a classic but it's definately worth 
 a playthrough or two (or three or four....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  First off the graphics on the game were great the huge selection of weapons and outfits were awesome 
 to choose from! It was great picking up items for the armor suit and trying different weaponry 
 out in beating down the enemies during the battles.
  
  The areas in which you get to run around in are cavernous and HUGE! Lots of places to run around 
 to go to and explore, however getting lost is EASY to do as there are no maps to review to see 
 what directions you are supposed to go...
  
  Also, the camera adjusts on its own so there are times when you are running directly into the screen 
 and cannot see whats in front of you since the camera does not center itself behind you. That got 
 annoying in itself.
  
  The game took me 15 hours to beat (the game keeps track of your time) and that was with a fast 
 playthrough. The game was very repetitive and annoying as **** You will hurt the hell out of your 
 hands mashing and mashing and mashing buttons to fight your enemies, got repetitive and makes the 
 game tiresome and way too much work to get through! You will enter a room and mash your thumbs 
 on the sticks and pointer fingers on the triggers to shoot and fight people, but only to see more 
 and more come around you! That was ridiculous how many enemies you had to fight to finally move 
 on!
  
  Also when it came to bosses, they were completely stupid and annoying as hell because you do the 
 same stuff over and over and over again dying multiple times before you get through it.
  
  Haha there is a gamerscore called "Valkeryie's Follie" for dying 100 times.... well I got that 
 one, and died plenty more times. The amount of times you die is completely ridiculous, there are 
 areas in which it is not physically possible to make it through all the repetitive enemies without 
 dying 5-10 times along the path. Trust me you WILL DIE A LOT!!! Also when you die the stupid fairy 
 comes down and pics you up into heaven and then you are born again in the game, that got annoying 
 to hear the same **** over and over again!!!!!! When you die they should just show up again instead 
 of wasting 15 seconds for a ceremonial death before being reborn yet again (especially when you 
 die lots of times right after the other)
  
  I would not recommend this game, it was fun for the environments and cool outfits and weapons, 
 but the repetitive nature of the game, stupid amount of dying and the dying sequences, and fighting 
 way too many enemies over and over again, also not being able to see where you're going due to 
 the crappy camera made the game one i just wanted to get over with, however it took a long time 
 to do it, thanks to dying A LOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Much has been said about Too Human, perhaps too much for the games own good. Like Lair on the PS3, 
 Too Human on the 360 is the systems most controversial game yet. With a way long development cycle, 
 all the press, and a game that tries to set some new bars; Too Human has bitten off more than it 
 can chew.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  *I'll start with Too Human's best accomplishment: the gear. Great and varied selection of weapons, 
 armor and guns, most of which can be customized and even colored the way you want. All the gear 
 looks pretty much different and it has a very addicting quality that will make you want to game 
 over and over again to see what you can find.
  
  *Though the combat does take a while to get used to, once you get it down it's actually a lot of 
 fun. Smashing enemies with giant hammers or frying their circuits with you laser pistol always 
 make me feel all warm and fuzzy inside. Special spider and Ruiner attacks only help add to the 
 visceral combat.
  
  *I actually really enjoyed the environments quite a bit in this game. Sure they may seem too big 
 and empty at times but, it kind of gives you the feel of how massive the areas are that you are 
 playing in.
  
  *Once you have completed the game solo, be sure to hook up with a buddy and play some Co-Op action. 
 Not only do you skip most of the hooky story, the combat feels even fast and more exciting than 
 before. The Co-Op game play defiantly gives this game a shot in the arm, without it I'd of given 
 it a lower score.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  *The story concept in Too Human is actually pretty cool; I mean how can you go wrong with cybernetic 
 Norse gods? However the actually execution of the story is bland and forgettable. After about the 
 second act I found myself not really caring what happens to the characters and was more worried 
 about when I was going to be able to smash something again.
  
  *There are quite a few technical inconsistencies throughout most of the game. Sloppy menu design, 
 music cutting in and out, and I'm sorry but some of the worst character animations I've seen this 
 generation. In a post MGS4 video game world perhaps I ask too much, but some of the characters 
 in Too Human are downright ugly.
  
  *For as much as I loved the combat there was much I hated about it too. This game needs a LOCK 
 ON button. Many a time I found myself surround buy enemies, Id draw my blade or my pistols only 
 to be slashing or shooting into nothingness. I'm really not sure why this wasn't added, a simple 
 lock on would of made some of those frustrating and long boss battles a lot more tolerable. 
  
  *The last thing I'll complain about is that damn Valkyrie that has to slowly pick you up and 
 slowly rise you into the heavens before you can start playing again. Nothing took me out of the 
 game more than this.
  
  So for all its positives and negatives, Too Human is at best: a mixed bag. I personal was able 
 to see past most of its shortcomings and just enjoy the ride (well, the combat part of it anyway) . 
 And for anyone is questioning a purchase defiantly rent or play the demo first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agsdeth
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story for Too Human is quite nice if you are a fan of Norse mythology. Their spin on it makes 
 for quite the interesting tale. This is the sole reason I actually finished the game, I wanted 
 to see how it played out.
  
  Graphics:
  Decent good quality graphics and detailed armor and weapons. They really went out of their way 
 to provide a multitude of looks for the character.
  
  Gameplay:
  The camera angles were horrid. The angles constantly made it hard to fight. 
  
  The use of 
 the directional joysticks for fighting was backwards if you ask me. Leave the hack and slash to 
 the buttons and joysticks for moving and controlling camera is what I say.
  
  The targetting system was brutal, it never targets what you intend.
  
  There were a lot of 
 gaps in flow of comabat. At times you can flow from enemy to enemy, and at other times the combat 
 seems to just screw up no matter what you're trying to do.
  
  I placed this game on the hardest level and am not overly happy with the experience. If they can 
 fix the gameplay issues for the 2nd Too Human then it might end up being a better game.
  
  Also long death sequence is really brutal having to wait through it every time you die (and you 
 will die a lot) .
  
  -Agsdeth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks43215
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  the game is alright. the first couple of levels are good. But after a while the game just becomes 
 repetitive. I became bored with it only after a good ten hours of playing it. I would say rent 
 this game before you buy it. You will get your money's worth if you just rent it. My brother on 
 the other hand really liked the game, so maybe this game is for you. Just try it. I think the game 
 was not nearly long enough. It should have been extended even by just a couple more hours. I will 
 try and post more reviews. bahhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. 
 Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhh. 
 Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhh like sheeps to the slaughter. Bahhhhhhhhhhhh. 
 Bahhhhhhhhhhh. Bahhhhhhhhhhhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep158
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Fun game to beat just in hopes that the second one is awesome and having a level 50 character for 
 number 2 makes it even better, but they could have used another year or 2 perfecting this game... 
 which is ridiculous considering this was about a decade in the making. I just hope they announce 
 number 2 faster than its taking to hear about Assassins Creed 2... jerks... either way, I think 
 it needs a lot of improvement in terms of gameplay, online play, and how ridiculous it is that 
 no matter what level your at the games difficulty is pretty much the same. Once again, very fun, 
 but very disappointing. And Gamespot is annoying because I'm trying to write a short review, but 
 it HAS to be 800 characters long, so now I'm simply writing gibberish... AIfioejaijf gfnuaka, fijeoak, 
 feijaojfew, is that enough yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikuide_Furame
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Ten years; that's how long it has taken Silicon Knights to release Too Human after it's inception. 
 In that time the game has been shelved several times and jumped onto three different consoles (Playstation, 
 Gamecube and finally Xbox 360) . I have been a keen follower of this game and was really thinking 
 it could have been a real treat. Sadly, however, it's anything but.
  
  Too Human's main problem is that for every good element of the game you find, you encounter another 
 bad element. Starting with the combat highlights this problem well. The combat in Too Human is 
 fun at first. Instead of hammering a way at the A button, you wriggle the right analogue stick 
 around to attack. You will very quickly be sliding all over the area smashing metallic goblins 
 before sending one into the air, only for you to jump up and slam him back down to earth. It really 
 gives you a sense of power and speed - that you ARE a god. The problem is that the combat is not 
 nearly varied enough. With a combination of buttons you have less than ten different moves (and 
 I'm being generous) . The moves themselves are great but considering that the game requires you 
 to defeat wave after wave (after wave) of enemies, you would think that Silicon Knights would have 
 given you far more ways of disposing of these monsters. The enemies that you encounter (barring 
 bosses) are very simple too, often resorting to the one attack over and over again.
  
  It's a shame too, as in terms of customisation, Too Human is incredible. You will encounter literally 
 thousands of different pieces of armours and weapons on your missions and unlike many games offering 
 impressive item lists - each item looks unique. On top of this, you can further enhance the powers 
 of your items by installing runes in them to grant small bonuses. On top of this, by completing 
 quests (such as defeat 3 leaders) and combining certain runes you can create even more power upgrades 
 for your items.
  
  And beauty is, again, a mixed point in Too Human. Characters, enemies and enviroments are realised 
 in startling quality. However, they are all so dull. Again, in a game where you are spending hours, 
 carving your way through foes, Silicon Knights could have made the enemies look a littler more 
 vibrant. The same can be said for the enviroments. The only area that looks at all unique is the 
 cyberworld. Even the cutscenes are really nothing to write home about.
  
  This presents a problem as the story is so slow in the first half of the game that meaningful cutscenes 
 are few and far between. Another problem with the plot of Too Human is that, the game assumes you 
 know a lot. It assumes that you know all the topics covered in the manual (meaning that if you 
 fail to read it prior to playing the game, you will be lost) and in some cases even seems to believe 
 that you would know details that aren't even in the manual. With a world as diverse and unique 
 (storywise) as Too Humans', making sure that the gamer knows the details of such a rich world is 
 a must.
  
  Like most class based RPGs, Too Human allows for online multiplayer. This does work well and allows 
 for much double teaming on the parts of the two players, but, yet again, there is a problem. When 
 Silicon Knights first mentioned the multiplayer, it was meant for four players. Four players would 
 really utilise the various classes on offer. An example being that one player could be the bio-engineer 
 (medic) , one could be the beserker (melee monster) , one could be the commando (ranged monster) 
 and the fourth could be the defender (do I really need to spell this one out too?) . However, weeks 
 before release Silicon Knights dropped a bomb; there was only a two player mode in the final build. 
 So Whilst you are playing with a friend, you will love the co-op action but you can really feel 
 that it would have been so much better had there been a four player.
  
  There are also some balancing issues with the game. The bio-engineer, who is effectively a medic, 
 is useless! You will not use him in the singleplayer as, his offensive stats are so slow, you will 
 be there all day trying to take down the hordes of Helheim. And now with only two players allowed 
 in a single online game, he is almost as useless there. Another complaint that many have leveled 
 at the game is the death sequence. When you die in Too Human (and it will happen a lot!) your a 
 Valkryie (angel) will desecend and take your character away. This cutscene takes around half a 
 minute but cannot be skipped. Personally, it didn't bother me at all but if you lack patience it 
 may well really kill you buzz.
  
  All in all Too Human is almost as tragic as a Valkyrie - just when it seems to get going, it trips 
 itself up again leading to a frustrating and dull game. There are plenty of signs of what Too Human 
 may have been, but with so many gaping flaws in the game, they become harder and harder to see. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidfuelwarren
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  So many things to say. Sooo not a reviewer. I've played the game all the way through as a Champion 
 class, and think it best to address the weird lies i keep reading in negative reviews. I'm guessing 
 negative reviewers never figured out how to play the game.
  
  -The best features are surely the story telling, concept, and the incredible environment design/textures. 
 This game delivered what i wanted (but never got) from halo's single player: ie., and intelligent 
 well told story, with cool twists and cool ideas. 
  I think Too Human has offered bar-none the most enjoyable story and concept from any Xbox360 released 
 so far. (Gears had some cool ideas, but the storytelling was akin to a retarded michael bay summer 
 movie) (Condemned had some cool style and an overload of ideas, but ) .
  The only thing i could complain about with Too Human's story is the way you spit out a lot of overly 
 dramatic big-D&D-nerd lines. About your fury and the blood that will be spilled. Sometimes i winced 
 and chuckled at how big they were going. But it fit the story. And I enjoyed the realization that 
 the writers were going for the greatest epic one liners they could pull off.
  
  -I never had camera problems. there is a button to center the camera behind you. If you're near 
 an item of interest the camera may lock into pulling back (so move away from the item of interest 
 if you want to control the camera) . otherwise, you can easily snap the view to whereever your facing. 
 WHAT IS THE PROBLEM? I don't want to stop fighting and hold down the right thumbstick to pan the 
 camera around (as seems the norm that reviewers want to defend) . You can hold down TooHuman's camera 
 snap, and it will stay locked in close over your shoulder while you wiz around. You can press up 
 on the digital pad to change the style of auto camera. i'm guessing negative reviewers couldn't 
 be bothered to use any of these prominent approaches to camera control.
  
  - I'm not a loot lover or an RPG player, so maybe that's why i loved the loot and RPG elements. 
 I started out playing the game liek a button masher, just jumping in and trying to rush through. 
 I only messed with the  (crazy amount of menus) when it seemed the 
 fighting was getting challenging. This worked great, and is probably a good approach for anyone 
 who doesn't love comparing stats. That said, once i started flipping around to see if any of the 
 new stuff i'd picked up was better than the old, i came to deeply dig the complexity of interactions 
 between armor class bonuses. Though i mostly just picked whatever weapon had the highest damage, 
 and whichever armor had the highest defense. Eventually I started realizing what the colors really 
 meant (rarity) , and what i could sell, what items could take runes.
  
  I didn't really understand what the hell was going on with runes and charms until i was very near 
 the end of the game- and i was still having a great time. To me this was "optional depth", and 
 a cool approach from the devs.
  
  - The thing is : this game was made to be played multiple times. Either with the beefed up dude 
 you just completed with, or with a new class - each of which offer noticably unique experiences. 
 When i started the game, i didn't see anything that different about the classes. When I'd beaten 
 it, and was picking my 2nd class (beserker) , i was torn by the clearly cool and different experiences 
 each was offering. And once i got my first skill points, i was thrilled to see that beserkers have 
 a totally different set of branching skills. AHHHHH!! the replayability is overwhelming. and the 
 notion that we may be using the same characters in the sequel is overwhelming.
  I CANNOT EMPHASIZE THIS ENOUGH.
  The game has very deep mechanisms to fine tune your character 
 (ie, tons of different ways) . and if you dig the game, you're likely to pursue several different 
 variations. and the thought of getting to use these carefully groomed characters in subsequent 
 games is way too cool.
  
  - the combat is actually unique. I think people hate it because it feels like the button masher 
 we've played so many times. at first. but it isn't. once you realize how to play the game. You 
 can't just choose to be sword guy. or just be gun guy. you have to switch between both. you have 
 to see that your shell-based gun isn't causing damage, and switch to plasma-based or laser-based. 
 If 
  And most of all, you have to rack up combo points, and decide whether to use the bonuses of high 
 combo levels, or spend you combo points to initial the special killer moves (battle cries, i think 
 they're called) . About half way through the game i realized I could just rack up tons of these 
 special moves, and i started killing many more enemies much faster. (initially i spent a lot of 
 time being cheap and running around from a safe distance using guns, until only a couple were left, 
 then i'd rush in for the sword) . I also realized that double tapping would launch a guy in the 
 air, and that this was incredibly useful. So I spent most of my time rushing in to launch dudes 
 in the air, then run backwards juggling them with the guns, to get combo points. I thought it was 
 cool that you could alternatley jump up and sword them, but i wanted to stay at a safe distance. 
 Then i realized that you could use a hammer to launch a bunch of guys in the air with one double 
 tap. Not to mention dropping your turret/spider thing. Not to mention the final skill tree item, 
 which launches a second sword that flies around co-attacking. I've beaten the game, only dying 
 after going through several waves of enemies (usually when i neglected to trigger a bunch of special 
 attacks on the first of a new mob, which always seems to drop some health) , and i still feel like 
 i have many more tricks to learn about the combat.
  
  - I do not see delays between sword swings. wtf.
  
  - Someone should make a youtube video of 
 how to handle the combat. I suspect the devs are quietly giggling at the valkyrie complaints, because 
 they're waiting for people to grow up and try to explore their options. But apparently people are 
 too stupid to realize they have an overhwelming number of ways to handle the combat. Or too impatient 
 to try them out.
  
  - I did have gun lock on problems, and thought it frustrating. I'd often let go of the lock (triggers) , 
 and when i reinitiated, i'd find myself locked on the same (dead) dude, or firing off in some useless 
 direction (because i'd turned away from the action, while runnning around to avoid projectiles 
 or gang rapes) . That experience lightly frustrating at least 5 times during the 15 hours i played.
 
  
  but you know what i did? i let go of the lock, and reinitiated. and it worked. Sometimes i would 
 even be so bold as to point my body towards the guy i wanted to lock onto. worked fine. this strikes 
 me as a minor bug that people are using to call the game crap. But really, it's a sign you need 
 to play the game by pointing your body towards the enemy you want to lock onto. It's not a sign 
 that the game wanted to lock onto the most dangerous enemy and make the experience super easy for 
 you. 
  
  -The ability to change your lock on from one dude to other enemies with the right stick seemed 
 wonky. Specifically, in the rare case where i tried to switch the lock, i generally found myself 
 with a free range laser that wouldn't lock on to anyone else. For a while i toyed with just using 
 it like a hose. but i like seeing the enemies health bar effects, so i went back to snapping it 
 on and offer more quickly.
  
  i don't know what else to say. i had a great time, and am dying for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10679
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  well another great game got poor review by gamespot and by the looks at what reviewer wrote and 
 the video review its looks liek one of those revies where a person gives a bad mark because they 
 can't play it .
  
  To begin this i would like to say that i have spent 12hrs playing and i am loving it every minute 
 that i play the game.
  
  I agree that the game ain't perfect as there flaws in it especially in the lock on system but over 
 time you will get used as it still does what it supposed to do.
  
  [u] fighting system [/u]
  
  The fighting system is easy and enjoyable . unfortunately there is 
 a downside to this as there is very little variety to the fighting system. Another flaw with the 
 fighting system is that there is no block button which is a shame. The reason is because in the 
 game you are always outnumbered by a large amount of enemies and the only way you can reduce the 
 amount of damage done to you is by doing a dodge roll.
  
  [u] areas [/u]
  
  Aesir ain't that big especially if you compare it with citadel in mass effect. The reason why the 
 pace is slow is because the character runs very slow and you can't dodge roll which increase the 
 pace of the game.
  
  The main quest areas are big which i like as it allows for exploration and also you admire the 
 beauty of the environment.
  
  [u] AI [/u]
  
  The human AI is pretty worthless as they don't really helpful apart from dying and responding again. 
 the enemy AI is quite cheap as they outnumber you 50 to 1 and they always seem to do quite a bit 
 of damage regardless of armor you are wearing making the unstoppable achievement hard to get.
 
  
  [u] ranged weapons [/u]
  
  The ranged weapons are very useful in the game especially the laser guns as i kill majority of 
 the enemies and bosses with that gun. lock on is slightly faulty but not broken.
  
  [u] Total time [/u]
  to finish the game it takes 10hrs which is shame as i was expecting it to 
 be at least 20hrs. to get majority of the achievements it will take about 20hrs or more.
  
  Apart from few flaws , the game is still awesome to play and would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The idea is great. A game that centers around Viking mythology with a modern twist. It might be 
 not as cool for someone who is not familiar with the legends. Let me get one thing out of the way 
 first, this story is one of the more creative ones and more enjoyable than most other 360 games. 
 The control doomed this game from the start. The confusing random rotations of the joysticks will 
 have you cursing for most of your journey.
  
  The city and levels are way too big for the game. I understand that it looks very impressive but 
 it makes running around a giant pain. 
  
  The enemy names are great. I remember battling someone who was named "The One who sifts through 
 diseased flesh". Other than the bosses the enemy battles are very repetitive. You go from one place 
 to another and flocks of bad guys storm you and your men. After a point it gets annoying and the 
 constant deaths will frustrate even the most seasoned gamers. 
  
  This game is decent. For sure worth a rent or even a discount bin pickup. They had a great idea 
 and I hope they build on it and tune the combat to make it more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Where do I start with this? Perhaps with an apology to Kevin VanOrd. I apologise for not believing 
 your review and questioning you (what I perceived as) low score for Too Human. You see, I had played 
 the demo. I had played the demo A LOT. I had discovered how to play as all the characters and played 
 the demo 75 times at 45 minutes a time. And I loved it. This was the first game I have ever pre-ordered 
 in my 25 years of gaming. It was THAT good. Even my friend was convinced to pre-order on the strength 
 of the demo. And then I read the Gamespot review and wondered if this VanOrd chap had played the 
 same game as I had, because Too Human was SUPERB!
  
  Let's focus on this for a few paragraphs. Superbness. I liked the visual design, the graphics, 
 the background, the character models... All superb. I didn't have any sort of problem with that. 
 Oh, other than despite being a God, your squad wouldn't move out your way and on occasion would 
 rudely go all invisible, but not allow you to move through them or push them out the way. But still, 
 it all looked good. The fighting looked phenomenal with goblins a-flying and trolls getting a-stomped 
 with quite the light show in the background. Su-PERB!
  
  The sound too was excellent, all clashy swords and shooty guns and explode-y goodness. Top voice 
 acting as well it has to be said. Rather odd that all these NORSE gods spoke in faux OLDE ENGLISH 
 in AMERICAN ACCENTS. Forsooth, methinks someone was at ye olde cracke pipe the day they wrote ye 
 scripte, verily! It was a shame that they decided to copy Marvel's Thor with the script and styling, 
 but still, the voice actor's really got the job done well, especially the hot Norn lady. Nice. 
 (Just quickly though, for reference, telling a god not to stare at a being that is "three distinct 
 personalities in separate bodies" is the stupidest thing I've ever heard - "three distinct personalities 
 in separate bodies - that would be, erm... three people then?" "Essentailly, yes. Yes it would.") 
 BUT STILL! SU-perb.
  
  Gameplay felt fantastic with all but the bioengineer class, which would only really come into it's 
 own at higher levels I would imagine, but the other classes worked very well. The mechanics work 
 wonderfully, if eratically. Sometimes Baldur will slide four postcodes to gently tap a goblin about 
 the face and neck, while on occasion, he will wildly hack away at thin air with gay abandon as 
 a bemused goblin stands barely out of reach with a look of sadness in it's big glowing eye. Also 
 pumping round after neverending round into thin air with your off-hand pistol on occasion could 
 get old, but the satisfaction of cleaving through more goblins than my dad in nightclub was... 
 SU-PERB.
  
  The loot promised many things. It made me covetous and desirous and a great many things frowned 
 upon by religious groups. Armour with 10% Soothing!!! WOW!!!! What's soothing? Is it in the manual... 
 No. In a journal entry? Not that I could find... 15% Agression? I feel agressive enough thank you... 
 I can only assume that this is to do with the "Aggro" system, similar to the World of Warcraft. 
 I guess that Soothing stops enemies hitting you, Aggression makes them, well, hit you. But then, 
 when playing a role playing game with so many stats and bonuses you need to be able to weigh up 
 the pros and cons of each piece of armor without having to guess. +15% to dexterity! Wonderful! 
 How high is my dexterity anyway? I don't know, I couldn't find that stat anywhwere, never mind 
 what it actually did. But still, never mind the quality, feel the QUANTITY! But STILL, I loved 
 the game. Like a tiny electronic son made out of videogame.
  
  And then I hit level 2. Sweet. Merciful. Heaven. A game has NEVER unravelled as quickly as Too 
 Human does. The mostly smooth control system stops working when "mostly" becomes the difference 
 between life and death. Having got through the first stage with no problems at all (not one death!) , 
 fighting against the slightly harder Dark Elves was A LOT harder. Especially the ones that fire 
 unavoidable beams of icy badness at you, or green poisonous streams of frustrating inevitable death. 
 There is no running away, there is no guaranteed hope of healing and a few deaths will occur. Fair 
 enough. The Valkyrie swoops down to some sad CELTIC music (seriously, did they reckon, "WOW! Norse 
 is European, and Europe is where VIkings came from, so well just jam in European syle stuff and 
 NO ONE WILL NOTICE or CARE! AWESOME!". Yes, actually, and they were probably right.) and in a poignant 
 scene showing the finality and tragedy of Baldur's passing, he... wait for it... Appears a bit 
 further away from where he died. Genius. 
  
  After the eighth time of being frozen by an ice troll's area affect attack while a fire troll hits 
 you with a lingering burning attack and a thing that looks like a Drider from D&D hits you with 
 a green poison attack and you can only sit helplessly and watch as this GOD gets his buttocks handed 
 to him on a silver platter, you begin to get angry. But then it gets worse. In level 4, you face 
 hordes of the undead, some of whom explode and do lingering damage, and some of whom fire streams 
 of bullets at you. The inaccuracy of the controls shows itself more starkly here. You can only 
 watch helplessly as Baldur slides inexorably towards an exploding zombie when you were aiming for 
 his friend slightly to his right. While nine of his other friends simply stand around shooting 
 you. Watching your health bar constantly deplete is demoralising to say the least. In this level, 
 I died 90+ times, compared to 12 in level 2 and 3 in level 3.
  
  I usually hate bos fights, but I found them very easy in Too Human. Too easy, as a matter of fact, 
 except the last one. At least it meant not coming up against an impassable wall, but the fight 
 at the end of level 2 is so boring as to be coma inducing.
  
  The story maintains momentum, but you end up feeling that Baldur is the second most stupid god 
 ever. "Hmm... I can't remember how got my hideous facial injury. Hod's eyepiece shows him shooting 
 Loki through the face, yet Loki still lives..." Columbo this fool isn't. The human squad Wolf squad 
 is handled very well, bringing a human perspective to the battles, with quite a touching end for 
 one of the characters at the end of the game, but there is some bizarre dialogue where they sound 
 more than a little disrespectful of Baldur and the Aesir in general when Baldur is stoofd right 
 beside them. Not exactly awe inspiring godliness. Not as bad as Thor, though, who comes across 
 as incredibly thick because the makers couldn't be bothered putting more dialogue into level 3, 
 so frankly having Thor say "Come out and fight me Loki!" and then have Loki explain (quite patiently, 
 I feel) that he is not, in fact, there a total of NINE times in the course of the level isn't just 
 annoying and lazy, but also very stupid.
  
  Also very lazy is the co-op. I don't know why, but both players playing as Baldur is a bit, well... 
 Rubbish. It would have been quite cool to see the other player as one of the the Aesir, even if 
 they saw themselves as Baldur and you as someone else. If you know what I mean... It feels some 
 what empty and sterile when playing with another player, ironically because you lose the humanity 
 brought to the game by the Wolf squad, so the game becomes more mechanical and less emotional.
 
  
  It is a great pity, because the game starts of very, very well and could so easily have been scored 
 in the high 8's. And one of the easiest ways to remedy this would be to have either health potions 
 or stat antidotes that could be used when required, or have every enemy drop a health orb that 
 returned a tiny bit of health. A very simple solution that would have rendered what becomes a completely 
 unplayable mess of a game into a near classic. Which makes the game very hard to score. With a 
 good patching, it would be superb, but to be honest, I don't see this happening.
  
  Despite having used the term "Unplayable mess", I do have to point out that levels 1 and 3 are 
 both very good as the game comes into its own by handing you a big sword and scores of weak enemies 
 and telling you to beat the tar out of them. Tempering this, however is the frustrating direness 
 of the other two levels and the shockingly infuriating last boss battle.
  
  In summary, this is the biggest disappointment I have faced in a long time, but would happily spend 
 a tenner on. I have can only hope that Silicon Knights take the criticism of detractors on board 
 because the Too Human trilogy isn't sunk yet, and it with so much potential, it wouuld be sad not 
 to have a shot. Too Human 2: Even More Human Than Previously Suggested will either be superb, or 
 destroy this fledgling series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easylay
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Overall I am having a lot of fun with this game. I will be the first to admit it isn't perfect. 
 I think it was hyped too much and although there's a lot of content there isn't really enough to 
 do once you complete the four missions other than level up your character and look for loot. There 
 are so many glitches and bugs that should not have made it past QA, and so many areas of unrealised 
 potential. I do hope this series continues and the franchies achieves its potential in the next 
 installment. 
  
  Pros
  
  - interesting story, concept, art design
  - great combat
  - tons of equipment and loot
  - multiplayer is a blast
  - good music
  - great combat
  
 
  Cons
  
  - glitches galore
  - seems unpolished
  - can't skip death screen
  - only four missions
  
  Summary: There's a lot to like about this game, and a lot to frustrate 
 you, but I can't stop playing it and that must count for something ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipzealot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Alright first I would like to say I'm sick of all the critics giving this game a bad rep. Some 
 are saying the controls are "to difficult", personally I think the only way the would be to difficult 
 is if your a noob, sure theres a bit of a learning curve but I got news ALL GAMES HAVE THEM!!! 
 The Controls are great and the game runs very smoothly end of story. Now with that aside onto the 
 game play itself.
  
  The game is extremely fun and starts you off right in the action and slowly leads into the more 
 cinematic events, so gamers wont get bored with it. The story is very entertaining and rich even 
 though its based on Norse mythology you really don't need to know any to appreciate the game. The 
 class aspect of the game is awesome and leads to very fun co-op online play and interesting class 
 combos. Armor and Weapon customization are another great feature, I had alot of fun with the system 
 of dyes and upgrades.
  
  All in all I think the game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentSxht
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  For the record I just want to let it be known I had a decent time with this game, it wasn't until 
 the end my frustrations really started to rear their head. 
  
  First of all this game is entirely too short. I don't want to hear some spin about gear because 
 that does nothing for replay when a game has such linear blase levels with the same enemies repeated 
 over and over, not to mention auto adjustment to your skill.
  Also, not to beat a dead horse but the lock on mechanics are really as dreadful as everything you 
 may have heard, you will learn to work around it if you choose to play but they are nonetheless 
 very very broken.
  I really would have enjoyed more boss action as well the whole campaign is just sitting their begging 
 for it.
  Also as stated numerous times the infinite life via Valkyrie is very annoying, mainly because it 
 defeats the purpose of putting much effort in, not that it would pay off in spades however anyway 
 since the aforementioned lock on is so horrendous.
  
  Ironically the much trashed talked story was my favorite aspect of the title and provided most 
 of my minute enthusiasm to push onward. The frame rate does hold up and if your not paying attention 
 you may find yourself having a decent time if playing in short intervals, which is recommend if 
 you must play because it will be over quick. Do not be seduced by the demo or a quick play this 
 game becomes repetitive and questionable fast. If you must pick it up at least wait for the bargain 
 bin it won't be all that long anyway, or wait for the sequel which might fair slightly better. 
 Silicon Knights really F'd themselves committing to three titles of this half backed tomfoolery, 
 be warned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrazystud
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has mixed feelings for this game. It's a great game but there could be more. By more I 
 mean: longer (one more level) , and more online features such as team vs. team play, time trials. 
 Or a lobby to show off your character to other players, makes better trade. Something besides the 
 co-op which I love but the game is repeatitive. Story and co-op are pretty much the same but with 
 more trolls in co-op. You have 5 characters to play through with but by the third you are getting 
 a little tired of the game. The leader boards should be based off class so you can take pride in 
 being the #1 Bio Engineer or Defender instead of it grouped together. The end result is a great 
 game that could have been that much better. I hope they do make a 2nd and I await it's arrival. 
 Try it, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This is my personal opinion on the game, so dont send hate mails, opt to remove the review or whatever, 
 if you do not agree and wish to explain why you like it, feel free to send me a message, just no 
 hate mail thanks :D
  
  My Score system does not work like GS, this is how i mark it:
  
  1 - So bad you want to remove your eyes, ears and other facial features from your body using some 
 sort of kitchen utensil
  
  2 - Abysmal
  
  3 - terrible
  
  4 - Bad
  
  5 - Below average
  
  6 - Average
  
  7 - Good
  
  8 - Really good
  
  9 - Great
 
  
  10 - Total Perfection (varies, if a package such as Orange Box, 10 may go for value of money for 
 example) This grade has never, and most likely never been awarded to a game iv reviewed.
  
  Too Human is finally here, and luckily for me i picked it up on Ebay for roughly 12 (33 off RRP) 
 and admittedly i was looking forward to hours of grinding fun on a Console Diablo set in the future. 
 But does this game REALLY meet those simple expectations? lets find out shall we? 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Too Human is a average looking game compared to most modern games on the market. 
 Good lighting and animation with some good details on the characters make it look nice, but i thought 
 they were a bit to blocky, and washed out and just didn't impress up close, it almost looked blurry 
 in some places. However when you see hundreds of enemies and attacks and explosions all going off 
 at once it does have a certain oomf that the game needs. Amazingly i found very little slow down, 
 this could because of the little detail in the environments however. Furthermore, i found that 
 most of the attacks in the game seemed boring, your often looking at decent animation sword swings 
 or flashes from your guns and no HUGE attacks that you find in similar games. You spend the first 
 few levels trying to acquire the Fenir skill on your skill tree only to find out its a floating 
 axe you can hardly see, not a huge attack of death and destruction. Ruiners do look nice, but are 
 far to similar and repetitive to ward off the feeling of monotony.
  6/10
  
  SOUND
  
  Ill start off with the good here. The voice acting is pretty great actually, Baldur sounds really 
 good as does the rest of the cast of voice talent and makes the Aesir sound godlike... which they 
 should. Also, the musical score is really good as well, having a mix of genres that fit in with 
 what your doing. Now to the bad points. Voice acting, whilst good in cutscenes, is terrible in 
 game. You hear the same lines over, and over, and over again like FOR ODIN! or WE HAVE ALL EARNED 
 A PLACE IN VALHALLA! and just gets annoying, you just want them to shut up. Along with this is 
 the music... its good but it just cuts out every now and then and restarts. Ok, if it looped it 
 would be fine but stopping randomly having a 5 second wait and then it starts again is just poor. 
 And finally sound effects are bad. Nothing sounds powerful, all guns sound alike assuming they 
 use the same ammo, and all weapons sound the same. Such as a lvl 1 hammer will sound the same as 
 a lvl 33 hammer. This is a major let down in this department. 
  4/10
  
  CONTROLS
  
  The controls are RUBBISH! Instead of button mashing you stick waggle. So instead of getting fluent 
 combos you get disjointed animation that looks bad and ultimately makes your attacks miss... a lot. 
 Imagine a Wii Motes controls for a cheap game implemented on a standard controller, then you no 
 the horror. The camera is also assigned to the LB which just centers it and you have to do it every 
 5 seconds or so. You can change the camera view by pressing the Up or Down buttons, but none really 
 feel like they work effective.
  3/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You assume the role of Baldur, a member of the Aesir who are seen as gods to humans. You run around 
 4 levels of reasonable size and try and do various objectives. Yeah, it sounds boring. But its 
 not surprisingly. To me i found the story rather good. Im a big fan or Norse Mythology and was 
 amazed on how accurate the game is to its roots. They managed to but a modern/furure twist on ancient 
 legends and you can really see the connection. However, everyone else will just be bored and confused 
 until the last levels few hours. In your travels you kill 4 types of enemies who vary in size and 
 attacks to gather experience and loot to enhance your characters abilities. This is really engaging 
 and is just old school fun. Getting new armour and weapons that improve on former equipment is 
 a great feeling, until you experience it a few hundred times. Armour drops are far to frequent 
 and often you find your self re-equipping your self fully several times though a mission. On top 
 of this you have the Rune and Charm system which falls short. Basically they make TINY differences 
 to your stats that aren't worth bothering about and to add to this Leveling up is pointless. You 
 NEVER get stronger. Im not kidding, your just as strong when your lvl 1 as you are when you hit 
 50. All enemies level with you so all you get is a few skills (and im talking about 15ish skills) 
 that barely enhance your powers. This then leads back to equipment, your only hope of getting stronger 
 is via equipment so you HAVE to constantly update your self. Its highly repetitive and i chose 
 to finish the game and not replay it for more loot, or achievements.
  
  I may be overly harsh, i had fun with too human whilst it lasted, i just had no reason to go through 
 again for some measly gamer score. And considering the price i paid for it i cant say it wasnt 
 worth it.
  5
  OVERALL
  
  A great game held back severally by pretty much everything you can imagine and more. My advice 
 is not to buy until it drops to about 20 because your wasting your money otherwise. 
  
  TOTAL SCORE (uses averages of the scores to work out final score) : 4.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycunnings
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Despite reading less than impressive reviews about it and hearing people complain that it is too 
 repetitive and short I thought Too Human was a fun game. There were good and bad things about it.
 
  
  The good things included TONS of enemies and large levels. There were not a large variety of enemies 
 but the action did not stop. Sometimes a few enemies in large quantities is a good thing. Each 
 level usually took at least 3 hours on the first play through and longer if you wanted to try to 
 explore everything. There was also a very healthy amount of weapons and armor. You never had trouble 
 upgrading your gear. The story was actually decently done.
  
  Some things that could have used a bit of tweaking were the almost too much equipment that made 
 you constantly clean out your inventory so you could keep picking up new gear. I personally would 
 have liked to see a couple of more levels, but I wouldn't let that ruin the game play. I would 
 have liked more skills and abilities on the skill tree. I really did not use the ones that were 
 there. But again it is not the end of the world. the camera angles left something to be desired. 
 This would be my biggest grip with the game.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone who is not super picky about games and every little 
 detail. If you look away from the small issues and take in the big picture this should be a decent 
 trilogy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Pretty nice visuals, solid voice acting and storyline, interesting twist on Norse lore, 
 unique control scheme and lots of enemies to kill, solid co-op play.
  
  The Bad: Get's repetitive pretty quickly, camera has some issues, some graphical hiccups occur, 
 no storyline while in co-op, you will die a lot and that can become quite frustrating.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Usually, when a game has been in 
 development as long as Too Human has, it either means one of two things: either they were making 
 the game amazing, or they had to rush it out because they were taking too long. The later seems 
 to be the case with this one, which was originally planned for the Playstation before becoming 
 a 360 exclusive, but it still turned out to be a solid action dungeon crawler with great online 
 co-op. 
  
  You play as Baldur, a cybernetic Norse "god" who is sent to defeat the enemies of the "gods". Just 
 because you can only be one character doesn't mean that you won't have customization options. First 
 off, you pick your class, which changes how you want to play the game. Each class has a speciality, 
 so make sure you read all of the descriptions carefully before making a desision. Aside from your 
 class, you also have the choice to follow the cybernetic path or the human path. Again, both of 
 these have their advantages and disadvantages, so make sure you know which one you want before 
 choosing. You also choose what items and equipment your character uses by gathering them from fallen 
 enemies and treasure spires.
  
  The gameplay of Too Human is essencially a combination of a dungeon crawler such as Diablo with 
 Dynasty Warriors and a bit of the narrative from Mass Effect. You have a skill tree and inventory 
 system similar to a dungeon crawler that adds some depth, but the skill tree is too shallow for 
 a game of this type. I'm only level 20 and have already gotten through most the entire skill tree 
 and am now just leveling up existing skills. It's an interesting fuzion of game consepts that works 
 for the most part, but has it's share of problems. First off, you control your melee attacks using 
 the right analog stick, which is cool except that you can't ajust the camera, which can often get 
 in the way in the middle of a fight. Also, in order to attack you basically have to spin the stick 
 around until you find something that works. There is no explanation on how to use the stick to 
 attack or how to pull off each kind of attack. The gun controls are pretty simple. Fire with the 
 right trigger, alternate fire with the left and switch targets by moving the left stick. Like Dynasty 
 Warriors, you will often be surrounded by a ton of enemies and will have to either pick them off 
 from a distance or swing your melee weapon willy nilly and hope that you can take them down. The 
 only real variety in the gameplay comes in boss fights, mini boss fights, which are pretty frequent, 
 and non combat sequences which play similarly to a scaled down version of Mass Effect. It is a 
 pretty repetitive game, so if you don't like that aspect, this might not be a good choice. It can 
 also be very frustrating. Enemies will often swarm around you and cause you to die, a lot. I've 
 died over 100 times and it's not because I'm a bad player, it's because the enemies become more 
 powerful as you do.
  
  If you are willing to see past the repetitiveness, you will enjoy the action and narrative that 
 Too Human has to offer. You can also experience the co-op mode online. Nothing beats beating the 
 crap out of a ton of enemies with a buddy by your side. Unfortunately, none of the storyline cutscenes 
 activate during co-op, so my recomendation would be to make both a single player and co-op character 
 so you can enjoy both. 
  
  The visuals of Too Human are solid, but nothing extremely noteworthy. I encountered several instances 
 of graphical hiccups and the character models aren't that amazing looking. It is noteworthy that 
 Too Human is running off of a new engine created by Silicon Knights because of their lawsuit against 
 Epic Games, creators of the Unreal Engine 3. The sound effects and voice acting are solid and the 
 musical score is very well done.
  
  Overall, Too Human is a solid co-op action game that fans of dungeon crawlers and hack and slash 
 games will definately get a kick out of. It has it's share of problems, but it's still a solid 
 action game that is worth at least renting if not purchasing.
  
  Gameplay: Dungeon crawling meets hack and slash in this interesting mash up of styles.
  
  Graphics: 
 Decent visuals with occasional hiccups and ok looking character models.
  
  Sound: Solid sound effects and voice acting but a really good musical score.
  
  Value: This 
 one might be one of those games where it's worth waiting for a price drop, unless you really like 
 the gameplay style and want a good co-op game. At the very least, it's worth a rental.
  
  Final Thoughts: By Oden, it's not too bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Oh dear, seriously. The citical reviews are generally way off on this one. apart from G4, attack 
 of the show and IGN it seems We have a bunch of media reviewers who need to learn how to review 
 games. You cant bash a game because you dont understand it, or basically just suck at it, which 
 seems to be the common thread here.
  
  I laughed when I saw Gamespots reviewers gameplay video. Its obvious he had absolutely no grasp 
 of the combat system.
  
  Too be honest I find this game to be no where near as frustrating as they would have you believe. 
 In fact, this game has turned into one of the most enjoyable games I have played this generation. 
 Yes, its glitchy, yes the interface could be better, yes the camera sometimes plays up, yes the 
 animations and collision detection could use some work. But guess what, at some point during the 
 procedings, when you get a handle on the gameplay systems, you will start to have a whole heap 
 of fun. If this doesnt happen, maybe this game is too hard for you, or just not your style.
  
  I have personally been waiting for the third person action game and the action rpg, which are 
 two of my favourite genres to merge. I love the twitch gameplay of games like Devil may cry and 
 I love the hunter/gathering mechanic of games like Diablo and Titan quest. I have always felt that 
 the action rpg had to step up in regards to gameplay and combat and likewise the action genre was 
 painfully missing good addictive RPG elements and equipment.
  
  This game is not Diablo, so dont expect that. It is also not Devil may cry, Ninja gaiden or God 
 of war, dont expect that either. If you do you will be disapointed.
  
  Too Human is a wonderful blend of all those things and once the nuances of the gameplay system 
 are realized, its a deep game that shines as being better than the sum of its parts. 
  
  I came into this with no expectations other than knowing I had enjoyed SK games in the past, I 
 basically picked it up on a whim after playing the demo, and I am glad I did.
  
  The following is not so much a review, but a critique and rebuttal of alot of the things this game 
 seems to be getting thrashed for, in most cases completely unjustified.
  
  The Long development Cycle.
  
  This game was not ten years in development ok? Lets get that 
 straight right now. It was intially announced for the PS1. That build of the game was completely 
 scrapped and too human as it stands now is nothing like it. SK then moved to Nintendo, and it was 
 "planned" for the gamecube but work never got stared because they were moved oter projects such 
 as the Metal Gear game and Eternal darkness (both fantastic) .
  
  Finally once they picked up with Microsoft The real work started. Then we have the whole debacle 
 with EPIC and the unreal engine. So SK basically had to write their own engine, no a easy feat. 
 All in all I would say after all thing considered actually game developpment would be more along 
 the lines of 3 years. (probably less discounting engine development time)
  
  The Valkyrie/Death system.
  
  This seems to be a major contention point to this game and one 
 that is exagerated and/or completely missunderstood.
  
  The Valkyrie animation is only about 20 seconds long, maybe not even that and lets be honest here, 
 how many times have you played a game where after you die you are treated too a "loading... Please 
 wait" screen at least that long? Which would you prefer? Come on.... *btw why did oblivion not 
 get slaughtered for this gamespot? Load times where disgusting*
  
  But Sk are NOT doing any loading in the background while this happens. Whats the point then? you 
 ask.
  
  It's a gameplay reason. Specifically designed for co-op. When you die, not only are you leaving 
 your buddy to contend with hordes of enemies without your assistance, guess who gets all the loot? 
 Personally I think it's a brilliant idea. And to be honest, on the rare occasions that i do die, 
 I am thankful for the quick break. This game is really that hectic, especially at high levels.
 
  
  The next compaint is that there is no death penalty. I have touched on this. yes there is, in fact 
 I have heard SK were worried it was a bit steep.
  
  You lose all combo meter. This is HUGE! Abilities and ruiners is what gets you through those tough 
 polarity battles.
  
  Your equipment gets damaged. Good luck dieing alot and having to spend all your money to try to 
 fix broken gear this is especially punishing when you are epic!
  
  Some area's are times and dont drop good loot if you die.
  
  Your buddy gets all the loot, 
 and seriously do your self a favour and play some co-op.
  
  The Camera system sucks!
  
  Actually no it doesnt. For the most part its very well behaved, on the seldom occasions it gets 
 mixed up its easy to correct with a quick button press. You cant manually control the camera. Well 
 I think its about time games caught up and we didnt actually have too...
  
  The right stick analogue control!
  
  Again, it works really well once you get used to it, and 
 I am personally really pleased SK didnt make this a typical button masher. (Please dont change 
 anything! SK) Spend sometime with the game and things should fall into place. Firing controls can 
 take a bit more to be get used too and could use improvment. It can be a bit finiky but on the 
 whole it works well.
  
  ITS TOO SHORT!
  
  Hundred of other games have shorter campaigns than too human and they dont get smashed for this 
 (Gears of war *cough*) . understand, that once you finish the single player campaign you are only 
 level 28 of a possible 50. On my first playthough I was at about 11 hours played, and thats when 
 the game really starts...
  
  Ever played diablo? Its a similar situation here, except on the repeat play's all cutscenes are 
 stripped away and you get different and more intense encounters! this is where the game shines. 
 I am currently a level 50 Defender at 45 hours played, and Im still going. Got too get all that 
 sweet loot, and the fighting is so addictive!
  
  OH NOES! THE ENEMIES SCALE!
  
  This I admit was one of the main reservations about the game. But, unlike obliivon it's done really 
 well here. At level 50 the battles are intense and fun! Never frustrating (unless you suck at it) . 
 And you always feel like a total badass. I never got that feeling in Oblivion
  
  THE STORY IS WEAK!
  
  Go read some Norse Mythology, Personally for a trilogy I thought it was 
 a great start and very unique and innovative. Yes it could have been presented better but Why do 
 games get trashed for a weak story anyway? Games with no story dont even get marked on it. games 
 are about FUN! You want a story go read a book! After the intial campaign Too human becomes pure 
 gameplay!
  
  THE INTERFACE IS CLUNKY.
  
  Yep, it is a bit. The whole idea that its frustrating and broken doesnt fly with me though.
  
 
  Now some valid critique...
  
  Animations and collision detection needs work
  
  Glitches and bugs need to be resolved with a patch
  
  Battle cries need an indicator when they 
 are too run out.
  
  Tweak the gun combat to work better with targetting.
  
  More Items, and less conflicting items. (150% aggresion and 150% soothing on same item) More clas 
 based items please.
  
  and uhhh, thats about it.
  
  All and All this is agreat start and I am really looking forward to the rest of the trilogy it 
 can only get better from here.
  
  I am giving this game an 8.5 I haven't had this much fun with a 360 game umm ever. Yes I like this 
 more than GTAIV, In fact I see myself logging alot more time with this game than that. The only 
 reason I ranked GTAIV higher is because of the few problems I have with the game. Overall rockstars 
 offering is a more polished product (they can afford it!) and would suit more people's tastes. 
 But I actually like the Too Human more.
  
  Give the game a chance, it's a good game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Alright, When I saw what gamespot was giving this game for a score I immediately lost my interest 
 for this game. About a week after it came out one of my buddies decided that he was going to pick 
 it up based on what he played in the demo. I still wasn't going to get it but he kept nagging me 
 that I had to buy it and it would be really fun doing co-op online. So when I went to the store 
 I had some extra money from working all summer, and I said why not buy this game. I loved the demo 
 and my friend has it so i will have plenty of stuff to do once I beat it to try and lvl up and 
 get the best armor with my friend. So I bought it and I got home and shoved it into my xbox. 
 
  
  AND BOY WAS IT FUN! I enjoyed the fighting a lot and getting all the drops to get better armor 
 and look cooler then your friend is great. I am currently lvl 35 and I am a cyber champion. Once 
 i get him to lvl 50 I plan on making a human defender and I think this game has many hours left 
 to play. I love ripping through goblins and performing air combat on elves. I don't understand 
 why a game like this could be so underrated. It can be frustrating when you continue to die, but 
 other then that I find the game a good one and its also addictive. If I were you, don't base what 
 you wanna decide to buy this game or not on the gamespot score, base it on if you enjoyed the demo 
 and you enjoy a good RPG.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3m3sis0V3RL0RD
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I thought this game would be fun and it kinda was, but I thought it was way too short. Only 
 four levels, four really long levels. That was the only let down this game gave me. Aside from 
 that the game was really fun, the combat system and controls were really cool, i never played a 
 game with those kind of controls before. Also the storyline was great, I am a huge fan of Norse 
 History, so when the creators made a game about Cybernetic Norse Gods, I was instantly interested. 
 Some of the characters were really interesting, my personal favorite character was Thor. Another 
 problem i had with the game was that you couldn't make your own character, you had to use preset 
 character classes. So in some way i did have a lot of fun, but the rest of the time i was extremely 
 confused. I feel i need to give this game a 5 out of 10. They could have done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtNemo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, it nice game play and not to hard to control. It not the worst game i have played.
 
  
  if you a going to play Too Human, be ready to die a lot, the game done't like you, and at some 
 point Silicon Knight want you to die, if you die a 100 times (with one or more men) you get a Xbox 
 Achievement on 5 point. 5 points for die a 100 time? Wtf is that about...
  you done't make games that whats you to die.
  
  Some of the combat bug are really a pain in 
 the ass, but the analog stick combat systems is really nice and works well, it just need som more 
 combos! many more!
  
  The games is completely imbalanced if you are looking at the characters. The Commander is are very 
 nice character, a range specialist, but later ind the game he does not have a chance when the enemys 
 begin to pop up from all sides. i haven't played all of them, but i will think that the Bioengineer 
 will have a hurge combat problem. if some of you guys have played him, i'll like too know how well 
 it went :) thanks
  
  At the end the game is just too short even if Silicon Knights sais it gonna me over 3 games, 4 
 levels to complete is not enough. 
  
  In the end, give the game a chance, try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Too Human has been in development for about 10 years, and it's finally on the 360!
  The story is... something about Loki, or something, I don't know. I skip through the cutsences.
 
  Gameplay: You attack with the Right-Analog stick and move it in different directions to attack. 
 One thing that gets annoying is that sometimes Baluder will miss an enemy you want to attack. Also, 
 you can press the Right Trigger to preform something caled a Ruiner, which will hurt enemys around 
 you.
  Graphics: The graphics are OK. During some cutscenes some characters look down-right awful, and 
 their animations might stutter. The backgrounds are good, and the lighting effects are good.
  AI: The AI is pretty easy to defeat, but if you die, you'll be picked up by an angel (I think) , 
 and you'll be carried away from battle, but you'll return at you're checkpoint when you die. 
 
  Why would Gamespot give this a 5.5? I don't know, but this game is fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhail_tisoy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  i rented this game and i thought that this was going to be crap but when i played it, It prove me 
 wrong this game is fun and addictive yes this game has some bugs and really really annoying control (i 
 wana punch the guy who thought of putting the rigthstick as melee) but once u get into it theres 
 thousands of items weapons and armour to be found
  
  8: graphics: the graphics is good but not stunning the enviroments are some of the best enviroments 
 ive seen in games
  
  7: gameplay: the gameplay is fun for a while but gets repetive
  
  9: replayvalue: 9 for this because youll spend great amount of hours just looking for thousands 
 of weapons and armour
  
  8: sounds: i give this an 8 because the voicwe acting are really good and the music is fine but 
 the soundeffects are lacking like some monsters dont even have sound effects
  
  so yea if u love rpg this game is a must get if your not sure go to your video store and rent it!!!!
 
  p. s i know some my grammer, spelling are wrong am at wrong and i only have 3 minutes to write this 
 review didnt have time to spellcheck or revise it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luchesibdb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  FIRST OFF YES THERE IS A LOT OF BUGS AND GLITCHES LIKE WHEN YOU ATTACK YOU MAY BE RIGHT NEXT TO 
 THE PERSON YOU CAN SEE IT SAYS YOUR LOCKED ON BUT YET NOTHING HAPPENS THE AIMING SYSTEM IS ALMOST 
 BROKE BUT FARLY EASY TO DO JUST POINT THE RIGHT ANALOG STICK IN THE DESIRED DIRECTION THEN BEGAN 
 SHOOTING IT WORKS MOST OF THE TIME NOW YOUR THINKING GOD THIS GAME MUST SUCK YOU WOULD BE MISTAKEN 
 THE STORY IS WONDERFUL AND PUT TOGETHER VERY WELL THE BIG PROBLEM WITH THE STORY IS ITS TO SHORT 
 AND LEAVES YOU ASKING QUESTIONS BUT THAT IS WHAT ITS SUPPOSED TO DO ITS A TRILOGY NOW THE GAME 
 PLAY CAN GET FRUSTRATING BUT THE CLASSES ARE GREAT. IF YOU LIKE ACTION ROLE PLAYING GAMES THEN 
 YOU WILL GET A KICK OUT OF TOO HUMAN THE SKILL TREE IS FUN TO WORK WITH AND CO-OP IS PRETTY FUN 
 YOU SHOULD NOT JUDGE THE GAME TILL YOU HAVE ALL THE FACTS WHY DID THIS GAME GET A 5.5 I THINK THERE 
 JUST MAD IT TOOK SO LONG TO MAKE AND IT WAS SO SHORT. WELL ITS OVER HAVE A NICE DAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first to tackle Norse mythology and they've done it in an intuitive way. 
 Basically the Humans and the Machines got in a war, nuclear weapons were used, Earth is in an 1000 
 year winter and the Robots won. The humans have retreated to their last stronghold and have protected 
 it, for now. The humans gods, known as the Aesir, have been sent down to protect humanity from 
 the machines and this where you come in. You are Baldur, one of these Aesir and sole objective 
 is to protect humanity and reclaim earth with them. Your first objective is to destroy a machine 
 that is nourished by humans. I'm not giving anything else away.
  
  The combat is easily the best part of the game. With a variety of weapons, armor, and attacks you 
 can customize Baldur as you see fit. You attack with a melee weapon by holding or tapping the right 
 stick in any direction you see fit. If you hold the right stick he will slide towards the enemy 
 you specified and launch him in the air, where you can jump and attack him there also. Melee attacks 
 are for sure the easiest way to kill a normal machine, in this game there are polarity machines 
 also. If you destroy a normal machine nothing happens, however if you destroy one of these polarity 
 machines, specified by the machine glowing either red or blue a small explosion will be carried 
 out, either freezing you or taking a large chunk out of your health meter. For these enemies you 
 use ranged weapons. There are a variety of ranged weapons and you use them by again, tapping or 
 holding the right trigger. It is tough to execute a finisher though by pressing the left and right 
 stick simultaneously, it sometimes just doesn't seem to work and with such fast-paced combat sequences 
 this could sometimes mean life or death. Another attack that doesn't seem to work right is the 
 ruiner which you use by pressing right bumper. You can't use this attack while your moving you 
 also have to often press the button many times before the attack works.
  
  The game is played over a third person perspective and the visuals look superb in both the combat 
 and the cutscenes which you see many a time in the game. 
  
  The soundtrack is great but some of the other sounds seem a little off and often some of the finishers 
 don't work great but Too Human is an excellent action game to buy or rent.
  
  PLUS + :
  
  Fast paced combat
  Intuitive control system
  Interesting story in an often untapped mythology
 
  Great graphics
  
  Minus - :
  Some attacks unusable while running
  
  Sound: 9.5
  Controls: 9.0
  Visuals: 10.0
  Combat: 10.0
  Overall: 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine565
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  You get slammed with a 5.5 rating, hell look at Mercenaries 2... that game is fun and Gamespot slammed 
 it with a 5.0!!! I don't understand what's going on with their rating system right now, it seems 
 like they're trying to be unique by being the ones that rate fun games poorly. I found too human 
 to be a blast, the story is deep, the graphics impressive, and the loot system keeps me playing 
 for hours as I try to find and customize my armor to look even more badass.
  
  I can't believe one of the criticisms of this game from the Gamespot review was "the levels are 
 too big". Is this a joke? What does he want, corridor fighting like in Doom 3? Too Human is meant 
 to be a massively Epic mythology game, and on that level it totally delivers. You get really into 
 being the God Baldur. Nothing is too easy, nor is it too difficult. I find the level of gameplay 
 is great.
  
  Another of our illustrious reviewer's criticisms was the need for people to have a deep knowledge 
 of Norse mythology to understand this game's story. That is so far from the truth! I'm not particularly 
 familiar and was able to follow it easily, and if a game encourages you to get off your as$ and 
 go read something... more power to it! I plan on going to get a compilation of Norse mythology stories 
 to gain even more understanding of this game!
  
  Lastly, the biggest complaint I see from everyone is the death loading sequence, where the Valkyrie 
 picks you up. I feel that if this was ANY other game, they would have been sucking it off for the 
 innovation, which this truly is. I've never played a game where the game continues to play as it 
 loads you back in, hell the battle keeps being fought as you are brought back in, right into the 
 FIGHT! I find this innovation to be BRILLIANT!
  
  To those of you who are on the fence because of the Gamespot review, GO GET THIS GAME! Or at least 
 Rent it, you will enjoy it!
  
  Also, my review here is a bit selfish seeing as that this game ends as a cliffhanger (being planned 
 as a trilogy) I want it to succeed financially so that Too Human 2 and 3 get made! Please help 
 this game, get it some green, and enjoy this beautiful epic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cahallmxj
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Story:
  This is what I got out of it since I didn't finish the game: 
  The aesir are the protectors of the human race, unfortunatley they are fighting a losing war with 
 the machines, which are the left over war machines of the einhander (which lost to whatever enemy 
 that they were fighting) that are fighting anything that gets in their way (think Star Trek: Borg 
 or the scifi series berserker wars by Fred Saberhagen) . All the aesir can do is fight the machines 
 to a stand still which apparently is causing their world to slowly be consumed by winter. In this 
 backdrop comes Baldur who suffered somekind of accident that badly injured him and killed his wife. 
 He is convinced that there is a new threat lurking out beyond the "wall". He is soon proven right 
 and soon discovers a third meance that may mean the end of the aesir race if not stopped. 
  =========== 
  If the above is a bit confusing and vague, then hopefully it gives an idea of trying 
 to make out whats going on when actually playing the game. Now on to the game. I think this is 
 what happens when a developer trys to take all the games that were popular over the last 10 years 
 (with a heavy emphasis on diablo) or so and mashs them all together. When it works it works, when 
 it works great Baldur is walking, air juggling death machine that that smashs through anything 
 and anyone that gets in his way. Unfortunatley when one of the bits that didn't mash quite right 
 pops up it knocks down the whole house of cards. Just about all of the issues have been mentioned 
 else where, in great detail with with much description so I'll let the reader go find them, elsewhere. 
 My main complaints with the game are the pacing, the dungeons and the controls. The pacing is more 
 or less the story mentioned above, to me there was no real reason to want to go to the next dungeon 
 or to want to go onto the next cut scene. If your going to copy Diablo then at least figure out 
 what made the formula work and why people still play the thing. The story may not have been the 
 most orignal or the greatest, but it made sense and finding out what happened next fit perfectly 
 with finding a ton of interesting loot. Secondly the dungeons, for starters the ones I played all 
 kinda looked the same, go down hall fight small monsters and then go into a big room where you 
 fight a lot of small monsters and a couple of big monsters and then repeat until you get to the 
 end where you fight a really big monster that is a nusiance to beat. Don't worry though you can't 
 really die, it takes you more or less 30 seconds to respawn. This may not sound like a long time 
 but when you keep getting killed because you get swarmed it adds up. Which brings me to the controls 
 which lead the player to seeing the valkeryie slowly come down and slowly go up alot. If baldur 
 is being nice to you then the sword work (mark of kri) and the gun play (DMC) actually work togther 
 to make a fairly enjoyable combat experience. The problem is that pesky camera issue some game 
 makers get and some game makers need to get. The actual problem is that the player does not control 
 the camera. You have a choice of near, far, close and hit the Left Bumper if you want to spin the 
 camera in the direction being faced by Baldur and if you happen to hit an enemy in the opposite 
 direction of you have fun shooting or slicing air unless your lucky and the auto target decides 
 to work. My usual luck was that I would knock the enemy in the air and the halfworking auto target 
 would miss that and I would shoot up the scenery. Also there does seem to be an emphasis in this 
 game for co-op, one of the pop up tutorials even says some of the bosses are better taken on with 
 another player. All in all I had to give up on this game around the time Loki escapes just because 
 the dungeon following that brought all of these issues to a head and had me banging my head against 
 the wall. If you like diablo and don't mind dealing with a wonky control system and/or you have 
 someone to play this game with in on-line co-op mode then you might get a good time out of it. 
 Everyone else should rent before buying, I'm glad I did. 
  Graphics: Great 
  Story: Would proably be interesting if it made some more sense, apparently at the end there is 
 a shocker/cliff hanger 
  Controls/Camera: Hopefully they will make sure this actually works right when they release the 
 sequel. This is soupposed to be a three parter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darafina
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  The achievements are fairly easy, story is cool, and just lots of killing fun action. It takes 
 a bit to get used to because the controls are a little wacked. After you learn how to really play 
 it correctly it is quite fun! :-) So if you like a game with lots of killing, leveling up, and 
 playing around with your weapons/armor, I think you'll like this game. Just get use to the camera 
 angle, it is worth the effort. I don't really understand why it got such a low rating when the 
 graphics and game play is pretty cool. It is weird how they rate games on here, some good ones 
 get bad ratings while some bad ones get good ratings. Makes you wonder if they actually even play 
 the games they rate... hmmm... so what if it has a few minor achievement glitches. BAH! I would suggest 
 giving it a try if anything else. You can always rent it. Don't give up on it right away and you 
 will get a feel for what to do. Make sure you read their suggestions on how to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Good looking visuals, awesome premise, innovative controls, smooth online co-op, very customizable, 
 interesting storyline...
  
  CONS: Interesting story so long as you know your Norse mythology, game ending leaves you hanging, 
 can get tedious, not alot different between the 5 classes
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Too Human has been up and down 
 leaping from console to console for 10 years. Unfortunately alot of people expect a game that has 
 "technically" been in works for 10 years to be the best game ever. WRONG. First of all, the original 
 Too Human was not even the same game as it is now. Second, don't go into this game with the mentality 
 "Well this game has been in development for 10 years." Enjoy it for what it is; which is a fantastic 
 action game for the leveling up junkies and looters all around.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are surprisingly great. I say surprisingly because this game's graphics engine have 
 been all over the place. Orginally slated to be running off of the Unreal Engine, Too Human is 
 now running off of a new, homegrown Silicon Knights developed engine. I remember that the developer's 
 stated at once, "We never went into this with the idea of using our own engine." Even so, the game 
 looks great. Especially considering they developed an ENTIRELY new, from scratch, engine developed 
 specifically for this game. The only flaw is that some of the environments could indeed look better. 
 But no real complaint considering how great the character models look. 
  
  THE STORY is interesting and very much unique to its own. It of course, as you already know revolves 
 around Norse mythology, mixed with sci-fi "Matrix" type surroundings. It actually takes place thousands 
 of years in the past before the Ragnarok War, and this war apparently destroyed all of our technological 
 advancements (hence why this game has so much technology yet it revolves in the past) . BUT don't 
 expect a real conclusion to the story, for this game is the first of three, so the game ends kind 
 of abruptly. 
  
  THE SOUND is perfect for this game. The music sounds exactly as you would imagine a game like this 
 to sound. Music pumps into action when your on the brink of battle and even during your deaths 
 as the Valkyries come to sweep you up. All the voice acting is very well done, and all sound authentic. 
 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is definately addicting. Any fan of Diablo is right at home here. Many critisize this 
 game for its unique take on using the right analog stick to attack. Don't get me wrong, it may 
 not be the most accurate, but it works very well for what it is. The game also works around the 
 leveling up and looting feature that alot of people are familiar with. You can customize each of 
 your armor peices and weapons by adding runes, colors, the whole deal. However, with so much looting 
 you are constantly getting better weapons and armor pieces that it makes it almost irrelevant to 
 upgrade your current armor with runes and colors. Also, there are only 4 levels in the game, and 
 though there are a few different enemy types, alot of it still feels very similiar to the last. 
 But luckily, once you level up you can continue to play as that character and max him out to topper 
 (50) and take your characters online for the some 2 player co-op that runs exceptionally smooth. 
 
  
  OVERALL Too Human was definately worth a purchase for me as well as many others. However, you either 
 like it or you don't. Many that played the demo and enjoyed it, love the game. Others who hated 
 the demo probably won't change their mind by much with the full game. But I honestly can say that 
 Too Human is well worth your time and money. Plus, take it for what it is; which is an action game 
 similiar to the Diablo roots that features RPG customizable options. 
  
  Thanks for all your hard work Silicon Knights. And good work backing your game up despite the reviews. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnzk_x
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  too human lacks alot of things the game is boring as hell the game is very reptitve.
  
  graphics: the graphics are nice but not breath taking it has some nice lights here and there but 
 it lacks AA and i could see the frame rate drops down when there is a lot of action.
  
  the story is kinda boring you keeept kiiiling monsters and wait for a cut scene to understand the 
 game the story is qiute boring.
  
  the sound is great but not breath taking.
  
  the worst thing in this game when you die you wait for look like angel to take you up and you have 
 to watch it every time you die you cant skip it.
  
  the game can be finshed in 10 houres of boring action fighting over and over again actually slicone 
 kights failed to deliver a great game it could have done a great game if the ideas was put right 
 just rent the game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil202mcr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Too Human is a unique game in it's own way, it encorporates an hack and slash feel to the combat, 
 while the environment is of a RPG quality in a wonderfully, beautiful setting of Norse Mythology. 
 You play as Baldur, son of ODIN and member of the Aesir, who are a group of Gods sent by ODIN to 
 protect mankind. The basic storyline is that there's a traitor in the ranks and you have to investigate 
 exactly what happened, by going to these different places.
  
  The gameplay in Too Human is enjoyable, in the way that you bounce from one enemy to another, hacking 
 your way through a crowd of enemies using the right analog stick or just simply blasting them apart 
 by using your special Ruiner (RB Button) and Battle Cry (X Button) attacks. Baldur may also flick 
 an enemy up in to the air and beat them to a pulp. Your character has different combos at his disposal 
 using both of the analog sticks. As you kill enemies you level up your character and you gather 
 loot to develop your own personal look on Baldur. Gaining levels gives you access to better armour, 
 weapons, runes and charms.
  
  The five classes are the Bioengineer, Commando, Champion, Defender and Berserker. All of these 
 classes have their own direction in the Skill Tree, which you use to determine which special bonuses, 
 you want your character to have. But you can choose a different way in the Skill Tree, to make 
 your character different from an average one. Some key issues with the gameplay is that when you 
 die in combat, you are forced to watch a cutscene showing a Valkyrie coming down from the heavens, 
 picking up your corpse and carrying it up into the sky. This cutscene does get quite irritating 
 after a while. During a level, Baldur will have to enter cyberspace using a well, which are dotted 
 throughout all the levels. When in Cyberspace, your character will have to complete a small task 
 that, for example, opens a locked door in the real world. These are okay but they could have been 
 implemented better in to the gameplay.
  
  Silicon Knights have pulled off the graphics extremely well, though there are some technical issues, 
 for instance: When Valkyrie picks you up, his/hers/it's feet go through the floor, which makes 
 it look quite unpolished, like some of the other aspects of the game. The general look of the Norse 
 period is very nice to look at and the characters look pretty amazing in my opinion.
  
  The audio is rather quite good and SK made sure that they backed up the great graphics with some 
 realistic audio. But the same can't be said for the voice acting, to say the least it's quite stale 
 and you don't feel connected to the character, until right at the end when the game has nearly 
 finished.
  
  Too Human has cooperative multiplayer, where you can play through the campaign with a friend and 
 swap loot with each other. Although you can't watch cutscenes in multiplayer, it's nice to have 
 this mode.
  
  Overall, Too Human is a success in some ways, but in others it falls on it's face. With a couple 
 graphical glitches and gameplay issues. These problems hold Too Human back from being a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richy_Splinter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Story is almost like a Family Guy episode. It entertains and you like it, but at the end you wonder 
 where it started and how you got to that point. Gotta love the amount of items and customization 
 though. The class differences and online co-op make for great replay value. You can not forget 
 about the different tech trees and human or cybernetic paths. I have really enjoyed the game despite 
 all the differing reviews. I can not tell you how many times I played the demo... you would make 
 fun of me. Looking forward to the sequels and a shorter development time. richy_splinter i hate 
 making more words to satisfy a stupid 800 word requirement I am tired and want to go to bed. i 
 have to work tomorrow and apparently more word are better than less so i will keep on typing nonsignifigant 
 crap till i reach my 800 word minimum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironwolf357
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Had tons of fun playing and I'm still playing through as my berserker for the second time to max 
 out my character. Just wish it was longer and had more dungeons overall a very fun dungeon crawler. 
 There are a lot of items to customize and most look really sweet. I think there should be more 
 involved with the Human cybernetics aspect for the character other than weapon and armor choices. 
 This is definitely a game to rent in my opinion. I cant wait for the next in installment, Silicone 
 Knights says there will be 2 more but that will be determined by sales and the story line is too 
 cool to leave it where it is at the end of the game. And I really like how they used Norse mythology 
 and twisted but not to much, the kept the story of Balder pretty accurate so far. Can't wait to 
 see how the rest of the story will turn out, I just really hope you get to kill Thor his attacks 
 such when he helps you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ershuman
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I want my 9 hours back. This game had promise from the start, but the game falls flat. There seems 
 to be a lot of promise, but after playing this for a few hours it is VERY repetitious.... the monsters 
 look the same, the graphics are dated and the game looks like it should have been released in 2003.
 
  
  If you die in the game the death sequences are entirely too long and uncontrolable. You have to 
 wait for 10-15 seconds for the game to reset. Also the camera angles are HORRIBLE. There are a 
 lot of times when the camera will not be aimed at the action and things will just beat on you.
 
  
  The only good thing about this game are the wealth of weapons, armor and upgrades. I honestly just 
 did not care about the story after the first hour. If you want a good game in this genre do yourself 
 a favor and pickup Mass Effect. It blows this game out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that the scoring for this game is very bad. I loved the game and its graphics 
 are pretty good. Some things could be better. But every game has that issue. I read in a few other 
 reviews that it is hard to play with all the moves and etc. I have to say that RPGS are growing. 
 Getting more advanced. And in order to push the limits it requires the gamer to be more experienced. 
 So if you are looking for a basic RPG then don't try this out. But if you like a little change 
 and a test of your skills then give this game a shot. Some Say the story line is a bit weak. I 
 would agree it could have used more work. If they took as much time in the storyline as they did 
 with the trailer "The Goblin Man" then it would have been better. Which I have to say that trailer 
 was amazing. Before I played the game I was also thinking is that think real. It was the game an 
 convinced me that it was not. I felt like I did when I saw the Blair Witch Project movie for the 
 first time. Like an Idiot. But both were impressive. I really hope they continue on with this game. 
 Because I feel it has potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Too Human was very, very over-hyped. I do not even understand why it became so unbelievably hyped. 
 I guess it was because people were under the impression that it was actually developed for 10 years 
 even though it was only developed for about 4 years. Too Human is a really, really good game that 
 deserves some recognition instead of all the hate it is receiving from the critics, GameSpot included. 
 Too Human starts off with Baldur, the cybernetic God that you play as, entering a bar and 2 people 
 talking about how the Azure (which Baldur is one of them) don't protect the humans enough anymore 
 blah blah blah. Bladur starts strangling the one guy, then a big metal monster busts down the door, 
 it kinda feels like Silicon Knights was trying to rip off Beowulf's (the movie) opening scene a 
 bit, but they did a pretty good job of making it. You will notice that some of the animations are 
 not too good, but thats not why you buy a game right? You don't buy a game to watch a movie and 
 a bunch of cut-scenes that you can't interact with right? *cough* Metal Gear Solid 4 *cough* (just 
 kidding I loved Metal Gear Solid 4) But enough of that, on to the good stuff. Too Humans shinning 
 moment is about an hour into the game whenever you finally figure out how the hell to fight. At 
 first, yes, it is very confusing on how to get the hang of combat, and it will seem as if Baldur 
 swings his sword at the air whenever you move the joy-stick in the direction of whatever enemy 
 you are fighting, but once you get the hang of it that problem ends. Once you do get hang of the 
 combat though, and trust me unless you are a complete idiot you eventually will, the game starts 
 to become really fun. Whenever you start combining juggles with ruiners and battle cries and battle 
 cries with finishers and fierces it can become really interesting. All the combat animations, sword 
 swings, gun firings, enemies dying, explosions, are all pretty solid. I had no problem with the 
 frame rate at all whenever I played through even at the most hectic moments. The co-op is also 
 another good point of the game, but really could have been great. Let me explain... The co-op can 
 be really fun whenever you and a good friend are both going around throwing enemies up for each-other 
 and when you friend breaks the trolls chest-plate and then you mount and kill it, but it really 
 could have been so, so much more. If Silicon Knights would have only taken another year since we 
 have been waiting for it for 10 years (since even though they were not working on it for 10 years 
 they did announce it 10 years ago) and really polished the game and made sure that made all the 
 right decisions it could have been amazing. If the story elements were not taken out of co-op and 
 the co-op was up to four players the game could have and would have been amazing. I do not understand 
 why Silicon Knights chose only to have 2 player co-op, considering how massive and vast the areas 
 are that you fight in. Enough with co-op, lets talk about the story. The story in Too Human is 
 a little jumbled together and mixed up, but if you pay attention it will all come together and 
 make sense. The story is actually quite good if you can make sense of it though, throwing in several 
 quite big twists and an extremely epic ending scene. Over-all, Too Human isn't great, but its definitely 
 a very good game, and I recommend if not buying it, to definitely rent it and give it a try, and 
 if you are a fan of the RPG genre or liked any of the Diablo games a lot, and need something to 
 quench your thirst until Fallout 3, Fable 2, and Diablo 3 come out, then you definitely should 
 pick this game up. 
  
  Graphics - 8.5/10 - There are certain areas in the game that make you say "WOW" and certain areas 
 that make you say "What the hell is this sh*t", but the good definitely out-numbers the bad.
  
  Game-play - 9.3/10 - This is the true shining point for Too Human, if only there was 4 player 
 co-op.
  
  Story - 7.8/10 - If you can make sense out of it, there is something quite good waiting for you 
 to unravel.
  
  Sound - 8.9/10 - The voice acting is amazing, and the music is just as good. The sounds during 
 combat though don't really capture how much as* you are really kicking though.
  
  Replay Value - 8/10 - The single play will take you about 10-12 hours to beat, and you might replay 
 it to see how another class plays, because they are pretty varied, and co-op might keep you playing 
 for a couple of weeks, but if they would have just had 4 player co-op, Too Human would have had 
 some real staying power.
  
  Overall - 8.5/10 - If you are a fan of the RPG genre or games without a lot of loot and customization 
 options, get this game. If you aren't, you may want to think of just renting it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMADEUM
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't like flying back and forth, sending enemies sprawling to the ground from 30 feet in 
 the air? This game is just plain incredible. I had my doubts when i watched the game-play videos 
 for this game, but quickly discovered that this game was amazing. First off is the highly customizable 
 options. You can customize weapons, armor, and even the powers your weapons/character has. There 
 are maces, axes, swords, claymores, staves, guns, canons, everything you could ever want. The futuristic 
 yet medieval aspect of it (metal weapons) really does take the cake on this one. I wanted so bad 
 to have a game like this, and the closest i got to was the "Unreal" series, which is amazing, but 
 not quite what i had hoped for.
  
  Take my advice and at least rent this game. It will make you happy..=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost_spore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  It was hard to get into this game but once you work out the kinks its really worth taking a look 
 at over and over again. The weapon and armour customization is limitless and this is a true RPG 
 element. After you finish the game you get to start over with all your level experience and things 
 you picked up along the way. The action is fast paced and the things you pick up along the way 
 makes your character somewhat worth developing.
  The view is sometimes hard to control... not your regular first person view more like a final fantasy 
 kind of thing... what were they trying to do? Its would have been better if you could look around 
 while you walk... they could have made this game so much better im wondering why they did'nt... fast 
 budget and not enough time... damn it if they are going to do something they should do it right...
 
  The game is rather short in itself and i found the length somewhat disappointing. Why could'nt 
 the just make it one game and have to break it up into three episodes i have to buy. Bastards! 
 8.5 could have been a 9.5 if it was a full game on one CD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomshakkalakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, look. The demo was less than impressive, especially for a game that's spent, what, 14 years 
 in development? That being said, it really is a good game... if you play it for more than 5 minutes.
 
  
  This is a 'Give me an hour and I'll give you entertainment' type of game. True, the controls are 
 awkward at first, but you get used to it, and actually have a lot of fun using it.
  
  The story isn't great, but this is only the first in a trilogy, so it has time to improve. Honestly, 
 it's a little bit of Mass Effect, a little bit of Marvel: UA, and a whole lot of Devil May Cry. 
 Like any of those three? Then be fair, check it out, and you may just enjoy it. Just don't expect 
 Peter Molyneux type promises.
  
  Wow. My review is over, but the website tells me I'm about 100 characters short. hmm. Uh.... well, 
 I guess I could mention that the death sequences are annoying, as you'll see them A LOT. HOwever, 
 I rated this 'Easy', because technically, you don; t die. 
  
  You come back every time. However, your punishment for dying is having to sit through a 2 minute 
 scene of a Valkyrie coming to get your ass, just so you can come back. Sigh. 
  
  ok, that's gotta be 800 characters. L8r! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  After 9 years of development, a nasty lawsuit, and unimaginable hype from a relatively small developer, 
 it's hard to know what to expect after putting the disc into your 360. After many hours of trying 
 the majority of the classes, and killing over 20,000 monsters in the process, Too Human ends up 
 taking a unique twist to the Dungeon Crawler genre, but at a price some won't be willing to pay.
 
  
  Highway to Hel
  
  Too Human is best described as a futuristic fast paced devil-may-cry variation of a Dungeon Crawler. 
 The melee system uses the analog stick to attack the hordes of killer machines put at you - the 
 ability to slide attacking one to another to another at high speeds makes for an interesting style 
 of gaming... most of the time. Fortunately the gameplay was built a little deeper, adding Jugglers (knocking 
 enemies in the air, and ruiners (Massive AoE) , among other abilities to add variety.
  
  The Good, The Bad, and The Locking System
  
  For better or for worse, the ranged abilities 
 use the same system as melee, meaning you'll lock onto the closest baddy you point to. 95% of the 
 time, this will never be a problem, as most of what you'll be facing come in crowds of the same 
 type - The other 5% involve trying to fruitlessly kill a giant AoE spamming behemoth, while locking 
 onto some goblin in front of you instead. If silicon Knights had implemented a system similar to 
 Mass Effect, to freeze time and lock onto another enemy, this could've easily been avoided.
  
  ber Killing Machine
  
  Character customization, oddly enough, turns out to be the best 
 part of Too human. Expanding on the socketing method from Diablo 2, runes are used to upgrade your 
 character's weaponry and armor in countless ways. The equipment menu has a very handy auto salvage 
 system, allowing you to automatically sell any gear of less quality without having to go through 
 each one.
  
  Going out with Class
  
  Classes seem to have a lack of balance. Playing as a commando seemed to be far overpowered compared 
 to the other classes - The survival rate and overall damage by each need to be equal among every 
 class, especially considering most of the health you'll recieve are dropped items, making deaths 
 nothing short of unpredictable.
  
  The Tale of Bad Writing
  
  Too Human takes Norse mythology and tries claiming that the Aesir, the "gods" of the time, were 
 cybernetically enhanced, and a much more advanced civilization than traditionally told. Due to 
 poor writing, the cinematics are more dissapointing than thought-provoking - Freya is labeled the 
 "whore of the gods", Thor is apparently on rune-based steroids, and Baldur himself is about as 
 deep as a Ninja Gaiden's storyline (zing!) . This is easily the worst merit of Too Human.
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  All in all, despite the flaws that show every now and then, Too human still 
 makes for an interesting take on Action RPGs, but has quite a few ways to go before being in anyone's 
 top 10. I reccomend renting it first, unless you have a strange hunger for dungeon crawlers, before 
 Diablo III comes out. There's enough good merits to the game to keep you going for a few runs, 
 and is enough to make you hope for a more improved, polished Sequel.
  
  -Vita 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fablune
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Too Human is a fun game though i do have to admit it does require players to have knowledge of 
 Viking mythology. The positive elements are that once you get into a groove the combat is incredibly 
 satisfying. Downside on the diffficulty though. unless you are an adept at combos your gonna die, 
 and die, and die. however if you are good at using combos, its really fun the first few times, 
 but then it gets repetative. Another thing. the spaces are to big. For combat there perfect, but 
 for non combat purposes its a waste of time. the good thing though is that when you entering a 
 room full of monster robots, you dont always have to just beat the crap out of them, in some cases 
 (not all ) you can simply take out the roof and quish them all. one huge mistake though is what 
 happens when you die. A Valkarie comes slowly done and slowly picks you up and slowly floats away. 
 Its preety cool, but not when it happens to you every time you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tearoy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Ok after putting more then 100 hours in this game I can truly give an honest review, yeah there 
 are good things about this game (the adrenaline rush factor, Co-op, the infinite supply of weapons 
 and armor) , but for everything good there is something that is bad (Enemies who have lag on there 
 attacks mainly trolls, no bank, no 4-player co-op like they said, and no DLC in sight) . I loved 
 this game tell I started to approach 150 hours with all my guys put together, I mean it was fun 
 to level up, but once you got to level 50, the Epic and Aesir sets weren't rewarded with progress, 
 but randomness. I would of liked it more if they had some type of system where you also had something 
 to look forward to when you hit level 50 (which took anywhere from 15 - 20 hours) . The number one 
 reason I sold this in and got tales of vesperia was the simple fact, that basically no DLC was 
 in sight, I mean Tales had DLC I think the first week they came out. Too Human you need something 
 to keep the game fresh. It's just when I maxed my guys level out, and I had to only random red 
 drops left it kind of brought the game down, I don't mind random drops as long as they give me 
 some kind of reward for my long hours I put into these 4 levels with 3 being standable to play. 
 It was a fun ride, but on to the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robborboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  First thing is first. Throw out every "professional" review out there. Their points of view are 
 based on the fact that this game has been in development since 1999 and was effectively in "Production 
 Hell" until Microsoft saved it's ass with a nice paycheck for exclusive rights to the game and 
 sequels.
  
  From my experience this is a very "niche" game. By that I mean this is a game for a certain group 
 of people. Not everyone will like it and that is fine. If you enjoyed the point and click action 
 of Diablo this will be a breath of fresh air.
  
  Story: This game interprets Norse mythology in an interesting science-fiction world. The Gods are 
 really just humans that have embraced nano-technology and have modified themselves with it. Where 
 as the humans are completely oblivious to how they have their powers. The monsters are machines 
 that are aptly named after several different mythological creatures. You have your Goblins and 
 Trolls, Dark Elves and Undead. You are put into the role of the God Baldr AKA Baldur. It starts 
 out you hunting a creature, Grndl-1 AKA Grendel, but after that the story evolves into much more. 
 You may have to get used to the "Old English" interpretation of the dialogue but after you do it 
 is great.
  
  Gameplay: Too Human is a class based game. Luckily rather then the typical three choices you would 
 normally receive in a game like this you get five. I will give you a rundown of the five.
  
  1. Defender: Focuses on protection and staying alive so that he can kill the enemies.
  
 
  2. Berserker: Typically has a light defense but a high attack.
  
  3. Champion: The jack of all trades class.
  
  4. Commando: Specializes in guns and explosives.
 
  
  5. Bioengineer: The healing class of the game also the only one who can heal himself. The weakest 
 of all five.
  
  The standard melee combat is mapped to your right analog stick. Which ever way you press dictates 
 the direction he swings. Using this stick in conjunction with the left analog stick you are able 
 to pull of some devastating combos. However with the controls mapped to the stick you have to rely 
 on an AI guided camera, which of course can sometimes be clunky. The camera does have one saving 
 grace. With "UP" and "DOWN" on the cross pad you can change the camera from almost on is back to 
 an isometric perspective. Your spells are mapped to "X" "Y" and "RB", while the triggers are saved 
 for primary and alt firing of your guns or cannons.
  
  The loot system on this game is (once again) identical to Diablo's in the respect that there is 
 pretty much a never ending list of weapons, and there is ALWAYS something better then what you 
 have.
  Weapons and Armor are organized in the typical "Prefix"-Weapon Type-"Suffix" and the color of the 
 text denotes the rarity.
  I will use my chest armor as an example.
  
  "Imperial"-Bodyplate Chestguard-"of The Cunning" Orange.
  
  Elite items however do no have 
 such things as they pretty mush use a fixed name. My sword for example.
  
  -The Burning Blade at World's Edge- Red.
  
  I would also like to point out that the naming 
 of these items is pretty amazing, and they will always be interesting. They also have dyes in to 
 game so if you do not like the color of your armor or weapons you can change it.
  
  This game will take you roughly 12 hours to complete. But the game offers many more hours if you 
 want to collect the epic items or get the level 50 achievement.
  
  The only thing that could have really made this better would have been a slightly longer story, 
 and for all the "Licensed Reviews" to learn what a good fun game is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crucifine
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I could care less whether or not people agree with this, I just want to get my take on 
 things out there. I think that reviewers (GS in particular) have been trying too hard to meet a 
 deadline rather than enjoy the game. Their reasons for playing do not necessarily mirror ours. 
 Take a film like Audition. To the common moviegoer, and indeed some of my friends, they tend to 
 think the movie is too slow and only has one thing going for it: the last 15 minutes. If you've 
 seen it, you know what I mean. But to people who actively enjoy movies and strive to get the most 
 out of their experience, the tension building up to that finale is unbelievable, the obsessions 
 of the characters are much more vivid. Too Human is a game like Audition is a movie; it was not 
 meant to spoonfeed the player everything, the beauty is in the details. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I personally, do not care much for polygon count and framerate. This may come off as 'damage control', 
 but I am much more interested in the art design rather than the technical numbers behind the art. 
 It has a decent framerate which doesn't dip much (I will play games as low as 18 fps and not be 
 bothered) , and does not rely on 5 million poly normal maps to look pretty. I absolutely love the 
 direction they took with the art design, and the use of color and depth of field when present.
 
  
  SOUND:
  Aside from it very seldomly cutting out and some recorded lines of dialogue, the sound design is 
 superb. The soundtrack is fantastic, and the sound effects are well-placed and have a sufficient 
 'oomph' behind them. Some people have been complaining about menu sounds, but I don't have a dog, 
 and my ears don't hear high frequencies very well, so I haven't had a problem thus far. Baldur's 
 voice stays at the same level of intensity the entire time, which isn't all that bad, but makes 
 him sound (hurr hurr) like a robot at times. A couple other lines felt poorly delivered, but otherwise 
 the voice-acting (to me, at least, I realize a lot of people thought it was utter tripe) was very 
 good. I wish there were more of it, though.
  
  STORY:
  I don't understand everyone's disdain for the story. This is supposed to be a retelling of a part 
 of Norse mythology, not a 'new' rehash of the mythology with cameos (I'm looking at you, God of 
 War) or an alternate history version. If you've actually read any Norse Mythology before, the characters 
 transition well to the new setting, and are acting largely as they did in the mythology. The cinematography 
 in the cutscenes is very clever (and after seeing the fakeumentary that was made, I'd be surprised 
 if it wasn't) . GS was looking for a twist in the story, but it's not really a twist if you've read 
 the mythology. And unlike other trilogies, this game provides a solid conclusion. It leaves multiple 
 smaller story arcs open instead of one penultimate story arc, and closes the others. My one gripe 
 with any of the characters is Loki's ridiculous ponytail.
  
  GAMEPLAY+CONTROLS:
  Again, something that's been widely split in opinion. I like it. It's simple and somewhat complex 
 at the same time. Denis Dyack said at one point that the theme of this game was discovery, and 
 I think it applies here. I went about 55 hours before realizing you could do a ruiner at half the 
 cost if you activated it in the middle of a slide between enemies. I didn't take advantage of fierce 
 attacks at all until I had finished the campaign, which was a huge mistake on my part, they're 
 incredibly useful. My favorite thing about this whole setup, though, is the way the statmongering 
 and action combine. To put it as simply as possible, you can tailor your skills to the kind of 
 action you're trying to experience. It's late, and I can't really get into it too much (I'm getting 
 dizzy) , but it really is amazing how it all comes together.
  
  REPLAYABILITY:
  People complain that this game is short. If you learn the ins and outs of the gameplay and don't 
 spend too much time micromanaging items and stats, you can speed through it in 8-10 hours. But 
 there are 4 other classes, which regardless of what reviewers said, do play differently, if you've 
 learned how they all work within the gameplay system. Add on top of that, there are long searches 
 for epic items (I've only gotten 3 weapons, two armor pieces, and 8 charms in 64 hours *red items*) . 
 Epic charms are awesome. One lets you shoot bullets through enemies, another lets them ricochet. 
 Equip both, and pistols become harbingers of glorious leaden death.
  
  Sometimes I feel like the only person who played it the way it was meant to be played.
  
  It's 
 not perfect, though. There are a number of balance issues and glitches which are mostly minor. 
 In terms of overall bugginess and general technical flaws, it's about on par with Grand Theft Auto 
 IV (a game that barely got any bad marks for it's hitches) . Those, and the numerous minor gripes 
 I have, take away a point.
  
  But it, like Audition, is greater than the sum of its parts, something that I think is overlooked. 
 Do I think it's as revolutionary as Dyack says? Not entirely. But I can definitely see the angle 
 he's coming from. It's a step in a new direction.
  
  If you haven't dismissed this entirely, from being either a fanboy or a bandwagoner, take the time 
 to really try and enjoy it. It's not meant to be experienced the same way as what we're used to, 
 but once you overcome that, it's worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillFleXXX4458
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Before this game was out, i had a lot of anticipation. I watched all the interviews, i was kept 
 up to date, and i talked about it with friends. Once it came out, i was surprised that all the 
 praise it had was shot down by a series of bad internet reviews, most of which were by people who 
 made many accounts and spammed the sites.
  
  I decided to look into this matter to see if it was legit. Turns out Dennis (the Silicon Knights 
 dude) pissed off a bunch of people online through forums. On top of that, there was an issue with 
 the Unreal Engine that caused the companies to sue one another (which may have had some influence) .
 
  
  So i realized that the scum of the gaming communities were responsible for the hate on the game. 
 Since i consider myself to be a more casual gamer, i cannot stand to play a game for more than 
 2 hours. I enjoy all genres of games and choose games by how well they suck you in, rather than 
 super-awesome graphics and 100 person online multiplayer (and other "bling" that covers up a lack 
 of creativity) .
  
  With that said, let me get the bad things out of the way. Too Human at times is the most frustrating 
 game Ive ever played. Enemies will be unloading massive amount of rockets into your skull, and 
 if your not a defender, they will knock you down constantly. The sources of these rockets are placed 
 VERY far away, and will leave you fighting your way through a massive wall of enemies in order 
 to get to them, just so they will stop shooting so you can go back and kill that massive wall that 
 you just miraculously broke through. That is the only major flaw, and imo it should be fixed ASAP 
 (especially on the second level) .
  
  Other problems with this game just include control issues. They are so minor at times that i dont 
 even know if i should mention them, but they pretty much consist of the character attacking in 
 the wrong direction or not attacking at all. Most of the time, its user error, but VERY rarely, 
 it will mess up.
  
  Now you are probably asking yourself when do i mention how short the story is. Yea, i beat it in 
 12 hours. In fact, all of my games, (with the exception of GTA4) i beat in the same time frame. 
 Those same games also have really high scores on every internet game site. There is one thing different 
 though, this game has REPLAY VALUE in which most other games (those with higher scores) do not. 
 It also has a really good story, its complex (not in a bad way) , very deep (considering its recognized 
 as a "short" game) , and requires you to USE YOUR BRAIN (a trait that typical game developers try 
 to avoid due to their lack of creativity or effort) .
  
  The difficulty, which i bashed on earlier, does have some good points (believe it or not) . The 
 game gets much more well-rounded by the time youve reached lv30 (by then, you may have the game 
 completed) . So from there on, its smooth sailing. It still has its hard parts, but they are more 
 "challenging" than "frustrating". Enemies level with you (you fight a range of enemies + or - your 
 level) , but they do not change due to your armor or weapons. If you find yourself still having 
 a hard time after lv 30, its mostly due to lack of skill or not using all of your resources. Once 
 i started using battle cries, spider abilities, guns, air combat, and rolling the game became MUCH 
 easier. Everything that i classified as an "annoyance" became a "challenge".
  
  The loot is also a major plus. You will find yourself doing levels over and over again just to 
 find a complete set of armor or a better weapon. Theres an infinite amount of ways to customize 
 your character (think: diablo) . That, combined with all the different skills and trees, builds 
 will come in all shapes and sizes to suit your needs for single player or multiplayer.
  
  There are 4 actual levels, split into 3-5 different parts. People seem to not realize this and 
 think the levels take too long. They do if you complete it in one massive chunk, but you can quit 
 at any time and come right back to where you left off, or start a level in different areas. The 
 scale of the levels are tremendous. They are littered with secret areas and enemies to kill.
  
  For those who care, the graphics are pretty typical. Environments look awesome, and so do facial 
 expressions. Sometimes the characters dont look quite as sharp, and the frame rate could have been 
 higher, but these points dont take away anything from the game.
  
  Multiplayer is fun and makes the game easier, but im the kind of person who hates everyone on Live, 
 and if you do too, play with friends only. If not, finding or making a game is as easy as can be.
 
  
  Another point i need to make... Ive read many reviews complaining about how massive the Aesir headquarters 
 is. If you read this point in any review, your best bet is to not trust that source any more. That 
 is a load of garbage and such a stupid point to make, it just proves that they were trying to find 
 every excuse they could to hurt the score. The place is big, but it is in no way an issue.
  
  Keep in mind, this game is not a typical ARPG. You need to fight as if you were playing Ninja 
 Gaiden (the first one, NOT the second) , and build a character as if you were playing Diablo. If 
 this sounds like your kind of game, buy it. Ive already put about 25 hours into it and i dont plan 
 on stopping yet. Some people have already logged 100+ hours just collecting loot and making awesome 
 multiplayer builds. I should also mention that you will want to play over again on other character 
 classes as well (which have their own unique item drops, trees, and abilities, so you wont be picking 
 up the same stuff) .
  
  Casual gamer or hardcore, this game will satisfy both. If you liked the demo, you will like this 
 game. Thats my advise. If you passionately hate this game and disagree with everything i say, dont 
 even bother telling me. I dont care, i enjoy it and thats all that matters. If you dont feel safe 
 and secure playing a game that has quality gameplay and story, and not a fancy shmancy graphics 
 engine with bump-mapping on fingernails, then go complain to the only person who cares... your 
 mother. Or maybe she doesnt because she abandoned you at a young age making you the way you are 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skankywookie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The game was very good from my stand point. It was something to offset all of the shooters and 
 normal RPG's floating into the stores. The altered form of combat I thought was a refreshing change 
 from the sometimes complex button mashing combo linking of other fighting games. The fluidity of 
 the fighting allowed me to bounce from one enemy to the other linking my hits together as well 
 as boosting my combo levels. The beserker by far is the best, although I beat the game with the 
 champion. I enjoyed the fact that it was to complicated when you wanted to upgrade you items or 
 replace them. I like the normal RPG gaming experiance but after a while it becomes too much of 
 the same thing just looking for the better item. This game allowed you to run into packs of enemies 
 and know that even if you did not get something good out of it you would have some credits to do 
 so back at home base.
  
  
  They should have put the game together like they did with the Half Life episodes allowing each 
 to come out with little to no time between the episodes. All together good game but way to short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  At first the game seemed like a mindless button masher slicing through hordes of enemies with bosses 
 inserted infrequently. I'm now about three levels into the game, tried coop mutiplayer and its 
 the same... button masher type of game play.
  
  The game reminds me of diablo just alot nicer looking. The graphics are well done, and you seem 
 like a cybernetic jedi.
  
  The only thing that sorta gets you addicted is the constant stream of items and upgrades which 
 allow you to get stronger and change how your character looks. Other then that the game doesn't 
 really hold much interest for me.
  
  I don't like how long it takes the valkyrie to rez everytime you die. There should be an option 
 to turn off the animation.
  
  The camera is annoying.
  
  Sometimes in large rooms with more then one boss you take fire which knocks you down while trying 
 to fight the first boss leading to no skilled rushing back repeatedly after dying. Essentially 
 you have to zerg the game to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzke
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  "Too Human" is not a bad game. It just isn't a great game, either. In "Too Human", you play as 
 Baldur, a member of a group of technologically advanced people called the Aesir, who are worshiped 
 as gods by humans.
  
  If this sounds familiar, then you have more than a passing knowledge of Norse mythology, which 
 serves as the basis for this tale. Silicon Knights has used this mythos to create the first chapter 
 in a planned trilogy of action RPG titles.
  
  The mechanics of this game will be familiar to enthusiasts of other "action" RPG's. Your character 
 recieves experience points to help his development, which the player cann allocate along a skill 
 tree as he sees fit. The character will always be Bladur, but he can be customized to be a gunslinger, 
 a brawling tank, a healer, a death dealing combo machine, or a balnced warrior. 
  
  Silicon Knights has chosen to introduce a novel control scheme for this type of game by utilizing 
 a "dual joystick" model, similar to shooters such as "Geometry Wars" or "Smash TV". The left stick 
 controls the character's movements, while the right stick controls the direction of attack. Holding 
 down the triggers changes the attack to shooting from melee. While unconventional, the control 
 scheme actual works quite well, and has surprising depth.
  
  This control scheme is not without issues, however. The camera is not directly under the players 
 control, and this can lead to some unfortunate problems with frentic combat. Furthermore, the aiming 
 for ranged weapons is much less precise than the traditional control scheme of other 3rd person 
 shooters.
  
  These issues are easily forgiven, since the game itself is so forgiving. There is a minimal death 
 penalty, thus somewhat mitigating the frustration when one dies due to something beyond your control. 
 This also makes the game very accesible, not unlike the frequent health pods in "Bioshock". 
  
  Outside of the games final boss battle (a tedious exercise in death and rebirth that eventually 
 just makes one feel angry with the developers and detracts from any feeling of accompishment) you 
 won't need any strategies other than those you use in the first three battles of the game. This 
 game can be beaten by anyone willing to sink in the time. 
  
  The story, steeped in mythology, has great potential. Norse mythology is rich in intrigue, and 
 has a pungent nihilism pierced by hope that makes it resonate with our times. A little more exposition 
 for this game would be a good thing, and would help draw players in.
  
  If players become intrigued by this interesting take on our history, and reflect on their own lives, 
 this could be a trancendent game series.
  
  Otherwise, it is an easy and lifeless dungeon crawl that will make a good weekend rental. 
  
 
  The choice is yours, Dennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrosa
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  It's truly difficult to describe this game, even as a 27-year veteran of multi-platform gaming. 
 
  
  The positive: The storyline, characters, and concepts draw heavily on Norse mythology, which is 
 aptly handled and implemented. (IMO, the main reviewer didn't give the developers enough credit 
 on the Norse angle.) The graphics, music, and sound are all well-done, and seem to fit the "cybernetic 
 battle gods" theme. The character skill system (apparently direct-ported from Diablo 2) is specific 
 to each of the five, pleasantly diverse, character types. The equipment options are perhaps the 
 most amazingly deep part of the game. Heck, even the voice acting is pretty solid. 
  
  None of this is mystifying in any way, and when combined with a truly innovative combat/control 
 system for an action-RPG, this should have been a home run... But somehow, it all falls apart once 
 you start playing.
  
  The negative: This game is an absolute chore to play. In most lackluster games, you eventually 
 get into a mind-numbing groove (assuming you can get past the first hour) , trudging along until 
 you finish at least the main storyline. Too Human actually manages to become increasingly annoying 
 the longer you play -- whether or not you actually learn to use the well-designed combat system. 
 It's as if careful UN-balancing efforts were applied during its long development...
  
  The huge, barren (yet beautiful) wastelands of metallic levels feel extremely empty, unless you're 
 in the middle of dozens of thrashing enemies during the periodic scripted/triggered battles. Since 
 there is no consistent method of healing any character (except one rather weak character class, 
 who has limited use of a limited healing skill) , you can expect to die A LOT. There is no real 
 cover to get behind, save for the "exploding barrel" variety, and the more you die, the more your 
 hard-earned/tinkered armor wears away. Your only reward for staying alive is another long, slow 
 trudge through another massive, empty string of rooms and battles that alternate between stimulating 
 and frustrating at random.
  
  Recommendation: For Too Human's obvious sequel, the development team needs to let a few dozen gamers 
 heavily play-test the game, and take copious notes. It's a shame that this beautiful lore, system, 
 and control scheme went to waste.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  This is an unusual game, and a hard one to describe. It falls in both the RPG category of searching 
 endlessly for better loot, customizing your character, leveling up, long cut scenes, and dialogue. 
 It is also an action game, similar to the style and controls of games like DMC4. Unlike other games 
 in the RPG genre, the action is interactive and not just clicking on an enemy (aka Diablo style) 
 or just queuing moves (aka Never Winter Night s style) .
  
  The problem is that both of these genres that have been mixed together are on their own are left 
 unfinished. The RPG element is the stronger of the two, but it is still weak compared to other 
 RPG's. The character skills are boring, uninspired and the depth of character development feels 
 only half finished. 
  
  Attacks are controlled by the right stick, and at first it's a little tricky and I though it was 
 because I was not used to it. After completing the game, I have discovered that the controls are 
 buggy, and your character never really does what you want it to. There are moments when everything 
 is working great, and when it does its awesomebut it doesn't happen often enough & usually the 
 controls will not react in time and lag when the heat is on. 
  
  The story, and art direction is great, but this game looks and feels like a good last generation 
 game. Overall, it is buggy and after persisting with it to try and find those great moments when 
 the game worked were too few, this game left me very disappointed. It is such a shame because everything 
 is here to make this game excellent, but it feels sooooo unfinished. A few more months of quality 
 control and this would have been a 10/10 game. Worth playing but can a grind. 
  Fingers crossed for Too Human 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianw_64
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  First off, I love the story in this game. Yes I already enjoyed Norse mythology but Too Human puts 
 a great spin on it and makes it a lot of fun to follow along. I looked forward to every cut scene 
 just to see what was coming up next. The game is full of action and killing the bad guys is loads 
 of fun. Ranged combat leaves a bit to be desired, mostly due to targeting issues. It is not nearly 
 as easy to target what you want to shoot at all the time. The melee fighting in Too Human is awesome! 
 Certain classes are more fun than others due to more damage or more health and armor and what not, 
 but overall the melee portion of the game is what makes the game so much fun to play. Playing coop 
 with a friend wasn't quite as dynamic as I had hoped it would be. I thought the class skill tree 
 abilities and player abilities would work better together but it is still a lot of fun to beat 
 the snot out of everyone with a friend. Don't let Gamespot's review and 5.5 rating fool you, this 
 is a much better game than they gave it credit for. It is definitely worth checking out, whether 
 you borrow it from a friend or rent it. I made it through the entire story and hit level 30 in 
 about 12 hours of casual playtime. So if you want to hit the level cap of 50 and play more than 
 1 class this game has enough replayability to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I love a good story, I love a great adventure, and I adore a fantastic game. I am sorry to report 
 that this game misses in all areas.
  
  I so wanted to like this game and indeed for the first day I did "like the game". During my 2nd 
 day I was busy playing the game Then it hit me I was fed up I was annoyed at the inescapable 
 death scene, I was fed up with re relentless waggling of my right stick, and the story was too 
 much of a non-event for me to care. I thought to myself - "Do I really want to invest my time and 
 money in not only this game but the other two parts that are yet to come?" My answer "NO!"
  
  If this game had come out as a launch title, maybe, just maybe it would have been received 
 differently. However, gaming has moved on. Games like Mass effect and Bioshock has have shown us 
 how to meld a great story with great game play.
  
  Finishing this review now I can say that there is nothing about my time with Too Human that stands 
 out. I will (hopefully) have forgotten about this game within the next few days.
  
  You have been warned!
  
  P. S I would like to make a prediction The other 2 parts will never 
 be released.
  
  P. P. S When I returned my copy of Too Human (for a full refund) The man in the shop told me that 
 this was his 32nd copy returned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solar4lare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  It definitely is a setup for a sequel, or in this case, a trilogy. However, critic reviews do not 
 do it justice. The game, especially for those familiar with Norse mythology, was both accurate 
 and an excellent take on that subject. The futuristic bent, and sharp retelling serve to set the 
 stage for future games while getting the player acquainted regardless of background knowledge. 
 I would have liked more substance, but it served it's mission well, and the style and story kept 
 me glued to my seat. It was not too hard, though there were a few times I found myself respawning 
 too much, for the most part it was good. The mechanics seemed simple and fairly intuitive, and 
 charm quests and the NORN subplot add some mystery and flavor. I think that the developers have 
 some ares to tweak for next time, but I cannot wait for the next one in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  dispite the many horrible reviews the game recieved, i decided to dish out the money on this title. 
 the demo was horrible at first but started to make sense after a couple of attempts. in any case, 
 the game is enjoyable and accomplishes its goal. the controls scheme at first seems broken or unplayable, 
 but once you get used to its mechanics... its a blast. they work really well and cater to the games 
 style of play... very well actually. I would definitely vouche for this control scheme in future 
 games in the same genre... it just works and feels good. The visuals are mostly poor, especially 
 the horrendous cut-scenes... the gameplay actually looks better than the scenes, but thats most 
 due to the fact that everything is so far away. The sounds are decent, although i experienced some 
 major music and voice glitches. The experience is 10 hours, give or take an hour... and although 
 it seems like playing with all 5 classes is a blast... it can get tiring. Im currently on a 2nd 
 playthrough, i originally thought i'd play this 5 or 6 times... but im officially bored. in the 
 end, its a fun game but i cant recommend it for $60.... wait for a $30 price tag. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the story, unlike most people on the forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raynethx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Story: The player takes on the role of Baldur , one of the Aesir. In Too Human, the Norse gods 
 are cybernetically enhanced humans. Baldur, son of Odin, is one of these gods and it is his duty 
 to protect the human race from an onslaught of an advancing machine presence determined to eradicate 
 all human life.
  
  The story chronicles the ongoing struggle between cybernetic Norse gods, the invading machine presence 
 and mortal men, featuring many Norse gods and characters from Norse mythology including Thor, Loki, 
 Odin, Tyr, Heimdall, Freyja, Hel, and Mimir. Yggdrasil, the Tree of Life, acts as a gateway to 
 an alternate world known as Cyberspace that is accessed through the advanced technology of the 
 gods. The human gods are using cybernetic implants to supplement their own abilities, thus becoming 
 more machine like. Conversely, the advancing machine army is harvesting human blood and limbs in 
 an attempt to become more human. Baldur, the main character, is viewed by the other Norse gods 
 as being insufficiently enhanced.
  
  
  Game play:
  
  Too Human is a third-person action adventure role-playing game like Champions of Norrath. It features 
 twitch gameplay in the form of fast-paced melee and ranged combat while also maintaining RPG elements 
 including skill tree progression and dungeon crawling.
  
  As a third-person action adventure game, Too Human has two notable features: melee combat being 
 controlled dynamically by the right analogue stick and a camera system that is controlled by AI. 
 The right-analogue stick-controlled combat resolves the issues of three dimensional depth perception 
 during combat while the AI-controlled camera system allows for a cinematic experience while also 
 being an aid to the story telling.
  
  The RPG elements of Too Human include its story, five different selectable classes, customizable 
 weapons, armor and cybernetics, skill tree progression and item hunting. The game has 15 different 
 weapon classes, including two-handed swords, hammers, polearms, pistols, rifles, lasers, dual-wielded 
 one-handed swords and staves. The character is able to customize their armor in terms of color 
 and its effectiveness against certain forms of attacks while also being able to swap armor sets. 
 The game features skill trees unique to all the various classes that can be customized to the player's 
 liking, which when combined with the fact that it also includes item hunting like Diablo, greatly 
 increases the game's replayability. As part of a planned trilogy, this game features a leveling 
 system which allows the player to progress from level 1 to 50 in the first game, then continue 
 on to the second game with the same character and level up from level 50-100, and in the third 
 from 100-150.
  
  Graphics:
  There nicely done, characters, environments, enemies all look well done.
  
  Sound & Music:
 
  
  Love the music in the game, and the sound is great to.
  
  If you like RPGS then you owe yourself to pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Development times are funny things. Take too short a time, and people are going to get suspicious 
 that you've made a rush-job game that'll fail to satisfy. Take too long, and the whispers of cannings 
 start. Take ten years, and your game either becomes the biggest gaming in-joke of all time - hello, 
 3D Realms - or, in the case of release, a total let-down. Too Human, Silicon Knights' magnum opus 
 (or at least as they'd like you to believe) , originally started out as a four-disc, eighty-hour 
 game on the original Playstation. Then Knights signed a deal with Nintendo which made them produce 
 Eternal Darkness (A first-year English student's attempt at a Cthulhu fanfiction, to quote the 
 ever-amusing Brian Clevinger) , and would have eventually seen Too Human appear on the Gamecube 
 along with it. However, the deal eventually dissolved due to the overlong development time, and 
 soon Silicon Knights had signed a deal with Microsoft, to produce Too Human as a trilogy exclusively 
 for the Xbox 360. So, the first game in the Too Human series is now upon us. I picked it up on launch 
 day, as I do with most games I want, and sat down to play for six long, gruelling hours. My initial 
 impressions after finishing the first two levels? If I had been waiting the ten years for this 
 game, it would not have bee anywhere near worth it. The game has a lot of flaws - but we'll get 
 to them in a minute. First, a brief explanation. Too Human is an EPIC!!!! action RPG I've heard 
 described as a "cross of Diablo and Devil May Cry" - not the most accurate soundbite, but it gives 
 a general idea. Whilst fighting, you build up your combo meter with attacks using melee or ranged 
 weapons, and once enemies die, they sometimes drop loot - be it money, an armour piece, a new weapon, 
 or some other piece of equipment. The story of the game is basically the legends of the old Norse 
 gods - specifically, the story of Ragnarok, with the rather subtle difference of it being set in 
 some dystopian future. You play Baldur, one of the Aesir - a group of "gods" who are, in fact, 
 cybernetically enhanced humans. Baldur has recently been resurrected after another Aesir, Hod, 
 had been tricked into shooting him - and as the story goes, Baldur's resurrection sets off the 
 chain of events that eventually leads to the end of the world (to once again quote Brian Clevinger, 
 the story is nearly a thousand years old, so if you didn't know it before now, tough) . The game 
 handles its source material quite well; it would have been easy to make a game without any kind 
 of respect for the original mythology, but Silicon Knights apparently know their stuff when it 
 comes to the Norse. However, while the story is sound, the dialogue isn't. Throwing in a few references 
 to mead and having Baldur call the NORNs "wenches" doesn't pass for EPIC!!!! dialogue, no matter 
 how much Diag et al may think so. I suppose it's not really fair to pick on bad dialogue considering 
 how many games suffer from it, but to be fair, SK did hype their story up like **** from the get-go, 
 so let's consider it just desserts. The cutscenes are also a major stumbling block - put simply, 
 they suck. The animation is just flat-out bad, and some of the characters look particularly awful 
 - Freyja, for instance, just kind of weirded me out the entire game. Her hair looks like it's one 
 of those plastic hair pieces LEGO figures have. It's strange that the characters can look so sub-par 
 when other parts of the game are a joy to look at - the Aesir tower, for instance, is architecturally 
 astounding, and the various armours you can equip Baldur with are all well-designed, and I've yet 
 to find any that are truly ugly. The weapons all look quite cool, too. The actual gameplay is rather 
 simplistic. Using the right analogue stick, you attack enemies with your melee weapon (or the triggers 
 for your guns) , pushing the stick in the direction you want to attack. It's a fairly interesting 
 system, but there doesn't seem to be much you can do with it beyond hold-in-direction-for-combo, 
  The air combat isn't really anything we haven't seen in other 
 action games. The whole setup does take a bit of getting used to at first, but after a pretty short 
 time you'll be zipping between enemies administering Nordic beatdowns with ease. The thing is, for 
 the eight or so hours of gameplay, that's all you'll be doing. The gameplay is incredibly repetitive, 
 and by the time you reach the last level, Helheim - an almost continuous stream of enemies from 
 the beginning unti Hel, the shamefully easy final boss - you'll be glad it's all over, which makes 
 replaying the game to get to level 50 and get even better loot all the more painful. A little bit 
 of variety in the combat and enemies wouldn't have gone amiss - there's a very small selection 
 of beasts to fight, not counting bosses - and you can't help feeling that there's just a lot of 
 wasted potential here. While you're fighting, you're never really in danger, either - while you 
 can die (and be treated to an unskippable sequence of a cybernetic Valkyrie appearing to revive 
 you) , there seems to be almost no penalty, and there certainly isn't a limit on the number of times 
 you can croak. You'll just respawn at the start of the room you're in with everything as it was 
 when you died. With this, you can pretty much throw yourself at enemies safe in the knowledge that 
 you'll get through them no matter what. To conclude this rather long-winded review, Too Human is 
 not an atrocious game. There are plenty of good ideas here, but they're marred by bad design choices 
 and poor implementation. Hopefully Silicon Knights have learned with this instalment, and can produce 
 a better game for the middle section of the trilogy, which I have hope will get better from hereonin. 
 After all, Ragnarok is when the Norse mythology stopped being great and started being awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushyyogurt500
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! My guess is that critics and "professional" reviewers just have a grudge 
 against Silicon Knights and Dyack for whatever reason and so smashed Too Human in the reviews.
 
  The sound in this game is kinda sick. As you begin to fight a horde of enemies, cue the dramatic 
 music varying from choir and orchestra to intense guitar solos that perfectly match the mood of 
 the battle you're in. The sound of your slug rifle tearing through goblins or the clinking of your 
 swords slicing through a troll is just so amazing that you want more everytime.
  As for camera issues, the camera in this game is just different. There are 6-7 camera angles to 
 choose from and like the controller setup, it is different and thus you have to adapt, and honestly, 
 everything makes sense after playing a few hours. Just like the combat and other gameplay control 
 issues, it is 'difficult' if one plays for an hour or so and then passes judgement (like the professional 
 reviewers) , but after playing about 3 or 4 hours, the camera really makes sense. Think about it, 
 Silicon Knights probably spent thousands of hours making this game, and felt that these were the 
 best options, and I tend to agree. The flow-panning-handling is very smooth, and I like the way 
 it is setup.
  Also for people complaining about the short length of this game, if you actually wanna get your 
 Baldur up to level 50 and have your elite armor set and weapons, you'll understand why this game 
 is far longer than 10 hours. I've played for nearly 65 hours on one of my characters, and have 
 only two pieces of elite armor (6 total) . I'm psyched though everytime I can buy a new elite weapon 
 from the shop and i've got about 7 now.
  Another unnecessary complaint by critics and reviewers is that of the death scene. People exaggerate 
 the death scene to extreme lengths to make it sound awful but really the entire sequence is only 
 10-15 seconds long, no longer than a respawn in Bad Company or Halo3 CTF match. People also complain 
 that you die too much and so the scene gets repetitive. The fact of the matter is that you only 
 die a lot if you suck. I go through entire 1 and 1.5 hour levels usually never dying more than 
 once. You just have to be smart and tactical to evade damage, something these harsh reviewers clearly 
 are not. 
  BOTTOM LINE: buy this game!! if you have any doubts about it, just download the demo off XB Live. 
 You need to play it atleast twice though before you without realizing it, start craving some Too 
 Human looting and action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  I waited a long time and couldn't wait until Too Human came out. But when it did come out and I 
 saw the review that Gamespot gave it, well to tell you the truth it made me thank that the game 
 wasn't nothing but garbage. So thankfully my friend bought it so then I could try it first before 
 I went out I got it. Yea the game isn't perfect but I gave it a 10 on how much fun I have been 
 having playing the game.
  
  The combat in this game is pretty simple I mean is isn't so hard that it takes time to learn. But 
 it's easy enough anybody can figure out real fast which makes it fun in my opinion. You will die 
 a lot at first but once you figure everything out and time your strikes just right you'll die less 
 and less. The game manual will help you out a lot in the game at least it did me.
  
  The game looks ok not the best I have ever seen but it is also not the worse I have ever seen to. 
 If your looking into this game for the story then I wouldn't get it. To me the story wasn't much 
 good but at the same time I didn't pay as much attention to it as I should have. I really wouldn't 
 recommend the game to a lot of people though because it seems like a lot of people don't like the 
 game that much. So maybe it should be a rental to see if you like it first. And hopefully you will 
 find it and have as much fun playing as I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coheeds_Avatar
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  What started off as one of the most hyped games of the summer has combusted into a critically-bashed 
 mess. Let it be known that while Too Human certainly has its share of flaws, much of the flak that 
 it has received is undeserved. 
  
  In Too Human, you play as the god, Baldur, in a highly-advanced and technological twist on Norse 
 mythology. Over the course of 4 missions, you're tasked with fighting back against the mechanical 
 masses that are threatening the existence of humanity. Unfortunately, this ties in to one of the 
 games flaws: the preceding summary is more exciting than the actual story. I found it either difficult 
 to follow, or just simply uninteresting - I can't say which as my knowledge of Norse mythology 
 is limited. I couldn't find it in myself to care about a single character in the game, and much 
 of the dialogue simply didn't feel right. On the plus side, without spoiling anything, the end 
 cutscene is an incredible teaser for the next entry. The voice actors themselves weren't horribly 
 chosen either, and with the right script, could deliver a good performance. Put that one on the 
 list for Too Human 2.
  
  To rattle off the common complaints now...
  
  Yes, the camera could've been better, but after an hour or so of playing I was used to it and didn't 
 look back. 
  
  Yes, the game is "short." The game's four missions took me roughly 12 hours to beat on my first 
 playthrough, looking for the wells and secret areas. However, as this is a loot-collecting RPG, 
 you're meant to play through multiple times to collect more items and level up your character, 
 or tackle the story again with a different class. In terms of time, it took me about 30 hours to 
 get to level 50.
  
  Yes, it's disappointing that 4-player co-op was cut. I think this game could've greatly benefited 
 from it. But the two-player is certainly not bad with the right person on the other end.
  
  Yes, you die a lot... at the beginning. Once you pick up certain strategies such as roll-dodging, 
 taking out the missle-launching goblins first, killing polarity enemies from a distance, etc, death 
 is a much rarer occurance. 
  
  As far as other things go, the controls are intuitive ( though lock-ons could've been better executed) , 
 the weapon and armor drops are countless, and many look amazing. The graphics aren't jaw dropping, 
 but they are very good and get the job done.
  
  In summary, if you enjoy leveling up your characters to the cap and collecting tons of loot, or 
 you're an action gamer who's moderately intrigued by the game, I urge you to either rent it first, 
 or play the demo. The demo is relatively lengthy and gives a good feel for the game. Either way, 
 as long as you don't write it off before you try it, you're in for a generally enjoyable experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great graphics
  Great story, considering you know norse mythology
  The customozable aspect of the game is great
  You actually need skill to play it
  
  The Bad:
 
  Bit glitchy in places
  The story can get confusing
  Valkyrie part of the game was cool at first, gets boring
  
  The Ugly:
  I cant think of anything 
 really.
  -----------
  Well, let me start with that, gamespot, you have this review so wrong its unbelievable. Giving 
 this game a 5.5? Its just absurd. Yet you give games which deserve that score or lower a 7 or 8. 
 Give use the old gamespot back.
  
  Anyway, the game. Plenty of people are saying for its long development it hasnt turned out as great 
 as people have hoped. I agree somewhat, but this game is still amazing. I havent even finished 
 it yet and it know its great.
  
  The graphics engine the game uses is very sophisticated, you are constantly attacked by hordes 
 of robot creatures and i havent had a situation where the game lags at all, even with all the gun 
 fire and particle effects. And of course the havok engine gives us nice destroyable environments.
 
  
  Some people say the story is a bit vague and confusing, while i agree with the confusion once you 
 get your head round it you realise the story has had a lot of thought put into it, its simply awesome! 
 If you know norse mythology, Loki and Odin (who is in the game without you knowing) then you will 
 understand the story more than some.
  
  The game offers some choices along the way, nothing to drastic however. You choose which path to 
 take whether you stay more human or take the cybernetics, each path offering a different bonus.
 
  
  The game offers some great multiplayer from what i have heared, i am waiting for people to play 
 with me but still, it seems they focused a lot of the time on the multiplayer.
  
  So, the game is very good, has some glitches but what game doesnt? The multiplayer is very good 
 for all the people who like that stuff (including me) , this is a definite buy, dont listen to gamespot 
 on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch8tah
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The targeting system on this game is ridiculous. A slight move of the right stick can take you 
 off your target or turn you around to the other direction. The other thing that I didn't like was 
 the lack of ai for the soldiers who fight along side of you. All they are good for is dying and 
 standing/watching as you die. The enemeies rarely attack them and always make their way to you. 
 You are in the midst of horde enemies while your soldiers are of no use to you. Their AI could 
 be a little smarter, as to jumping and helping you. Also, you should be able to skip the death 
 scene - instead of having to wait to start again. I bought this game, but should have rented before 
 I did.
  
  The targeting system on this game is ridiculous. A slight move of the right stick can take you 
 off your target or turn you around to the other direction. The other thing that I didn't like was 
 the lack of ai for the soldiers who fight along side of you. All they are good for is dying and 
 standing/watching as you die. The enemeies rarely attack them and always make their way to you. 
 You are in the midst of horde enemies while your soldiers are of no use to you. Their AI could 
 be a little smarter, as to jumping and helping you. Also, you should be able to skip the death 
 scene - instead of having to wait to start again. I bought this game, but should have rented before 
 I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Far_cry-sniper5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  10 years in the making and i think they finally got it. just imagine this game when it was sapposed 
 to be realesed on the playstation 1 or the game cube, they want to make a seaquel but i dont think 
 we will see it for a very long time. this games story line takes place with norse god's, just hearing 
 that you would think "oh cool i get to play as a cybertronic thor" wrong, you play as this guy 
 named balder, you job is to stop loki from controlling the world. pretty cool right?
  the graphics in this game are more amazing than call of duty or well not as good as crysis but 
 pretty close.
  the music in this game is very good and with the sounds of your guns and melee weapons make the 
 sound alot more better than most games. the games controls get a bit annoying at some times because 
 when you want to attack the guy in front of you and you end up attacking the guy to the far left. 
 the shooting is kind of cool in a way, because you can shoot but they pretty much do barely any 
 damage. when most players will run into the golem they smash the ground but when your about 10 
 feet away from him he will still hit you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Some of you will agree with this and some of you will not. That is perfectly okay and everybody 
 has their opinion.
  
  I have read a lot of the reviews, good and bad, and I think that almost all of them are correct. 
 This game is good and bad.
  
  The good: High number of classes that each have their own abilities, focused and shockingly addictive 
 gameplay, good story line, somewhat decent voice acting. Good attempt to make this a great game....
 
  
  The bad: Where do I start, Since this game was in production for many years (longer than most) 
 I would expect this game to be near flawless but I was wrong. The graphics are sub-par in some 
 areas, if you look at some of the humans they appear rough and jagged, and im not talking about 
 anti-alliasing. The opening scene is horrible, the graphics on that alone look like something from 
 nintendo 64, PS1, or the very first games that came out for xbox. Along with other graphical glitches, 
 they could have done better. The skill trees could have used some work. The skills when unlocked 
 still didn't seem to do anything (unless it was like a mine or spider turret.)
  
  The Combat: The combat system was strange and took some time to get used to. Using the right thumbstick 
 to attack was a great idea on paper.. lol. I kept finding myself attacking nothing or swinging in 
 mid-air trying to move the camera. Don't get me wrong, when a lot of guys are swarming you, it 
 came in handy. Also I found the combo system to be kind of frustrating. When attacking a foe infront 
 of you, sometimes a player might hit the thumbstick a little in the wrong direction and in that 
 case, your character will SLIDE across the map to a distant foe. The combat system is good just 
 took some time to get used too.
  
  I know this review might seem like I am bashing the game with all the cons I listed but i'm really 
 not. The game is great in it's own sense of style. I liked the fact of the different style weapons 
 and armor and the ability to craft things. But the fact is that this game was in production for 
 a long time people just expected more. I expected more... With all the problems with this game 
 you would think that it only took a year or 2 to get it out. But all the small problems add up 
 and for some people, took away the ability to have a solid gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Man i had such high hopes for this game. The graphics are great and it does not deserve a 5.5 but 
 man oh man do i hate the controls. Whoever was in charge over there that decided to make you attack 
 with the analog stick should be fired, its because of you buddy this game bombed. All that time 
 and energy that went into making this game and it gets nuked by bad camera control because your 
 "normal" view analog stick now makes you pull out your sword wtf. Stick with the tried and true 
 method a la god of war or heavenly sword and i promise this would of got atleast an 8 or higher. 
 Thats about all i have to say about that........ im kinda glad my buddy lent me his copy because 
 i was about to go out and buy it phew.
  
  Time to make a new Legacy of Kain imo .... JUST DONT SCREW IT UP.
  
  Has to be 800 characters 
 long so here jks hgd dkfuei fnnxt ioduuhd ksjdiso kljsdiweud kjsd sopudisjd isdosi posdsjd siudis 
 dposid s sopdiops.... FAIL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurate_Bob
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  This game is at first great. you fight against massive hordes of easy to kill enemies, then you 
 get the same thing just bigger to kill, so its good at first,
  
  Then once you get to the forth area, you know whats going to happen, you get to fight loads of 
 hordes of enemies that gradually get harder to kill until the boss at the end, but since you cant 
 actually die and there really no pusnishment for it, your armour takes damage, thats it! and you 
 pick up so much armour and weapons even that doesnt matter!
  
  Every time you lose all your health some angel comes down picks you up flys away and then your 
 back in the fight, WOW! also you cant skip this scene each time you die, it takes about 30 seconds 
 to go through it too.
  
  And even the boss fights, because of this, arnt even hard, just too long.
  
  Achievements are 
 however easy to get, you can get about half on your first run through, so easy points for 10 hours 
 work, yes thats it ten hours! 
  
  Great going Silicon Knights! really balls up this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilaznfromabove
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Okay i'm gonna say a couple of good things and bad ruin it with spoilers and give some beginner 
 advice. First up is the good stuff which is the salvage a. k. a sell and such being able to this 
 on the spot in battle is very helpful especially when you just leveled up and you got this entire 
 blueprint outfit that you've been saving. You put the **** on and presto your ready to kick some 
 goblin ass. color changing is useful but not that extraordinary the color does seem very noticeable 
 it doesn't flash you with amazement. Second the skill tree's are to small seriously like if your 
 gonna max your level you'd think you'd have a little bit more to go off of and, a little bit more 
 complex attacks would be nice joystick whacking is much better than old button mashing but highly 
 confusing to other's which resulted in gamespot giving it a bad rating. i would consider this game 
 more of an 8.7 overall because if this game is supposed to be a trilogy you could actually put 
 all in one disc/game depending if the game will progressly get bigger storywise. the graphics are 
 more ps2ish or old gen for this next gen age. like if you actually look at hel and loki their wiring 
 and open flesh look like their overlapping on the character which resembles old games inability 
 to grasp amazing graphical cinema. the storyline is straight up simple and if you look at the introduction 
 video the [whole thing] you can tell that the person that's being suspended by the wires is baldur [you] 
 so it kinda ruins the storyline if you can forsee that. this may be taking it too far but please 
 bear with me this is most likely going to fail at making the cut for the back to back trilogy's 
 on the 360 but it's going to have a great go and further silicon Knight's reputation. okay back 
 to the good stuff basically advice for beginner's okay when your gonna equip other weapon's or 
 armor that doesn't actually change anything but just because the value's greater then sell the 
 armor/weapon that has the greater value but same stats and keep the cheap one that will save you 
 alot of money which will help you to get the million dollar bounty achievement which is basically 
 impossible unless you don't buy or create a single thing highly unlikely. and once you get your 
 spider ability's use them as much as you can that will save you alot of health towards killing 
 trolls dark elves groups and fallen gods, don't forget the zombies if your not ready for them they 
 can zap alot of health. Rolling is a good defensive maneuver widely opens enemy weak spots such 
 as the troll stab and the grendel boss. jumping finisher's should be your main physical kills toward 
 elite enemy's when your a champion all you basically got is jumping for safety kills i suggest 
 using jump kills for the defender since you can't get knocked down. for bioengineers invest your 
 money at the shop for the best weapons shortly in the game and for berserker's max out the sped 
 boosts in the skill tre. commando's should go with the cybernetic alignment to max out your shoting 
 capacity also for runes in their gun's should be mainly always put on increase ammo capacity and 
 type of shot on gun [laser, slug, plasma] on their armors for two of pieces one on each put the rifle 
 range increase and pistol increase i suggest more on rifle for the commando and pistol for other's 
 cannon only on bioenginer. thanks for reading this sorry for it being really mixed up please don't 
 do anything bad about this review i'm just a crazy insecure thirten year old. just trying to help 
 bye.!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makemeweak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game I have one major disappointment - the sequel is not announced yet.
  
  The melee combat in this game is truly fantastic. The controls make the player feel as if you 
 are wielding a killing machine, a Norse god that can hold his own against dozen of enemies at a 
 time. I haven't seen combat this fun in an action rpg in a good while. It makes combo mashing games 
 feel outdated and ridiculous in comparison. The analog control scheme feels especially visceral 
 coupled with the staff/sword/hammer combat focus. The gunplay is fun as well, when combined with 
 the melee combat (as is clearly intended) , but is very different than what many may be used to 
 in the FPS/TPS genre. Targeting issues in the gunplay frustrate when they don't work well, but 
 are great to mess with on larger enemies.
  
  The storyline has a wonderful blend of high fantasy, science fiction and Norse mythology. As you 
 progress through the story, it is easy to lose yourself in the character of Baldur, especially 
 because you feel so godlike while you play.
  
  The best feature of the game are the continual and varied random/semirandom weapon and armor drops. 
 The random nature of what you find added to your arsenal guarantees that you will switch up your 
 playstyle to accommodate the next uberweapon you find. The modeling on the armor is top notch and 
 really lends itself to the Norse high technology background of the game.
  
  Co-op play is very rewarding, and it is a blast to try to complement your friends build and playstyle 
 through the enemy packed environments. My one complaint with the co-op mode is that the story cutscenes 
 are not included in this mode, so you are forced to go through the game in single player mode to 
 get the meat of the story. After you've done that once or twice, you will probably spend most of 
 your time hacking through the baddies with a pal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FilipinoSpartan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is a game set in a world based on Norse mythology in which you, as a god, a protector 
 of the humans, fight legions of machines, the last remnants of the army of the Ymir, the ancient 
 enemies of Humanity. Naturally, such a setting creates an interesting and immersive game world.
 
  
  The gameplay is strange and a little bit hard to grasp when you first pick up the controller, but 
 the average player can master the controls in a short time. Once the basic controls are understood, 
 any player can have fun sliding to and from enemies, slashing or smashing as they go, or blasting 
 them from afar. The combat is somewhat addictive.
  
  Storywise, the game has a superb base. Silicon Knights based the game off of Norse mythology, which 
 has a wealth of story to use. The game is set on another planet where millennia of warfare between 
 two technologically advanced civilizations, the Humans and the Ymir, eventually reduced the world 
 to a nuclear winter. The Aesir, cybernetically enhanced humans revered as gods by the humans they 
 protect, fight against the machine armies left behind by the Ymir after the race died out.
  
  Though it has such a rich base, Silicon Knights could have had better writing for the game. 
 The story is very generic, with predictable plot twists. Likewise, several of the main characters 
 seem flat and without enough life.
  
  Altogether, Too Human is a fun game, as long as you stick mainly to combat. I would recommend watching 
 cutscenes only once, skipping them afterwards to save precious minutes of life.
  
  Silicon Knights has had a good start to their career, and if they can build on the story and gameplay 
 more, Too Human 2 and 3 will be superb games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok the game has cool ideas but I really dont get why they went with the norse mythology with a 
 tech twist. The classes are standard but really thought they should of went with instead of different 
 classes for the same character have different characters that exhibit different class traits. I. E. 
 Bolder = Champion, Thor = Beserker / Defender, etc.
  The visuals could of been better. After seeing games like Assassins, Crysis, COD4, Gears of War 
 they could of stepped it up a bit. The voice acting is cool but its a moot point when the game 
 is not that great. 
  The story is semi interesting but again... why the norse w/ tech angle? Would of been better if 
 they kept it to the norse mythology only. Would make more sense. 
  The controls... holy crap who thought of this??? The analog stick for the aiming and drawing / attacking 
 w/ yur sword?? Its cumbersome and gets annoying at times. And the games targeting system... Jesus 
 Christ... DUMB!!!!
  Making this a button masher would have made more sense. The distibution of skill points and runes 
 is cool once u figure it out a bit which might take u until maybe the third mission to really get 
 a hold of and oh btw... game is short. finished in under 10hrs. I know its suppose to be a trilogy 
 but yo come on. 
  
  In conclusion the game was doomed from start to not make much of a profit if any at all. If they 
 would have made it for pc instead of 360 they may have had a better IP on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightWis
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  i ve played that game about 3 hours and im lvl 18 now. i like this game very much this game looks 
 like hellgate london but very good compare to hellgate london.
  
  like rocketshy said death scane is very long. if you are fighting with many enemies same time u 
 wll die again and again because of that u have to watch that scane again and again that makes me 
 feel like im dying in real life... like i said this game looks like hellgate because armors are 
 nearly same with hellgate...
  
  camera angles can kill because u cant change angle with your analog because you are using your 
 analog for fighting with evil...
  
  the armors and weapons are amazing. the unique items are great. when u wear them u feel like you 
 are the boss... lol
  
  but i have to say attacking is very good finishing moves are good too. but some combos i cant do 
 yet just cant understand how to do... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dryker
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has flaws, but I feel they are far out weighed by its innovation and attention to detail. 
 I sat down to play this game four days after it came out. I had bought it the day I was leaving 
 town. The morning after I got back, I fired it up. I put 16 hours into it in one day. I couldn't 
 stop playing. I haven't done that in quite some time. Call of Duty 4 or Bioshock couldn't hold 
 my interest for that long. This game is not all about loot. It is a major factor and done well, 
 but this game is not a one trick pony.
  
  STORY:
  
  First, I don't understand the naysayers concerning the story. Is it Shakespeare? No, but not only 
 am I an avid reader of High Fantasy or SF as the professionals prefer, I'm a writer of Epic Fantasy 
 myself. That being said, Too Human isn't God's gift to writing, but along side other videogames 
 it is in the top ten percent. I've been playing games since the Comodore and I feel I have the 
 wherewithal to make that claim. The characters, if somewhat cliche and archetypical, are varied 
 and interesting. The physiological details in the characters are fascinating. As is common in fantasy 
 fiction, the protagonist Baldur is the most uninteresting character of the bunch. The all American, 
 all common, heart throb type. The Quarterback of the football team. But other than Baldur, I found 
 myself mesmerized with Thor, the strong back, weak minded war-monger that is so cybernetically 
 "juiced" that his eyes appear yellow as if stricken with jaundice; Loki, the Lucifer of Norse Mythology 
 and the first to be "gifted" with the cybernetic enhancements of O. D. I. N that falls from grace 
 and rebels against his brethren; Idunn, who is obsessed with her own intelligence and the superiority 
 of cybernetics; and Heimdall, who acts so similarly to a company vice president I have had it is 
 uncanny, not the brightest but wields the power and expects things to be done the wrong way by 
 spite. There are more, but like I said, I've only played about 16 hours and will be updating this 
 review.
  
  COMBAT:
  
  Second, I don't understand the naysayers concerning the combat. Is it simple? Yes. You can push 
 the right analog around aimlessly and kill things, but guess what? You will die a lot like all 
 the critics are complaining. To them, all I have to say is: Read the manual and visit Tyr's armory 
 for tips. The game balances this by giving strong incentives to fight well. Time your flicks right 
 and your combo will continue and grow, enabling Battle Cries, Spider Abilities, Ruiners and spirit 
 animal like Sentient Weapons. Dual fick both sticks and depending on the proximity of your enemy 
 you'll execute a ranged attack, an aerial finisher, or a ground finisher. Double fick and you'll 
 launch your enemy into the air to either jump and perform an aerial attack that can combo back 
 to the ground, a finisher that will give you a combo bonus, hold it in the air with dual wielded 
 pistol fire, or hold it in the air with one pistol while firing at another enemy with the other 
 pistol ( pretty frickin' cool to watch as Baldur crosses arms to shoot in opposite directions ) . 
 On top of all that, the game also adds an incentive to time these moves between the start and end 
 of a slide to get a "2-in-1" that gives you a combo bonus or reduces combo meter use ( used by 
 Battle Cry, Spider, Ruiner and Sentient Weapon ) . Getting a little overwhelmed? Understandable. 
 But after getting comfortable with these controls, your god, Baldur, buffed out to the very tee 
 as you see fit, can trigger a chain reaction that can self-perpetuate itself into an orgy of destruction: 
 Run at 'em gunning, slide to an air launch, jump and aerial attack, combo down to a ground enemy 
 ( combo points achieved ) , launch Spider, Battle Cry, Ruiner or Sentient Weapon, slide to an air 
 launch, train one pistol on the airborne and another on the enemy next to you while moving to a 
 more strategic location for your next onslaught. This time triggering whatever combo meter depleter 
 you didn't use last round: Battle Cry, Spider, Ruiner, or Sentient Weapon. Next time pull out a 
 rifle and launch a grenade at those airborne, while training a concentrated laser at the ground 
 assault. Now consider all of this with thousands and thousands of iterations of buffs, appearances, 
 and style of fighting from Swords, Spears, Hammers, and Pistols and Rifles that shoot slugs or 
 lasers and perhaps you begin to understand why I have a hard time with those who call the combat 
 too simplistic and repetitive. I call those people unimaginative.
  
  LOOT:
  
  Third, and lastly until I finish the game and update this review, the one thing that critics seem 
 to be unanimously praising with restraint, saying things like, "If you're a loot whore than you'll 
 probably like this game," is unfair and implies disdain. The loot in this game is well designed 
 and varied and is so far constantly impressing me. With runes to customize the buffs on any of 
 the myriad items that come with rune slots,? the possibilities are virtually endles and even more 
 so with Xbox Live's proficiency at DLC and the content to come. I look forward to any content they 
 send down the pipe with no reservations, for this game is already packed to the gils with production 
 and replay value. Imagine a downloadable content pack that includes Master Chief's Mjolnir armor 
 set with assault rifles, plasma swords, and sniper rifles from Halo. Hey, both games are published 
 by Microsoft, it could happen. Not to mention other licensed stuff. Could be cool. And with a trilogy 
 in mind, I see Silicon Knights ironing out any of the wrinkles in later iterations and possibly 
 even a patch for this one. Alright, well that is enough for now, need to get back to godding around 
 Midgard. So much loot and so little time. I need to devise a way to collect it all and have Buff-Specific 
 armor sets, that would be dope.
  
  THE UPDATE:
  
  STORY:
  
  There is a fine line between sparking interest for sequels and providing sufficient closure to 
 the existing story. Whether or not it is done well is subject to as many opinions as there are 
 people to give them. Do I have questions? Hell yes. Were some of those questions answered. Well, 
 yes, some were. That's just the way it goes. I much rather have a cliffhanger where plot arcs build, 
 level, and climax over several stories than something ALMOST entirely new in each sequel in order 
 to placate those who have trouble enduring their unanswered questions. I thoroughly enjoyed the 
 story, the characters, and the setting and look forward to the trilogy. I recommend a second play 
 through because, like so many of my favorite fantasy novels, the second time through allows for 
 the subtle dialogue to be much more relevant and has much more impact when you are more fully aware 
 of its context. I truly believe the complexities were intentional.
  
  COMBAT:
  
  I beat Too Human as a level 38 defender with an Epic Skullplate of Iron helmet. I beat the entire 
 first area and Grendel, the first "Boss", without ever dying. It was my first time through. I read 
 the manual. I played a little and read the manual again for a better contextual understanding. 
 Now I am truly a god. I chose to replay every level in between one another in order to have access 
 to more strategy while experiencing the story. Where once I was constantly leaping to escape the 
 fray, now I bat around robots like softballs in a frenzy like some kind of reverse pinball machine. 
 They even make a high pitched "Ding" when you slam your steel against theirs. But even as a god, 
 I must assess the lay of the land before deploying my assets. I hear people complaing about the 
 implementation of status affects. I don't think they understand how to exploit these ticking time 
 bombs. The carriers of these status "diseases" I look for first, singleling them out, launching 
 them into the air, circling round them until they are on the verge of death, letting them fall 
 amidst their brethren, putting one last shot between its eyes, and unleashing a status bomb in 
 the middle of the enemy horde. Some times this is required several times before these double-edged 
 swords of the enemy are no more. Secondly, I look for the leaders who cause the most damage and 
 dispatch them as quickly as I can. Usually taking them airborne to avoid the battering droves below. 
 Thirdly, I rush the fringe hugging missile launchers and eliminate that threat. All the while keeping 
 an eye on the grunt hordes, occassionally sliding towards them and unleashing ruiners at a reduced 
 cost ( press the ruiner while sliding ) . After the hordes are slain, keeping clear of any Troll's 
 area of effect attacks, It's time to play jump roap. Yes, you heard correctly. JUMP ROAP! I have 
 yet heard any one mention this tactic in the myriad reviews I have read. The Troll's area of effect 
 attack has an epicenter or center where its hammer lands that is extremely damaging and glows red. 
 A wave ripples outward from this epicenter and must be lept over to avoid damage. It follows a 
 rythm and as long as you sync with that rythm while running around it, you'll be ready for the 
 Double Dutch championship, or at least be able to train your gun or guns on its torso plate in 
 order to expose it for a mantling and then bashing of its central computer ( a quicktime event 
 requiring you to press 'A' when behind the Troll ) . Not all Trolls are susceptible to central computer 
 bashing, these must be picked apart piece by piece with munitions fire while playing jump roap 
 around them. This is a little tricky since every time you reload you'll have to re-train your weapon 
 on the appropriate spot. I personally would recommend aiming at the most lethal part of its mechanical 
 anatomy first, but that's just me. Concerning the aiming complaints, I suspect most people are 
 releasing the thumbstick and trying to aim elsewhere, bad idea. While trained on one enemy with 
 your gun, hold the stick in that direction. When wanting to cycle to another enemy, depending on 
 its location, keep holding the thumbstick against the edge of the circle and rotate it in the direction 
 of the enemy until you see it highlighted by the green circle at its feet. You can only aim at 
 the enemies in front or between. If they are behind another enemy, the very best you can hope for 
 is that your piercing ability will penetrate through to it. Being able to shoot over and around 
 enemies would make no sense, even if you were trained by Angelina Jolie. Also, when attempting 
 high combo counts I recommend "bouncing" back and forth between clumps of enemies because a strike 
 sometimes renders an enemy invulnerable to the next attack and does not count the strike. I find 
 holding the stick in one direction, waiting for my weapon to strike, releasing the stick and holding 
 it in the opposite direction, then repeating works pretty good as long as there are enemies in 
 the opposite direction to strike. When I'm surrounded by a clump of enemies, I find it is a good 
 strategy to break away from the crowd and slide back in to a ruiner to save combo cost. Ruiners 
 are cool and they change visually and effectively as you level them up. I am 42 hours into the 
 game and still find the combat gratifying and lootfully rewarding, but I suppose it is mostly from 
 the witnessing of well laid battle plans being executed impeccably. I wouldn't expect much pleasure 
 from flicking the stick around aimlessly and watching that valkyrie lift me to Valhalla every five 
 minutes, but that's just me. And this is my take on the combat when I have yet to take my god online 
 for some co-op, so I expect it to get even better. 
  
  Now to address a more general approach to combat: character and armament development. I read somewhere 
 that some dude got to level 50 within the first few days of playing and was still finding the game 
 far too difficult. This does not make much sense on many levels. I am a level 38 defender and wade 
 through hordes like water. If this guy was finding it difficult at level 50, it is unlikely he 
 had made it their in a few days. It would have required about 50 hours with Experience buffs capped 
 on all his equipment, dying as little as I have and so not finding the combat especially difficult. 
 And if he in fact has reached level 50 and is still finding the game too difficult, he must have 
 made a debauchery of his skill tree. I have a one word philosophy for approaching one's skill tree, 
 armaments, and buffs: Specialize. Find out what your character's specialties are and feed these 
 indiscriminately. My configuration seems to be working well. The following is just my stats. Skip 
 it to my conclusion if you are not interested in number crunching.
  
  BEGINNING...
  MY CHARACTER STATS:
  
  I'm a level 38 Defender that chose the Human path and I followed the 
 far right of the skill tree and the far right of the Human skill tree. 
  
  SKILL TREE: 6 : Decreases damage taken for entire party, 6 : chance of reflecting 100% damage, 
 6 : Laser deploying Spider, 6 : Battle Cry attracting all enemies to me, 10 : Hammer damage, 10 
 : Sentient Weapon Fenrir that sends spirit sword to wreak havoc, 2 : More powerful ruiners. 
  
  HUMAN SKILL TREE: 2 : Decreases combo costs, 6 : melee attack speed, 6 : Fierce attack range, 
 6 : Increase Ruiner damage, 6 : Decrease Spider recharge time, 10 : Increases combo meter growth 
 and at level 10 raises combo meter to 4 ( most important in my opinion ) . 
  
  MY EQUIPMENT:
  
  HAMMER: Orange : Sovereign Immortal Hammer of Breaching : Damage - 1763 ( 
 1123+57%) , Value - 14936, Strength +29%, Attack Speed +8%, Hammer Damage +8%, Hammer Damage +6%
 
  
  GUN: Epic : Harrowing Lance of Wrath : Damage 216 ( 204+6% ) , Value - 63837, Pierce +39%, Total 
 Armor +13%, Health +6%, Health +5%
  
  TOTAL ARMOR : 1394
  HEAD: Epic: Skullplate of Iron : Armor - 119, Value - 76325, Ballistic Resistance +8%, Battle Cry 
 Damage +4%, Health +8%, Total Armor +11%
  TORSO: Orange: Myomer Reticulation Suit of Energy : Armor - 111, Value - 12486, Laser Damage +6, 
 Total Armor +10, Total Armor +10, Hammer Fierce Damage +13
  SHOULDERS: Orange: Sovereign Combat Spaulders of Impact : Armor - 136, Value - 15574, Blunt Resistance 
 +3%, Total Armor +13%, Hammer Fierce Damage +17%, Hammer Fierce Dammage +14%
  HANDS: Orange: Merciful Triggerfree Plated Vambrace of Reinforcement : Armor - 118, Value - 13925, 
 Total Armor +10%, Total Armor +13%, Total Armor +13%, Spider Duration +19%
  LEGS: Orange: Sovereign Web-Brace Greaves of Fortune, Armor - 125, Value - 14225, Loot Drop Chance 
 +3%, Piercing Resistance +3%, Total Armor +12%, Hammer Damage +8%
  FEET: Orange: Sovereign BattleGrip Shoes of Elusion, Armor - 125, Value - 14037, Improved Dodge 
 +13%, Improved Dodge +13%, Hammer Slide Distance +3%, Total Armor +11%
  
  CHARMS: Purple: Grand Blight Insulator, chance of emitting damaging radiation cluster on contact. 
 Purple: Electrostatic Aspect, chance of triggering a damaging EMP pulse. 
  
  HIT POINTS: 2417
  
  MAX COMBO: 4
  
  ... END OF STATS.
  
  The addition of randomly generated 
 dungeons is an astonishing surprise considering the graphical richness of the world. The way it 
 has been implemented is a stroke of sheer genius and I must applaud those responsible. The graphics 
 may not be the most impressive on the 360, but considering the depth of gameplay, they are amazing. 
 You can't have everything. So many people online seem to think you can. I expect a similar graphical 
 complaint to be leveled at Fable 2. Again, the lack of graphic superiority in Fable 2 has me even 
 more excited about the game for it implies a depth of gameplay that the developer deemed more important 
 than a flashy superficial coat of paint. But I digress. I thoroughly enjoyed Too Human and I expect 
 I will continue to for a long time to come. Busying myself with the hunting of Epic sets of armor 
 along side my friends' gods online and trying out some of the other character classes. Not to mention 
 the truckloads of Downloadable content I expect Microsoft and Silicon Knights to pump down the 
 pipe. As far as those who claim this game to be strictly for loot lovers and stat-stackers, I strongly 
 disagree. The action elements in this game are richer than any hack-and-slasher I have ever played, 
 you just have to learn how to exploit your options instead of treating it like every other hack-and-slasher 
 or shooter you have played. This game is both, and the controls have been implemented admirably. 
 Once you learn the controls and buff your character appropriately, the enemies off screen will 
 not matter. A god knows where all the enemies are before he hits the fray and need only attack 
 in its general direction and the camera will adjust accordingly. I am beginning to really like 
 the camera because it is smarter than I am, or at least as far as the game is concerned. So in 
 conclusion, I can't find any real complaints about my experience with Too Human 42 hours in, but 
 I am looking at it with an open consideration of all that it has accomplished. I strongly recommend 
 Too Human to anyone who has ever liked action, shooter, or Role Playing games, but warn them that 
 it will require some attention to learn. If this is too much to ask, do not fret. There is always 
 the Wii.
  
  Thank you for reading and hope to see you online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  to be blunt: too human is the most fun ive ever had in an RPG, but it no doubt took its fair share 
 of glithes, also i have another big problem, when a game is delayed this long (10 years, it was for 
 playstation 1!!) it had better be perfect, this game is not perfect, auto aim locks on to the farthest 
 enimie away from you, close combat takes getting used to (right stick to slash, wtf silicon knights?) but 
 ya get used to it and its super fun ,zooming around, slashing technogoblins. lets stop talking bad 
 about the game and about the good, okay?
  First of all, the game is good looking and is insane fun to play, but most of all, the norce mytholagy 
 is intriging to say the least, but i like to say the most, simply put, this is the best story in gaming 
 history
  
  BOTTOM LINE: if you love a good story but dont like confusing combat, give it a try, but if youll 
 cope to the gaming style, this will be second to fallout3 as best action rpg this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Pros: Story gets stronger as the game progresses, Voice Acting/Music top Notch, Fun, Great Hybrid 
 game, AAA title, has Charm, will make you say Oh Snap! Lots of customization, and making your character 
 Bad Ass
  
  Cons: Reviewers bashed this game, only two players online, leaves you with a cliffhanger, some 
 elements need to be tweaked.. (overall good, but need some tweaks)
  
  One of the biggest misconceptions is that Too Human has been in works for over 10 years!! and if 
 you based the game on that, then you will absolutely be disappointed in the final product. However 
 the original "Too Human" on PS1 was actually about a space murder investigation, where your goal 
 was to find the person who killed your partner. You are also a cop, trying to bring peace in the 
 future. Yeah i don't know about you, but the Too Human I played had nothing to do with that game. 
 The Too Human we are playing was only in works for a few years. Just to clear the air on that before 
 i get started
  
  Too Human is of course an Action RPG, and both elements are used big time. There is a ton of strong 
 RPG elements, like Leveling up your character, weapons, level tree, class system (which i will 
 talk about more) , Runes, and all these things that could very well be in a regular RPG only game. 
 
  
  However Too Human also gives you strong Action. With that you get high combo's Pistol/Sword fighting 
 similar to Devil May Cry. To fight you use the right stick, and point to the direction you want 
 to slash your sword. To me this reminds me of Skate, where you use the stick to pull off different 
 board moves. Its not as implemented, but the feel you get is so much more rewarding then mashing 
 on the buttons. You have more control, and oddly enough people have trouble with this. I never 
 had a big problem with fighting enemies, sometimes it would be hard to aim, or pick the right guy, 
 but that happens rarely.
  
  Too Human's story is another hybrid mix (see the theme) of Norse Mythology, and Cybernetic Humans 
 in the future. Now the first time you hear it you are like WTF?! seeing Thor in space??!! but i 
 actually found it to be quite cool. All the characters and themes are based on that, while you 
 are in the future, and everyone has some sort of cybernetic implant. The story is all build up 
 towards the end. Similar to Lost. You might find the story to be average at first. But at the end 
 it gets real good. However that is both a good thing and a bad one. Good is that you have something 
 to look forward to in Too Human 2 (trilogy) but bad is that it gives you a Halo 2 feel. Where you 
 just are mad they did not have some sort of closure. Mass Effect was a cliffhanger.. however you 
 complete the mission. IN this case, its not the same
  
  There are 5 different classes in Too Human. All having different play styles. There is the Healing 
 Class, The Dual Wielding Full out Melee class, the Shooting and Technology Class, The Big Armored 
 Hammer Wielding Defense class, and Also the Champion Class.. Where its the average.. Good at everything 
 class. Even though the strategies for each class will be similar, the experience will be different, 
 and will change your play style slightly. Its just another way to customize. speaking of such...
 
  
  Too Human has one of the most robust customization options i have ever seen. There are endless 
 amounts of different Armor/Weapons/Colors/Runes/ and other add ones, that no two Baldurs will be 
 the same. You can craft your own weapons too using blueprints you have obtained. If your into making 
 your guy a "bad Ass" finding the best armor, and looking bad ass, then this is the game for you!
 
  
  Going back into the the unique feel towards your character, you can also have a Tree pool. Every 
 level up you get points to make your guy stronger. Like Most RPG's you can make attack/ or a Battle 
 Cry (similar to Magic) but it gives more freedom to pick your path. you find the things you like 
 the most. You can even redo all your points for a small fee. Also you can pick two different Implants. 
 Human or Cybernetics, just adding more to making your character more personality.
  
  The game also features great music, and really cool voice acting and cut scenes. The voice acting 
 for Loki (main Villain) and Baldur are above excellent for me. However the rest of the voice acting 
 looks outclassed because of these performances. Music ranges from battle songs, to calm relaxing 
 songs, to Rock. But all pleasing to the ear..
  
  Some things that reviewers said i would like to disprove here..
  
  Camera Sucks: Camera is 
 actually very good 95% of the time.. there will be a time where you might be blinded for a second.. 
 be really won't effect your gameplay. Plus there are multiple different camera options.. and i 
 am sure one fits you
  
  Boring gameplay/Same enemies: ok, well the game is split up into 4 very long missions taking several 
 hours to beat.. Basically you go to rooms of Robots/ Undead. Then you do what all action games 
 do, beat the living crap outta them. Its very fun, since the number of baddies on screen can be 
 overwhelming at times, but killing them is so cool.. you slide around, juggle them in the air, 
 use your Spider Pod, and other gadgets to get rid of these retards.. Its quite fun, since enemies 
 change, and all different types
  
  Same Enemies: LIES! each level has different enemies.. how many do you want?! i know for most of 
 the game you fight robots. However if you don't like it, then you hate the idea.. not the implication 
 of this
  
  Dying has no effect/Takes FOREVER: Gamespot got it wrong here.. actually when you die, your very 
 important combo meter and spider pod meter goes down.. which then takes time to get the flow back. 
 I mean most games when you die, you have to do everything again.. and that is annoying! particularly 
 when you fight bosses, you get so far.. and boom! die and start again. Also cna i ask you this.. 
 What would you rather see.. and load screen, or you getting lift up to Valhalla with epic music 
 behind you.. yeah i'll take the 2nd one
  
  Too Human also takes some advantage of Online Multiplayer. You can play Too Human with a buddy 
 over Xbox Live! with that you can experience the game minus the cut scenes. This is a whole lot 
 of fun. Not only do character classes shine more here.. but blowing up things, and kicking ass 
 is a lot more fun with 2 players.. You can also trade items with that buddy. Although it would 
 have been great to have 4 player Online, Trading Rooms, and Split Screen Offline Co-op. But there 
 is always Downloadable Content. 
  
  I have felt bad by the all the negative nay Sayers.. most don't play the game. However go into 
 this game with an open mind, and i guarantee you will have tons of fun. and that is what games 
 are all about. you want to have a fun entertaining experience, Too Human delivers, Overtime. Have 
 fun.. and you will have fun with Too Human
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: High Paced Action, you are are bad ass, and you kill hoards of baddies like a bad ass. 
 Its just plain fun doing this
  Graphics: Yeah some of the best looking art i have seen in a game. Plus everything just looks great. 
 And Cut scenes are amazing.
  Music: Voice acting and Music is great!
  Value: it took me 14 hours to beat the game.. but the game is meant to play over again, plus Co-op 
 is fun!
  Overall: You will have fun, and thats the whole point. Screw the reviews buy this game. Its one 
 of my favorite games.. and i own a lot of good Xbox 360 games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_SS
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for years now. And after reading Gamespots review I decided to 
 get it anyways. All I can say is they are far from right. After 60 hours of play I am still glued 
 to the TV wanting more.
  
  The story is brilliant, if they did not say "first in a trilogy" it would have been disappointing 
 so expect a cliff hanger.
  
  Visuals are amazing and levels are brilliantly designed. The enemies level with your character 
 so you are never too overpowered. Co-op play is great, but does have a few downsides. It is only 
 2 player co-op and 4 player would have been much more fun, as there are 5 classes to choose from. 
 Also there is no story in co-op you only play the levels which is kind of a let down.
  
  The camera works ok, but when there is a lot of action going on it sometimes gets hectic and annoying. 
 The monsters are great looking and there is a lot they can do in the next 2 games with them.
  
  Items are cool looking and the option for DLC items means there should be some great looking 
 new items.
  
  Overall Too Human is one of the greatest releases of this year with only a few let downs, you should 
 love this action RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I know it's gotten a LOT of bad press, but I disagree with almost all of it.
  
  I'll start with my favorite things. Lots and lots of armor and weapons give you endless possibilities 
 mixed with runes and charms to give you tons of different battle options. All the classes are unique 
 and have defining characteristics so that none of them feel the same. Once you get on a roll, you 
 feel like a total badass. Playing in co-op rules and gives you even more possibilities with group-based 
 skills.
  
  Now the bad stuff. That badass-ness will abruptly end when you get totally annihilated by something, 
 which then triggers the longest, unskippable death scene that completely takes you out of the action. 
 Sometimes you'll get to an area where you can only kill 2 or 3 people, die, come back, kill a few 
 more, repeat. AI is stupid, friendly and enemy. Allis will stand still and shoot horrendously and 
 never get better and will die in one hit. Most enemies will blindly charge at you and die immediately, 
 sometimes even the ranged ones. But by far the worst thing is status effect durations. The worst 
 being the poison, it lasted for about 2 minutes for me one time, bringing me down by 2/3 of my 
 health. Also, elite enemies can sometimes be too tough. For example, a troll did 1500 more damage 
 to me than my max health, which i dont think should be possible.
  
  Finally, 'rare' is an understatement. Epic-red-items are one in a million, almost literally. But 
 it's all about devotion i guess.
  
  I know that the 2nd paragraph is a bit bigger than the first, but eventually you can get past most 
 of those. I'd say get it to all those loot-farming, RPG dudes. But if youre not into constantly 
 going thru your loot and selling and equipping and what not, it's probly not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guinessbonez
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Too Human 10 years in the Making... 
  
  Too Human is a loot drooping Action/RPG from game developers of Silicon Knights. 
  
  Story- 
 Too Human combines Norse Mythology and adds a Cyberspace twist to it. Its not a bad story but its 
 not gonna blow your mind. It ends on cliff hanger since Too Human already has planned sequels. 
 
  
  Graphics- For a dungeon crawler Too Human can look very good especially when the screen gets cluttered 
 with explosions and enemies surrounding you. Some of the levels do seem to lack variety in room 
 design. 
  
  Sound- Good you can't complain it does sound awesome really if you have some good speakers blast 
 em its adds alot more to the experience. 
  
  Gameplay- Too Human uses a new type of control scheme you use the right analog sick for most of 
 your combat. It works out when using melee combat but fails hard at aiming your gun when there are 
 alot of enemies on screen. If your aiming at an enemie and you kill him it still keeps your gun 
 locked on. This can be really be annoying not to the point were it breaks the game but its so obvious 
 that it dosent work that you think to yourself why wasn't this fixed? 
  
  A major part of Too Human is the loot drops the game has alot of loot you could log over 100 hours 
 and still not have every epic armor/weaopon. You can add runes to your weapon/armor to add extra 
 stat effects to them.
  
  Bottom Line- Too Human is a good game its so hard to review because it does so much and success 
 in the sense that the game is fun you will get hooked trying to lv your guy to 50 than to obtain 
 your epic armor.
  
  If this review seems all over the place its cause I was watching law and order at the same time 
 sorry ^_^ won't do it again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I decided to get Too Human even thou it had mixed reviews. Too Human puts you into a character 
 named Baldur who is a cybernectic human who protectes his race in a union called the Acir. The 
 story puts you into a battle between the Acir and robots and traitors alike. It may seem like things 
 are just being made up to make the game longer, but all of the missions do have a purpose and will 
 eventually come together when you understand the story. The graphics are great and there are no 
 problems with that. Vioce acting and mouth movement is also great. The camera can be issues sometimes, 
 but it will not mess you up. You may be targeted on to an enemy and walk a certain way to wear 
 the camera will show you to close up, but it will fix itself. The battle system is one of the highlights 
 of this game. You can take the field using a combination of both guns and mele weapons. This works 
 real well and both types of weapons have there advantages. Another highlight in this game is the 
 customization. When you defeat an enemy you can pick up loot sutch as weapons and armor. The loot 
 is fun and helps you make your character look awsome. You get to change your characters armor in 
 manyy different ways. You get to change his head, shoulders, chest, hands, legs, and feet. Since 
 there are so many different options, its highly unlicky your armomr will match unless you find 
 sets. This is not a problem thou, because you can change the color of your armor if needed. The 
 loot works great and you will always be changing your guy with different types of weapons and armor. 
 There is also a skill tree, where you use points you earn to make your character better in certain 
 ways. This also works well. There are no load times in this game during gameplay witch makes it 
 nice and smoath. There are no problems that I have found and everything works great. This is a 
 great game and should make anyone happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calmira
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, So its not as good as it could have been. While most the reviews are slaughtering it however, 
 it actually isnt all that bad. Yes, the bad points that most reviews are picking up on DO exist. 
 But the game is still fun to play. Yes, the story line is confusing, and leaves you wondering just 
 quite what is going on, and wat is exactly happening with everything. Yes, the items and armour 
 combinations could have done with actually making it feel like they are really making a difference 
 to your charactor. But none of these things actually make the game bad, more like a missed opportunity.
 
  
  After waiting for this to come out since i first had my 360 on launch, i must admit i am dissapointed 
 by the end result, and feel that it could have, and should have been that little bit more.
  
  For all its faults however, it IS a fun game to play, and even if not to purchase, is definatly 
 worth the rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willnona
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I enjoy action games like Devil May Cry and, after reading some of the pre-release reviews, expected 
 this game to be of that caliber. After about 3.5 hours of playing time, I finally just decided 
 to turn it off and return it after dying for about the 50th time and having to watch the obnoxious 
 death animation that you can't skip over and lasts WAY too long. The combat is just plain dumb, 
 there's no rhyme or reason or skill involved. I'm stunned that anyone at Microsoft felt that this 
 game was done and ready to be released, it needs another 6 months of development just to make it 
 playable. The story line is corny. The cutscenes are choppy and half-assed. If you feel you must 
 try this game, rent it first. It's not even worth the price of the rental, let alone $59.99. SHAME 
 ON YOU MICROSOFT, I want those 3.5 hours of my life back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judgestarscream
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Too Human... Where to start? First of all I must say that I am very addicted to this great game.. I 
 have beaten it once and I am half way through the second time.... I love all the loot scattered 
 around.... I was a little on the short side but with five different classes to play as you can get 
 alot of play time.. I absolutely love all the weapons and different types of swords... I think Silicon 
 Knights will fix some of the camera problems... I really think this game didn't get the credit it 
 deserves.... Camera angles and length aside this is one great game.... I can't wait for the sequel... I 
 think it may push the limits of games to date............ I haven't played online yet but I am really 
 looking forward to trying it.... Does anyone know when the next one will come out............. I 
 hope its soon.... Grrrreat game.... Why do alot of people have a problem with this game.... Its as 
 good as diablo..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KBHoody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  I used to go by gamespots reviews, and other magazines sources. Not anymore I can not even imagine 
 why this game is getting the reviews that it is. They complain about story, backgrounds, gameplay, 
 targeting, please the graphics are clean and eye popping the story is creative the upgrades and 
 weaponry are incredible. There is literally nothing bad I can say about this game. All I can say 
 is I hope silicon knights doesnt listen to this crap press and still releases the full trilogy!! 
 "cause I cant wait" Right now I am level 47 berserker and loving every minute of it. I finished 
 the game with him, now just getting to level 50. Then I am definetly finishing it with all the 
 classes. I have put all other games aside for this work of art. So great job by silicon knights 
 on this awesome revolutionary vision of what an rpg based fast action game should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Any game that makes me feel like I've just been told there is a chocolate chip cookie waiting for 
 me, and then finding out that the chocolate chip was left out annoys the heck out of me. Too Human 
 left me feeling unfullfilled and wanting more.
  
  Either this is a amazing marketing idea, or the creators think gamers are very dumb indviduals. 
 Even after customizing the heck out of my character, and then restarting the campain from the beginning, 
 I've only spent 16 hours playing the game, thanking my foresite to rent this first.
  
  I was informed that this would be a three parter, but I refuse to be dooped into buying 3 60 dollar 
 games with sequels in mind. You will find yourself cursing everytime you get hit with green radioactive/acidic 
 or whatever crap as you will be at full health and all of a sudden die after dispatching a whackload 
 of bad guys.
  
  Too Human has some very nice graphics, but the combat is a little silly sometimes, and you'll find 
 yourself frustrated as you die, and don't really understand how a cybernetic god allows himself 
 to miss and get whacked from behind.
  
  The bosses are very easy, so this game is a achievement lovers delight, even though, you'll be 
 confused as to how you actually killed them.
  
  In my opinion, Gamespot had to low of a score on this, rent it and make your own decisions. Too 
 Human could turn into a guilty pleasure, as it is kind of fun, and the story line may just end 
 up being very cool.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I want to start this review on a positive note. This game is fun, and addicting. While I agree 
 with some of Gamespot's cheif complaints about the game, I still don't think they can justify giving 
 this game a 5.5 when they reviewed Two World's and gave that a 7.0. I kind of liked Two Worlds, 
 it wasn't great nor was it an abmonination. It was average and suffered of not living up to the 
 hype, and terrible voice acting. But Two Worlds was deserving of a 4.5-5.5 type score. This game 
 should never have received a lower grade than Two Worlds. However, I think a 5.5 score can be justified. 
 This game shines in parts, and is dull in others. Depending on what you look for in a great game, 
 this can have some people despising it or absolutely loving it.
  
  If I was going to compare the things that drove me most crazy about this game, I can think of only 
 one: Ninja Gaiden for XBox. I say that because in both games the camara was terrible. It might 
 have actually been slightly worse in NG, but it's too close to tell. They are both really bad when 
 trying to keep the camara in the direction you want to be looking. The other easy comparison is 
 in the difficulty in the game. In this, Too Human is much more easy, but both incorporated situations 
 that weren't as much challenging, as they were just plain cheap. Example of this is your guns can 
 shoot only so far; however, they will send wave after wave of ground troops, drop some more on 
 top of you or behind you where you can't see them, have Dark Elves shooting from the other side 
 of the area way out of your guns reach, alone with the annoying snipers and assault goblins that 
 shoot smart missles from their back. Now add a red eye to that situation, and all the smart missles 
 become that much more annoying. They come faster, and they all hit you. Much like laser guided 
 smart bombs in real life. You see, the red eye is the laser for the smart bombs. You reach a situation 
 like this, you are going to die at least once. What makes a situation like this even worse is enemies 
 that explode and cause a status effect when they die. Some status effects last a short while (fire, 
 but it still does a ton of damage) , while others never seem to quit (poison, I got effected with 
 full health and never took another hit and it alone killed me) . I know not to get close to these 
 guys, but I've been way out of their explosion radius and still have been effected. You need to 
 spend a lot of time jumping and rolling to avoid such effects. You need to use trial-and-error 
 to see what situations require a jump or a roll. Sometimes your ranged weapons seem to become totally 
 ineffective against enemies they usually work on; worst part is, this usually happened on exploding 
 enemies, forcing you into close combat if you can't use a fierce attack in time. Which basically 
 means you will probably get hurt real bad in a such a battle. I think all these problems would 
 go from being less cheap to challenging if they were consistant with the damage dealt. I don't 
 usnderstand how sometimes I take no damage from one of thier attacks, and the next I'm almost dead 
 or die. I understand critical hits, but those are usually damage x 2; not 60 points damage vs. 
 2000 pts. It should have been more consistant. Also the controls are pretty good; however, Baldur 
 sometimes does a fierce attack when he should have pulled off a finisher. It's the same control 
 moves, and is supposed to react to how far or close you are to an enemy. What you don't want to 
 be is next to a troll attempting to do a finisher and pulling off a fierce move. Sometimes, they 
 just do a normal swing, in which case you jump or roll and try again after you dodge their attack. 
 I suggest doing that if your guns completely become ineffective, because it will remove all the 
 Troll's armor so you can easily take out it's hammer or gun hand. Those are all the major problems 
 I saw or had with gameplay.
  
  Tech issues I had, I only saw a couple. Sometimes you will fall into a floor and into a never ending 
 black abyss. You'll never hit the bottom, and you'll have to quit the game or go to Aesir to stop 
 the never ending free fall. The other ones were sometimes the secret room would be locked when 
 it shouldn't be, charm quests don't update sometimes when entering a secret room or activating 
 a well, and obelisks go inactive and you can't open them for loot.
  
  I had an issue with the inventory system, well with parts of it. Biggest thing being with runes 
 and charms. They have one screen for runes, but you can't insert them into weapons from there. 
 You have to go into your weapon and armor inventory. You can't insert them when you are in a shop 
 either. I wasn't too keen on having to go to a shop in order to get my ear repaired either. You 
 don't need to go there to craft weapons/armor, and it costs you money to do both. Nor do you have 
 to go there to salvage. With charms, it's just such a hassle to switch them in and out all the 
 time so you can complete the quests to use them.
  
  I'm going to go into detail on why I don't like how they did the charms. First off, the quests 
 on these charms can be really time consuming. Level 1 charms can have some simple quests, some 
 not so simple, and you have to add x amount of runes to it for it to be complete. Now, in order 
 for you to do work on a Charm it needs to be in an active slot. If it's not active, you can't progress 
 it's quest or add runes. This is what I really don't like. So you need to constantly go into your 
 inventory to switch out charms to complete their quests in a timely matter. Now you get level 2 
 charms, which have more time consuming quests and require level 1 charms to complete instead of 
 runes. These charms require anywhere from 2-4 level 1 charms to complete. Now you have level 3 
 charms, which require you to complete an insanely long quest, and fill it with 2-4 level 2 charms. 
 I've played for 60 hours and have 4000-5000 air kills and my level 3 charm requires that I kill 
 12000 while it's active! So basically, you will never get to really reap the benefits of a completed 
 charm, because you got to constantly put incomplete charms into active slots just to complete them; 
 and they don't really tell you how effective they are either. They just say has a chance to do 
 whatever. They should allow inactive/incomplete charms to build up without having them in your 
 active slot. Active slot should be for placing completed charms only in.
  
  Runes don't tell you much of anything either. They will say it gives this benefit, but with some 
 they don't tell you exactly what. Some benefit certain classes only, and you don't know that. Some 
 effect a certain class and/or alignment skil tree. If you are not that class or alignment you will 
 never know. Some you just have no clue about, and you have to take the words of those on the forom 
 that they do what they do. Some are positive, some are negative in the way they benefit you; but 
 you don't really know that either.
  
  Some people might knock the story, I actually kind of dug it. It made me want to play more. They 
 really should have incorporated it into co-op mode. The voice acting was above average. The only 
 knock is the game was too short, and therefore you really didn't get a lot of story. It did make 
 me want to see what's going to happen in the sequel however. 
  
  Most importantly, if you are planning to play this game for it's co-op you need to know this game 
 has little-to-no lag (I haven't experienced really any lag) ; nor do you get booted from sessions 
 unless your partner quits. So that's a finer point to this game.
  
  I'll rate this game a 6, but know that I bought this game and I'm glad I did. 60 hours in and I 
 still love it and hate it more than ever. I may have rated a few games higher than this one, but 
 that's because they were more well rounded. I find this game to be more fun than a lot of the games 
 I reviewed. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironfixer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I was excited with each interview and showing of the game pre release. So I almost had my hopes 
 dashed by Gamespot with their poor rating. But, I'm not a 'one source' man and I saw Xplay give 
 it a 4 out of 5, and then all the high user ratings. I am so glad I got this game! my boys (14 
 and 16) wanted me to give it a 9.5, but I'm a bit tougher on games than they are.
  The only problem I have with the game is wrangling the camera. It's frustrating at first, but then 
 I learned a trick or two (which should have been made a bit clearer in the manual) and I'm good 
 with it now.
  Graphics are great, not as good as say, Mass Effect, but still great. No glitches or frame rate 
 drops as far as I can see so far. Hopefully in the next installment they will take it to the next 
 lvl.
  Sound is great.
  Gameplay. It took about an hour to get used to the unique control scheme, but now it comes naturally 
 for me. I just love sliding into an enemy, or the jump attacks I can unleash! Wow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Too Human was originally a Playstation game (yes, the original system) that premiered with an incredible 
 trailer in the 1998 E3. As time went on, it seemed that Dennis Dyack (head of Silicon Knights) 
 and his team just couldn't seem to complete this heavy project about the hybrid between Norse mythology 
 and cyberpunk. Eventually it was announced that Too Human would not be coming out on the Playstation 
 (probably because the scope of this project was too wide) and that it would, however, be making 
 an appearance on the Gamecube. We did see a great Silicon Knights game but instead of Too Human 
 we received the incredible Eternal Darkness. When the Gamecube was put to death shortly after the 
 release of Resident Evil 4, it was announced that Too Human wouldn't be on the Gamecube either. 
 It was finally announced that this game would be a trilogy (a clear indication that this game was 
 far too large and required a split into multiple installments) and coming out on the 360. After 
 some legal and technical issues that left this game abandoning the popular Unreal 3 engine and 
 developing its own, the game has FINALLY come out!
  
  So, how is it?
  
  Essentially this game is exactly what it promised so many years ago: a dungeon crawler that allows 
 you to grind through MMO/Diablo-style loot collection and RPG elements. Additionally this game 
 is fun. For those who are fans of mindless grinding (the intended Diablo fans definitely apply) 
 you will lose tens of hundreds of potential hours with this game. Unfortunately, since this is 
 realistically one of the first of its kind, I'm not sure that most console gamers are ready for 
 this. If you are the type of person who needs to complete a game and move on, this game is not 
 for you.
  
  Using the right stick for your melee combat is a great new way to hack at enemies when compared 
 to button mashers like Conan and Viking. There isn't much of a diversity between enemies, but you 
 won't care because you're having too much fun destroying everything in your path. There's really 
 not much of a tactic to beating this game, just simply shoot at enemies until they get close and 
 then switch to melee. The loot is a consistent gold star that will have you salvaging, arming, 
 and building to create the best combination of loot you can. Skill trees also allow you to build 
 your type of character (there are 5 types) the way you want to. 
  
  The problems are infrequent, but there are many little bugs to suggest this game doesn't have the 
 polish it deserves. The camera will immediately bug anyone who hated the "center on the main character" 
 camera of Ninja Gaiden as you have no control of it except that RB centers directly behind you. 
 There are many locations that, while huge, do not take advantage of their space, often having you 
 walking for nearly an entire minute to walk from one batch of enemies to another. You may fall 
 through floors, randomly disconnect in co-op, or lose your gun at moments, but the game does its 
 job to fix these bugs. The levels and gameplay also seem disconnected, the fact that each of the 
 four levels were built by separate people from a creative standpoint seems clear, but again it's 
 not much of an issue. The final issue is definitely the story, which only gets interesting at the 
 end of the game with no excuse (even for a cliffhanger) for a game that had so long to get it right.
 
  
  Additionally the key to having the most fun grinding is by playing co-op and taking advantage of 
 the chat feature of XBL. This is now what my buddy and I do instead of wasting cell phone minutes, 
 we have an XBL conversation and grind a level or two. 
  
  Essentially this game is not great, it's not perfect, it's not even remotely the hype that Dennis 
 Dyack promised, but it is fun. Correct me if I'm wrong, but that still is the point of gaming, 
 right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seany13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome, as soon as you play you battle hordes of enemies and customizing your armour 
 to show of to other players, the only bad thing about that is its only 2 player so you will have 
 to show your armour of 1 at a time. you play as a half human half machine guy called Boldur. there 
 is loads of classes to choose that have diffrent skills, there is the comando, champion and the 
 defender class and thats just the start because there is more classes to choose. there are loads 
 of weapons to get like cannons, swords, guns, hammers and more. you can unlock battle cries to give 
 you and the other player is your playing online all sorts of diffrent powers. placing spider droids 
 is a good way of killing enermies like they can shoot lasers and destroy incoming air missiles. 
 its alot better when someone else is fighting along side you destroying the cybernetic goblins. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: permanink
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I loved it from the beginning but I can see why some people would think it was 
 a let down or not like it if they didn't give it time. It starts off simple in the beginning however 
 the constant feed of new weapons and armor keep you addicted for more. I think the game is perfectly 
 balanced in terms of easing you into it and feeding you just the right amount of new information 
 and difficulty to keep the game fun throughout. I was a little disapointed in how fast the main 
 story was over but as soon as I started going back through the levels I understood the longevity 
 of the game. The levels keep getting harder and the enemies are so much harder and different that 
 it feels like you are playing a different game. I don't see how Gamespot could give this game such 
 a low score. I can't stop talking about it to my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niveus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  So I was planning on just giving this game a rent, and blockbuster didn't have it in (I have no 
 reason to sub gamefly) , so I just decided to go down the street and buy it from gamestop. Boy, 
 am I glad I did. This game has no equal right now for this genre of ActionRPG/LootFest, its story 
 (so far) for me has been great, the voice acting is top notch (cheesy in some areas) , music is 
 pretty good, though the combat does eventually become slightly repetitive, but depending on what 
 class you play, that issue can be fixed just by respecing for a couple of hours.
  
  So yeah, screw the haters, if you're the type of person that enjoys diablo clones, you'll enjoy 
 this one too. At the very least, it'll hold you over till Fable 2 / Diablo3 / Sacred2 / Rise of 
 Arg / whatever-other-action-rpg that floats your boat you're waiting on being released..
  
  Play the Demo, if you felt like it ended too abruptly and enjoyed the hell out of it despite the 
 aweful camera (which really isn't that bad) , go rent it, you'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Too Human has come and gone, all those years of waiting and the game was finally upon us after 
 countless setbacks and numerous scandals. What did end up on the store shelves was a game where 
 it's easy to see what the devs were planning on doing and after the reading up on the troubles 
 they had; it's also easy to see where they went wrong.
  
  First off I'm starting to dislike planned trilogies. I think it's a little egotistic to think your 
 game is automatically going to be successful enough to warrant two sequels. There's also the recent 
 habit of tossing cliffhanger endings on games which is something I can't stand. Too Human narrowly 
 escapes my first complaint but lands a bull's eye on the second.
  
  Do I think Too Human deserves a sequel? Yes I can safely say I do. Under the shoddy controls, the 
 goofy camera, stiff animations and boring beginning third of the story I would actually like to 
 see another one. Mainly because I think some of the characters are pretty awesome. Loki looks bad 
 ass, Hel was an awesome antagonist, and Heimdale is just a sneaky piece of scum that I haven't 
 figured out yet. On the other hand Thor is an oafish brute and Baldur suffers from a little too 
 much baditude for games these days.
  
  Then there's the cliffhanger ending. Ugh. Up until that point you play as Baldur, the youngest 
 of a family of God's that seems to be in the dark about recent happenings. The story plays out 
 through stiff cutscenes and inches its way forward slowly and mostly uneventfully right before 
 it seems to start getting interesting. It's all too bad but it left me wanting to know what happens 
 next.
  
  The main criticisms brought against the game, story aside, seem to be the robotic animations, the 
 simply adequate graphics and the odd control scheme. Yes they are all valid complaints for the 
 most part. Graphics wise the game looks like it tries hard in certain parts but falls through in 
 others.
  
  The style of armor and weapons and even the creatures and some of the environments looks pretty 
 damn good. They have the right mix of old mythology and futuristic technology going on that you 
 won't find anywhere else. The only problem is that not all environments have visual flair and some 
 are just endless halls of uninspired metallic junk, there isn't enough variety in foes for my liking 
 and after awhile, armor and weapons are just models used over and over with different colors slapped 
 on them.
  
  And yes the characters do move stiff and the mouths during the cutscenes don't mimic the voices 
 all that well.
  
  I must say the music, voice acting and sound effects don't suffer from any shortcomings. While 
 the lines of dialogue that are delivered might not be good or the character that is delivering 
 them might be a stereotype character, which really doesn't fault the voice actors that actually 
 pull off most of the rubbish dialogue in the game.
  
  I also would like to say that I understand changing up the tried and true control scheme found 
 all the way back in Diablo but the analog method just doesn't work all that well. In fact for aiming 
 guns, I don't know if it's the analog stick or the lock-on mechanism that is broken but it's safe 
 to say it doesn't work that well and will cause deaths. For melee weapons however, it takes some 
 getting used to but some sweet looking battles can be pulled off after a bit of practice and some 
 new moves are learned.
  
  Too Human has five character jobs and each of those have an additional skill tree acquired a little 
 bit into the game. Each job pretty much covers the basics when it comes to stats; one is good with 
 guns, one is good with weapons, one is stacked with life and one is all around average. The last 
 one is able to heal and I'll talk about that debacle later.
  
  These skill trees improve stats such as range, damage, recharge time and also unlock moves for 
 the characters such as battle cries, spider abilities and sentient weapons. Battle cries are simply 
 buffs, spider abilities has this little spider mech come off your back and either help offensively 
 or defensively and sentient weapons is a neat little trick where the melee weapon you have equipped 
 flies off to kick ass on its own. Throwing all these abilities and weapons into combat is fun but 
 there's one problem.
  
  Seeing as only one job is able to heal and the fact that healing items are random, it's not often 
 smart to wade close to the enemies and get your hands dirty. Getting that close means enemies can 
 hit you and you really have no way of repairing that damage unless you're lucky. Which means death 
 is usually around the corner in the early stages of the game. This leads to another one of the 
 biggest gripes I have to agree with; the damned death scene.
  
  Every time you die, you're greeted with music and a pillar of light that comes down with one of 
 the most beautifully designed Valkaries you'll ever see sent to whisk away your dead body. This 
 scene lasts about 10  15 seconds and is cannot be skipped. Seeing as I have died about 125 times 
 during the game, means I probably wasted almost thirty minutes of game time watching that damn 
 scene over and over again.
  
  Oh and did I mention that dying has no downside besides a waste of time? Yes another decision was 
 to have the game have a similar error in difficulty as Bioshock had; treating death as merely a 
 small inconvenience as you just reappear a few steps away ready to hack at your injured foes some 
 more. Bioshock did it a little better by at least explaining why this happens, in Too Human it's 
 just a bad design decision.
  
  Too many bad decision is what brings Too Human down. Since it is a trilogy, hopefully animation, 
 controls and that death scene will be fixed (hell I'm hoping a patch comes out to fix that) it's 
 not a terrible start to a series of games but it definitely makes a bad first impression.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BevJWright
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Where is my helmet? Average difficulty, fast, hack and slash, play is monotonous, but keeps moving 
 forward based on the story line.
  
  I've spent just over 20 hours in playing. Some bugs, like the disappearing helmet, one day I had 
 one, the next just some partial graphics. Can't get into the hidden areas. Play is monotonous, 
 but fast. If you liked Earth Defense 2017 or Kingdom Under Fire - you will like this, constant 
 action. Running around and smashing everything in sight. Bosses are hard, but put in enough time 
 and you can beat them down. The strategy guide is recommended for hidden areas and boss weaknesses. 
 Learning to use the Charms and Runes is catch-can, a tutorial would have been nice, explaining 
 the skill trees, both of them, would have been good. Weapons are abundant, you will always have 
 an extra weapon when yours breaks. Cashing in weapons is the monetary system for upgrades. Re playability 
 - good, try out the different classes and skill sets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeXXChidori
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game, the graphics are great!!, but the controls are a little out there so its 
 hard to grasp them and the Dialoge is well... I shouldnt say its ok not the best better yet its 
 far from the best but still moving on.. The Stroy is a little hard to understand but after awhile 
 you get the jist of it. Its a moderatly hard game you die ALOT! in it I meen youd have to be pretty 
 skilled with the controls to not die that often in the game. There are 4 classes Berserk, Guardian, 
 Champion and Biotech.
  
  I chose Champion first to start out the basic all evend out stats, but once I play through the 
 second time Im going to play as a Berserk, If I ever play a third ill prob play as a Guardian (not 
 really into the whole Bio Warrior) Over all the game is pretty good I like it, but I would tell 
 everyone to rent it first then buy it later.. I give the game a 3.5 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eraser23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  i still cant figure out why gamespot gave this a 5.5 this is an excellent game, sure it does have 
 a few problems, like the dying short scene and aiming with guns but other then that a great game 
 overall. Graphics are impressive as well as story u just gotta figure it out. Now ive been reading 
 through a few reviews and some ppl have been saying that some machines are immune to gun fire.... try 
 using a different gun! Sure this games a little hard at first but if u give it a chance and get 
 used to it its very well done. The other thing i found quite impressive is that the higher u level 
 up the tougher that the other enemies get just like how oblivion did.. and it worked out great then 
 and it does now, this system should be in every rpg because its a great thing to have in a game. 
 The bosses were also inventive and difficult which is how every boss should be *cough* halo *cough*. 
 Also combat is well done the controls do take a little bit getting used to but its nothing big. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaram1050
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Just to start off, let me say that I've been waiting for "Too Human" for over a year & I'm a little 
 disappointed. In theory "Too Human" was supposed to bridge action of games like "Ninja Gaiden II" 
 and "Devil May Cry 4" with RPG elements found in "Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion". In practice though, 
 it just doesn't work as well as it should.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, the game is all right but there are clipping issues with the Valkyrie when 
 the player dies. Score: 7
  
  Sound: The music and sound effects are all right and appropriate. Gamespot's criticism of the noise 
 made when jumping is irrelevant. Baldur's a god, you would expect him to make noise when he jumps. 
 Score: 7
  
  Combat: I have issues with overally gameplay, so I will address combat separately. Having to use 
 the right stick for fighting is unique and takes some getting used to. While it is unique, not 
 necesarily revolutionary, and somewhat fun, I would rather have control over the camera with the 
 right stick rather than having it control the camera as you will see why below. 
  The synergy of melee and ranged combat is better overall than in games such as "Devil May Cry 4", 
 with ranged weapons, while not exactly having the same power as melee weapons, having more power 
 than in other action games of this style. My main issue with ranged combat is switching targets 
 or trying to target a specific baddie, such as those hover things in the last chapter, when they 
 are surrounded by dozens of lesser enemies. Score: 6
  
  Camera: In one word: horrid. You don't have control over it as you would in either "Ninja Gaiden 
 II" or "Devil May Cry 4", due to the fact that the right stick controls combat. While I appreciate 
 Silicon Knights trying to do something unique with combat, give me back my right stick for camera 
 control. Sometimes the camera pans in unexpected ways and sometimes zooms out giving the player 
 the impression they're playing a game like "Diablo", something that I don't like in this instance. 
 Given the fact that generally the came is set over the shoulder of Baldur, these switches are unnecessary 
 and annoying. Score: 2
  
  Story: It's an interesting premise, taking Norse mythology and giving it a sci-fi twist. It makes 
 me want to learn more about Norse mythology for myself. That said, some more backstory would be 
 nice concerning Baldur, Thor, Heimdall, and the others. Even if it had been in the form of extra 
 pages in the manual or as bonus clips or text that could be accessed through the game's main screen. 
 That would have allowed the player to dive into the universe created by Silicon Knights. Score: 
 8
  
  Gameplay: Where do I begin? I have several issues with gameplay. The good thing about the gameplay 
 is the number of items, for armor and weapons, is huge. However that is the only good thing about 
 the gameplay, aside from combat discussed above.
  The first issue I have is the fact that with the exception of one class, the player has to rely 
 on collecting healing orbs from downed enemies and the frequencies of drops is not as high as it 
 could or should be. Unlike action games like "Devil May Cry 4" or "Ninja Gaiden II" there is no 
 auto-healing. Because of this, dying can be frequent at times (I died at least 7 times in 7 minutes 
 last night) .
  My second issue is related to the first in that when the player dies, they have to watch a Valkyrie 
 descend, pick the player up, and then rise. You cannot skip this cinematic and if you are dying 
 a lot, as I said I died at least 7 times in 7 minutes, this can take time away from actually playing. 
 The cinematic is nice the first couple of times you see it but after a while, because of the time 
 it takes, it gets old very quickly; especially when you want nothing more to get back into combat.
 
  My third issue, not to sound repetitive, concerns death again. Only it concerns the fact that 
 you lose whatever combo level you've built up, given the game mechanics you lose whatever chance 
 you can at unleashing a battle cry or "ruiner" attack. Again with dying frequent at times, this 
 is annoying as a "ruiner" could spell the difference between getting and being able to press the 
 advantage and prolonging a battle.
  The fourth issue I have is the fact that the game is generally short and when you are in Asgard/home 
 base, it feels a little small. While the enivornment is massive, the things to do are not a whole 
 lot. Between missions all you have to do is either visit Tyr in the weaponsmith, visit the prison 
 just to see it, visit Heimdall, or visit bioengineering. There is the world tree & cyberspace is 
 a little cool but aside from gathering bounty and items, doesn't add a whole lot (not counting 
 what you see in missions where it is good) . There are no real opportunities for side quests and 
 this takes away from the RPGishness of the game.
  A final issue that I have is concerns player interactions with characters outside of cinematic 
 clips. There is almost no synchronisity with what is being said and the player's animations and 
 the volume of character voices is variable & not in a good shouting vs. whispering way that might 
 come with normal conversation. No, it is random and difficult to discern sometimes. As for knowing 
 when you are hearing something you might like to hear, that is a crapshoot.
  So with these things in mind, I cannot say gameplay outside of combat is good, it's terrible. Score: 
 2
  
  Conclusion: In general "Too Human" could be a really good and intriguing game. It could introduce 
 a true mix of ranged and melee combat that is missing from action games. It could have an in depth 
 story withe enough backstory to make the player feel included in the universe of the game and is 
 not just a cool concept. It could have gameplay that is not frustrating or buggy. It could have 
 a good camera. However a bunch of coulds don't make a bunch of "is". Honestly I think the testers 
 failed in their job of pointing out flaws or if they did, the game designers and programmers failed 
 for not fixing the problames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Too Human is one of those games that sparks a lot of controversy. Some hate it, some love it. Few 
 fall in the middle. I started as one in the middle after playing the demo. The more and more I 
 played the demo, the more I started to enjoy it, until finally I had to have it. I played the demo 
 like 30 times, and loved every minute of it.
  
  I am going to start with the graphics. Stunning visuals and good character animation isnt everything 
 to the graphics department. You still have explosions, framerate, and backgrounds. Too Human gets 
 most of these right on. The presentation is bright and shiny, with great looking backgrounds. The 
 backgrounds will encompass you into the world of Aesir in a way that rarely is done by a game. 
 Too Human does a great job of this. The world feels big, the visuals are jaw dropping. The framerate 
 for the most part does a good job, only a few times does it drop. When it does drop, the graphics 
 look almost like a PS1 game. I cant explain it, it just looks like the game drops the visuals too 
 try and catch up with itself. These instances are very rare however, which is good considering 
 you will have up to 100 bad guys at any one time. The explosions look kinda cheesy, things blow 
 up in polygonal way. Overall the graphics are nice.
  
  The sounds of the game are very good, however the voice actor for Baldur just doesnt cut it. He 
 is not believeable. The rest of the cast is done very well.
  
  The controls take a while to get used to. After you get the scheme of things, you will be dicing 
 up baddies in no time. I still wish that the camera was a little more controlable. The camera never 
 hampers the gameplay, but you tend to forget that you cant control it and you end up pushing buttons 
 for the camera that dont exist.
  
  The story is a bit confusing at times. The subtitles which you can turn on or off, work whenever 
 they feel like it. Some scenes have them, some not. I play in my living room with screaming kids, 
 telephone ringing, etc, therefore using subtitles is very important to me to understand the story. 
 The story jumps in and out on tangents that dont seem to match the overall story of the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is fast and furious and loads of fun making you wanting to come back for more. The 
 game is very short. Each level is about 3-4 hours, and there are 4 of them. I could easily see 
 how this game could hold you for multiple play throughs. Gathering loot is a blast, and there is 
 tons of it available. The game is fairly linear, with some secret hidden rooms, and timed battles 
 to make it fun. The first boss battle is totally lame and quite the let down.
  
  In closing Too Human is a game that has its shortcomings and though its not perfect, is a blast 
 to play and falls into that category of doing things kinda stupid to make a game, but a lot of 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is a gorgous and engrossing new rpg/hack and slash that is under rated and mis judged. 
 Like all games it has its downfalls such as repitiotion, somewhat confusing story but its great 
 gameplay, visuals, and charecter customization overshadows these. I must state i was immediatley 
 turned away from the game once i saw the reviews, but shear day to day boredom and curousity drew 
 me to the game. I believe the reason for low reviews is that commercial sites may not have seen 
 as much add revenue from this game as other, eg. GTA, which was highly over rated and any gamer 
 who desires innoivation and creativity in todays industry will agree with that. I'm not some hardcore 
 fan boy who loved two human since i heard of its production, im just a person who loves video games 
 and desire that qaulity should recieve recognition. If you do not believe me rent the game and 
 you will be captivated by the shear beauty, and uniqueness of this game. Do not let commecial reviewers 
 who are motivated by more than just passion for videogames dicate your taste in video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pankaker
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  I had a friend suggest this game so I checked it out. I enjoyed it for the first hour our so till 
 I got to the first boss. Taking down armor isn't bad the flying cheese graters that constantly 
 flow just suck. Over all the constant dieing an death scenes ruined the experience. Having no real 
 reliable way to heal your self an bosses that have what seemed to me to be unnecessary runts an 
 catches after beating the game once I found myself feeling depressed an looking even more forward 
 to Fable 2. The only bright side is the co-op which has kept me from trading it in, removing cut 
 scenes is nice but having to restart a whole level anytime I wished to fix my armor or weapons 
 is a major problem. Also running into 4 giant robots that either do explosion, freezing or slow 
 down damage an them being immune to gun fire is like the game is giving me the finger. If your 
 looking a sub-par rpg/action game I'd recommend giving this a rental but be prepared to have your 
 temper tested 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbsolutTrucker
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  5.5?! It is true that there have been many better games than "Too Human", but a site that rates 
 "Kane and Lynch: Dead Mean" higher than "Too Human", is definitely not doing its job right. The 
 glaring flaw in the game would have to be the targeting system for ranged attacks. Other than that, 
 I do not feel that there is a valid argument for rating "Too Human" under a 7.5. True, some of 
 the fighting can be somewhat unbalanced, but the gems of game play including, but not limited to, 
 the ridiculous number items and power-ups and beautiful visuals substantially outweigh the negative. 
 I also feel that the game increases in value the second time around. With the ability to use the 
 same character and items obtained in the first playthrough, "Too Human" retains a good amount of 
 replay value. Long story short: its worth a rent if not the purchase. Go buy a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPARTAN-Leader
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Finally, something new, something fun, something exciting. This game is a mix of many many games. 
 It's unlike anything I've ever seen before. I can barley describe how godly and awesome it is.
 
  
  Too Human takes some getting used to and I think the main reason Kevin VanOrd rated it so low is 
 because he sucked at it. My main character is a level 50 Commando (max lvl) which I have spent 
 46+ hours playing on. On top of that I have every other class level 10-22. There is still a lot 
 of replay value at the max level (50) to complete a 7 peace epic armor suit and weapons. Which 
 will take many many hours of playing to accomplish and the combat never gets dull.
  
  The skill tree's for each character are far deeper than you can imagine and the customization options 
 are endless for your character.
  
  There is a solution for the long death animation... Don't die. And you are NOT powerless to do anything 
 when dying from radiation or poison effects, by hitting the B button your character will roll which 
 makes you invulnerable for a quick second which means you won't take damage when getting hurt by 
 those effects and any other monster/robot/zombie trying to kill you.
  
  You can also play co-op online with a friend or another random player which makes the game harder 
 and more fun.
  
  This was the perfect game for me... Don't know about the rest of you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkiNner_07
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  When you first start the game it is kinda like you are walking around a dark room looking for the 
 light switch. Ths story isn't all there, but after you complete the first level and go back to 
 the main city you become much more aware of the situation. 
  In my opinion the story is not the selling point of this game hardly at all though. The kicker 
 of Too Human is the loot system and the level system. It is a addictive trait of the game. You 
 become completely immersed in trying to make your character look sweet and just a all around unstoppable 
 force. The combo system and the way it builds help with that. The higher your combo goes the more 
 into the battle it seems your character becomes. He starts off at a slower pace just the same old 
 hacking through people but as the goblins keep rolling in the speed begin to pick up and pretty 
 soon it is just bodys flying and my character darting back and forth across the screen killing 
 everything that gets in his way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrgasmEqualsLuv
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  Too Human. Huge hype, promising and innovative before release. Now, it's being bashed to Kingdom 
 Come. I really don't understand why everyone hates this game! I understand that the control scheme 
 is frustrating, the stick-mashing is repetitive and the camera doesn't always cooperate, but so 
 what? There are very few games that I have played that haven't been ultimately repetitive and somewhat 
 unresponsive.
  
  I only really played the multi-player, so that's what I base my score on. My friend an I plugged 
 in Too Human at 11:30 P. M., and turned it off at 8:00 A. M. Once we started, we had to finish! It 
 was so much fun blasting and slashing through hordes of goblins and trolls, then pausing at level-ups 
 to exchange gear. Only problem is is that we finished it in one night. So my suggestion is just 
 rent this game from blockbuster for a week, and you should get most of what it's worth. But don't 
 skip out on it! It's a great co-op experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorccan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Too Human is an engaging twist on Norse mythology that melds action oriented game play with RPG 
 elements and a robust loot system, but has some niggling issues that prevent it from reaching its 
 true potential. 
  
  Too Human casts you as the cybernetic god Baldur, whose recent injury and subsequent memory loss 
 provide a framework in which the story of the gods of Norse mythology unfolds. Presented as a sci-fi 
 take on the likes of Thor, Odin, Loki, and others, Too Human seeks to provide a social commentary 
 on the reliance on technology and the dangers inherent in that.
  
  The action in Too Human provides a different take on the genre, instead of the usual button mashing 
 that would take place in an action oriented game, Too Human makes use of the thumb sticks to control 
 fighting and movement, while the X, Y and RB buttons, provide access to special abilities that 
 must be purchased with the use of skill points as you increase in level.
  
  The thumb sticks may seem like an odd choice with which to control the fighting aspect of the game, 
 but has allowed developer Silicon Knights to create a unique visual style to the combat that, quite 
 frankly, looks fantastic, especially at later levels when it is possible to slide from enemy to 
 enemy, zooming across the battle field. It doesn't feel quite as visceral as using the buttons, 
 but once you get used to it, it becomes second nature.
  
  The RPG elements of Too Human are integrated well, and never seem to overshadow the fun of slamming 
 into enemies and knocking them into the air, but are still strong enough to keep those who prefer 
 a deeper experience than "press buttons and watch things die" approach. The skill trees are varied, 
 and allow for the tailoring of a character to a particular style of play. One of the great inclusions 
 is the ability to "respec" a character, buying back all skill points and allowing you to choose 
 different skill progression paths, and thereby experiencing the game play with a different tactical 
 twist. This is particularly useful when it comes to multi-player as you can use a character that 
 has been taken through the game, or indeed is only part way through (you can leave the campaign 
 at whatever point you wish and then pick it back up again) and allow you play alongside a friend 
 with slightly more co-op friendly abilities.
  
  The loot system is similarly deep and should appeal to anyone who enjoyed the hoarding of loot 
 in such games as Diablo or many other RPG games. You will quickly find yourself upgrading your 
 weapons and armour on a regular basis, and selling off a myriad of undesired items to fund the 
 next piece of armour you intend to make from the blueprints that you will find throughout the game. 
 The only problem is there is no way to store any of the excess items that you get. There is no 
 way to keep all those runes that you might want to try out later in the game, or that blueprint 
 that might help your buddy when you meet up next, except by taking up valuable storage space in 
 your inventory. It would have been nice to keep some of the spoils of battle to try later.
  
  The artistic style of Too human is generally grand and over the top, and fits in well to the 
 Norse mythology that the game derives its plot line from. Midgard is suitably ostentatious and 
 large, which suits the gruff, over the top gods that dwell and rule from there. The environments 
 that you fight in are grim and foreboding, and the entire artistic direction feels cohesive and 
 part of a larger world. The armour sets are suitably imposing and the ability to customise the 
 colour of your armour and weapons means your character need never look like he is wearing 7 different 
 types of armour.
  
  The story unfolds slowly, and one of the criticisms of the game is that sometimes the pace feels 
 sluggish. There is sometimes too much travelling to do to get to the next fight, and while the 
 environments are visually appealing, they generally aren't so engaging that you want to stop and 
 admire the view. The levels are linear, and you are never really in doubt about where or how to 
 progress, it is generally move forward and kill the next batch of enemies before the obligatory 
 boss fight. It might sound dull, but the story is well written, and keeps you interested in why 
 these boss fights are taking place, and they never seem tacked together. 
  
  The main place that Too Human falls is its length. While the opportunity to replay the game is 
 there, especially with access to different classes, it goes by much too quickly. The story will 
 take you anywhere from 10-13 hours to complete, and while it ends on an appropriately cliff hanger 
 like note, you can't help but feel you would have liked another level or two to get to that point.
 
  
  The voice acting in Too Human is generally very good, with Baldur being voiced particularly well. 
 The sound effects are appropriate and seem to fit well with the overall theme of the game, with 
 the exception of the jumping noise that Baldur makes, which seems out of place and artificial.
 
  
  All in all, Too Human is a good start to a trilogy, but has a few minor issues that prevent it 
 from being the masterpiece that Silicon Knights hoped it might be. It is definitely a good starting 
 point for what is to come, and leaves you with an interesting take on a very old story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  I had been watching this game for a while before the release and was anticipating the launch of 
 the game. 
  
  however, when it released i saw the low score that it had been given but i decided to try it out 
 anyway, and im VERY glad that i did. 
  
  The game itself combines norse mythology with science fiction and in alot of ways it works, even 
 though some of the voice acting is poor.
  
  The story drifts a little but i never really lost interest in what was going on and i am awaiting 
 the sequal already having played it all the way through. 
  
  Camera angles can get tedious at times but combat is made simple with the right analog stick to 
 jump to the targetted enemy so it doesnt affect combat to much. 
  
  Camera angles have been a problem in alot of other games that get higher reviews than this. GTA 
 IV has a list of complaints from gamespot and other reviewers yet finds perfect scores across the 
 board, yet this gets a mediocre review... that i do not understand.
  
  Only complaints on this game are minor camera angles and the fact that you can only play with one 
 other person online. Hopefully they fix this soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltata79
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Es repetitivo, es facil, es simple, tiene problemas de camara y bugs. Pero es divertido!
  
  Si ya se que no aporta nada novedoso, por ahi la mezcla de mitologia nordica y ambiente cyberpunk, 
 lo cual me gusto.
  
  El juego podria ser mucho mejor y estar hablando de un clasisco? si creo que tenia o esperabamos 
 algo mas, pero me recuerda al diablo en su desarrollo y eso es algo bueno.
  
  Pero creo que lo primordial es que resulta divertido jugarlo, claro si te gustan los juegos de 
 accion en los que solo hay que avanzar, destruir cuanto se te ponga adelante, subir tus habilidades 
 ver que nuevo item nos dio el juego y volver a repetir. A mi me entretiene y creo que eso es lo 
 mas importante para un juego.
  
  Los graficos son aceptables, lo minimo e indispensable para hoy, las animaciones simples y el desarrollo 
 siemple, pero si te divirtio el diable, el god of war o el viejo double dragon, dale una oportunidad.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Y'know, with a name like Too Human, about Norse gods in the future, I hadn't been expecting much... 
 so I was somewhat concerned when I was... persuaded... to pre-order and purchase the game. I spent 
 several days prior to the game's release panicking -- "Will this game suck?! Will it be awesome?! 
 Will I trade it in three weeks later for $40!?"
  ...
  
  (Well, okay, I probably will go with that last option)
  
  Anyway.
  
  Too Human isn't the 
 most amazing game out there; the graphics aren't the best, and the storyline is near incomprehensible, 
 other than Baldur's wife has been killed. That's all I've been able to determine through the course 
 of the game, and that Loki's his usual evil self.
  
  So, with a pathetic storyline, and adequate visuals, I have one question: WHY IS THIS GAME SO ADDICTING!? 
 By all logic, I should have tossed it aside by now! Why do I keep spending my spare time playing 
 it, when I have a ton of other games I need to play?!
  
  Here's the thing... Too Human isn't the deepest game; the skill-trees aren't incredibly impressive, 
 there's no mage class, and the visuals aren't incredibly flashy... yet, the game brings me back 
 to my days playing Diablo 2. I mean, I think that all the weapons and armor are randomly generated, 
 meaning that, even if you get to the max level (around 50) , you'll still be able to find even more 
 godly loot.
  
  There's only a few things I actually don't like about this game, aside from the story. I hate that, 
 when a massive robot slams a giant hammer into the ground, you can still be hit by it if you're 
 in the air. WHAT. THE. HELL. The only way to dodge these -- to dodge ANYTHING -- is to hit the B button 
 to roll away. That's annoying as hell. The only other thing that's really agitating about this 
 game is probably the fact that, no matter what you do, you'll die eventually. And when you die, 
 the cinematic that was awesome at first -- of a valkyrie taking you away to be revived -- becomes annoying. 
 YOU CAN'T SKIP IT. It lasts for about 15 seconds each time, and while you can't be hurt, you can't 
 do a damn thing while you wait.
  
  Ugh...
  
  ... I don't know. I have little more to say about the game, other than that, while it may not be 
 worth buying... it's sure as hell worth playing. It will consume some time, and you'll enjoy yourself 
 playing it. The game's not perfect, and feels rushed in several spots -- hell, I know Silicon Knights 
 didn't do the best job they could have -- but... Too Human is still a fun game.
  
  - - - - - - - FEEL FREE TO SKIP THIS PART - - - - - - -
  If you are offended by any of my further 
 comments, well, sucks to be you. I'm not apologizing, and you may feel free to judge me. Not like 
 I really give a rat's arse.
  - - - - - - - - YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED - - - - - - - - - -
  
  My final two cents: GameSpot judged it too harshly; they judged Too Human not on its merits, but 
 on what they wanted it to be. Essentially, they're like the stuck-up critics at RottenTomatoes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't heard, Too Human is a Rpg/Action Adventure game for the x box 360. The game's story 
 is based on Norse mythology crossed with science fiction. The resulting product is disappointing. 
 Don't get me wrong, i liked this game.. but that's just it i LIKED it. There are 5 classes and 
 50 levels. I made one class, beat the story (which is quite short took me 10 hours) , and got to 
 level 34. Since then i dont feel motivated to play it anymore. I knew when buying it i was taking 
 a huge risk.. and now i somewhat regret it. The controls are the analog sticks to move and attack. 
 This is somewhat unusual and dosen't make much room for complex strings of combos like in most 
 action adventure games.
  
  There are some good things that make me give this game a 7.5 out of 10. The loot drops are plentiful 
 and look awesome. There are many possibilities with the different armor and weapons. There are 
 also skill trees according to your class and alignment ( cybernetic or human.. which you choose 
 early in the game) . Overall, This game was fun while it lasted, but was mostly a big letdown for 
 me eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_spaceman
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  shyeah, the game is most definately not a p. o. s.... when i read the review originally on gamespot, 
 i was thinkin, "ahhh, sh*t..... well, i pre-ordered that for nothing.." thankfully i got paid the 
 next day and was hella bored so i went ahead and purchased it... i cannot friggin stop playing 
 it! the storyline's a lil'... ahem, maybe lacking, but hell, if you like whoopin some serious ass 
 on an unbelievabe level, get it! i'm only on my first character, a berserker, and cannot wait to 
 start a commando. if you liked the baldur's gate or champions of norrath games on the ps2, then 
 you'd dig the livin' hell outta too human. i haven't even gotten online with it yet.. kinda wanna 
 be a purdy high level first, y'knawm sayin? the armors look sweeter than chocolate syrup pouring 
 out of alicia silverstones.... uhhmmm.. well, they're f'n sweet. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  p. s. absolute zero makes me hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  well, this really is a great game. I didn't really figure out why Gamespot game it such a poor 
 review. sure, the controls are a little awkward at first, but they just take a little getting used 
 to. after that, it's actually pretty fun. the combat system is really impressive and fun. the camera 
 angles are the fault in the game. because I just now completed a boss battle. I dies a few times 
 during it. because when I tried to shoot he turns around and shoots at nothing. and the boss battles 
 aren't complicated very much, but still good. and the one thing that irks me more than anything 
 else is that every time you die, this thing comes out of the sky, picks you up and sets you back 
 down. it was pretty cool at first, then it just got irritating. and the graphics are good to. the 
 other thing I wasn't very fond of was the voice acting. they just weren't very convincing to me. 
 and the story line gets a little confusing if you don't know a lot of Norse mythology. other than 
 these few flaws, the game is very fun and will most likely keep you playing for awhile. so go check 
 it out. but since there's a lot of hate going around for this games, rent it first. then decide 
 to buy it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Hybrid of N3, Diablo, DMC4 and Mass Effect.
  Game ends with a cliffhanger. 
  
  Simliar but easier (much) than Ninety-nine Nights. Using the right direction stick is a good idea 
 since it prevents your thumb from getting sore. 
  
  The main storyline is too short, by the time I finished it, could only make it to Level 24. And 
 completed within 12 hours (which includes wandering around most of all the maps) . 
  
  Targeting could have used some work... it's hard when you're trying to take out the artillery with 
 a rifle (or similar) on top of the cliffs while hordes of other monsters are swarming you.
  
  No way to cure poison and other negative effects other than to wait it out or avoid direct 
 confrontation with those types of foes.
  
  ... and yes, the Valkarie Death Scene gets old and irritating after dying for the 100th time.
 
  
  
  However...
  
  Good replay value for leveling up and collecting more goodies.
  
  Get gets better when you replay the maps at higher character levels. Your stronger character 
 
  
  Fun to play with another on Live. Too bad only 2 players.
  
  However overall, this game still rocks for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMonk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  if you like hack 'n' slash, shoot em up hybrids with some sci fi dungeon crawling thrown in for 
 good measure, all wrapped in a futuristic take on diablo, then theres a lot to like with too human! 
 but remember this is a high octane action RPG, like WoW on speed!!
  
  gamespot 5.5???? come on guys!! this is at least a solid 8.0 and it gets a 8.5 from me :)
  
 
  i want to get a 2nd copy as i have 2 360's at my home and this game is sure to be a lot of fun 
 with co-op, so i will let my son join in the 2 player action with me.
  
  dont believe the bad reviews!! the visuals are great, some gorgeous environments with rock solid 
 framerate even when theres loads of enemies on screen, and relentless combat with swarms of bad 
 guys coming at you in wave after wave!
  
  then of course theres the very fun and addictive looting side of this great action RPG, where your 
 always striving to level up your character and obtain new weapons and armor, for this part alone, 
 it deserves more than GS's pathetic 5.5!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtechie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Just flat-out errors:
  
  Too Human is an RPG, not an Action Adventure game.
  
  Kevin thinks Viking: Battle for Asgard is a better game than Too Human. 
  
  Everyone who has 
 actually seen the cutscenes has said that Too Human has a good story, as did every other reviewer. 
 
  
  I've been playing longer than 10 hours and I haven't finished the game yet. I'm about 60% of the 
 way through so I would say Too Human has about 18-20 hours of gameplay in one runthrough. This 
 criticism makes no sense because he complains the game is a time-waster later on in the review.
 
  
  Dying a lot is clearly intentional, that's why most of the classes don't have healing capabilities 
 (they aren't needed) . There is virtually no penalty for dying. In practice, you lose a little bit 
 of money. I believe the designers were trying to balance difficult gameplay with the penalty for 
 dying.
  
  So I guess he's saying that the game should be easier, but in my opinion it's already very easy. 
 
  
  My too biggest criticisms though are:
  
  The Valkyrie is obviously a LOADING SCREEN not some arbitrary delay inserted by the developers. 
 You can argue you die too much, but arguing that the Valkyrie is inferior to regular loading screens 
 (it fooled Kevin apparently) is just silly.
  
  Kevin doesn't seem to give Too Human any credit at all for having an original setting and story. 
 This is supported by his extremely favorable review of Tales of Vesperia, the 14th in the series, 
 which is a very cookie-cutter RPG that is virtually identical to Tales of the Abyss.
  
  It's not that I think that Too Human is the greatest RPG ever. It's not. I just think that a 5.5 
 is an inordinately low score (basically an F letter grade) for a game that isn't broken.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazumu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  This is a good game that has some problems. It needs some bugs worked out with a live patch. The 
 game is kind of short and lacks side missions. However, the story is cool and not confusing at 
 all like some have said. The action is fun and they set up some great puzzle ideas, but did not 
 deliver enough to make it worthwhile. The death scene needs to be shorter.
  
  Adding some download content such as short side missions or new missions in existing levels would 
 help greatly and would be easy to do. The company should do these things and make the first couple 
 downloads free!
  
  A split-screen co-op, offline battle arena with leaderboards, and 4 on 4 online battles would also 
 flesh out the multi-player but would be harder to add at this point.
  
  Overall it is worth playing through at least once or twice. Hope that the company makes the 2nd 
 one better by listening to our reviews and does not take 14 years to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GyspyDevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I agree with a lot of the complaints against this game, especially the way 
 status effects are implemented. That being said, I gave it a 9.0 because it is fun as hell, and 
 that's what video games are about.
  
  I played halfway through the game as a berserker and I was not having fun. I'm not a pro gamer 
 and only play games once or twice a week, so yah, I probably sucked at it. The point is, I switched 
 to defender, a more noob friendly class ( or maybe just fits my play style better) and I am crushing 
 all who stand before me. 
  
  It seems that your play experience vary widely with the class you choose (not always the case in 
 these types of games) as does you skill tree and equipment goals. I'm definatley one of those loot 
 whores, so I like the all the piles of weapons and armor 
  
  
  Anyway, again, I think this game is fun, I like playing it, that's why it get's a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syrionus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Plan and simple, if you liked Diablo 2 and are open minded enough to learn a new control scheme 
 (it takes about three hours too understand it and more than that to master it) , then this game 
 is for you. A dungeon crawler that is fun and as addicting as any other in the genre.
  
  A tip, get the game guide. It will help you understand a lot of the aspects of the game that you 
 don't get fom the game.
  
  A lot of PS3 fanboys and a lot of EPIC fanboys are hating on this game. Just like you shouldn't 
 believe the hype, don't believe the hate. Try it for yourself with an open mind and you will get 
 tons of enjoyment out of it.
  
  The story is above average, just not great. The ending is finaominal and alludes to where part 
 2 is going to go.
  
  Once again, the guide answers almost all the questions you will have while laying this game. The 
 ones it doesn't answer, you can get from toohuman. net or from their forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisj13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Is the game perfect no!! But what is any more what frustrates me is that review sometimes have 
 this elites approach to the games and i think it applies to this one. Yes the fighting mechanics 
 are not right but once you figure them out and understand them the game has a sense of strategy 
 to it. the visuals are nice, game play's smooth and has a nice story. All in all it is a game to 
 get just play each class and find the one that works for when you play by yourself and one to play 
 with others. The Defender has been my favorite for single player as it can take the hits and deliver 
 them as well. The Champion is my all time favorite cause of its attack power. The sequels we can 
 hope will get better and improve on what they have and add COOP on 1 system but who knows. So for 
 Odin let us smash all that stand in are way!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Though it can be frustrating at times the over all experience is quite fun. The main downfall for 
 the game play is the targeting system. You will fire off the screen or behind you for no apparent 
 reason. I don't know what it's locking on to but it would help if it was the giant enemy 5 feet 
 in front of me.
  
  This game is really a hack and slash played with the right thumb stick. This is the 2nd downfall 
 for me. You have no real control over the camera. I would have preferred the right thumb stick to 
 move the camera and an A button mashing sword play over this set up. It is a hack and slash after 
 all.
  
  The guts of the game are all there and quite soled. The item collecting being the key along with 
 the fast paced action. The skill trees may not offer a lot but they offer enough. I can't really 
 speak on all the player classes being that I've only been one. They alone should offer replay value 
 for those that take replay value as part of the package. I do not.
  
  CO-OP is key. The CO-OP functionality in this game gives it the legs to get a much higher score 
 than most have given it. To play with a friend with different skills than you changes how you play 
 and makes for a fun buddy experience.
  
  At the end of the day I hope they fix the few large flaws that this game has (and they are fixable) . I 
 think I'll just need to get use to having no camera control. There are different camera options 
 so that helps. I will say it's not worth the $60 as it stands now without being patched so you may 
 want to hold off tell the price drops some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackwell
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Game adjust to leveling up so enemies are always challenging. Camera and difficulty with avoiding 
 rockets are a problem. Exploring for loot and the endless onslaught of enemies make this game highly 
 addictive. Only took about 13 hours to beat game on first time through the single player mode. 
 Don't get me wrong the game can be incredibly difficult at times since your character has to rely 
 on enemies to drop health orbs which can be frustating unless you play as the bioengineer. The 
 bioengineer is the only character allowed to heal himself in battle. I thought the story was interesting 
 but probably needed a little more background information to understand all the noris mythology 
 references in the game. I am currently devoloping my defender up to the highest level possible 
 for the game. I think the game has definitly lived up to the hype of the 10 year devolopment phase 
 and look forward to more improvements for the next 2 games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agamemnon123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Other reviews have covered the essence of Too Human in more breadth then I will attempt to undertake 
 here. What I hope to do here is illustrate some of the gripes of a hardcore action gamer (I was 
 a Ninja Gaiden addict) and a fervent RPGer (BGII is my all-time favorite game) trying to enjoy 
 Too Human. In no particular order:
  
  Main Problem 1) Action Elements
  a) Combat Animations: Enemies have far too many annoying combat animations where they are invulnerable. 
 This breaks the pace and leads to the player taking unnecessary damage.
  b) Melee Targeting: Much has been said about the flawed ranged targeting system, but melee targeting 
 is a pain also, especially when enemies are very clumped together. Destroying the cylinders on 
 the back of the ranged trolls is a pain, as well.
  c) Battle Crys: They are almost useless. Why increase one of your stats for a battle when you can 
 just use a ruiner and wipe out everything around you?
  d) Misleading Attack Animations: Specifically, the Spider/Dark Elf thingies have a shockwave attack. 
 The animation is misleading, as contrary to what you see it hits you in the air and also has a 
 range beyond the visual shockwave.
  
  Main Problem 2) Death
  The death system in this game is broken. Not because, as some whiney reviewers have complained 
 about, you have to sit through a short 30 second animation to continue playing. The problem is 
 that it leaves you right where you left of with no substantive penalty. That means you'll never 
 be challenged, since you can simply keep hurling your body at enemies. There's no way to 'lose.'
 
  What kind of an effect does this death system have on the game? When you think about it, it's 
 an enormous one. The player doesn't have to think about survival as a necessity. What made GoW 
 and NG great is the challenge they presented to the player -- one had to clear an area of enemies 
 AND survive with enough health to face the next. That was challenge. 
  Perhaps Too Human's greatest flaw is that it gets rid of the great fundamental aspect of all good 
 console action games: challenge.
  
  Main Problem 3) Bosses
  The moment I realized that Too Human was an amateur action game was when I fought the boss of the 
 second section (Lord Hod) . I wont go into detail explaining this atrociously boring and slow paced 
 fight; I'll only say that it's probably the most idiotically designed boss fight I've ever played 
 through. I was literally sitting on my couch saying to myself "this is stupidest boss fight I've 
 ever played."
  Generally, most of the bosses are as boring and tedious, with the exception of the 3rd boss, which 
 is simply unimpressive. 
  
  Main Problem 4) Poor RPG elements
  a) Story: The story is not fleshed out. It doesn't make you care about the characters. Most people 
 know that Ragnarok means that all the Gods are going to die. And after playing this game, most 
 people simply won't care. Example: one thing that bugged me was that the game never extrapolated 
 on your sentient weapon, Fenrir, which I thought would have been pretty cool.
  b) Customization: A good customization system makes the player PLAY his character differently. 
 TH's skill trees do not do this. Generally, a berserker specced in one tree will be doing the exact 
 same stuff as a berserker specced in another tree. The only substantive customization option, to 
 me, seems to be choosing between 'human' and 'cybernetic.' In class speccing seems to have little 
 effect on what the player actually commands his character to do.
  c) Interaction: A good RPG always allows the paly some interaction between himself and the world 
 around him. TH keeps this to an absolute minimal. 
  
  
  Conclusion: The Reason Too Human Failed?
  
  Why I personally believe that Too Human failed 
 is that Dyack and company tried to make a PC Action/RPG for a console. It didn't work. While Too 
 Human clearly takes elements from great PC games like Diablo (Death System, items, mass combat, 
 skill trees) , these elements don't transition well to a console. Instead, Dyack created an action 
 game with some relatively superficial RPG elements and poor combat mechanics.
  
  Too Human is a planned trilogy. Can it be fixed for the sequels? I doubt it. Fixing TH would require 
 rethinking the entire game. Instead of making it a PC Action/RPG tuned to consoles, they should 
 instead conform it to what makes console games great. But it would be hard to make such drastic 
 changes and keep it under the same license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferna_hermit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  i was played the game az it was amazing ,game of 1000+ bugs but gameplay is fun enough to buy that 
 game .graphic seems ok , but there is no loading time you can play houres and houres butno loading 
 time is it bad ? why they compair this huge game with haze? i played haze 3.0 is ok .ign score 
 for this game is 7.8 it's better than gamespot . iknow there are some bugs and low frame and it's 
 because there is no loading time ,the story is great gameplay too ,textures are bad and low quality 
 just like metal gear 4 but they give metal gear 10 out of 10 ,i guess gamespot's review is a fanboy 
 review , buy this game and have fun for 30+ hours amazing gameplay . tons of inventory items huge 
 armor and weapons system is rpg games ever .
  
  Graphic : your charecter is full of detail but the others is not much
  
  Sound : perfect music 
 during the fighs and good voice chrectrs
  
  gameplay : some times confusing but fun
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warsawpole
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  What a shame this game turned out to be! Can't believe it took 10 years to develop this disappointment. 
 The story is just not there and the combat is unbalanced as are the classes. There is no reason 
 to get excited when all the enemies look the same. And I'm sorry but what is the point of killing 
 robots? They might as well be toasters, which I also don't want to kill. The boss fights are not 
 what they could be at all. I'm confused on why I need to balance myself on troll robots in order 
 to kill them. Does this strike anyone else as stupid?! What could have been a great loot system 
 is confusing and time consuming. Why get excited over a piece of equipment when so so many different 
 types drop continually? 
  
  It you are interested in playing this one you had better wait for it to hit the bargain bin. It 
 shouldn't take too long for it to turn up. If you are waiting for a really good dungeon crawl RPG 
 then you and I will have to wait for Diablo 3... or maybe Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome, i've got ALL major budget titles for the xbox 360, but this game just took 
 the crown.. i actually bought it thinking it would be a halo or gears of war FPS game (didnt really 
 do much research on it)
  
  at the beginning it looks like its a beat'm up game.. later ull realise its a Great action rpg 
 game, people who dont like it problably take this game as a crappy action game, its like playing 
 mass effect and then whining about it because its shooter elements arent like halo or gears.
  
  seriously this game hasnt had me this excited about playing it over and over since diablo 2.
 
  actually its alot like diablo2, u just cant stop playing it, u want to get better gear, higher 
 level, level All classes.
  when u buy this think of it as an RPG with action elements, but great ones it is.. if u see it 
 just as an action game, the fighting might get repetive, its the rpg that makes this game great
 
  
  just my 2 cents ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obiwan_1O
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok so yes the game is short but its meant to be played over several times. It may be a little unpolished 
 but the rpg elements are totally addicting and the gameplay is very fun particurley in co-op. the 
 story I though was amazing and yes i know a little about norse mythology but i was satisfied nonetheless. 
 some say the end is to open but like i said i was satisfied and cant wait for the next game. this 
 is possibly because i love reading books in series, im not sure why but probably because i get 
 invested in a world and i like to stay there. the only huge gripe i have with this game is that 
 when you play co-op it cuts out all of the story elements and seeing as i loved that it was frustrating 
 because i wanted to play through the story first like a normal game but i wanted to do it in co-op 
 because it makes the experience more enjoyable. i worked around it and will be playing this game 
 for many more hours to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomofsandwiche
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Going into this game I was skeptical, I had heard both good and bad things about, however in the 
 end i believe it was worth the wait. Too Human is an action RPG from The devolper Silicon Knights. 
 In it you play the Norse God Baludur, except this time there is a twist. Instead of normal monsters 
 you are fighting robots and the gods are cyberneticlly enhanced soldiers. The gameplay takes an 
 odd form with the right stick and triggers being used to attack. There are however some flaws. 
 These mostly consist of little graphical hitches such as you characters weapon clipping through 
 sword upon death. THe other very noticible flaw is the sometimes uncooperatable camera. While most 
 of the time it works fairly well sometimes during a heated brawl it can become unwieldy. However 
 despite these flaws i recomend Too Human to anyone looking for an enjoyable if slightly simple 
 action RPG romp untill other major releases come out. In the end this game is a promissing start 
 to what will, hopefully, be a epic trilogy
  
  and p. s. watch this video if you can get past the goofyness of it it makes a good point
  http://www. giantbomb. com/video-thing-2human/17-29/
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kos1085
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I loved the Too Human Demo and I was a little shakey about getting Too Human after reading all 
 of the bad reviews. But since there wasn't any other game worth buying right now I decided to purchase 
 a copy anyway. Here are my thoughts:
  
  Strengths:
  Gameplay: The fast paced combat is great. I just love how you can slide from enemy to enemy and 
 chain amazing combos while taking down 20-30 foes at a time. 
  
  Controls: After playing hack n slash games for so long and jamming on one button all day I find 
 it refreshing that this game tries to implement new controls. I like the new controls and find 
 them easy to use but difficult to master.
  
  Length: Only four levels and you can complete them in about 12-15 hours with the cutscenes and 
 about 9-10 with skipping the cut scenes. While the length may seem short this is good for a game 
 with a lot replay value. 
  
  Online: The only problem i have with the online multiplayer is the lack of cutscenes.
  
  Replay 
 Value: Very high. Lots of loot and five different classes give this game a high replay value.
 
  
  Weaknesses
  AI: There may be other soldiers in your single player party but they are basically useless. I hoped 
 this is improved later with a patch or in the second game of the trilogy.
  
  Targeting system: Those enemies that explode are very frustrating at times especially for the beserker 
 class because it take more shots to kill them with your guns.
  
  Death Sequence: I wish you could skip this after seeing it once.
  
  Saving: Although you can 
 save anywhere you dont always start right were you saved so choose your save spot wisely.
  
  Overall: This is not perfect but it is still a great game. I think should have gotten a better 
 rating between 7.0-8.0 because it does not seem as bad as 5.5. My advice to try the demo first. 
 If you like the demo then you will love the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WSxRyden
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played a dungeon crawler and liked it, pick up this game. That being said, if 
 you hate dungeon crawlers, than this will PROBABLY not change your mind. At its core the game is 
 a hack and slash without the normal button mashing. As of this review I have had the game 2 days 
 and have already played it for 16 hours. Its as addicting a game as I have ever played. Now its 
 time to play the devils advocate. The game has NO character customization in the realms of size, 
 shape and look. All customisation comes from pickups. The "Polarity" enemies are extremely annoying 
 and don't do anything for the gameplay. The last big problem is that its only 2 player online. 
 It is readily apparent in the game that it was originally supposed to be more than that. A lot 
 of the move descriptions state that are to be used on the "whole party". Maybe by "Whole Party" 
 they were intentionally meaning just the 2 players but that seems like a strange choice of words. 
 All that being said, this is a terrible fun game that is no doubt gonna get me in trouble with 
 my wife (due to my extensive playtime) . Check it out, 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phlynhy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Yes, the issues are there. The camera controls are tough, the item inventory is not very well streamlined, 
 noticeable yet insignificant performance glitches, and the cut scenes (other than 2, MAYBE 3) are 
 forgettable. 
  
  Yet, the camera and camera controls become a non issue once you adapt and learn them, same goes 
 for the inventory menus. The performance glitches (graphical, audio, etc) do not hinder the actual 
 gameplay in any way. But yeah, some of the cut scenes still suck. 
  
  The RPG elements are all there and make this game a pure loot-addicts obsession. This game a much 
 needed breath of fresh air from all of the "elitist" games (albeit great games, one can only feel 
 exhausted of the tried and true games that make the 9 and 10 ratings) .
  
  I've been an AVID gamer since around...'87, and this game reminded me what it is like to fall in 
 love with a game that doesn't strive to be an instant appeal to all of our "gaming senses". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HabDragon
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  After pre-ordering the game and then looking at the critic score of 5.5, I was rather worried. 
 Personally I didn't find the demo all that bad, however seeing as it was just the demo I thought 
 I was in for a real surprise. Thankfully though, the critic score does not represent the amount 
 of fun I had with this game.
  
  The Good:
  Lots of weapons and armor to toy around with. Plenty of opportunities to pull off some interesting 
 combos, skill tree to let you build your character as you see fit, graphics are fairly clean and 
 crisp, and while I have not tried the online co-op, it seems like it would be plenty fun.
  
  The Bad:
  A lot of cut scenes, camera takes a little while to get used to. If your one who 
 likes reading the manual, well there simply isn't a whole lot to read (personally don't care though) . 
 Game doesn't require a whole lot of skill to play and is rather short for an RPG.
  
  Overall this is still a fun game which does not deserve a 5.5 it received. If you enjoy hacking 
 and slashing through numerous enemies at a time, then I would check out this game and at least 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jural
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Right out of the gate lets be clear of a few things. Too Human is a Hack n Slasher, micro gear 
 managing speed fest. If you dislike an of these elements than you wont have the patients to take 
 the time and learn a foreign control scheme.
  
  The controls seem some what bizarre when you first play, nothing seems to work quite right and 
 the camera is a pain... that is for the first few minutes. The control's are actually the best 
 I've ever used for a hack n slasher, even beyond a mouse and keyboard.. that's right. Simply put 
 you can play this game for hours with no fatigue of your fingers. The analog stick for melee control 
 keeps the action as fast as I've ever seen. Once you do get use to the controls you'll find they 
 function like instinct. I do have three issues with the controls however. One the camera (Any one 
 who's played PSO or PSU will know it) seems to not always turn the direction your character is 
 facing. Two jump could have been placed better, you actually have to take your thumb off the melee 
 attack for a split second to preform juggles. Finally three no quick switch for weapons. The hud 
 and camera options could have easily been moved to a menu freeing up the D-pad for weapon switching.
 
  
  I did not buy this game the first day of release, I had read too many reviews on how bad it was. 
 It's not. I've read people crying how many times they died in a row, if you manage your gear and 
 combo right you will die once to twice a level max, as for the Valkyrie death scene most games 
 have cool down timers.
  
  Bottom line, game is fast, gear is great. With a friend the game is killer.
  
  last note, class 
 and gear balance: Guns work fine, they are not under powered, you will find certain enemies immune 
 to certain ammo types ( the reason they need quick switch ) . All classes have something to offer, 
 Defender down middle tree.. yeah you'll notice the armor difference from the other classes.
  
  If our a hack n slasher, get a buddy, get this game and give it a chance.. btw if 50% of your 
 time is not in your inventory your doing something wrong lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnowBlindD
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  First off I would like to address a review made by a previous reviewer. Yes the auto-target system 
 can be a little finicky, but that's why you don't rely on it and use your right analog stick to 
 switch your target. If you could not figure that out that is probably why you kept dieing so much 
 and hate the game. I personally don't mind the death cut-scene as I die possibly once or twice 
 a level. This game is a face paced action/RPG and is very entertaining. Sometimes the physics are 
 a little wonky, but they work if you eventually become familiar enough with the control scheme. 
 The graphics are great and the action is non stop. The story line which i've heard complaining 
 about is actually very interesting even if you are not overly familiar with the mythology. I recommend 
 buying this game and getting as much as you can out of it. This is as was said part of a trilogy 
 so take your time to learn the controls and get used to the combat system and you should be more 
 then satisfied with this game and the ones yet to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruffryd172
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  game play - quirky sometimes
  graphice - good not great
  sound - great not the voice acting
  play it more than once - fo sho
  story - not bad at all
 
  this is pretty much a game you have to be at a higher level to have your weapons do good damage, 
 and have fun. I just passed lvl 30 and just got some ranged weapons that work and it is getting 
 fun, enemies and items stay on par with your level even when playing through more than once. The 
 biggest factor in not getting a higher score, for me, was the fact that characters do not see the 
 story cutscenes when playing co-op. which is devistating to me since coop is why I bought this 
 game, overall don't listen to gamespot's reviews to decide on too many of your games..... for you 
 will miss out! this is an interesting game that suprised the crap out of me, it may even suprise 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malice_OhGr_242
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  This Game should really have been given more of a chance. with deep rewarding equipment choices 
 and a new spin on the same old button mashing the game play is pretty fun. The one thing i really 
 liked about all the customization was that there was so many different armors that each time i 
 was starting to get bored by the way my character looked i new helmet or shoulder piece would change 
 my whole scheme. The story is deep and a little hard to follow, unless you understand Norse mythology 
 in the first place in which case you'll see a interesting retelling. All in all this is at least 
 worth a rental for anyone interested in diablo-like loot hunting. I didn't get a chance to play 
 on-line yet so my review was for a solo grind-a-thon that was more fun then most would think. I'm 
 greatly looking forward to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0earthhammer0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is incredibly amusing will keep you entertained for a very long time just trying to make 
 the coolest guy possible. P. S dont choose cybernetics they get dorky helmets. so i have know idea 
 how they could pull a 5.5 outta there as$ you dont need a incredibly knowledge of norse mythology 
 hell i learned mine from beowulf and a childrens book so im guessing will they we writing the reveiwe 
 someone gave them e 'green' candle if you know what i mean (and if your to stuipid to figure it 
 out its marajuana dumb as$) and i just beat mercs 2 as well and to tell you the truth i cannot believe 
 they gave it a 5 even if they wer high i love just grabing a chopper and randomly picking up cars 
 and tossing them 2 miles in the air P. P. S if you want to beat the games ending in one shot take 
 jack the chopper blow up the tank with it then fire you nuke bunker buster and enjoy that minor (lol) 
 explosion and then enjoy the 10 min high jacking of that guys heli. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I dont agree with gamespots rating at all on this one. It may not have been the best game but a 
 5.5 come on. The fighting system is very coll, while being somewhat repetitve after a while it 
 is pretty damn cool to be able to slide around throwing enemies all over the place. The weapons 
 and armor custimzation is very cool. The so many different types of armor and weapons make each 
 time you play diffent from the last. The co-op should have been put together a little differently. 
 They should have changed the story line when you play co-op so as to make the game more interesting. 
 There should have at least put cutscenes in because if youve never played the game before and you 
 wanted to play with a friend you cantreally understand whats going on. Not that you can understand 
 too much of what is going on in the single player but thats besides the point. With 10 years in 
 the making it should have been flawless but it works for me, The story may not change but still 
 all in all a very enjoyable game i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commando-38
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  IMO this game is EXTREMELY under appreciated and the low score given to it is completely unfair. 
 The story mode is short but fun, the customization of class armor and weapons is on par or surpasses 
 that of many other actionRPGs. RPG the reviewers who gave this game a poor score seemed to had 
 missed that part. The "rooms that are too big" are filled with enemies while on online co-op and 
 its obvious that the game was made to played online. But its obvious that game reviewers no longer 
 care for non-FPSs but that's just my rant and to sum it all up in one sentence...
  
  "Rent the game, give it a shot if you don't like it what ever, if you do great just don't pass 
 it up just cause some fat idiot who has no idea what RPG means gives it it 5.5 fat points outa 
 10"
  
  (that's one long sentence) 
  
  oh and one more point to those of you who don't like to wait 10 seconds to come back after dieing... 
 if you sucked a little less you wouldn't have to watch that cut sense so much! As a Commando (weakest 
 class in the game) I can get through hel dieing once if at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sutton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Woe is Silicon Knights, as reviewers completely destroy the preconceptions of this wonderful game. 
 Let not the critics sway you from this great adventure.
  
  There are some flawed elements, such as choppy frame rates during the cut scenes. During battle, 
 however, there is not a stutter. The battle is very satisfying, though the camera might aggravate 
 you at times. Occasionally, your teammates, the "Wolves," will have disappeared after you return 
 from cyberspace. They do respawn, but this problem should have been addressed.
  
  The ballistics aiming system is odd, and not quite as effective as it should be, but it works. 
 Hopefully these problems will be fixed in the next installment.
  
  The graphics are great, the gameplay is great, and if you find the story a little vague, as some 
 have proclaimed, go purchase a book on Norse mythology with a glossary and appendices for quick 
 reference. The story is absolutley awesome, as it is based on some of the most interesting mythological 
 characters and locations in history.
  
  If you had a blast with the demo, then forget the reviews and buy the game. If you haven't played 
 the demo, forget the reviews and decide for yourselves. Too Human delivers loads of addiction, 
 replayability, and an inspiring story.
  
  I highly recommend this wonderful piece of gaming goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Baldur eh? Sounds like a game I played in like 2004... Something to do with a gate.. Anyways this 
 game is really something, I mean its like Diablo and God Of War came together and made a baby... 
 with some defects..
  
  -Story-
  Your Baldur, a cybernetic god who belongs to a group of gods who call themselves the "Aesir". The 
 group protects the humans and made it upon themself to restore the world back to its naturey self. 
 Anyways, your wife is dead, the girl that dated all the gods (cept Thor) wants to date you and 
 then theres also the fact that you dont remember to much. Crazy, but I can roll with it.
  9/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  The way you play really depends on the character class you choose. Commando's 
 stand back and shoot, beserkers just speed around flailing his swords, the champions flys in the 
 air, the defender laughs while being mobbed, and the bio engineer skips all over the place with 
 his constant regen. Fun fun fun. After killing the masses of the robotic and sometimes undead menace, 
 you can kick back look over all the random loot you collected. Wether its an EPIC Red or a WHY-THE-F#%#-DO-I-HAVE-THIS 
 Grey, all in all its random, its never boring and your always hoping for that one cool looking 
 shouder pads that look like they came from World Of Warcraft.
  
  The battle stuff is fun nonetheless , though the whole camera angle thing is ... tedious and when 
 you want to aim for a certain robot that explodes but you cant cause theres annother robot beside 
 it, and by the time you aim at the thing, you blow up and a Valkyrie comes down for like 5 minutes. 
 Ya the Valkyrie kinda makes everyone mad too, you die and you have like a whole 5 minute wait till 
 you can come back and find outthat your co op buddy stole the loot from most the enemies.
  
  Fun but sometimes annoying.
  8.5/10
  
  -Visuals-
  Beautiful. The enviroments are amazing 
 whether if its Helheim or even in the inside of a war machine, its top notch. The Character models 
 are also detailed with facial expressions and the armor are also kinda amazingly cool (For some 
 I cant say) . good job.
  10/10
  
  -Audio-
  Kinda epic sounding music to say the least. some of this music sounds like it belongs to WOW (not 
 a bad thing) . Its cool and makes you wanna destroy a massive horde of undead with a ruiner. Battle 
 Cry FTW.
  10/10
  
  -Multiplayer-
  No local stuff, but the online Co-op is pretty fun. Though I kinda wished that you can actually 
 hangout in like a community server kinda thing but perhaps the Ping would kinda well.. be interesting. 
 Theres only a 2 man co-op that lets you play over the 4 campaign levels. You cant player kill either 
 so kinda a drag and I think I remember something about a 4 man co op.. Anyways, still amazingly 
 fun but maybe some new levels and a lobby that lets you hangout with 40 other people would be more 
 interesting.
  9/10
  
  -Overall-
  Slashing Enemies, Noob tubing with the alternate fire, and having frequent tea parties with the 
 valkyries is fun, but sometimes I wish the Red Epic stuff would drop more. This game makes me want 
 to keep playing till the sequel comes out. (Which it better)
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatcatbp
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Too Human succeeds at a lot of things it sets out to do. The action is fast and frenzied once you 
 get the basics of the controls down, and is quite rewarding when you finally get into your groove. 
 
  
  However, the games biggest flaw might be poor execution of it's overly ambitious game play. For 
 one, it's a bit difficult, I would compare it to Ninja Gaiden on the original X-Box. A very steep 
 learning curve and no way to heal yourself make the beginning hours arduous. Action RPGs have long 
 used the Diablo clone, where you collect a nearly limitless supply of health replenishing items. 
 Too Human goes in the other direction, like an old platformer from the 8-bit days, where your health 
 can only be refilled by finding health powerups that semi-frequently drop from enemies or broken 
 from "boxes" scattered around the play field. This to me is the single biggest factor in the games 
 difficulty, as once you get the basics of the combat system down, you can easily survive most encounters 
 with normal enemies, it is the giant boss monsters that cause the real problems.
  
  The graphics are very nice, perhaps not the best we have ever seen, but there are many great visual 
 sequences, and the armor variety is very visually pleasing. As mentioned in the Gamespot review, 
 I hope you like watching the Valkyrie descend, because you will most likely see that a lot.
  
  I will agree that a rudimentary knowledge of Norse mythology is probably necessary for full 
 enjoyment of the storyline. The futuristic, cybernetic twist gives this story of betrayal and war 
 a twist that seems to seamlessly incorporate itself into Norse myth, which is an accomplishment 
 within itself. 
  
  Multiplayer play is very enjoyable, and gives more depth to a game that would otherwise be shelved 
 after 10-15 hours. It's very easy to reach the level cap of 50 if you have a few good friends who 
 you can co-op play with.
  
  Lastly, I am very fond of the soundtrack, the battle music is fast and heavy, fitting well with 
 what is going on your screen. My major qualm is that the voice acting seems to be very quiet, and 
 I have to have my volume turned up much louder during the dialogue sequences just to understand 
 what they are saying. Add to that no option to turn on subtitles and it becomes an annoyance.
 
  
  Overall, I am enjoying Too Human very much, and I feel justified in recommending it to anyone who 
 enjoys the action RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I am truly excited to see where Silicon Knights can take this game. The game is flawed, no question. 
 However, underneath the sub-par graphics, lack of level and enemy variety, and the fidgety camera 
 lies some great concepts, as well as a game that provides some good old school fun.
  
  The fully customizable RPG elements, as well as insane amounts of loot is where this game shines. 
 A good example and comparison being last gen's Champions of Norrath. Just a very satisfyingly addictive, 
 hunting/gathering dungeon crawler that unfortunately had a few flaws that held it back from being 
 truly great. 
  
  In fact, it almost makes me cringe just thinking about how great this game could have been. So, 
 in seeing all of these shades of an almost, but not quite great game littered throughout is more 
 than enough to make a sequel mandatory. As a foundation for what can become a great trilogy was 
 indeed laid with this game. 
  
  In my opinion, Silicon Knights just needs to improve their engine, or get a new one. Map the camera 
 to the right analog stick, and melee to the face buttons, add more levels that are shorter, and 
 vary greatly in artistic design, and add more enemy variety. Those are the only improvements that 
 I think need to be made to this flawed gem. The potential is there, therefore, a sequel is a necessity, 
 so that what this game should be can be fully realized. It would be a shame not to in this games 
 case, if you ask me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Okay, now I'm sure my opening statement may not be understood by everyone so I'll elaborate. Too 
 Human is a very different game, because of this many people will find it too different and will 
 have trouble adjusting to a new way of playing. For the most part these statements are aimed toward 
 the games melee combat system. For those who don't know in Too Human you use the right analogue 
 stick to swing you sword, hammer, or other respective melee weapon. This system can be frustrating 
 at first, but most people who give it a chance and try to learn the system will find that before 
 long they're having no problem.
  
  Aside from the initial difficulties the action aspects of the game work fairly well.
  
  Let's 
 move on.
  
  The story in Too Human is admittedly flat. There are some interesting moments particularly at the 
 beginning and very end, but the rest of the story is quite straight forward. It is a lot of fun 
 though to see legendary characters such as Thor with a cybernetic twist.
  
  The RPG elements of Too Human is really were the game shines. There is a near endless amount of 
 armor types and weapon all of which look quite different and will play slightly different. Customizing 
 your armor and weapons with dyes and runes is a real high point and will keep you entertained all 
 the way through the game. The only thing I wished had been expanded on is the cybernetics of the 
 game. I would have been nice to give Baldur a mechanical arm or something of that nature.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty standard with armor and characters looking quite nice, but with 
 fairly bland levels. The sound and music is also what one would expect of an action game. 
  
  Too Human's biggest fault is that it is short, not as short as Gamespot would have you believe, 
 but still quite short. My first playthrough which included a fair amount of exploration only too 
 14 hours. To games defense though you won't want to stop with one playthrough or even with only 
 one character. I have one of each character and plan on getting each on up to the maximum level 
 (50) . 
  
  In conclusion, Too Human is a very fun game that suffers from a few flaws including the unrealized 
 potential of the story. Even though the game is far from perfect it's still a great game and deserves 
 to be played by anyone who wants a game that is successfully different. I do not recommend this 
 game for people who do not want to take the time to learn.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: umcrouc0
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how many reviewers are complaining about the 'long death sequence' that they need 
 to watch over and over again. Here's some simple advice to make your experience more fun: Learn 
 how to actually play the game and you'll very rarely need to see it. Maybe for the first ten minutes 
 that you play you'll see it a few times when getting used to the controls but after that it should 
 be 2-3 times over the course of a mission at most. If anything the game is too easy because there 
 are too many health boosts (see something glowing near a wall and you can probably hit it to reveal 
 loot. Right after a battle it's almost always going to be health and if your health is too high 
 it will be cash) . Basically, you should very rarely need to enter a fight with low health.
  
  First off, don't believe that the controls are nearly as bad as reviews have been saying. If 
 you've played Fight Night Round 3 you'll have no trouble with the hand to hand fighting, and if 
 you've played GTA4 you'll be fine with the ballistic aiming. When you're firing just move the rt 
 thumbstick and your aim will cycle through enemies. It's actually very easy and extremely fast. 
 I've played through the campaign twice with my commando (only up to level 42 so far) so I rely 
 nearly completely on being able to use ranged attacks and haven't had any problems with the aiming. 
 I don't do much close-quarters fighting with this character but have played a bit with a Berzerker 
 and didn't have any issues with the close fighting either. It isn't 100% perfect but it's pretty 
 good. 
  
  The item and upgrade systems are pretty good. You can spend a lot of time going through the items 
 to exactly tailor your armour upgrades to match your play style but it isn't entirely necessary. 
 It will definitely help you out but you can get by with just taking the armour with the most protection 
 and weapons with the most damage if you prefer not to get too involved with secondary bonuses that 
 go along with each. The level upgrade system is straight forward enough but still gives enough 
 options to change how your character performs as well as opens up access to additional moves or 
 weapons.
  
  Graphics and sound are pretty good without any slowdown noticed even with a lot of action on the 
 screen. And there can be a lot going on in some areas of the game. The canons that fire slugs and 
 rockets are pretty rewarding with the sound turned up. 
  
  The storyline moves along fine but only really gets started since this was designed to be part 
 one of three. It's okay at moving you from mission to mission but isn't a highlight of the game. 
 
  
  My biggest complaint is the length. First time I went though the game took about 8.5 hrs. That's 
 actually not to bad but it takes at least half that amount of time to really get your character 
 customized enough to see many of the benefits of the upgrade system so you're really only seeing 
 the game's potential in the last few hours of play. You can restart the campaign with your upgraded 
 character and I was surprised that it was actually fun to play through it again without switching 
 to a different style of character. I think they cap you out at level 50 so after that I'll switch 
 to another class. 
  
  The other complaint I have is that it's a bit too easy. Part of that is when you die you come back 
 to the same battle that's still going on. The other part of it is that once your character gets 
 pretty built up the enemies don't level up fast enough to keep up. Even in the final mission I 
 could setup a plasma turrent and between that and my cannon no one could even get anywhere close 
 unless they were resistant to bullets. But by the time they reach you there are only a couple enemies 
 left so there's no trouble in taking them out even without upgraded close range combat. That's 
 maybe a bit misleading. Even before your character gets too far advanced there isn't a lot of challenge. 
 I think I died once in the first act the first time I played through and not at all the second 
 time. 
  
  Overall I think the game is pretty solid, surprisingly addictive (I actually didn't like it the 
 first time I played the demo but for some reason wanted to play it again) , and getting far too 
 much bad press. I had pretty low expectations and was surprised by how good it was. I get the impression 
 that other people had huge expectations and are mad that it isn't perfect. At least worth a rental 
 to see if you can get into it. The demo is too short to really give you an idea of the depth of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game based on the demo that I played earlier. I enjoyed to altered 
 style of combat play and the story (what was on display during the demo) seemed relatively intriguing. 
 Now having played the full game, I've come to realize that even demos can be misleading. What appeared 
 to be interesting and unique during the demo quickly became repetitive and annoying during the 
 full game play. The story, though fairly interesting, lacks depth. The combat mechanism (using 
 the right analog stick rather than button combinations) seems like it could work if it was implemented 
 a little better. However, the targeting system was flakey; and in a game where you really need 
 to take out specific targets first, the inability to target them well quickly becomes frustrating. 
 I was curious about the whole "you never really die" concept. At first it was interesting; however, 
 after a while it becomes redundant and extremely annoying. Because you end up dying so much (because 
 of the other gameplay problems) you; re forced to endure this valkyrie moment over and over again. 
 It's really kind of the worst of both worlds. Sure you can keep playing from the point where you 
 "died", but still you feel like you died and that feels like failure. I like to feel like I'm succeeding, 
 not failing. And you have to endure this video sequence over and over again. After a while it just 
 gets extremely tedious.
  
  Also, I enjoy the whole loot-gathering approach where you can build up your character and deck 
 him out with different weapons, armor, charms, etc. It gets complicated but it can be fun. But 
 part of the enjoyment is seeing your character build up into a bad-ass that can do some serious 
 damage. You never get to experience that in this game because it seems like all the enemies level 
 up with you. Even if you go back to replay an old level with a high-level character, the enemies 
 are still as difficult to defeat. So what's the point of spending all that time configuring your 
 character?
  
  I appreciate the effort to incorporate new gameplay and combat styles into a game; but when doing 
 that I would think that a company would first ask: Why are the old styles so successful? There's 
 a reason why some configurations work and some don't. So if you're going to try something new; 
 at least do a fair amount of focus group testing to see if you're going down the right path. Too 
 many companies get sucked into the "but it's so cool' problem that they fail to see the flaws. 
 
  
  In the case of Too Human, it really is a shame. You can see all the potential in the game; but 
 then you're forced to deal with the failures to live up to that potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Yes, it takes some getting used to the camera. Yes, death scene gets redundant. Few minor bugs 
 here and there, but overall I really enjoy this game and am very glad I picked it up!
  
  Most of my playtime has been co-op with my Son and we did beat it. Was some of the best co-op play 
 we have had in a long time. I have yet to complete the game solo but am about 3/4 of the way there 
 (and level 50 on my Champion) .
  
  I certainly die a lot out of co-op (Son was a Bio Engineer so I really notice the lack of healing 
 now) but then again what fun would it be without a challenge?
  
  Don't get caught up in the reviews, you should definitely check this game out if you enjoyed games 
 like Diablo, Hellgate, etc. But be warned, you may get hooked as we have!
  
  If I could change anything I would say add more areas (hopefully we can download some later) and 
 maybe some minor healing type trinket for non-healing classes. Those and a small shared character 
 vault would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooninitetwo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is getting the wrong reviews. I have played it.. a lot. It is fun the things that are 
 good about it are good the things that are "bad" aren't that bad. Play it for yourself! This is 
 a short review because I'm going to play the game now. Play it. 
  
  Good: The loot, the thumbsticks, and the replay value. The story i think there is plenty you have 
 to pay attention the story unfolds as you walk around and listen to people talking. There is a 
 cinematic at the beginning that explains a lot and there are some between the chapters.
  
  Bad: It is a little glitchy, the game is pretty short if you play straight through (who would right?) . 
 You can't respec from human to cyber (or the other way around) . I understand why but i also would 
 like to be able to choose. CAN'T USE SYSTEM LINK TO PLAY WITH PEOPLE!
  
  This is my first review sorry its short and choppy but writing about the game makes me want to 
 play it.. I am a noob so what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremiah_bear
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Not very deep (yet?, only 6hrs into it) , but its really not as hard to get into a "groove" fighting 
 that Gamespot describes. You will die alot, but after a semi flamboyant "burial" scene, you're 
 right back to it without having to start over. I enjoy it and you will too if you like destroying 
 things with over-exaggerated weapons and armor.
  
  There is really nothing more to say about this game, or at least that I want to say, but Gamespot 
 is making me put at least 100 words in this review so that I can post it. I guess I'm still not 
 at 100 words so, I'm just going to keep on typing nonsense so that I can finally hit 100 words. 
 If you're still reading this please stop because you are really wasting your time. I'm no longer 
 talking about Too Human, I'm just rambling along to hit 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daemonstar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Too Human had potential, but falls short of what it could have accomplished. Here's a quick summary 
 of my likes and dislikes.
  
  Likes:
  
  Inspiration:
  I liked the twist on the Norse legends. It brings me back to the stories we went over in school 
 and college. Having the Valkyrie come down when you die is a great touch.
  
  Equipment:
  There is no lack of equipment in this game; there is a wide variety of weapons, armor, and upgrades 
 to choose from. The option to color them is a great feature that more games need to implement.
 
  
  Controls:
  I actually liked the controls, except for the camera. Using the right stick takes a little getting 
 used to, and its refreshingly different. The camera wasn't unbearable, but I would have liked a 
 little more control over it.
  
  
  Dislikes:
  
  Health system: The health system is poor. When you're facing a couple of Trolls with a small army 
 of other enemies firing away and chasing after you, death comes swift and often.
  
  Death scene:
  Every time you die, which can be often with the grenade tossing trolls, the Valkyrie 
 scene is unskippable and takes way too long.
  
  Targeting System:
  It seems like there could have been a better solution on which enemy to target. Sometimes you just 
 need to choose an enemy, and that doesn't always happen to be what is chosen for you.
  
  Cut scenes:
  Some of the cut scenes are OK, but several others seem to fail the potential of 
 the graphical ability of the 360. They're better than the original Xbox, but not by leaps and bounds. 
 Characters' hair is rock stiff.
  
  Layout:
  Most of the areas are just way too big. It takes a lot of walking to get to the next area, especially 
 when you're back in town or in Cyberspace. Baldur's walking speed doesn't help this any, either.
 
  
  Menu Lag:
  If I were playing this on my PC instead of a 360, I would swear that my computer wasn't up to the 
 task. For some reason, the pause menu seems to lag.
  
  
  Overall, it just seems like there could have been more done to make it a better experience. Some 
 of these could have even been simple fixes (skip the Valkyrie death scenes) . Rent it first; some 
 people like it better than I. As for me, I probably won't be purchasing this one. 
  
  My rating: 6.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Ok Too Human is not what everyone expected im sure of that. It has its flaws, but also has its 
 strengths as well. The game is pretty much about Baldur a super enhanced being tht is out to save 
 the human race from the machine army. Not the most creative storyline but is infact pretty good.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of too human arent the best, but are better than most out there. They have a Orginial 
 xbox graphics look, but the graphics do not stop this from being a great game... most of the time 
 you wont even be worying about the graphics.. seeing as you'll be attacked by enemies constantly 
 and wont really have time to stop and look around.
  
  Storyline:
  As i stated before the storyline isnt orginal, basically like the matrix if you want a comparison, 
 but does keep you interested. You will be seeing alot of different people and creatures from mythology 
 such as, thor, loki, hell (who is loki's daughter) , grendel and others. All the gods, such as yourself, 
 all are cybernetic beings, meaning they are machines themselves with human looks and charateristics. 
 Baldur is the only god that fights to save the humans... even willing to kill his brother loki to 
 do so. Trust me theres a good bit to the story line but the basis of it is lke matrix.
  
  Gameplay:
  Now the gameplay is good, it has great non stop action, tons of different armor, weapons 
 and etc to choose from, and has a great co-op, but the only thing that might get some of your annoyed 
 is the controls. The only problem with them is the melee combat. In order to attack you have to 
 use the right analog stick to manuver your weapon and where you want it swung, but if you hold 
 it in that direction, he will do all the combos for you so dont worry. It may get some time getting 
 use to but in no time at all you wil get the hang of them and have loads of fun. The single player 
 is good, but the co-op is superb and i reccomend that you play the game with a friend for it makes 
 it much more fun and exciting, plus will give you better armor and weapons doing so. So if you 
 have a friend on live or at home and feel like kicking some machine butt, then this is the game 
 for you, that i promise you will be playing for hours not wanting to stop.
  
  In concusion i would say its an overall good game, but with some minor flaws. I give it an 8.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wKmike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Too human is said to have been in development for 10 years. DO NOT BELIEVE THAT. The idea of the 
 game has been around for 10 years, but actual development of the game hasn't been. The action in 
 this game is fast-paced and intense, but is broken up by long levels and cyberspace side missions. 
 The game doesn't seem very fair to you, as irradiating enemies and health orbs that never appear 
 at low health seems very common, but getting past these issues, the game is very fun and addicting. 
 I have logged tons of hours on it, have a level 50 Champion, along with a level 25 Berserker, and 
 i will continue to play this game to my satisfaction.
  Co-op is great, but for some reason, i have problems with my connection, but unsure if it's my 
 game or my router. All in all, I think this is a great game, and can't wait for the two planned 
 sequels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landris
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The concept of the game Too Human was something that pulled my attention when viewing the releases 
 for this month. Taking a look at some of the information regarding the game peaked my interest 
 since I'm an RPG enthusiast. Unfortunately, the game proved less enticing then I originally thought. 
 While the graphics are nice and the story is a decent one, the main problem this game has is that 
 its to short.
  
  In game hours I basically beat it in 12 hours. From what I've heard this game is going to be part 
 of a trilogy similar to Mass Effect. I'm hoping the next installment offers more in the way of 
 story and more to do. I understand the concept of them being gods but there really needs to be 
 more to the game then just running around hacking things, or flying through a dream world unlocking 
 wells and getting massive amounts of gear that you will ultimately salvage later.
  
  I hope they do better with the next installment because this one just leaves you wondering, "Is 
 that it?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbu85
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  When you were a child did you ever play a game of horse with the kid down the street? The rules 
 were simple do a move to get a basket and the other kid has to do the same, well lets say you got 
 a basket that was too hard to make and the kid said that there were new rules that you had to play 
 by so he could get the upper hand. That is this game in a nut shell. 
  The 3 enemy types you will face have the ability to change their element on the fly, like being 
 frozen on contact or blown up by a kamikaze unit. If that doesn't kill you your auto target will 
 think that you are doing too well and decide to change to an enemy target that is too far away 
 to attack so you'll look like a blind idiot, flailing your weapon at the air, and don't bother 
 wasting your time with the guns because they will go so far as to target whats already dead. 
 
  Oh did I mention that there are only 4 enemy character models? Goblins, Dark elves, Trolls and 
 Zombies. Yep you will spend hours upon hours fighting the same 3 types till you get to the last 
 level where the zombies show up. They spent 14 years on this game an 4 enemies was the best they 
 could do!? 
  Finally we get to the multi-player, do you remember when this game was announced so very long ago 
 when it was going to have co-op? Then 2 years ago they announced that it would have up to 4 player 
 co-op? Well some one forgot to spread the word because yes only 2 people can play online together. 
 But here is the kick in the rear, The amount of enemies you fight online have to be for more than 
 2 players. Only one player type has the ability to regenerate health, so if you want a less frustrating 
 game one player has to be a bio engineer. but only one other person can be a defender if you want 
 this game to be normal so why have the other classes if the game is too hard to play any other 
 way. If you truly want to play this game get used to dieing... A LOT! To put salt on the wound 
 you can't skip the death cinematic which is about 3 minutes too long. 
  You can see this game had potential but unfortunately Silicon Knights was too busy complaining 
 about other things to bring it out. If I were you I'd rent this game and take it back as soon as 
 I'd beaten it in 2 days or less cause this game is going to the discount bin fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator702
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Ok to start off I will say that I've seen and heard people comparing this to Mass Effect. Don't 
 do that... don't compare RPG games to others, cause they all have things to offer.. different things. 
 This game is blatantly fun... and incorporates Norse/Viking/Scandinavian mythology nicely. Though 
 I will say if you know nothing about said mythology, you wont notice the cool little things SK 
 has done. It's not confusing by any means (like GS has said) .. but its not going to excite you quite 
 as much as someone that knows anything about it. If you are into Viking Lore and are a loot and 
 upgrade person like I am.. i do recommend this game. The score gamespot has given is really ridiculous.. if 
 they said 8.5... or 8.0 or even 7.. that might make sense.. but 5.5 is too low for too human. One 
 of their complaints was that when you die.. a valkyrie comes down from and takes you to Valhalla 
 and that the animation was unskippable and long and slow... its really not that long.. and really 
 not that slow. Having it skippable may have been a better idea but its really not that bad.. just 
 think of it as a loading screen after you die, but the thing is.. thats really the only punishment 
 of dieing.. because when you come back.. youre right where you left off and no starting over. Sure 
 youre armor and weapons might be damaged but you find new ones all the time.. so.. its not enough 
 to destroy the gameplay or fun. There are however some things that couldve been tweaked.. like the 
 guns aim is sometimes off... not all the time but just sometimes... but nothing so bad that it makes 
 the game unplayable. With little things like that to be tweaked there is all the more reason to 
 be excited for the next 2 sequels I say. I am thoroughly enjoying Too Human and I say if you enjoy 
 RPGs buy this.. or at least play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blanko101
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Too Human packs a crapload of character customization and class variations, not to mention super-fast 
 paced battle sequences. There is nothing quite like a pissed off Berserker hacking his way through 
 a horde of Goblins and then unleashing the Hunger of the Bear while standing in the center of them 
 and slaughtering everyone on the screen instantly.
  The only real downside to the game is the helter skelter story that is a little hard to make sense 
 of at some points. The other slightly off point is Cyberspace.... Cyberspace is a colorful change 
 from the drab real world of machines and everwinter but slows down the pace of the game as all 
 you really do is walk around and open doors or knock trees over to open a gate in the real world. 
 Targeting can be a little sketchy at times and the camera sometimes won't cooperate quite right.
 
  Overall though the thousands of equiptment variations and weapons/skills available to lay waste 
 to your enemies vastly overshadows the story and targeting issues. All in all Too Human is a great 
 game worth throwing away many hours on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  After nearly a decade in development, Too Human should have been an epic game for the ages. Instead, 
 Silicon Knights gave us a game that needed another ten years of development. That may sound like 
 a joke, but the truth is that it's obvious the game needed more time. So many aspects fall short 
 of the mark, instead of being as solid as they should be. The game does a great job of making promise 
 after promise, and then never completely delivers.
  
  You play as Baldur, a cybernetic Norse god who must take on legions of robots in defense of humanity. 
 Along the way, you'll meet several other mythological creatures and gods such as Loki, Heimdall, 
 and Hel. The whole game is basically a Norse mythological story with a Cyber-Punk twist.
  
  What will throw some gamers off, as well as suck them in at the game's early stages, are the high 
 production values. The entire voice-acting cast puts on an extremely believable performance, and 
 the actual real-time cut-scenes are rendered incredibly well. Unfortunately, this shining quality 
 becomes overshadowed by sound glitches that happen throughout the game. At some points during gameplay, 
 you can't even hear what the characters are saying to each other. Also, the lack of background 
 the game provides on each of the characters, as well as the extremely thin storyline, doesn't give 
 you much story to watch, so enjoy what few scenes you are given. 
  
  The graphics in the game are relatively good. You won't be passing out from amazement, but the 
 game is far from ugly. Some of the environments are actually impressive with mountains in the background 
 and streams jogging across the landscape. The game consists of four massive levels, and it's incredible 
 how expansive each level actually is and how far you can see in each one. Don't start assuming 
 that those oversized levels are going to give you a lengthy game, though, as you'll finish this 
 one in about thirteen hours or less.
  
  Silicon Knights did put a twist on the control mechanics for the game assigning the melee combat 
 to the right control stick, and mapping everything else to the buttons and triggers. Pushing the 
 analog stick in a given direction is supposed to attack enemies in that direction, and it works 
 most of the time. But you'll occasionally find Baldur swinging around to hit nothing but air when 
 the enemy is clearly standing right there in front of him. And that's just the beginning of the 
 problems with the gameplay; there are so many problems you'll encounter during combat that they're 
 almost too numerous to list. 
  
  One thing or another constantly interrupts the pace of the game, so you never get into any kind 
 of enjoyable groove. Cumbersome menus plague the game, and you'll constantly have to endure them 
 thanks to the game's loot-heavy approach. You spend more time sorting out your weapons than you 
 do actually using them. Death is another problem, as every time you're killed you're forced to 
 sit through a cut-scene where a Valkyrie comes down from the sky and takes you to Valhalla. 
  
  This wouldn't be such a big deal if deaths came few and far between, but you'll find yourself 
 dying a lot for one reason or another. Whether it's the unruly camera, horrendous ballistic lock-on 
 system, or just the fact that Silicon Knights' idea of difficulty is throwing every enemy in the 
 game at you at the same time, you'll find yourself constantly frustrated. Certain status effects, 
 like poison, last way too long to even be considered fair. You'll have a full health meter, become 
 poisoned, and die before the effect wears off. If you're lucky, you'll pick up enough health boosters 
 in battle to wait it out, but the item drops are too random. You'll either end up with more health 
 than you need, or none at all. The number of poisonous enemies the game throws at you compounds 
 this issue, as does their blast radius. And if you're looking for help on this little adventure, 
 forget it. Your allies are also almost completely useless, as their A. I. is about as stump-dumb 
 as you can get.
  
  As a result of all this, the game becomes nothing more than a grind from start to finish. You move 
 from battle to battle, hoping the next one will be your last just so you can get it over with, 
 but instead they just keep coming. It's enough boredom and frustration to make the ten-hour game 
 feel like twenty to twenty-five hours. You can replay the game again, or try the on-line co-op 
 mode, but you'll be so aggravated by the end of the campaign that you most likely won't want to. 
 
  
  Sadly, this game not only refused to live up to its hype, it refused to even be a good game. If 
 you're looking for a solid Action-RPG, look elsewhere. This game is intended to be the first of 
 a three-part series, so hopefully Silicon Knights will work out something more worthwhile for the 
 second and third installments of this trilogy. They certainly can't do much worse.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReactiveDrunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Though plagued by problems for years, many of which made it into release, at its core Too Human 
 is thoroughly enjoyable. Yeah the interface kinda sucks, but the action is fun, addictive and intensely 
 replayable specifically when coop is involved. The graphics and sound are appealing despite the 
 lack of the Unreal Engine. I'll be very interested to see what they do about that with respect 
 to the sequel. The acting and story is awesome though you do need at least a very very basic knowledge 
 of Norse mythology. Think along the lines of what you could probably learn reading a comic book. 
 Finally, a solid group of character archetypes just add to the replayability in that they offer 
 players to approach a number of situations from different angles. You can't just wade right into 
 the thick of things each time. All in all, Too Human is a good game and a prime example of why 
 you should not heed Gamespot reviews. Great site, but I suspect the reviewers only play the new 
 titles during WoW server downtimes. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daninho10
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! Great gameplay and graphics and very immersive. Silicon knights did a great job 
 with the game and you shouldn't listen to the ratings the sites gave it. try it out. I loved it 
 and was immersed into the gameplay immediately. This game is amazing and should be given an award! 
 Give it a try and I know you will love it. I hope Silicon Knights doesn't give in to the stupid 
 ratings given and continue with the trilogy. I cant wait till the second, though I hope it doesn't 
 take another 10 years! Great job Silicon Knights and continue making these kinds of games. This 
 is a game that was one of the most anticipated games and it followed its rep through to the end. 
 I couldn't wait to play this game and I was very pleased when I played the game. The story is magnificent 
 and the scenery is beautiful. Play it and enjoy, and forget the ignorant ratings the sites put 
 up.=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reanor2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Too Human is probably one of the best RPGs I've played for the last few years. Its only my opinion 
 but I like Too Human more than Mass Effect. It was a fun game and I've beaten it twice, but Too 
 Human has some really great customization features and skill system that is more complex and its 
 fun.
  
  Controls - are not standard and you have to learn, so it will take up to 3 hours to learn it. For 
 example you don't shoot or use melee weapons with buttons but you do it with right analog stick 
 while sliding. Learn your moves in Advanced Combat menu, it will come in handy.
  
  Storyline - may feel plugged into the game without a sense, but only first 1-2 hours. Then it all 
 makes sense. And as further it goes as more intense and interesting it becomes. Great storyline, 
 I like it.
  
  Battle - great battle system with unique approach. You have to re-learn the combat if you are very 
 used to button mashing. It won't work in Too Human as good. Based on your skills, stats, runes, 
 charms, stats of your weapons and armor battle is so fast sometimes that after you done killing 
 mobs you go "HOLLY CRAP, THAT WAS AWESOME". I especially love killing trolls. Those huge robots 
 are very tough. But you still can kill them in like 20 seconds if you know what ya doing :) . I 
 won't spoil your fun.
  
  Sounds - Amazing music and very cool sounds all over great.
  
  Graphics - Superb, Next Gen, Mass Effect - style. Very sharp textures. Everything looks simply 
 awesome. 
  
  Love that you can go back level up and farm for rare items, armor sets etc. Monsters scale to your 
 level as does "loot" when you go back and redo previous chapters.
  
  Cons: 
  
  Now after playing game for over 100 hours I can tell you that if you want to get your chosen class 
 elite armor (red) be prepared for a long grind. Red items drop rate is extremely low and is based 
 on how many tokens overall you have collected in Co-Op missions. WS and HH are recommended for 
 red items hunt. But it will take many many hours (120+ for some) to equip just ONE of your characters 
 with full set of elite equipment.
  
  Angel sequence may get irritating, but I kinda like it, gives you a minute to stretch your fingers 
 and adds to the whole battle effect of even more realism. Soldiers in your squad are being "taken" 
 in the same manner. Kinda makes you feel that you are there...
  
  Battles get very tough on higher levels. I am level 30 and there were at least twice as many trolls 
 when I was redoing Chapter 2. If you think that you geared up and you go back to "low level" chapter 
 and pown everything - forget it :) . It will be easier due to your skills and abilities buy it won't 
 be a slaughter as instance will scale to your level.
  
  Overall - one of the best games I've played in a while. I am VERY GLAD that I didn't listen to 
 little whining babies and picked up this game. I LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slavachka
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to the review average, the game is pretty damn good. Like most other reviews state, i 
 feel its being down rated for some minor problems which don't take much away from the game as a 
 whole.
  
  Graphics are great, which really bring out the combat and equipment in the game. 
  
  Controls 
 have a bit of a learning curve due to a poor game manual, but that's gone 15-30 min. into the game. 
 Once you figure them out they are actually pretty convenient and easy.
  
  The story is keeping me interested so far, I'm enjoying the plot unfold. 
  
  Music is also 
 great.
  
  ANNOYING PARTS
  
  Camera could be a little better, but its not much to whine about. After 10 minutes in i got used 
 to controlling it and never looked back.
  
  My only major qualm with this one is the fact that certain parts of the game are impossible to 
 beat without dying! Healing is hard to find when you need it most. And the resurrection sequence 
 is beautiful the first time you see it but SO DAMN LONG with no way to skip it since you %$ 
 die so often!
  Seeing that sequence 20 times a battle sequence gets really irritating.
  
  Aside from that the game is keeping me happy with only the combat no healing 20 res sequences a 
 battle thing making me irritated. Worth a try! Maybe we're all just playing it wrong?! Timing of 
 our evasive moves?
  
  Enjoy the game kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waltersobcak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, the review on GameSpot berates Too Human, but it's really quite fun. G4's review 
 is much better, so go check it out to get the other side of the story. 
  
  The game story has some weak spots and the camera and aiming mechanism can sometimes be frustrating, 
 but the number of items and the level of customization are some of the best I've seen. 
  
  You might also want to bone up on your Norse mythology before you play so you get more out of the 
 game than just the "hack and shoot." The story pretty much jumps right into the Norse pantheon 
 without much explanation. 
  
  There are literally no load screens, so gameplay and cutscenes are seamless, giving you a real 
 sense of flashbacks. 
  
  If you like RPGs and developing your character to the point of complete bad-assery, this game is 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwoslyng
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is basic enough to get into. just doge and attack. I have beaten the game once already 
 and i did it at lvl 29 berserker. Now I am going through it again and the groups of monsters are 
 getting harder and different. The story isnt difficult to understand. Really the only things i have 
 problems with is the camera and switching targets when im using my gun, also the lack of training 
 at what everything does. And the game is too short. But since they will prolly make some downloadable 
 content since silicon knight is working on something else which means it may take awhile to get 
 a "too human 2", anyway so they might want to keeppeople interested for as long as they can manage. 
 Even though Star Wars: TFU, fable 2, and Wotlk are coming out in the next few months. Im not sure 
 what is the best color of equipment, I think its red, but I have a smaller version of thor's hammer 
 and a big red gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EphemeralDives
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Too Human 5.5/10
  
  I like the game. It was mostly fun to play.
  
  Nice graphics. The attack effects and animations are beautiful and make it a lot of fun to do the 
 combos.
  
  The controls were very intuitive and easy to learn. The combos and special attacks are easy to 
 execute and fun to use. (+5%)
  
  The camera is annoying. It rotates to the most inconvenient angle most of the time and it is often 
 difficult to see where you're going. The left button/right stick free camera is disabled in most 
 of the places where you really need it - like when the camera has rotated to look behind you. (-5%)
 
  
  No. The camera is REALLY REALLY annoying. When you're fighting and decide that a slight tactical 
 retreat is in order - but you can't see where you're going because the camera won't turn that way... and 
 then just before you run into a wall and get stuck, the camera rotates so that you can't see the 
 leader that you were trying to run away from... so now you can't see where you're going and you 
 can't see the hostiles either. And I'd love to find out who the genius was that decided to let 
 you see the hostiles spawn in front of you and just as you enter their gun range, rotate the camera 
 100degrees to look behind you. Further, whenever another Aesir talks, the camera locks on them. 
 That's fine. Except the entire third chapter is played with Thor tagging along and every time you 
 step into a new area he starts talking. So you're trying to explore while the camera is locked 
 on Thor. (-5% again)
  
  No user documentation. The manual in the box is just a copy of the control pad layout. The descriptions 
 of each button are useless: "'x' Unleash a Battle Cry". Ok... what does a battle cry do? I had to 
 go onto the internet, a 3rd party forum, to find out that the runes you insert into a charm are 
 destroyed in the doing. I had made a killer hammer rune. It had the best hammer dmg rune, hammer 
 attack spd rune and a hammer slide spd rune ... and apparently I should have put them into the 
 hammer instead of the charm. I've finished one play-through and I still don't really understand 
 what the sentient weapon is. Every fight I click both sticks and about one in five I see another 
 weapon appear and run around the map killing things. I don't know if the other 4 times I'm mis-clicking 
 or if there is a hidden cool down timer. (-5%)
  
  Walking - and walking - and walking. The non-mission areas are far too large and clunky. They look 
 beautiful but I really don't need to walk down the hallway - as long as 3 football fields - so 
 many times. If you want me to go to the feasting hall after every mission, make the hallway 10 
 feet long. Having to sit through that 30 second animation every time I want to repair my armour 
 - or buy more runes - is stupid. Especially as I can't apply the runes to the armour while in that 
 screen. I have to buy the rune, leave the screen, apply it to the armour and then re-enter the 
 screen (with the animation again) if I don't like the colour) . Additionally, don't put the weapon 
 shop and the armour shop on opposite ends of the city (unless you make it so that either of them 
 can repair both) . In the same vein, I'm going to put the cyberspace. It's a great idea, it's beautifully 
 done but it was mostly pointless. Enter cyberspace, wander aimlessly (while the camera rotates 
 to stupid angles) and find a loot tower. Just remove the well and put the tower in the real world. 
 Additionally, there are areas in the cyberspace that you can't access until you're higher lvl. 
 So even though entering cyberspace is mostly pointless on your first run through - you have to 
 go and do it all over again at higher lvls if you want the achievements. (-5%)
  
  This is yet another game designer who seems to think that we all have HD televisions. The on-screen 
 text is nearly unreadable and I had a headache pretty soon trying to read my inventory screen. 
 (-5%) .
  
  Finally, I had fun with it and I played it through pretty much non-stop. I'm going to go back and 
 try the other classes. Even with the extremely annoying bits - bits that had me swearing out loud 
 at the stupidity of the designers - I still enjoyed it. (+5%)
  
  Post-Script: Game Play - I think 1/3 of my frustrations with the game play could be based on the 
 weaknesses of the berserker class that I was playing. In the final chapter I started using my guns 
 more and some of the problems I was having went away. I was going to take off another 5pts for 
 stupid mob spawns that you have no way of defeating without multiple deaths - but then I decided 
 to try them with a champion before that. So, there is another potential 5% deduction coming if 
 I find them to be just as hard with another class. Specifically the Dark Elves and their centaur 
 boss with 20 guys machine-gunning you down and their leader with an aoe melee attack that you can't 
 avoid. If you want to kill them, you jump in with your hammer... the boss gets you. If you try to 
 gun from a distance the machine-guns get you. Maybe a champion or a commando would do better as 
 they actually have dmg with their guns. The berserker does poor ranged dmg (My hammer was rated 
 at 590 dmg, my biggest cannon was 97) . 
  
  PPS: With no passive healing in the game - and no way to carry healing 'potions', you can often 
 find yourself in the idiotic situation of having won the fight and either have a sliver of health 
 left (so you're instantly dead in the next one) or sitting at 80% health, poisoned and knowing 
 that you're going to be dead before you reach the next fight due to the poison. This is a minor 
 annoyance and I didn't feel like deducting points for it. It would fit into the same category of 
 'game play' that the spawns mentioned above are in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilDarkGon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Oh, Too Human. What can I say about you? Actually a lot. So here goes.
  
  I'm going to start with the negatives. Most reviewers don't do that, because they love to get you 
 all excited about a game and then drop the, HOWEVERs and, BUTs that can absolutely destroy your 
 desire and enthusiasm for said game. I hate that, because I always leave a review struggling to 
 focus on the positives, yet am constantly reminded of the negatives while I play. And usually, 
 it's all things I probably wouldn't have thought to complain about. But, for the sake of honesty, 
 here we go.
  
  Too Human is a great game. Aside from a few technical flaws it excels, and is probably one of the 
 most (if not THE most) innovative titles on the 360.
  
  Among it's problems (all of which I consider to be minor) are a quirky camera, over which you're 
 given almost no control. Most games use the left stick for movement and the right for camera control. 
 In Too Human, the right stick is given the task of controlling your attack commands (more on that 
 in a minute) , so trying to move the camera with it simply wouldn't have been possible. Instead 
 the camera is designed to be in the most optimal position at all times, usually staying behind 
 the player's back. Or, in some cases, in between combat, over head or somewhere far in the distance. 
 This may seem strange or awkward, but as a whole it works pretty well. Too Human seems to be striving 
 for a cinematic sort of gameplay, at least when it comes to exploring the dungeons. It works pretty 
 well and isn't REALLY worth complaining over, but don't expect never to be frustrated by it.
  
  Another item which may vex you is the combat system itself. As I've already stated, the right 
 stick is assigned the task of controlling the majority of your attack commands, and at first this 
 feels awkward and flimsy. We're all used to mashing a button, which is an aggressive sort of action, 
 and then seeing an attack take place on screen, which is also an aggressive action. The two compliment 
 each other quite nicely. In Too Human, the combat is more fluid, almost liquid, and while at first 
 this may seem unfulfilling or weak, it eventually grows on you. The kinetic sensation which is 
 delivered by the sound of your sword crashing against the metal bodies of your enemies, combined 
 with thrill of watching them fall by the dozen makes up for this strange system of combat. Once 
 you get used to it it's really not bad. The left and right triggers are also responsible for your 
 ranged weapons, so there's really nothing new there. 
  
  I should have warned you at the begging - this is going to be long.
  
  One thing I do have 
 to admit to, with disappointment, is the lack of overall polish concerning the game's visuals. 
 Some of the things you'll see look absolutely beautiful, but unfortunately, most of the cutscenes 
 and some of the battle animations just look unfinished. Too Human was originally slated to be released 
 on the Playstation 1, and the cutscenes could easily have been lifted from a PS game. They're not 
 necessarily ugly, but you can't shake the feeling that they could, and should, look much better. 
 But, again, this WAS going to be a PS2 game, so these cutscenes have probably been in existence 
 for years (Too Human has been in development for somewhere around a decade) . While I can't understand 
 why Silicon Knights didn't do more to polish them, I also am not a programmer or animator. Lord 
 knows what technical problems they encountered moving a title from the Playstation, to the Gamecube (yes, 
 it was also going to be on the GCN) , and then finally to the Xbox 360. If you keep ALL this in 
 mind, the cutscenes are bearable.
  
  Another problem with the game (not really a problem, more of a, "NO I WANT MORE") is the length 
 of the campaign. The story plays out over only four levels (hang in there, it's not as bad as it 
 sounds) , and can be completed in about twelve to fifteen hours (it took me thirteen or so) . This 
 frustrated the hell out of me, because I had just gotten my character to a point where I really 
 REALLY liked him, and was looking forward to facing the next round of challenges, which never came. 
 This, however, is compensated for, as I'll illustrate later.
  
  Perhaps the only other thing one might tend to dislike about Too Human is what happens when your 
 character inevitably dies. The combat quickly makes the jump from, "challenging" to, "Oh no good 
 Lord there are robots everywhere!", and you'll probably find yourself overwhelmed and dead more 
 than once in the first dungeon.
  
  In most RPGs death means reverting to the last save point. Some games, like Mass Effect and other 
 such titles have done away with the, "save point" mechanism in favor of a, "Save whenever you want" 
 mechanism, which tend to feature a few minor limitations. This is a stroke of practical genius 
 on the part of the developers, and as far as I'm concerned, there is simply no excuse for, "You 
 couldn't get away from that frog that attacked you with a sword and magic wand so you have to re-do 
 your last three hours of work."
  
  In Too Human you lose nothing for dying. Not gold (called instead "bounty") , not items, not progress. 
 What you MIGHT lose is the ability to use your equipment (armor and such) but this is only temporary. 
 It can be repaired when you return to the workshop at Asgard (which you can do at any time) .
  
  No, instead of losing progress or your hard earned items, you are treated to a thirty or so 
 second long prerendered animation, of a beautiful armor-clad Valkyrie, materializing in a pillar 
 of angelic light, descending upon alabaster wings of alloy to lift you from the ground where you 
 lay and carry you off into the sky, where your soul eternally dwells with ODIN. Actually that last 
 part is a lie, you respawn instantly only yards from where you died.
  
  the first few times you see this you'll find yourself, mouth agape, singing the praises of a beautiful 
 and cinematic gaming experience.
  
  After about four you'll be mashing buttons, trying to find a way to skip the cutscene and jump 
 straight to the respawn. Don't bother. You can't. As aggravating as this is I got used to it, and 
 took the break this little diversion provided to check my email, go to the bathroom, grab a drink 
 or, I don't know, take a nap. This is an exaggeration, but you get the idea. 
  
  First on the list of things that make Too Human awesome is the concept.
  
  Take Norse Mythology. 
 Odin, Thor, Loki. All those guys. The World Serpent, the giants, elves, goblins. The Norns, Ragnarok, 
 Valhalla. Even if you're not familiar with Norse mythology you've heard of some of this stuff. 
 
  
  Now cross it with high technology, artificial intelligence. Substitute godlike powers and supernatural 
 abilities for futuristic sci-fi concepts and super weapons which give the appearance of divine 
 attributes. Place it all thousands of years in the past, before recorded history, and then introduce 
 hundreds upon thousands of robots that you, the player, need to destroy.
  
  I won't divulge too much of the plot because that would ruin it. There's a bit to chew on here, 
 and you'll probably latch onto the story as you play, but it takes a back seat to everything else.
 
  
  One of Too Human's two main features is the combat. The frantic, twitch action consists widely 
 of bashing through wave after wave of robots with sword, spear, mace, hammer, axe and stave. You 
 also have access to a wide variety of ranged weapons, which take the form of either dual pistols, 
 assault rifles, or heavy cannons. Ranged weapons are divided into three types - ballistic slugs, 
 lasers, and plasma. All three have their advantages and all three are a lot of fun to use.
  
  I mentioned this in the first part of this review, but the combat controls are another feature 
 worth noting. They've been met with polarized reception. A lot of people seem to hate the scheme, 
 while a lot of other people seem to like it.
  Melee combat is controlled by the right and left sticks. You move and direct yourself with the 
 left stick, and signal attacks with the right. It takes some getting used to, but once you get 
 the hang of it it's actually not bad. It begins to feel liquid after awhile, and seems logical 
 in one sense or another.
  Ranged weaponry is operated by the left and right triggers, just like a traditional shooter, so 
 that particular setup feels perfectly natural. Various special attacks are activated using various 
 face and shoulder buttons.
  
  
  Too Human's second main feature lies in it's RPG elements. You gain experience by destroying enemies, 
 and level your character up accordingly. At the beginning of the game you're given the choice between 
 five character classes: Champion, Defender, Berserker, Commando, and Bio Engineer. Each class has 
 it's own distinctive characteristics, and you'll want to play through the game more than once to 
 really appreciate the sheer scope of variety between each class.
  For example, the Commando's main focus is ballistics, ranged weaponry. Using the commando, the 
 game almost plays like a third person shooter, as your guns will do a tremendous amount of damage. 
 Play as a Berserker and you'll spend more time hacking and slashing away at enemies with dual swords. 
 Defenders have high HP and defense, while Bio Engineers have the ability to heal and cure status 
 ailments. The Champion is your all around, balanced character, with fairly equal distribution in 
 every category.
  
  You'll spend nearly as much time customizing and upgrading your character as you do in combat. 
 Tens of thousands of combinations of armor and weaponry are at your disposal with any one class. 
 Factor in all five classes and you have a depth to the character building that's thus far unprecedented 
 on the Xbox 360. I honestly can't think of another game to date on the console that simply offers 
 this many choices when it comes to creating a character. You also have the ability to adjust the 
 color of your armor and weapons using special Runes.
  Runes are also worth mentioning, as they can augment your stats when attached to the empty slots 
 of your weapons and armor. Think Materia, ala FF7, only there are hundreds of different runes which 
 you can gain access to, and instead of granting new abilities they augment certain stats.
  
  Too Human's story is interesting. While it's no Final Fantasy, it is enough to keep you wondering 
 what's going to happen next, and there are a few moments where I literally leaned forward in my 
 seat and said, "Woah." The ending in particular ups the ante as far as plot goes, and while it 
 ends on a brutal cliffhanger, it's guaranteed to leave you wanting more. 
  
  Too Human is also enabled for two-player co-op via Xbox Live. I've played a few sessions with a 
 friend, and I can safely say that this feature is where the game truely shines. A few technical 
 quirks aside, co-op is both satisfying and engrossing. Players can have a choice of settings when 
 it comes to loot and experience distribution, and can also trade items and in-game money with each 
 other.
  
  The game is also loaded with a treasure trove of achievements, fifty to be exact, with several 
 linked to the story and several more which require a little extra effort on the part of the player. 
 One requires you to level each of the five classes up to a certain level, while others cannot be 
 achieved without the help of a friend. There are many which are unlocked by killing so many of 
 a certain type of enemy, and others related to skill points and leveling up. Pretty much the entire 
 spectrum of the game has at least one achievement attached to it. I finished the campaign mode 
 with six hundred points even, and after building a few other characters and playing some co-op, 
 I'm at over seven hundred.
  
  All in all Too Human is a great game. I find the more I play it, the more I enjoy it, even beyond 
 when I first booted it up. The newness and novelty of the title seems fairly intact even after 
 four days of playing it, and while the repetitive combat grows stale after a couple hours, I continually 
 find myself coming back for more. Now that the groundwork's been laid and the engine's been built, 
 we can only hope that it won't be too long before Too Human part 2 hits the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacadekrazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  This is actually a very good game. The motion from the characters when they're talking is good 
 so it doesnt look like a japanese film with english voice over. Controls are fairly easy to grasp 
 and feels unique in battles. The critics who talk about the glitches and issues with the third 
 person views, I dont see it. The game does a good job as far as the frame rate and everything else 
 even with many enemies on the screen. Impressive enviroments and character details just add to 
 it. 
  Replay value is very high and fun with the online co-op feature. It is your choice of mission from 
 the campaign and go at it with your friends with no cutscenes but plenty more enemies. When leveling 
 up this could help boost your level doing a co-op mission by yourself since there will be more 
 enemies on screen for you but it makes a good challenge. Its worth the full retail price but wouldnt 
 hurt to wait since the price drop wont be long behind the game because of the rediculous low scores 
 it receives. Few games on the 360 have this kind of replay value so it would be a better buy rather 
 than rent kind of bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoiler14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Im not gonna say this is the best game in the world but if you love hack and slash combo driven 
 combat this is a great game. There are plenty of items of all rarity, set bonus', color options, 
 runes for inserting. And I personally like the story. It is a pretty cool take on Norse Mythology. 
 
  
  I would definitely would recommend this game to people who like games like Diablo and like Dynasty 
 Warriors. Thats the best way I can paint this game. You have the item collection and customization 
 of Diablo with the action combat of Dynasty warriors. You also get a dumbed down skill tree in 
 comparison to the option in Diablo 2.
  
  Def. worth $59.99 especially if you will have a friend to play with. Plan old great fun, may not 
 be graphics shattering, physics shattering like Force Unleashed. But this is a great Action/RPG 
 in my book. Do not believe some peoples reviews it is all strictly opinion. Best bet is to download 
 the demo and play it throughout and give it a shot. It does get better later in the game though 
 that you do not see in the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me say up front this game is a solid "B" for me and most of the time a "B+" game. There are 
 a few places where the game was frustrating control wise. This may just be me. I'm not the most 
 skilled player, particularly with a console controller, so others may not have the same level of 
 problem. But even for me the frustration was rare.
  
  Other problems, like the graphical glitch causing the Valkyrie's feet to often sink into the floor, 
 are minor and really don't affect the gameplay.
  
  It helps when playing Too Human to have a basic understanding (something beyond Thor in Marvel 
 Comics) of Norse mythology, particularly around Ragnarok and the major figures involved. While 
 taking some fairly obvious liberties, the story of Too Human is rooted in this mythology. Odin 
 is heard but not seen, but most other prominent Norse gods make an appearance, including a level 
 where you fight along side with Thor.
  
  The game's controls are not standard, particularly for a shooter player like me, but once you get 
 the hang of using the right analog stick to attack, it works really well (most of the time - see 
 comments about frustration above) . Baldur can wade into a group of enemies and lay waste. He can 
 also stand back and use guns. The guns seemed less effective generally, but were useful in most 
 of the boss fights.
  
  Once you get the hang of the controls, the game really is fun. If you downloaded the demo and did 
 not like the control scheme, play through the demo a couple of times. If you finally get it, play 
 one more time. If you don't like the game on that last play through, then just skip it. But I suspect 
 once you get the hang of the controls, you're going to enjoy this game.
  
  There are five classes to choose from at the start of the game and a fair amount of customization 
 that you can do. The choices are not as clear to me as they were for a game like Knights of the 
 Old Republic, but I can see how a Bio-Engineer would play different than my Defender. This is one 
 of the big benefits to the game. I'm going to give it at least one more run through with a different 
 class just to see how much it changes the game.
  
  So why did Gamespot rate the game so low? I'm really stumped on that question. I can see that some 
 people may not like the game. The time spent at Aesir and in cyberspace may be slow for the typical 
 shooter fan. However, I did not find the time to get around to be as bad as was stated. Definitely 
 the time to travel from city to city in Assassin's Creed was longer and in KotOR there much larger 
 spaces where no action was occurring. The only thing I can come up with is the controls. They are 
 not standard and some people may not have adapted.
  
  So, if you like action games, it's worth downloading the demo and playing through that a few times. 
 If you get the controls, I think you will find Too Human to be a great gaming experience. And if 
 you play as a Bio-Engineer, let me know how that works out. I think I'm going to try the Breserker 
 next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havok666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  For the most part I enjoyed this game. As a big fan of Norse mythology I really got into the premise 
 the game was putting forth. 
  
  The camera was an issue at first, but after getting the hang of the controls it was a minor gripe. 
 Using the Right Thumbstick to control the melee moves was an interesting choice and paid off for 
 the most part. Some of the moves that Baldur was able to pull off were fun to watch. 
  
  The skill tree had some interesting choices. In the future installments of the game I would like 
 to see an option to place points in all areas and not just one string, with some kind of interface 
 to swap out the X and Y spider abilities and battle roars. To me that would add a bit more customization 
 to the character. 
  
  The graphics were well rendered and the music was decent. During one fight in the World Serpent 
 against the large troll/giant hybrid I particularly thought the music was great. It would have 
 been even better if the loop was longer! 
  
  Storywise there was not as much as I was hoping for, but enough to make me want to play the next 
 installment. The Norse myths were blended well into the story. From Loki's ability to warp reality 
 and play tricks to Odin's ravens watching events that he himself was not present for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  After dedicating a couple afternoons solely on playing this game, I have to say, the cons outweighed 
 the pros. Although I eventually became used to the camera, I thought that the views could've always 
 been better. I love hack n slash games, but killing enemies became so, so, so, old. There was no 
 feeling of accomplishment, it just seemed so simple. Why did I feel obligated to avoid close range 
 combat as much as I did? The story line was average. 
  If I even speak about how I feel about the controls, I guarantee I will get a bunch of messages 
 filled with vulgar language, so I won't bother. If whoever bothered to read this claims that these 
 are how next-gen graphics are suppost to look, then... jeese... good for you. I am so dissapointed, 
 this game was not worth my time and is already on craigslist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grungee
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Does Too Human have flaws? Yes. By the hoary hordes of Heimdall, yes. Is it as bad as many "professional" 
 reviews are making it out to be? No. By Odin's black ravens, no!
  
  If you like Diablo-esque hack & slash loot-fest dungeon crawls, then Too Human is actually a pretty 
 good bet for you. You'll have fun allocatin skill points, burning through hordes of enemies, and 
 collecting upgraded armor and weapons. In short, this is a pretty good romp on the 360.
  
  There are problems, of course. The story is a jumbled mish-mash of pseudo-Norse mythology and cyberpunk 
 conventions which often doesn't mesh well. Co-op only allows for two-player over Live despite earlir 
 promises. There is a definite learning curve to controlling the two analog stick approach to combat. 
 None of these issues, overwhelm the positives, however.
  
  Ignore the controversy surrounding the designer and the ridiculous claims at innovation. Just enjoy 
 Too Human for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The incredibly long wait is over and Too Human is finally here. The game's story focus around Baldur, 
 a cybernetic god out to save humanity from being eliminated by the machines. The story here is 
 based on Norse mythology with a cybernetic twist added here which works out pretty well. Anyway, 
 the graphics are great, the character models of Baldur and the rest of the gods are just fantastic 
 and so are some of the bosses. Your immediately dropped into the game to lay waste to all those 
 who would stand before you and this is were Too Human really shines: the game-play. Baldur is truly 
 indeed a god as you will see as you take on 50-60 enemies all at once without even breaking a sweat. 
 The camera in Too Human is very good, you won't have a problem with at all in the middle of combat. 
 As you progress you'll level up and be able to acquire skills that mapped to either the RB button, 
 the X button or the Y button (take note that once you go down certain path you can't get out of 
 it unless you respect you character, i. e. you play as commando and you decide to go down the left 
 side of the commando skill tree, you then pick the second power of the left side and are then locked 
 out of the second powers of the other skills) . The enemies in the game consist of the machines 
 which are goblin's, dark elves and Trolls, other then those foes are the bosses you will be facing, 
 which makes which wish for a little more variety in the enemies. Along your journey you'll be picking 
 up new equipment... LOT'S of new equipment. Everywhere you look theirs loot to be found, whether 
 it be bounty (the currency in Too Human) or armor/weapons. The music in the game is solid here, 
 it's good but nothing that will blow your mind away. The voice acting is also pretty good, most 
 noticeably Baldur's voice work is probably the best here. However the game has a few minor problems 
 with it, most noticeably is Cycling through the menu interface can be a little annoying, another 
 then that it's all good. Overall, Too Human may not live up the hype that was being built around 
 it but it is nonetheless a great game. For those that games like Diablo or are into Norse mythology, 
 this is something you should defiantly look into. For anyone with a interest in Too Human but not 
 completely sure as whether or not to but it, give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakHub
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Once again, another game falls victim to over-hype. All the press leading up to this game looked 
 favorable, like it might not suck too bad, like most games coming out in Q4 every year. But there 
 are some flaws in this one, which hopefully will be remedied.
  
  I liked the Norse mythology-gone cyber spin. However, I didn't like having to research the exposition 
 that the game completely fell on its face explaining. I knew as much as anyone about Norse mythology: 
 that Thor had a big hammer, that Hel was a bad place to be when you die, and that you want to die 
 a valiant death so a hot chick can take you to the ultimate booze fest in the sky. But everything 
 else, from the other gods to their relationships, I knew diddley squat. It was a little annoying 
 having to research a game instead of just letting the game tell its own story. Just because the 
 game is based on historical facts doesn't mean the designers or whoever can skimp on telling the 
 exposition, a core piece of any tale. The rest of the tale, however, after going out of my way 
 to get the lost exposition, followed the real Norse mythology fairly well and made the story enjoyable.
 
  
  The game play is a mixed bag. The melee combat is fun for a while, especially with the melee-heavy 
 classes. While the frantic pace of melee combat is fun and engaging, the ranged combat is a little 
 dry. It plays like Mercenaries' shooting system, but a bit more broken. The targeting system doesn't 
 always lock on to enemies so you sometimes end up shooting air. When you kill an enemy, instead 
 of switching to the next one, you have to manually switch to a different one. Sometimes the controls 
 to switch don't work right away and you shoot the corpse until it disappears, when you start shooting 
 air again. The energetic pace of melee is lost in the shooting because all you end up doing is 
 pumping shots while strafing and running away. The melee is fun, the shooting isn't as much.
  
  Death is always a bad thing, but especially so in this game. Whenever you die, an extended, 
 unskipable cut scene where your body is taken up to Valhala shows. Because only 1 class can regenerate 
 health, and the health drops aren't as frequent as one would like, you end up dying pretty fairly 
 frequently past level 20. This cut scene becomes the bane of your existence as the monsters get 
 harder and harder and kill you more and more often. Fortunately, the only other death penalty, 
 other than having to wait seemingly endlessly, is your armor taks a hit, which can be repaired 
 at any time. Death is a big annoyance in this game, but with patience, its not that bad.
  
  The RPG elements of this game are pretty good, when compared to the rest of the game. The level 
 of customization you can have with all the armor and weapons is nearly endless, and option to match 
 the color of these various armor segments is nice so you don't end up looking like a clown with 
 too much metal on. The skill tree options seem well balanced for each of the classes. No one branch 
 is too over powered against the other branches, though some classes seem to be underpowered. The 
 choice of picking whether to be cybernetic or human in conjunction with your main class makes for 
 a good amount of character customization as well.
  
  One key problem the game has is pacing. Areas are too big, the fights are either over too quickly 
 or are too drawn out because of repeated deaths, and cyberspace has too much of nothing between 
 the little pieces of "puzzle". Between each fight, you have to walk around for a good 30 to 45 
 seconds to get to the next one, which is a long time after you've been flying around and beating 
 the junk out of robots. Aesir, the home base of your character, is too big because you have to 
 walk a distance between each of the different places, and then walk a distance once you're in the 
 places to actually buy stuff or w/e. Again, its not that bad if you have patience, or something 
 else to do while you're in transit, either up to the sky or down the really big hall.
  
  
  The co-op play is fun as well. In fact, its probably the best part of the game. You don't have 
 to sit through the hand full of unskipable cut scenes or wander through Aesir for the unessential 
 parts of the game. You just play what the game was all about: fighting a bunch of enemies. The 
 teamwork is nice because you can have one guy stay in the back and support while the other guy 
 goes in with the melee and whack things up a bit, or any other spin on co-op you might develop. 
 It could have been better handled though, seeing as how you can only have 1 buddy, and you can't 
 easily go to Aesir when you need to repair your armor. But overall, its a better game when you're 
 playing with a friend, as most are.
  
  All in all, Too Human is an alright game for those compulsive loot collectors out there. There 
 are some flaws, some are harder to overlook than others, but its a good hold over game for a while 
 until Gears 2, Fable 2, or whatever the next big game coming out that has your eye is. If you like 
 RPGs, this would be a good rental, but I'd think twice about recommending a buy, unless you just 
 have to grind up characters and collect a bunch of loot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Too Human, developed by Silicon Knights, puts a spin on Norse mythology in this action/rpg hybrid. 
 You play Baldur, a cybernetic god with a very slight case of amnesia.
  
  The cut scenes in Too Human are well done, but it does seem like there are bits and pieces of audio 
 that just take away from the feel. Also, if you get any kind of status affect that hurts Baldur, 
 you'll hear him grunting and moaning in pain during the cut scene.
  
  Too Human is all about two things, action and a massive amount of loot. The controls in Too Human 
 are done well, yet at times seem a little unresponsive. You'll often find that Baldur will randomly 
 slash and slide around the level as he randomly targets enemies on the other side of the room. 
 You're always finding something new to equip to Baldur or create with your hard earned bounty, 
 but you may notice that your inventory fills up quite fast so you're always salvaging something. 
 There are a few bugs and glitches. I noticed Baldur would occasionally slide to one side while 
 facing in a different direction and once he slid straight up in the air while I was playing. He 
 then proceeded to hit the targeted enemy who was on the floor below him with his sword. Enemies 
 also tend to gather on the floor beneath Baldur's feet, making it longer to land, while the enemies 
 below you pummel you. The death sequence is probably the worst thing in the game. Once Too Human 
 begins to up the difficulty, you'll become acquainted with this scene... A lot. You die frequently 
 and since the only penalty for death is some damage to your armor, you get thrust right back into 
 the fight 20 seconds after you died. Your allies, well, they're worthless. They usually die just 
 as a fight begins.
  
  But in the end, after all is said and done, you get past those minor bugs and glitches, the game 
 is still fun. It really makes you feel like a god when you're sliding around a room killing what 
 ever gets in your way. If anything, you should at the very least rent Too Human. With five classes 
 to choose from and the achievements, there's plenty of replay value. There's also 2 player co-op 
 so you can enjoy it with a friend over Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, did Too Human have some serious hype? Yep. Did it live up to the hype? Nope. 
  
  Now, with that said, Too Human is a pretty good game. Not great, but not bad in a longshot. It's 
 really hard to break this game down to one score, so I'll try to split it up a little:
  
  Graphics (Pro) : Most of the time, you're spending your time in dungeons. They're pretty much all 
 your "dark" faire, but the lighting events are pretty good and the action is fast. The cut scenes 
 are all done with the in-game engine and look good. 
  
  Graphics (Con) : Eventually, you're going to acquire lots and lots of loot. It's too bad that your 
 toon is a little small to really notice how he looks with all that cool stuff. 
  Graphics Overall: 8.0
  
  Sound (Pro) : The music in the game is really nice and adds a nice 
 touch to the Norse storyline. Mostly classcial with some choral work as well. The voice acting 
 is very good and really adds to the storyline. 
  
  Sound (Con) : I really con't see a negitive here. Pretty good all around. 
  Sound Overall: 9.5
 
  
  Playability (Pro) : This is an action/RPG. That being said, the action is fast and a lot of fun 
 to see. You get plenty of loot to customize your character during the game. You all have skill 
 trees for each of the five classes. The classes are very different and lots of fun to play. I've 
 only played the mele type classes, and they're a blast.
  
  Playability (Con) : Targeting, targeting, Targeing... I would have to say this is Too Human's biggest 
 flaw (IMO) . If you do use your guns, you really have a hard time targeting what you want. You may 
 have your enemy targeted for the time being, but all of a sudden you'll target something that's 
 not even in range. Don't know how this got through, but this is one of the bad parts of Too Human.
 
  Playability Overall: 6.5
  
  Fun Factor/Value: With the co-op multiplayer and the five classes, I really would give this a thumbs 
 up for fun and value. If you like action with plenty of RPG elements (and killing things LOL) , 
 you'll be right at home with Too Human. 
  Fun Overall: 9.5
  
  Story: I'm the wrong person to ask here becuase I love Norse myth., but the story is pulled off 
 very well. The only problem is the pacing of the game. They did a great job with integrating the 
 Norse point in Too Human, but right when the action gets good, you're pulled somewhere else (ie. 
 flashbacks, etc.) . It still makes for a great story, you'll just find yourself wondering what's 
 going on sometimes.
  Story Overall: 8.0
  
  If you can get past the bad pacing the targeting system, you'll really find yourself liking Too 
 Human. I know I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazane
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been much much worse. If the biggest problems people have are camera angles 
 and a long death sequence I don't see why it got that bad of a review. Save for the lack of health 
 drops I have very few major issues with the game. Most of the classes have something too offer. 
 The commando is a little tricky being as there are many enemies that are resistent to ballistics. 
 It is also good that the game has a decent replay value, because it is a bit on the short side. 
 Overall I think it is enjoyable paerticularly when playing co-op. The game is difficult only because 
 of the low number of health drops. Also, many of the damage over time status effects last to long, 
 or are too strong. Hopefully there will be some form of downloadable content such as a new level 
 to give people that have a lvl 50 character to continue with a purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron-B-O-B-Bob
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the official reviews of this game I was really disappointed, and almost didn't 
 get it. I did any way and I must say, I'm glad I did.
  
  While the controls take a while to get used to, once you get the hang of them the game gets pretty 
 fun. You're killing tons of the same monsters throughout sure, but its always fun to be killing 
 multiple enemies at the flick of the right analog stick. The customization is really the high point 
 of the game, and while the only thing I don't like about it is the fact that your armor slowly 
 gets worn out every time you die, its still fun to put new armor and weapons on your character.
 
  
  Some issues I had with the game was that the visuals on the game sometimes look like the games 
 on the PS2. I also didn't enjoy watching the 20 second death sequence after each time I died. I 
 also had a slight issue with the camera and I sometimes wish that the friendly AI was more helpful. 
 Overall though I say that the game is good and I recommend it to anyone who likes this genre of 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croagnon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  After reading countless reviews by critics slamming this game, I had no intention of buying it. 
 However, I managed to borrow it from a friend, and was pleasantly surprised by the innovative gameplay. 
 Sure, it's definitely not perfect. The camera is all over the place, the death scene gets tiring 
 after the second time, and some of the graphics and frame rates wouldn't look amiss on the PS2. 
 But, in there is a good game - with an intriguing story, addictive customization and fighting, 
 and the sense that the company tried to do something different. The tutorials are a little lacking, 
 and the menu system for the weapons a little "too busy", but I'm a sucker for skill trees, and 
 hunting for treasure isn't as annoying as in other games. While I'm only five-plus hours into the 
 game, I have a feeling I'll be playing this one til the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ablain1981
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I spent altogether too much time playing the demo for Too Human and I anxiously awaited its release. 
 I remember how disappointed I was when I saw Gamespot's review. I was worried that the game that 
 I wanted to play so badly existed only in my mind; that the demo was as good as it was going to 
 get and I'd have to be satisfied with that.
  
  Fortunately I decided to chance it and I discovered that the game that Gamespot reviewed exists 
 only in their minds. It's not that the pitfalls that they outline in the review don't exist - it's 
 that they're not as bad as all that.
  
  Yes, the world is huge and there is some running to do. But these stints are five to ten seconds 
 at most and the world is so beautiful that you don't notice. Yes, the control system is new and 
 it takes some getting used to. Is the control system broken and confusing? Not at all. And absolutely, 
 at 10 - 12 hours on my first play through the game is a little short. But the first thing I did 
 when I beat it was start right back in with the same character, continuing to level up.
  
  There's tons of gear to customize, everything looks great and it's just plain fun to mow down dozens 
 of enemies. If there is any part of you that remotely liked the demo, you will love the game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraycat7055
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has been dissing TH since the day the demo was released. Sure, it isn't for everyone, 
 but you sure as hell can't say it's not for anyone.
  
  Too Human doesn't have a learning curve at all. Simple two analog stick controls work just great. 
 The story is enough to drag you in. Sure, some of the player models and voice acting could use 
 some work, but it's a trilogy, people! They will fix all that in the years to come.
  
  The combat system might be called "simple", and it sure is, if you don't know how to use it. The 
 combos make this game fun. It makes you feel like the biggest baddest motha since Steven Segal. 
 The juggling and the air attacks is what really pulls you in. Getting swarmed by about 50 zombies 
 or robots all at once and you have to juggle them all up and pull some aerial attacks on some of 
 the heavy characters is awesome. This game makes you feel like a god.
  
  The loot is a big part of this game. You pick up some new shoulder pads and then 30 seconds later, 
 you grab some more. So you hop in your inventory and put them on, add some color charms to make 
 all your gear match, then go out and get some more. The looting and customization systems are endless 
 fun.
  
  Sure, the cyberspace portion of the game could use some work, and sure, the game could sure as 
 hell use a sprint button. But, at the end of the day, Too Human is fun. In fact, so fun that what 
 seems like 2 hours will end up being seven hours.
  
  If you want to get the first part of the three part story, I recommend Too Human as at least a 
 rent if your skeptical. We all know all the bugs and miscues are going to be fixed by Too Human 
 2. Go into the experience with an open mind, have fun, and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gforcex5000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  - good graphics
  - character classes and lots of lots of items;
  - mix between action , adventure and RPG;
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  - very unbalanced;
  - weird 
 controls;
  
  I waited very long for this game then finally it was out. The game was everything but what I expected. Let's 
 start from the begining!
  This is an action game with RPG elemts (skill tree, item crafting, character level etc.) that features 
 5 character classes each one with uniuque abilities. The whole story is based on norse mythology 
 but unfortunently nothing ground breaking, for example the action takes place in futuristic dungeons 
 or glaciers or platform looking terrain where you fight "futuristic" goblins and all sorts of mithical 
 creatures. The action is pretty fast paced and the controls are innovative but poorly implemented: 
 you atack with the left analog stick (move it toward and it atacks in front of you , move it to 
 the left then it atacks on your left side) . While on one side they work fine on the other hand 
 you cannot perform any combos and it can get very confusing sometimes in wich direction the enemy 
 actually is. On top of that the game is very unbalanced for example there are irradiation or frezze 
 effects that take very very long, enough to kill you and since there are no potions in the game 
 only "health orbs" that are dropped by the enemies you can quickly die. Or while you battle one 
 enemy , antoher one showers you with grenades. This brings us to the next problem..."dying"!!! 
 When a player dies an "unskippable" animation is played in wich a Valkyre (similar to an Angel only 
 part mechanic) takes your body and flies into the sky. In this game you will die many many many 
 times because it's unbalanced gameplay so be prepeard to see that animation often.... very often. 
 The problem is... no matter how much you level up the enemies are always stronger than you.
  Now to the fun part!! Character customization is the part where the game shines. Lots of itmes 
 can be found , enchanted (inserting different runes with different effects) and use to make a unique 
 custom character. if you find ,for example, a good sword you will have the satisfaction of killing 
 hordes of enemies very fast and the loot is satisfying but asside from these aspects that pretty 
 much is it.... the game has nothing more to offer.
  In conclusion "Too Human" is not a bad game it just has some strange balance problems that makes 
 you ask yourlself "what were the producers thinking ?!" and also bad implemented controls (very 
 innovative ,I have to admit, but... was it really necessary?!) but nevertheless the gameplay and 
 character customizations manages to save the game from a total dissaster.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright im gonna keep this review short and sweet. First the story makes snse but gets worse then 
 keeps getting worse. The gameplay is broken using the anolog sticks you attack enimies but it seems 
 to auto lock on random enemies and makes it easy to die alot the attacks with guns or else are 
 bettr but a waist. The game has class systems but the balance in them is not even there olysome 
 can heal others need to find things to heal them which turns it boring. This game the only thing 
 that works is online coop but this flashes out the entire story but it actualy works better beause 
 the story is a mess so yea go test it if u want to try it yer probaly gonna want to try it online 
 but in my case this game has very low replay value since the enimies you encounter are basicly 
 random variations of the same enimies and the weapons are basicly there laid out for you nothing 
 really to custimize besides aromor and stuff but yea go try it if you really want to but im not 
 goin to play this anymore than i had to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GluttonCZ
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok. This is dungeon crawler game. based on farming. Just like Diablo, etc. So lets start with fighting 
 and RPG system.
  The fightin is actually fun. But the game is missing tutorial, so one can have trouble and think 
 that the game suck until he learn to use combost and special abilities. Then you will be ok. There 
 is depth in the combos, but they are still easy to manage. And fighting is fun. It it not start 
 booring me yet.
  RPG system is also deep. You loot tuns of items. Weapons, armor, blueprints, charms and runes. 
 You can use runes to upgrade weaposn and armor. You can completer charm quests to gain spcial afects 
 to your attacks - there is really lot to micromanage. And you can customize as you wish. Considering 
 genre of the game - it is good think.
  The sill trees are little easy. They are important. But each invested point gives you only small 
 bonus. You almost dont feel you are getting stronger. This is bad for this kind of game.
  
  The story is good. But you need to know norse mythology. Otherwise you will be confused and think 
 it sucks. i suggest reading about Baldr dead, Lokis childrens, Aesir Vanir War, ragnarok, and world 
 creatin before starting the game.
  
  There also some issues with this game. Asgard and cyberspace parts are too long and nothink is 
 happening there - its booring. Thee are even small bugs - but nothink that affect gameplay.
  
  Oh and - music and most of the voices are perfect. Doing half of the atmospfere.
  
  So 
 until you are in the combat - it is great fun. Betwen combat can be little booring. But overal 
 feeling is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game may not be a GTA 4 but it really isnt a bad game at all i actually think that this is 
 one of the better games i have played in a while. The story line does seem a little choppy and 
 you feel like you never get the big picture but guess what welcome to methology 101. I think this 
 game has all the action it needs.
  The control scheme for me actually works out rather well. Using the left stick to move and the 
 right to attack is rather fun, although some people may complain about it becoming boring i think 
 that it added to the action the fact that you could do a great combo and actually pull it off was 
 great. Also you could change the direction of your attack was also a +. I hate in other games when 
 half way through a combo you loss the person in your combo but you continue to do it.
  
  The story does get kinda choppy but guess wgat i can think of other great games that didnt have 
 a great story line or one that seemed incomplete.. GOW is one i loved the game but the story line 
 was not complete like what exactly happened on emergence day? Anyways it will all be answered much 
 like in too human expecially since it is a trilogy i think that this series may actually grow to 
 be a very popular one. I think that gamespots review was way off and that any review below a 7 
 is unjust. 
  This game is a game where you will hate it or love it but in the end after everything is said and 
 done this game is enjoyable and worth at least a rental if not a purchase.... I have it to tell 
 you where i stand good job Sili Knight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peteysurf311
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. There's nothing like killing 60 enemies in under 40 seconds. The story 
 is good. And for those people that say the game is confusing, here's what I have to sayThe game 
 shouldn't always have to spell it out!" Part of the fun in games is figuring out where to go and 
 how things work. People have been pampered with waypoint arrows and the like. Sometimes you just 
 have to figure it out. The looting is pretty fun because you don't have to wait for hours to pick 
 up cool stuff. I spend a good amount of time checking out new gear. In the first couple hours, 
 I probably respecced four times.
  
  It's hard to get bored with this game because there are so many enemies. The minigames provided 
 by cyberspace lead to arena type challenges where you have to dispatch all the enemies under a 
 certain amount of time to get the good loot. Crafting you itmes is fairly easy, you just have to 
 go to the hombase, have enough money, and there you go. No creating reagents or anything like that. 
 Just create them and blammo! you've got some crazy new stuff!
  
  If you like RPG's, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shugday
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ok... so lots of both good and bad reviews for this game. Truth be told I believe all of them. I 
 can see very easily how people would say that this game failed to live up to expectations, but 
 at the same time it is extremely challenging. 
  
  The graphics are great. The combat system is definitely something very different than your usual 
 first or third person shooter and different is always good. The story is definitely intriguing 
 despite the lack of background or build up. 
  
  The armor and weapon system while cool is almost too much. Definitely not a fan of the whole armor 
 and weapon quality stuff. It sucks to realize that the reason you have died 8 times in like five 
 minutes is because all of your armor quality is zeros is moderately frustrating. 
  
  I am definitely not a "zen" gamer... actually I would say I'm really not all that good at playing 
 most games. So with the new fighting system and the level based creatures I have died ALOT. All 
 of that taken into consideration, in my first time playing the game I played for eight hours straight 
 and didn't really get frustrated with all the deaths because all it meant was a few extra trips 
 to Valhalla to calm the rage of getting my ass kicked by a video game. Love that reloading animatic. 
 
  
  If anyone can answer one question for me though... when you have dual laser pistols blasting away 
 at a target, say a troll that's been continuously pummeling you, and no damage is registering, 
 what the heck am I doing wrong??
  
  Great game... lots of replayability too with the various classes. It will always be fun to slide 
 all over the screen gleefully watching your combo meter go through the roof...
  
  Had I listened to all the reviews I would have missed on a game that does what a good game  
 even challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting (and waiting ) for the arrival of this game. Luckily, I rented this one before 
 I bought. I have never been so disappointed in a game. I loved Eternal Darkness and was expecting 
 so much more from
  "Silicon Knights". What were they thinking?
  The game play is ruined by the controls. The idea behind using the analog sticks could have been 
 a good one if implemented correctly. You just feel like you do not have any direct control. The 
 game decides who or what you are attacking with melee or guns. You do level your character but 
 the enemies are way ahead of you no matter what your level or what items you have found and equipped. 
 You are going to die a lot and by a lot I mean every five to ten minutes. You do not really die 
 but you will wish you were dead after you have watched the boring cut scene of the Valkyrie coming 
 out of the sky to resurrect you a billion times (and there is no way to skip or speed up this cut 
 scene) . If you have the patience to get through a couple of hours of the game you will be totally 
 underwhelmed by the story. There really isn't one. This just makes the whole game not worth your 
 time. If you are thinking about buying this game, don'! Rent it and you probably will take it back 
 before your week is up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  What ever happened to the days of Jeff, when we could trust Gamespot reviews to be fair and unbiased? 
 This game is a really fun game, or doesn't the fun factor even count for much anymore?? Yes, the 
 game has a few technical glitches, but so do most games. This game is innovative and it keeps your 
 attention. I was totally surprised when I played it. I wasn't expecting a great action RPG, but 
 that's what it is! It's not the best game I've ever played, but it certainly isn't the worst, either! 
 If you are a fan of rpgs and enjoy developing your character with armor and weapons and more, then 
 this game will not disappoint you!! I rated this game a 10 to offset the ridiculous score of 5.5. 
 In all seriousness, this game is at least an 8.5. It's not broken, it's fun, the story is immersing, 
 and the gameplay is innovative. Check out the IGN review, if you don't believe me. At least they 
 gave it a decent and fair rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king4theday
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't say this game is trash, but it's definitely not a must buy either. It's fun being an 
 ultimate badass, that's what kind of keeps the game a float.
  
  It's just that you do the same thing over and over, and it's not very challenging since you don't 
 get penalized when you die. But that's okay since the combat is so dull and extremely shallow, 
 that you wouldn't know how to improve your skills at playing it. So reloading after a death would 
 just make it frustrating.
  
  The story has an awesome setting, but you don't know really anything about the characters. There 
 is a story behind all this, but the game won't give it to you. You just have to look up Norse mythology 
 in wiki to get some more depth to what's going on. You can still follow what's going on without 
 the knowledge, but it's advised to look into the mythology if you want to liven the experience. 
 If anything, the game's story and setting will probably pique you interest.
  
  This game is not that bad. It's a dungeon crawler where you kill thousands of guys. There's tons 
 of other games that do this, and none of them are considered amazing, because they all get monotonous. 
 I definitely wouldn't give it a 5.5. That's just saying don't even bother. It's not on those terms. 
 If you only play cream of the crop games, then you'll probably hate it, but people that don't judge 
 too much should enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italiano72
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  As I said in my title you really need to forget about the GameSpot Review. It almost makes you 
 wonder if the have an agenda here. 6.5 would have been too low.
  Watch the IGN Video Review instead: 
  
  http://xbox360. ign. com/articles/899/899826p1. html
 
  
  As far as my review I haven't finished the game yet therefore I'll just tell you that from the 
 moment I started playing the game I was addicted and immerse into the story, you really don't need 
 to know about Norse mythology to get into it although you can google it if you like.
  
  Graphics are very good, fighting with lots of enemies is a lot of fun with melee weapons, the story 
 is original and intriguing, building up your skills, weapons, armors and looks also add to it.
 
  
  I have yet to find anything that remotely justify that 5.5. I'll update the review and the score 
 when I finish the game. But if as Gamespot says the plot gets more interesting at the end, I assume 
 it will only get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxghostxx93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  This game has an amazing concept, especially for all you history buffs out there. Great control 
 style, but takes a little getting used to. We call that learning curve. Story is pretty disjointed 
 and you really don't find out anything until you complete the game and it just sets it up for the 
 next one. Kind of a downer, but we should have all known this is a trilogy game going into it, 
 but a little resolution would have been nice. Hopefully they can work on the bad stuff and make 
 the next one even better than the first. The thing I enjoy most about the game is the high level 
 of character customization. Basically no character is the same every time you play, so it does 
 make a unique experience every time. Helps with the replay value. The thing I hated the most that 
 I've been seeing more and more of is the infamous "secret achievements". Personally I think those 
 are retarded. It's hard enough to get all the ones listed, but now we have to guess at the rest. 
 Give me a break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsident
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I didn't believe the hype at first, and thought that the first screens and videos released of the 
 game looked somewhat mediocre. My first impression was to pass the game and ignore the hype.
  
  Then the demo came out, I thought that I should give it a try and the first time I played it, 
 my opinion changed completely-I thought it was horrible.
  
  BUT-I went online and read through some forums and was somehow contrived to give the demo another 
 shot. I hated the demo upon my first play but loved it the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth 
 time, etc. For me, this was definitely a day one purchase.
  
  Although the game does have it's faults, I think that its innovation comes from replay-ability 
 (I rarely ever play through a game multiple times) and simplicity of gameplay; like how Katamari 
 Damacy was so simple and intuitive, so is Too Human, but most people will fail to realize that.
 
  
  This will probably go down as one of the most underrated games in recent gaming history, slammed 
 majorly but unrelenting critics who think this game should play like Ninja Gaiden or DMC, and you 
 know who loses? Not just the developer, but the gamer who appreciates its basic game mechanics 
 and the gamer who won't get to see the second or third installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunneySarge
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm quite surprised at all the negative press this game has been getting by both several reviewers 
 and gamers alike. This game is while certainly having a few flaws here and there is certainly a 
 gem in gaming. To start with Cutomization is both deep and intersting alowwing you plenty of time 
 just tinkering to just get the right combination of weapons runes and armor that you as a gamer 
 would enjoy. Targeting with a weapon might be a little annoying I agree, but the issue has only 
 happens rarely and when it does isnt that big a deal. The story might on the surface seem a little 
 wierd but once you get into it, it grows on you. It's new and differnt and anyone who's read a 
 little about Norse mytholgy will more than likely grin at how well they captured the mood and personalities 
 of the Norse Pantheon. The voice work is well done the levels are breathtaking an the character 
 models look suberb.
  
  So while yes this game does have a few flaws here and there it is game that had a lot of new ideas 
 and features implemeted there were bound to be mistakes here and there. The nice thig is is that 
 there are two more Too Human games to go for Silicone Knights to get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Most of the time, when a game gets the kind of reviews that Too Human is getting, the critics pretty 
 much get it right. And make no mistake about it, Too Human is not Mass Effect. Not in story, not 
 in gameplay. But that doesn't mean it's not worth playing. Yes, it could and should have been better. 
 But despite sub-par reviews, I believe Too Human is solid and deserves a look.
  Graphically, at times the game is beautiful. Other times, not so much. A mixed bag I would say, 
 but above average nevertheless. The musical score is strong. Not the strongest, but still strong. 
 Also, customization of your character is sick! If you're into that type of stuff, you'll be in 
 heaven. Also, I really like the setting, being a sci-fi and mythology fan. This game features both.
 
  But there are serious flaws that sabatoge the game. There are graphical glitches, such as fellow 
 soldiers disappearing when you get close to them. The story is lukewarm, and doesn't draw you in 
 the way it should.
  But the two big flaws are the camera, which is horrible, and the biggest flaw: anytime you die, 
 you just get revived with no penalty. Even during boss fights! That's just stupid! Strategy is 
 just thrown out the window. One last gripe: you fight the same enemies over and over.
  With all that said, the bottom line is, despite it's flaws, Too Human is still fun. Especially 
 if you like customizing your character. And since this the first game of a trilogy, the series 
 has room to get better. 
  Don't let the reviews scare you away from at least renting Too Human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennethx3freak
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Too Human, despite what nazi critics might say, is a very good game with massive customization 
 and replayability. ITS FUN!
  
  the games one major drawback is difficulty, and when it comes to difficulty, thats the one area 
 where Kevin Vanord is right. this game starts out a bit choppy because the controls take a little 
 while to get used to, BUT with easy first time enemies and a good amount of time to get used to 
 it, you can become a true norse god with your own badass moves. 
  
  the details and dialogue, something Kevin might have trouble performing, are seriously underrated 
 in this game, the visuals are breathtaking, and the dialogue, though somewhat strange, delivers 
 the mood and feel of this game nearly flawlessly.
  
  so.. 
  
  too human is a must buy for any action RPG fan.
  
  despite the ranting and ravings of bifocaled, 
 bearded, whiny man-babies..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  If you're going to play this game, look at the other reviews here saying to come to this game with 
 no expectations. Those are the ones you can trust. Having said that, here's my review.
  I went into this game not knowing what to expect, with no preconceived notion of how the game should 
 be. I wanted to let the game influence me, not me it. What I found is a game that is enjoyable, 
 has some flaws, and is graphically what you would expect from a regular XBOX title, not one for 
 the 360. 
  The combat system is easy to master, it took me less then an hour. The combos are the easiest to 
 string together out of any other game I've played. However, don't think you can jump in the air 
 to hit an enemy you've juggled. 
  Graphically, the game looks like it belongs on an XBOX, not a 360. There are some issues with characters 
 leaving trails (shake your hand in front of your face really fast to know what I mean) during the 
 cutscenes, as well as some jerky moments.
  The story seems pretty straightforward to me, but there's not that much depth to it, and it's pretty 
 uninteresting.
  Finally, the in game character customization is excellent. You can pretty much make your character 
 any way you want once you choose one of the preset classes (which I didn't like, I like to create 
 custom characters) . I would have to say this is the game's biggest strength. It is the customization 
 of my character that makes me want to come back and play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bit_Cloud21
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for quite a while, and when I read the negative reviews for this 
 game, I was disappointed to say the least, but now that I have played it for myself, I can't put 
 it down!
  
  There is an almost endless amount of customization for your character. The amount of armor, weapons, 
 skills, and classes keeps the reply value ramped up, and you can even replay the game with a past 
 character with the enemy levels ramped up.
  
  There are only a few minor negative details: Too hard in a few spots, but you'll get through it 
 with some determination. ;) The game was a little too short for my tastes. I finished it in about 
 12 hours I think, and I wanted more when it was over.
  
  If your are wondering whether this game is worth at least trying, it is. Rent it at least, as it 
 is a great action RPG and worth the time. I highly recommend this to any action or RPG gamer. Give 
 it a shot! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandlerr_360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is both one of the most expensive video games to ever be produced, and also one that 
 has taken the longest... that alone creates impossible expectations for a game to overcome, but 
 besides that Too Human had a lot going against it. 
  
  Too Human first started as a Playstaion title, but, due to technical limitations, Silicon Knights 
 decided to set back production on the game. So, next, they tried re-making the game for the Nintendo 
 Gamecube. Once again, they felt that they were being constrained to create the 
  "Epic" and "Immerssive" game that they wanted to make. So finally, 3 years ago (since day one for 
 the PS1 to launch, the game has been in production for 10 years) Silicon Knights started on production 
 for the Xbox 360. However, in a deal with EPIC games (makers of Gears of War) to use their Unreal 
 Engine III, a lawsuit broke out. This in turn caused the entire project to be broken down, and 
 re-formatted into Silicon Knights very own game engine built from scratch. And there it is, the 
 bumpy and problematic creation of Too Human.
  
  Now, going into Too Human I tried to forget about all this, and just wanted to enjoy the game for 
 what it was... and that is a action packed, loot-whoring, dungeon crawler. 
  
  Too Human has a short 10 hour campaign. Now, even though it is short, it is definitely not bad. 
 There are four stages in the game, and each one will take you about 2 hours to complete. You move 
 from one stage to the next, with frequent visits to Aesir (the main city, you shop and rest there) 
 and Cyberspace (separate world that you can explore and collect loot) . In these four stages you 
 basically do the same thing; get from point A to B, and kill everything that moves in between... while 
 this sounds boring, the excellent combat and cinematic experiences in between make it tons of fun. 
 The storyline and setting is extremely interesting, and completely different from any game before 
 it. 
  
  All combat is done with the right analog stick, and the camera is controlled automatically by the 
 game. This eliminates the normal "button mashing" gameplay, and gives the action a more fluid and 
 controllable feel. Just flick the stick towards a enemy and you will slide to the enemy and attack 
 it. From there you can do things like juggle enemies in mid-air and attack them, perform "finisher" 
 combos, or use destructing AoE Ruiner attacks. You can also use guns with the right trigger, while 
 using the right analog to lock on to different enemies. All in all, after going back and playing 
 a traditional button mashing action game, Too Human's controls are much better suited.
  
  The other portion of the game is 2 player online co-op mode. In this you can go into any of the 
 games four stages and fight along aside another player. You can use any character (even ones from 
 campaign) and bring them into the online mode, with all of their stats, weapons, and armor. In 
 addition you can trade with the other players, go into Aesir together, or simply fight tons of 
 ferocious enemies. However, in the co-op mode all cutscenes and AI from the campaign are completely 
 absent. Online co-op is great for showing of your characters awesome armor and weapons, and leveling 
 up.
  
  Too Human is a great game in my opinion, and should definitely not be passed up. Reviews for the 
 game are mostly not very well done (epsecially Gamespot's...5.5? What a joke) , and use illegitimate 
 points to lower the games score. Don't listen to anyone else, and at least try the demo or rent 
 the game and see for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game, i really enjoyed it people don't want to give it a chance its a pretty sweet 
 game the melee combat is amazing in my opinion and the berserker class for me has been very good, 
 the story is decent nothing to amazing still i loved Diablo and this game is the closest consoles 
 have for that game so to me its good enough and entertaining. 
  
  The skills are really cool and i love the dungeon crawler feel of this game is good the enemies 
 are kind of annoying but no more so than the amount of enemies Diablo or dungeon siege threw at 
 you, the amount of weapons armor and making of armor and the amount of stuff you can get with loot 
 is pretty sweet the co-op is pretty cool with other people it would have been better if every class 
 had a base heal ability but still its not that bad, death is reasonable. 
  
  All in all this is a good game and i think people should give it a shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armageodon
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  I being playing video games for more than 20 years I'm 33, now I never wrote a review before because 
 I'm not that kind of guy, but this time I had to say something.
  When you have such a good game with so much potential , you need the best people to execute the 
 creation and the development, but this game went the wrong way since the beginning the guys I don't 
 know who, but the guy that had the idea of the game made the worst decision ever in to trying to 
 execute his idea, when you have such great concept, you should look the best people in the business 
 and sell them the idea so they do great things with it, it could be a great game if UBISOFT, OR 
 pandemic, or any other big studio could have their hands on it. BUT NO this guy had to do it and 
 it took more than 10 years to come up with this.
  The Game is for the lack of a better world is AMAZIN the Combat system is great the excitement 
 of the battles is great the animations are pretty good and the storyline is good enough to make 
 a good trilogy regardless of other peoples opinion, the inventory management is strong and interesting 
 enough to maintain you occupied figuring out the best way to set up your character as it goes up 
 in levels.
  The skill tree is enough it could be better if someone really smart could put his hands on it but, 
 we already know, that the people at silicon knights is not really that bright, I mean how many 
 times Thor has to say "Hey lo LOKI is this the best you got, because this is something of a letdown" 
 My girlfriend played a game of seeing how many time the character repeat that sentence and she 
 timed and recorded, 38 times in less than 25 minutes. (WHY?)
  And from there you can imagine how, this game is being made by people that know too much about 
 their concept and their idea but they don't have a clue of how to do a video game, I can pretty 
 much say that the people at silicon knights are very smart and they are probably good people but 
 they are not at all gamers. A gamer who'd never put a valkyr to pick up a dead boy just so you 
 can reappear in the same exact please you die in the middle of a crowd of gobbling that are so 
 badly programmed that are stuck one with the other, and they can move and of course they won't 
 let you move so your destiny is to die again and again and again and the sequence of the valkyre 
 coming from haven to pick you up will replay again and again and again and it take more than 30 
 seconds each h time. And we can go on ad go on with that stuff again and again and again, sometime 
 enemies will got stuck in the walls friendly's will get in your way on get you stuck next to a 
 wall, enemies will suddenly die with no apparent reason Bosses take time but they are easy as no 
 bosses should be, I mean you u don't even need to have no skills what so ever just keep shooting 
 and jumping that's it, targeting is great, if only worked properly that way I am sure it was intended 
 in the first place. And that's the thing with game designer they come up with the most amazing 
 concepts of things for a game but they don't know if they are technically plausible at all. Don't 
 get me wrong the game is good, I being playing it for some time now, and I I'm having fun, but 
 I'm also getting frustrated, and angry all the time. U cant heal yourself not even if you are the 
 only class that can heal, this game is just a bad execution don't bash the game the game is good 
 but EA, or Sega, or Atari, or someone else should do it, this guys don't know what they're doing. 
 Game is at best so broken that is funny.
  Multiplayer is so behind of what is being done this day that it looks like multiplayer for the 
 fist Xbox.
  Well that's it I'm just said, that this great game was not done right. The game could be great 
 but is never going to be. And I really hope, that silicon graphics don't make enough money to make 
 a second part so they have to sell the game to someone that actually knows how to do 3rth generation 
 games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N9ne-xx
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Let's get started on the controls, the fact that you attack with the right-stick is sort of different, 
 but depending on how you are you might get the hang of it, but for my point of view it didn't cut 
 it for me. The whole fact with the battle-cry is useless. 
  
  The story is what you'd expect to be but with a futuristic kind of mint in it. Humanity at danger, 
 need to save it; same old, same old. But with the hint of futuristics adds a little twist with 
 it. With this machine wanting to be human it spice's up the story but doesn't make it omg amazing.
 
  
  You have a selection of classes you want to be, i was the Bio Engineer. So he was alright even 
 though I should've taken the champion. There's 5 classes with apparently more coming with DLC. So 
 if you want to wait for DLC by all means do it but I don't think it's a smart idea with major-name 
 games coming soon.
  
  Along with your character you got a skill-tree which for me, was complicated but after a while 
 you get used to it. But its the typical RPG you progress, you grow stronger but what else should 
 we expect?
  
  So this game is worth the rent, but not it's money worth, it's alright but it reminded me of a 
 first concept for Mass Effect. So go rent it if you want.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: springermis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Kevin VanOrd reviewed the game for your GameSpot and gave it 5.5 (which is classified by the site 
 as "mediocre") .
  
  I played every class on the demo and felt the game
  looked promising enough to buy. I purchased Too Human
  and have been playing it for roughly 20 
 hours. I've
  been playing the both the Campaign and the Online
  Co-Op using a Berserker Melee Class and a Bioengineer.
  That being said I believe the game is 
 an 8.5. It is
  not a great/perfect game that would give it 9.5 or 10
  but to give it a 5.5 is completely off the scale (well
  it's on the scale but you get the idea) .
 
  
  Do you guys like loot style games such as Diablo? 
  There are enough worthwhile loot drops in this game
  where you can customize your character in 
 both
  appearance and game play to make the game cool. 
  Broken mechanics? Yep, the camera is not 100 percent
  accurate but can you play the game without 
 getting
  frustrated and have a good time? Absolutely. Don't
  like the valkyrie scene from death? Try playing in a
  way that's suited to your class. I died 
 roughly 10
  times playing through 75% of the campaign as a
  berserker and haven't died once when I played as a
  Bioengineer. 
  
  I think combining Norse 
 Mythology with a futuristic/cybernetic
  look on the world brought a little breath of fresh air
  into video games.
  
  Bottom line: 
 Is it a game that you enjoy playing? Is
  it a game where you actually have fun instead of just
  doing work (e. g. picking up a car and 
 driving it back
  to another location) ? The answer is yes. It's not a
  10 but it is fun and deserves better than a 5.5. 
  
  No one is going to have the exact same 
 experience with
  a game. But I read reviews hoping to find someone
  with a similar gaming style that is going to shed some
  light on whether I should buy a game. 
 Had I went with
  Kevin VanOrd's review I would have missed out on a really fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasterror
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  First off the bat I found it difficult to read and accept Game Spot's review score and explanation. 
 With poorly designed games like Haze, Kane and Lynch, and may other games rated better than Too 
 Human, it makes you wonder this: Did Silicon Knights not pay Game Spot money to receive a good 
 review or did other companies pay Game Spot enough to warrant the low review? Kane and Lynch a 
 better game, are you freakin' kidding me?
  Anyways, Too Human is a highly immersing game that retells Norse mythology in a technologically 
 advanced way. You play as Baldur, Odin's son, and try to fend off this plague of cybernetic trolls 
 and Loki. The story can be a bit weird especially if you are not familiar with Norse myth's, but 
 it does stop at the right point where the sequel would start. Combat is very fluid but you will 
 want to fight more with close range attacks. The selling point for the game is its depth of customization. 
 It gets to the point where every player will have their own unique character, but it never feels 
 tedious. Its not the greatest game, but it is a very solid game. Truly worth a look play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisAirport
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have played in along time... for an RPG/loot fan this is a must have 
 after getting used to the targeting system and learning the enemies this game will give endless 
 fun.... At times it may seem that the enemies at times are alittle to powerful (but if your to big 
 a baby to get past the tough stuff leave the rpg's to the real gamers) As for the story everyone 
 knew it was gonna be a trilogy now i know that I got upset when I saw Lki with the giant and then 
 it hit the credits but after cooling down you realize just how exciteing the sequal will be... of 
 corse the begining takes a little while to get to a strong story but they have to build the character 
 before telling the story and thats all they do... after only haveing it for 3 days now I beat it 
 yesterday and after the credits i made a different class and started right back to it.... over all 
 a great game with high replay value... What people need to realize is that it was not "in development" 
 for 10 years the idea of it was around for that long yes but after about a year of thinking about 
 it the idea was put aside a few years later it was brought back with the xbox and ps2 and after 
 a short while put away again then after the 10 years of haveing it in the same building as designers 
 they dicided it was time to make this idea that was first "thought" of 10 years ago... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBallara
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The game was exactly what I expected. Addictive game play and a great story. You might have trouble 
 if you dont know your Norse mythology but good story none the less. Playing the game really makes 
 me want to play the new Diablo. I would have to say that giving it a 5.5 is unfair and that it 
 deserves more credit. Too Human is billed as the first installment in what will be a trilogy so 
 there is plenty of room to improve and for Silicon Knights to learn what worked and what to change. 
 I am very hopeful for the next two games. nnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnnnn 
 nnnnnnnn nnnnn nnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnn nnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnn 
 nnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnn 
 nnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthurperson
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  The game is quite good but only if you know a reasonable amount of Norse mythology. Also I believe 
 the game is too easy because of the death system. I can understand gamespots' review because they 
 are writing it from the view of a person that didn't pay attention in class and knows nothing of 
 Norse mythology. I enjoy the combat system because of the slide 'n' slash action. I think the developers 
 had a good idea with the cyberspace thing but they didn't carry it through terribly well because 
 it just gets boring running and pressing "A" and the trigger buttons. (the following is so its 800 
 characters)  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedookie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game worth playing. Disregard the negative reviews as the press is letting 
 Microsoft know that when it puts its name on a game we expect a AAA title and are not going to 
 accept anything less, which I appreciate. This is not the AAA game that we have come to expect 
 from Microsoft Game Studios, however, it is pretty close (A) . Silicon Knights also has some public 
 relations issues they need to address. My issues are outlined below.
  
  - Camera and use of right analog stick is actually very intuitive and it works. Understand, that 
 I can't believe I'm enjoying the "semi-controlled" camera, as this was a big sticking point for 
 me initially. Despite this, the camera does have some kinks that need to be worked out, but not 
 so much that it is stopping me from enjoying the game.
  
  - Dying is an issue, but I have a feeling that it is more of a user problem . We just have to make 
 sure we upgrade equipment and skill levels appropriately and attack each situation strategically. 
 The "death screen" is not that bad, it is relatively short and is just covering up the loading 
 screen. Also, everyone keeps saying that there is not a penalty for death, there is. Your weapons 
 and armor take damage, which has to be repaired and also you are forced to watch the screen everyone 
 seems to hate so much.
  
  - Graphics are excellent throughout a good portion of the game, however, there are numerous instances 
 of previous generation graphics, which is frustrating because this game had a chance to be beautiful.
 
  
  This is an extremely fun game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsande23
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game should have got a better review then a 5.5 this game was totally under rated don't listen 
 to the haters, who writes the reviews for gamespot. it is a great game I don't think the game was 
 rushed or anything there is nothing like this game. There is alot that you can do in the game as 
 far as weapon upgrades and the fighting controle set up is not a pain in the ass and the Camera 
 movement is not F#%$ up like Ninja Gaidens Gamespot could have given this game a 7.5 that is so 
 messed up. This game should have got a better review then a 5.5 this game was totally under rated 
 don't listen to the haters, who writes the reviews for gamespot. it is a great game I don't think 
 the game was rushed or anything there is nothing like this game. There is alot that you can do 
 in the game as far as weapon upgrades and the fighting controle set up is not a pain in the ass 
 and the Camera movement is not F#%$ up like Ninja Gaidens Gamespot could have given this game a 
 7.5 that is so messed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatr1990
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  is this game a perfect ten? no, but i gave it one because i know a lot of people gave it a zero 
 without playing it. this game does have a few problems that will probably be fixed in some patches. 
 when the game first came out user review was under six, and now its at seven. that should tell 
 you something, people who actually played the game rated it higher. And if you like action or rpg 
 games and you just want to play a fun game that has high replayability, this is it. after you beat 
 a great (short) single player you can still play online co-op which is a lot of fun or make a new 
 character because there are so many different combinations.
  If your not sure if you like this game or not, DONT listen to to the fanboys or the haters, just 
 give it a rent and im sure youll love it. 
  wow im not good at writing a lot and i still havent gotten to the minimum. words words words words 
 words words words words words words wordswords wordswords words words wordswordswords words words 
 words words words THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2531bel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  It is time that Gamespot review how it is reviewing games. If you are, as I expect Kevin VanOrd 
 is, a "hard core" gamer this review and score of 5.5 is valid.
  
  On the other hand if you are a gamer who's first priority is to have fun, and play a game that 
 takes you away from life's problems and stresses (the average Joe) , as well as have fun playing 
 with friends; this game is spot on.
  
  Hard core gamers must face up to a reality where game publishers are trying to appeal to a broad 
 audience. Gamespot and other reviewers will have to face up to this as well. As such we create 
 a new category for reviews where mass appeal is categorized.
  
  Let's face it the majority of gamers are not the Halo type fanatic who's priority is based on who's 
 number one, and who is advancing in rank faster.
  
  That is what i used as a factor in scoring the game. The only drawback is that co-op is limited 
 to two person. Four would have been great.
  
  Have fun...... this game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copycard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  If you know much about the Norse myths then this game's story line would have been very pleasing. 
 the transfer of old myth to technological past / future is very clever and well done. with the 
 exception of Nyanna they were very good about bringing in the actual myths. that is also assuming 
 that we are overlooking the fact that balder was dead for Ragnarok.
  
  and it wont let me submit this short a response so ignore the following:
  
  blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JASAEric
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Come on Gamespot, it's not THAT bad. Hell, GTA 4 got a 10 and its MP was stupid and its story had 
 almost no replayability.
  
  First off, the respawn time is not as bad as they make it out to be, it's maybe 20 seconds of your 
 life.
  
  Secondly, the targetting system isn't really a problem either, as 95% of the time you won't care 
 which monster you are hitting, and the other 5% (such as when there's a explosive enemy) you can 
 usually get by looking in the general direction and shooting.
  
  That being said, if there is anything flawed about this game is that there is a lack of levels. 
 There are only 4 of them, and you could probably 100% the story in just over 10 hours if that's 
 all you cared about, but since the enemies scale to your level you will always have some sort of 
 challenge if you want to replay levels, or do Co-op.
  
  
  Definitely not one to pass up if you are interested in RPGs at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmeggs41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Forget the drama... play the game. This is one of those titles that I was almost ready to bail out 
 before release. I am so glad I didn't. I was taking reviews, comments, and forums way too seriously 
 in my buying decision. I look at this game knowing that it has flaws. Im not seeing a huge issue 
 with the graphics except the character rendering during the cyberspace areas. Does every game honestly 
 have to look like Gears of War? The levels and enemies do get somewhat repetitive. One thing I 
 did notice is that when I played co-op it really elevated the experience. Together my buddy and 
 I were tossing enemies in the air, passing each other during air combat, executing devastating 
 combos, and using special AoE ruiners that summon great gods as halos above our heads. At this 
 point I realized, this game is awesome. Forget the tire-kicking, meticulous critics, the game is 
 fast paced action that keeps you playing till wee hours in the morning. High Replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Every so often, I encounter a game mechanic that I just cannot comprehend. It may be the save system, 
 or the camera, or the story-telling device, but I will sometimes really find myself puzzled at 
 a developers odd choice. Like I said though, it doesnt happen very often. So when I tell you that 
 it happened twice in Too Human, I want you to understand what I mean. There are two major mechanics 
 that I dont understand, but we will get to those later. Let's start with a quick introduction first.
 
  
  Too Human is a game from Silicon Knights (the makers of Eternal Darkness) and it has been on and 
 off production for approximately a decade. Yeah, this game just pulled a Team Fortress 2. It went 
 over several system, has undergone some major game overhauls, and is now finally in our hands. 
 The game stars Baldur, a Norse God according to mythology who protects the Norn from the dangers 
 of the world. They are all children of Odin, and he is constantly referenced in ominous respect. 
 You hear him once or twice in the game, but never actually see him. It's probably to enhance the 
 mysterious nature of his character. Anyway, the deal is that a strange machine has begun feeding 
 on humans as a life source, and you try to find out why. The story snowballs from there, but you 
 get the picture.
  
  Now, this is an action RPG, so one of the major elements has to be the combat. This is where the 
 two elements of the game I didnt understand come in. First off, instead of having a push to attack 
 button, you swivel the right analog stick to swing your sword. That's a little wierd, and at first 
 I was majorly skeptical. Why didnt the devs keep the normal control layout? My bet is, to both 
 establish the games originality and keep it from degenerating into a button masher. They succeeded 
 on both fronts, but unfortunately the reprocussions are somewhat evident. As can be expected, the 
 combat stick doesnt always do what you want it to. It will sometimes preform random attacks you 
 didnt want, or the targeting will go crazy, or it just wont do exactly what you tell it. However, 
 though this can lead to some untimely demises in the game, its not really a problem. 
  
  The reason why those deaths due to a lack of proper control arent a problem, is because this game 
 has taken the bioshock approach to dieing. It has absolutely no negative effects on you whatsoever 
 (well okay, it drains your combo meter) and you spawn with all of the enemies at the exact health 
 they were at. You will just pop back to the beginning of the room, and you can continue from there. 
 While this is a good thing due to some cheap enemy attacks, hordes of powerful foes, and sometimes 
 unresponsive combat, it makes the game feel pretty easy and sometimes unrewarding. It's like playing 
 through a game with an invinsibility cheat on. You will still beat the game, but its not like thats 
 a huge accomplishment. Furthermore, it can lead to you simply suicide bombing bosses and tougher 
 enemies as many times as you can manage before you die. However, there are quite a few high points 
 to combat.
  
  The combat is amazingly fast paced and visceral, and slamming into enemies again and again can 
 be satisfying. Some of the larger enemies like Trolls and Spiders are fun to take down, and do 
 require some timely dodges if you want to live (not that it matters) . There are tons of weapons 
 and combat styles to choose from, so now matter how you like to play, you are probably going to 
 find something that suits you. This leads me to the next major success of this game. The customization.
 
  
  I have played many RPG's before. I have played Oblivion, WoW, Hellgate: London, Diablo II, Dungeon 
 Seige, Baldurs Gate, and quite a few others. With the exception of maybe WoW and Diablo II, this 
 game surpases every RPG I have ever played in terms of armor/weapon/character customization. You 
 start out picking one of five character classes, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. 
 They range from the Berserker, who is great at dealing damage but doesnt have as much health as 
 other classes, to the Guardian, who has tons of health and armor but doesnt deal much damage combared 
 to the Berserker. From there, you start to pick a talent tree. Talent trees allow you to strengthen 
 up your character in one aspect of their class. For instance, the champion is a well-balanced character, 
 and his skill tree allows him to either make his sword attacks stronger, and make him a formidable 
 ranged foe. You cannot just fill out the whole tree, so you will have to choose what matters most 
 to you. If you decide you change your mind, you can respec for a small fee.
  
  From the character spec, you move on to armor and weapons. If you are a WoW, Diablo II, or Hellgate 
 London fan, then you are going to love the loot in this game. There is TONS of loot, and trust 
 me, you will get it pretty constantly. You have seven different armor slots on your character, 
 as well as seven different weapon types that can be collected. Now, your character is going to 
 have a certain weapon type that they are strongest with, such as duel wielding, two handers, or 
 one handed swords. Still, there is tons of loot, and its all great. Trust me, if you are a loot 
 whore you are going to have a blast with this game.
  
  You can mod your weapons in all sorts of ways which makes the customization even better. However, 
 the last facet of customization is just as interesting. After the first level, you get to choose 
 between a Cybernetic path or a Human path. This will even further increase your proficiency in 
 one way or another. So that makes the customization even deeper. You are going to play through 
 this game more than once... trust me.
  
  So all in all, you now understand the core mechanics of the gameplay. The graphics and sound are 
 both fine, so I wont waste time with them. If you like RPGs with loads of loot, then this is a 
 game for you. However, I have to warn you, the controls gives the game a bit of a learning curve. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anomaly3001
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Gamespot really mucked this one up as well as other videogame review sites. 5.5? come on Too Human 
 deserves an 7.5 or better! The game is not stop action, it looks good, and the story is original 
 and it rocks. There are sequels planned for this game so of course they can't give you a perfect 
 experience the first time out, no game can for that matter! People are trying to kill this game 
 with bias reviews before it gets popular. This guy on gamespot who reviewed the game didn't really 
 do anything but complain about small issues like the camera, and Baulder swings at nothing at times. 
 Those issues are too small to give the game a 5.5 rating. The overall gaming experience for this 
 game is entertaining especially online. So what you can't go through some cut-scenes! Some people 
 just want to have something to complain about, also there are few games who have mastered the perfect 
 camera angle. Take the gamespot offical review with a grain of salt, and experience Too Human for 
 yourself. You can't rely on reviews these days because of bias opinions based on console love and 
 payoffs! Too Human has laid the ground work for a nice set of Norse God Mythology sequels that 
 I can't wait to experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puritanbeliever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time-you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScaryGaryJr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has plenty of flaws, particularly with targeting the ballistics and with the camera angles; 
 however, this game is just plain fun to play. I found myself aggravated plenty, but did not want 
 to put it down. The plot is pretty short (10-15 hours) , but I think the game has a pretty high 
 replay value and some of the videos (and perhaps levels) are changed the second time through. There 
 aren't many combinations of attacks or button sequences but strategy is still definitely necessary. 
 The item system (not just armor and weapons) is pretty good and there seems to be many I have even 
 yet to approach. The incorporation of using ballistics and melee together is tough to play with 
 at first but easy to adjust to. The controls are simple and so is the gameplay for the most part. 
 I haven't played much with all the classes but can definitely see myself beating this game multiple 
 times. One major drawback is the linearity of the game and invisible walls. You can't really jump 
 on top of anything to leap down upon enemies and most of the path in the mission is straightforward 
 with secret rooms, not other paths to get to the same place. Like I said, the game is a lot of 
 fun but if you are unsure, at least give it a try with renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkktty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  OMG... wake up people. This game is awesome! If you actually played more than 20 minutes of the 
 game then you'll realize that you DON'T need to know your Norse mythology to understand the plot. 
 The Gods are just characters in a whole new story. It doesn't make much sense at first because 
 of the plot holes... but it unveils itself as you play on. The weapon, armor, rune and skill systems 
 are similar to Diablo 2, but still pretty interesting and a bit more convenient. The classes aren't 
 too spectacular at first but once you start leveling them up they become beasts. The controls can 
 get tricky when trying to land combos but overall its a simple yet effective button system. You 
 don't have to remember button sequences that are 30 hits long and change based on how you're standing. 
 It's simple: AIM AND SLASH/SHOOT! The story vs. gameplay ratio is a bit unequal at times, but it's 
 done that way for a reason. At certain intervals the excess cinematics serve as a mild break from 
 the previous 20 minutes of carnage. It gives you time to blink and pause to pee if need be. There 
 isn't much to do in cyberspace except specific tasks that allow you to progress in the game, and 
 if you look around you find obelisks that give you legendary weapons, armor pieces and runes.
 
  
  People giving this game a crap score need to look at what the game is really doing rather than 
 what they did in it. It takes an entire web of mythology and twists it to form into a harsh, seemily 
 post-apocalyptic, war-torn world. It's a new concept. And they even took the time to properly use 
 the actual runic language. Most videogames that have used any kind of runes tend to completely 
 mangle the Elder Futharc. The controls are too easy you say? I think they're effective when trying 
 to launch projectiles at ranged enemies while at the same time slashing your way thru a horde of 
 goblins. 
  
  Take the time and give it a chance!! Stop whining about how long it is or how "simple" it is. JUST 
 PLAY IT AND ENJOY IT! Isn't that the entire point of gaming anyways? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0ker81
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  My brother was hyped for this game.... i could'nt careless. 
  
  10 years in development for game play that gets boring after an hour and 06 graphics , with bad 
 voice acting.
  
  The game is'nt as bad as people and gamespot but it out to be. The game play is all right and the 
 graphics arent so bad compared to some other games im just trying to say it could have been better. 
 The story is short and the game is very similar to mass effect. Between mass effect and this , 
 i'd go mass effect. The class difference is nice. Not much to tell you other than that and the 
 story is a good length, but usually sci-fi rpg's have long storylines. Not many enemies other than 
 goblins and trolls.... i belive thats what thier called and some slightly more powerful goblins. 
 If it wasnt for the multitude of enemies during a battle , this game would probably be duller than 
 watching paint dry. Its a rent definatley not buy. Only rent if you liked mass effect.
  
  Gameplay:7/10
  Graphics:7/10
  Sound:5/10
  Value:6/10
  Tilt:6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Too Human manages to feel like a horrible master piece and at other times straight down the middle 
 ok. Too Human feels in a lot of ways totally pieced together, as if many of the areas, functions 
 and mechanics were all built separately and then glued together to make a final product. While 
 the game is by no means horrible, it will definitely press your frustration button from time to 
 time. Not to worry though, underneath a list little issues lays a diamond in the rough.
  
  Controls  From the start the game boasts glorious controls and they stay close to the same. It 
 isn't until later in the game (mostly bosses) that the controls have their moments of throwing 
 a fit. Combat is smooth and fast, the dynamic combat system the game uses creates a feeling of 
 rich and dynamic combat while using a very simple point and click system. For veteran fans of Ninja 
 Gaiden and Devil May Cry this will certainly be a draw back, from the days of complicated button 
 mashing and timing to holding the right stick in the direction of what you want to see die. Of 
 course combat isn't entirely that simple, Ruiner attack, weapon powers and class specific specials 
 add to the variety. Luckily your character combined with the assortment of weapons in the game 
 means that even the basic combat never really gets tiresome, while games like Devil May Cry or 
 especially the Dynasty Warrior series suffer from repetition of cookie cutter scripted attacks 
 that get tiresome, for some reason the variety in Too Human and the pace seem to wash over this 
 fact and keep a entertaining pace.
  
  Graphics  Without a doubt below par, while the game is no where near ugly and still easily surpasses 
 even some of the best Wii titles the game truly feels as if it could have reached higher. This 
 is only enhanced or reduced (depending on how you look at it) by the games beautiful texture and 
 artwork design. The textures in the game make up for the at times jagged level design and foliage. 
 While trees and bushes are two dimensional textures crossed over one another the detail and coloration 
 draw away from that fact. The cybernetic reality mixed with the naturalistic cyber world does mix 
 quite nicely and tend to try to make a point, if you think about it. The real world is all cybernetic 
 and high tech while the cybernetic world, or the internet if you want to call it, is all nature 
 like and filled with trees. A reversal that may slip past some I'm sure, characters are the most 
 detailed and well designed, though facial animations are rather poor by today's standards. It's 
 too bad this game wasn't put on a better engine, like the Unreal 3 engine or something like that. 
 The game truly could have been awe inspiring is its beautiful art design would have been complimented 
 by a powerful enough engine.
  
  Story  The story is not as nearly complicated as many have been saying, while it is based on Norse 
 Mythology, one does not need to understand it to get the base of the story. Now I myself have played 
 games like Rune Viking and Marvel Ultimate Alliance, as well as having read things like the Thor 
 comic books. The fact is any serious Marvel fan should be rather well versed in Norse myth or at 
 least has a hand hold on it. As long as you know who Loki is the rest is pretty much self standing. 
 You are a member of a group which protects man kind; most of the members use pretty standard Norse 
 names like Odin, Thor, Balder and Loki. If you truly feel the need to be deep into the story you 
 could read up, but the fact comes down to this is a world of honor in death. Many men live the 
 lives of Warriors, if you need an example of what honor, respect and the warrior mind is like watch 
 300. If you can't grasp the basic concept of what's going on, you're trying to hard to grasp the 
 Norse story. If you just take the events for what they are, it's pretty obvious that you protect 
 man, the group you're a part of does as well, you do missions and a bad guy has an evil plan that 
 you must stop. The end.
  
  Mechanics  Too human has probably one of the most puzzling arrangements of mechanics I've ever 
 seen. While most of the game makes sense with how it works and such, other pieces feel as if they 
 were meant to be removed before sale or something. Primarily are two things, healing and death. 
 When you die you get picked up and lifted to Valhalla (which is Norse Viking heaven, yay) and then 
 instantly resurrect back onto the field for more combat. Death it's self has little of a penalty, 
 no game over, no loss of a life leading to a game over, just a little item damage and if you have 
 upgraded any of your items with the "Item Quality" upgrade you won't even see the items damaged 
 much, but it doesn't matter much because this game has SO many items that you'll be switching to 
 new items about ever half hour or so. The real penalty in Too Human for dying is the incredibly 
 long and annoying death scene of what you could call the angel of death coming to get you, if you 
 die every once and awhile it's fine I suppose, but some areas in the game are horribly unbalanced 
 and you will die 2, 3, 4 or 5 times before passing an area. This is a pain as you have to restart 
 from the entrance of the area, run back to the fight and then die a moment later just to watch 
 the 30 second death scene and restart at the beginning of the area, run back, die, do it all over. 
 It's a pain and can really become an annoyance really quickly, after playing for a few hours dying 
 once in the heat of combat is expected and the long sequence is a breather but anything more than 
 that just becomes a kick in the pants. The other part is healing, now if dying wasn't such a nuisance 
 then this wouldn't be an issue. But depending on your class you may only be able to heal by picking 
 up Health Orbs dropped by slain baddies; this becomes a serious issue later in the game. Health 
 drops can never be predicted and as you level up they fill less and less of your health bar. For 
 classes like the Champion, which is probably the most balanced class in the game for combat, you'll 
 end up dying simply because you couldn't heal between fights. While some objects in the game that 
 can be broken do hold health, it tends to feel like you never find health when you need it. You 
 fight 50 bad guys and get left with a sliver of health and you find nothing, fight 10 weaklings 
 and you have full health and suddenly every crate you pass has health in it. Some kind of potion, 
 med kit or healing system of SOME kind would have really helped vamp up the games speed and would 
 have helped keep a feeling of continuity. The most annoying thing in the game (other than dying 
 repeatedly in the same place and having to watch that death sequence) is getting poisoned or some 
 such and after fighting a huge battle and ending it with a little less than half health, watching 
 the poison slowly drain you of life and kill you anyway. It's slightly depressing and really ruins 
 that feeling of victory over a mighty foe. Still though the combat system and item system really 
 makes up for those two issues, as long as you can put up with those two nagging problems the rest 
 of the game is beautiful.
  
  Overall  When it comes down to it, problems and successes combined, too human is a really good 
 game. Great for those RPG fans and for the Action fans, the fast paced combat combined with the 
 deep RPG inventory creates a game that should be fun for veterans and recreational players alike. 
 The combat is simple enough to get but don't think you can just hold the right stick and walk away, 
 as you progress into the game a combination of fighting and special attacks will without doubt 
 be needed to survive. One thing that could tend to overwhelm players is the MASSIVE weapon and 
 armor selection, not only are there a ton of weapons and armor, but they can be upgraded with Runes, 
 which add effects, increase damage, armor and a whole array of other things. As I said before weapons 
 and armor do take damage which can be repaired, but I've rarely had a piece or armor or a weapon 
 which I didn't replace within a half hour at this point. The Charms in which you can make are rather 
 interesting, they require you to meet a quest, something like kill 200 enemies in melee combat, 
 find 3 wells or most common is kill x amount of enemies while you have a hit count higher than 
 20 or 50. After completing that requirement you also have to insert other runes into the charm 
 to activate it, the bonus with charms is they stay active as long as you equip them and DO not 
 get put into items. From my experience though Charms are something that are a nice bonus if you 
 want to put the effort in them but are not required to play. Finally, bosses. The bosses tend to 
 be grossly misaligned with the game, boss battles and lengthy due to your weapons tend to always 
 be weak against them. To top it off bosses will most likely kill you a few times because of the 
 fact that you can't 'juggle' bosses; the most notable is the boss at the end of the 3rd mission, 
 an upgraded troll. He requires that multiple parts be destroyed to beat him, this is a hassle though 
 since with melee you can only attack a target generally and can't aim for parts of them, with ranged 
 weapons you can target his arms and legs BUT he has MASSIVE armor and it takes a very long time 
 to kill him. Still, with beautiful combat and a deep inventory system that is sure to keep even 
 the most detail hungry RPG fans busy mixing and matching items. Not to mention you can custom color 
 your armor and weapons piece by piece, adding a nice detail. 
  
  Final Note  Just perplexing, at later levels Helmets disappear. I can't pinpoint an exact level 
 but eventually end up without one, you'll still pick up items that go into the helmet or 'head' 
 armor slot so don't worry but you won't get full helms that cover your face. You just end up getting 
 little glowing things on the back of your head if anything 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderPuma
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Although Too Human is by no means perfect, it should not be automatically thought of as a poor 
 game. To start, I must say the game was a little over-hyped. For those of you who were expecting 
 it to be game of the year, lower your expectations. However, this is not to say that Too Human 
 isn't worth the buy. If you enjoy dungeon crawlers with plenty of action, loot, and leveling up, 
 this game could be a great buy for you. Easy achievements, fun game play, and great visuals all 
 make the game as good as it is. There are some drawbacks as well though. The animations for attacks 
 are a bit poorly done and the controls feel a bit clunky at first. After some time you will get 
 used to the controls but the animations always feel forced. This does not however keep Too Human 
 from being fun. Even if you'd just like to rent the game I highly reccommend it as it can be very 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinecaton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay So I just got done with the Ice Forest play-though on my second run through the game. I picked 
 the class that no one seems to care about, Champion. I wanted to try it out because I'm sure I 
 would hear plenty of other information on the different classes other then that one.
  
  I went down the middle path of skills which increase a lot of air juggles and the height at which 
 you can knocked enemies up into the air. You all thought that hitting someone with a hammer and 
 sending up into the air was fun? Try doing that with max juggle height and see how much fun it 
 is! The height almost doubles so when you are jumping up to juggle them you are no where near the 
 ground. I can literally stay up there for about 20 seconds before falling down. This is including 
 the initial jump, the juggle, and just before you fall to the ground you start a finisher. It is 
 a blast but takes some time to get the timing down properly.
  
  Fighting your way through some of the areas are frustrating when you don't know exactly how to 
 deal with certain enemies. The spiders and floating fat guys that have huge damaging knock back 
 can get irritating until you fight out how to take care of them. Before I found out the best way 
 to do it (not ranged) it was smooth. I probably died around 5-6 times each spider/floating guy before 
 I would kill him. This is of course having to deal with all the other baddies too.
  
  The story picks up in the second half of the game. The story is pretty good for the most part, 
 starts off slow with you trying to get some revenge but once that story arc is over, it really 
 starts to pick up. I don't want to talk about the story too much because anything could be considered 
 spoilers now a days. I will say, even though there is a cliff hanger it still feels like a good 
 ending to a trilogy. You don't really feel pissed off at the end like many did with games like 
 Halo 2 and Gears of War. It is satisfying and will have you begging for more.
  
  Finally, the technical issues I have encountered. There aren't many but they are there. Frame rate 
 has only dipped down once for me but when it did, it was down for about a minute which was irritating. 
 One time coming out of a cut scene my camera locked up and I was staring at a ceiling and couldn't 
 even move. I simply realigned my camera with the left bumper and all was well. Last issues was 
 with the Valkyrie, she went through the floor one time to pick up my body. Nothing serious but 
 was still a technical issue that could be addressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mammoth92
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I hate to see gamespot review good games this low. We all have our opinions, I hope the 5.5 won't 
 keep a lot of people from playing this fun game.
  
  I agree with most of what the gamespot reviewer said, however, I havn't had nearly as much problem 
 with the combat mechanics. I thought they work pretty well. There is a definite learning curve 
 to attacking with the right stick. I found myself often hitting a button to attack out of reflex, 
 but that's not the games fault. I also don't find the pauses between groups of enemies to be a 
 big deal. Seriously, if you need to be furiously hitting buttons every second your playing, you 
 need to lay of the speed, not give the game a bad review. Same with the relative calm of the cyberspace 
 levels, I found it to be a nice change of pace.
  
  I also have to agree with the assessment of the plot. It's pretty thin. You can figure out most 
 of what's going on, but if your expecting to be spoon fed the story your out of luck.
  
  All in all, I personally think it's a fun game. It'll keep me occupied for a while, hopefully until 
 Force Unleashed comes out.
  
  Mammoth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htehtrhrtjrgjyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for this game, ever since they announced it for the 360, i picked it up as soon 
 as i could and i must say the guy who reviewed it on gamespot does not appreciate this game at 
 all. okay first off the graphics i agree are pretty low for a 360 game but you have to know what 
 silicon knights went through it was supposed to be the unreal engine but they didnt get the whole 
 thing from epic so they had to drop it so the graphics quality really decreased. The controls take 
 time to get used to but once you get the hang of it you pull off insance combos and will be sliding 
 all over the place killing everything that moves. it becomes quite addicting. The story is unique 
 and quite interesting, its like an epic movie that you play basically, although the game is kind 
 of short people say oh 10 hours thats if you just blow past everything and dont enjoy the game, 
 thats what all rpg's are like if you dont take time to play everything and look at everything you 
 miss it all. The co-op is a lot fun when playing with a friend i do wish they had the 4 player 
 instead of 2 but i do see that if they had 4 they game would be a complete pushover. so in the 
 end although graphics arent great they game is a lot of fun and is at least worth a rent. i really 
 hope they make the 2nd one but hopefully it doesnt take 10 years this time lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xurtch
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  This game rocks! This game was the best rpg and action game for that matter that i have ever played:) 
 This was so fun in the first 2 minutes i was hooked! Many people hate this cause of contorls or 
 voice problem (future but like ancient dialogue) But who the heck cares? it don't matter if dialogue 
 is bad! The controls may seem weird but they eventually fit the game sction and pace! I recommend 
 you buy this game or at least try the demo or rent it! You WILL NOT REGRET IT! YOU WILL LOVE IT 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!! DON"T W8 it's the best!!!!!:) The best about this game is the controls i think. they 
 work for the pace and type of fighting style. The boss battles are pretty cool and fun:) you will 
 love the mount kill scheme put into Too Human:) Don't wait it IS WORTH YOUR MONEY!!!!:) U will 
 love this game for years to come, and replay is the absolute best of all never the same!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfemane
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The game has its obvious flaws no doubt. But once you get past them and understand how to flow 
 with the combat system the game can and does take off. The mini one man (two man in coop) instances, 
 and the hordes of loot keep the excitement flowing as you level quickly through the game. The unlimited 
 amount of loot that drops keeps the damage and armor on par with the lvl your at. Boss fights and 
 mini boss fights can get tedious especially when first starting out the game. Learning how to efficiently 
 dispatch a troll the first few times can be tedious and frustrating, especially if you aggro the 
 entire map. The items dropped, though, have a tendency to be a justified reward for the effort 
 put forth and the items are almost ALWAYS usable unlike similar games of its genre. The Purple, 
 or epic, items not only look good but are well designed for each class making the loot a decent 
 return for more and more challenging scenarios. Coop, though obviously designed for more than 2 
 players, is still pretty functional and always keeps me coming back for more. Besides Silicon Knights 
 struggle with Epic and set backs in the graphics and game play mechanics they still managed to 
 design an enjoyable game. It might not be the game that hype made it out to be, but its certainly 
 worth the time to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  How can you mess up Vikings in Space? I mean really? 
  
  Perhaps I am one of the few folks who live under a rock when it comes to gaming news, and what 
 games are in development as the first time I had even heard of Too Human was late in 2007. Much 
 to my surprise it had been in development for almost a decade at that point. 
  
  The first thing that I suggest you do is purge that fact from your mind, because if you walk into 
 this experience expecting something unique, original or otherwise breath taking you will be very 
 disappointed. 
  
  Getting into Gameplay first off. 
  The first thing I simply need to note is that camera control on this game is a pain like few others, 
 you can click one of the triggers to position the camera to default which is behind you, but normally 
 when you need to re-position the camera you are being hacked at or fired at by any number of badies 
 and the quick change of camera angle requires at least a second for you to orient yourself which 
 can mean the difference between life and death, 
  
  Also the right stick being used as your directional and swing control for your Melee weapon is 
 frustrating early in the game. It made me want to use my pistols which were so underwhelming early 
 on I figured I may as well deal with the sword. 
  
  With that said however, I think back to the first time I played the original Resident Evil's super 
 awkward control set-up for the first time and after a few hours it was like second nature, I am 
 not quite at the level of comfort with Too Human but its certainly passable and does get to a point 
 where combat will flow, its just takes time. 
  
  My biggest concern was the general weakness and awkwardness of the weapons you first have available 
 to you, but as I grew that concern vanished. I opted the path of a Defender w/ Cybernetics and 
 once you get your first hammer and your first cannon combat REALLY takes off. 
  
  For those who played Oblivion, Two Worlds, or even Mass Effect think of the improvement that you 
 enjoyed in combat an hour or so into the game when you could actually equip some decent weapons, 
 now amplify that by 10. 
  
  It's not as much that the early weapons are that bad, it's just the weapons you get as your progress 
 in Too Human are that good. 
  
  The Combat element as a whole is interesting, but after the tenth horde to similar creatures that 
 you have to battle after you have taken 20 steps from the last battle feels almost like a game 
 lengthening trick, as do some of the simplistic early puzzles in the Norn territory. 
  The one aspect that must be given full credit for is the boss battles, 
  They are Epic. 
  
 
  The RPG aspect of the game is one that I am perhaps most impressed with, originally when I was 
 asked to assign skill points to various skills my complaint was that the skill tree seemed very 
 narrow and I thought that would be of concern, 
  
  But with the nearly endless amount of weapons both melee and gun/rifle/cannon and the amount of 
 armor and charms and runes the reality is that this game gives be a very solid level of customization 
 which makes me feel that the character is mine. 
  
  Couple that with five different starting classes, with the human or cybernetic path you are given 
 a fair bit of diversity for a game of this sort. 
  
  I will warn any potential gamers, have Wikipedia on bookmark if you are not fairly well versed 
 in Norse Mythology, because the story telling of what is happening at that moment is not bad much 
 of the back story in regards to "who these people are" is not covered and is very handy in enjoying 
 the story. 
  
  Graphically; 
  The cut scenes are solid, the character models look pretty good. However the enemies get repetitive, 
 and while I understand that robots are suppose to look generic I can't help but be a little frustrated 
 after the 15th wave of similar "red eyes" 
  
  Norn space looks very cool, and very lush however the game suffers from "Fable-esk" barriers where 
 my character can jump and hit the room yet in some cases he has to walk around a shrub. 
  
  The City where your upgrades originally take place looks majestic, and the amount of people running 
 around makes it feel like a city, although the lack of interaction with 90% of the citizens does 
 make sure that you don't mistake this game for a Mass Effect style WRPG. 
  
  Many of the levels in which combat take place are suppose to look like rundown, dark, abandon, 
 forgotten palaces.
  
  My complain is that they look too much like rundown, dark, abandon, forgotten palaces, although 
 this does not apply to all aspects of the game. Just a few of them. 
  
  The sound is where the game should earn its butter, and I greatly enjoyed the voice acting and 
 I firmly felt the score suited the style of gameplay. 
  
  Perhaps the most tragic aspect is that combat sounds really good, right down to some simply amazing 
 echo effects. 
  
  However, when you have nearly 30 enemies on screen as well as your team firing all those amazing 
 effects get muffled by the fact that everyone is firing at everyone else. You truly realize how 
 tragic it is when you are enjoying your first boss battle and you realize how amazing it would 
 have been if every battle sounded just like that one. 
  
  While I am often one to rarely play through a game of this type more then once, I gotta admit that 
 when I had to pick my character class it took me time and I wondered how different it would have 
 been if I had opted for say a Berzerker rather then a Defender. Then once again after the first 
 combat stage was cleared and I was given the choice of "Cybernetic" or "Human" I was torn and I 
 have to wonder how cool some of the Human stuff must have been since I am really enjoying the Cybernetic 
 aspect. 
  
  Too Human without a doubt is a game I will pick up again a few months after the credits have rolled 
 for the first time and get lost in the realm of Vikings with grenade launchers. 
  
  At the end of the day its hard not to admit that this game has some glaring flaws, but with that 
 said its also hard to say that this game is worse then something like Conan that was released for 
 the 360 less then a year ago. 
  
  The game functions well, there is no real aspect where its broken or I felt the need to stop playing 
 because of one aspect or another. 
  
  Too Human when all the dust settles is a game that does not do any one thing terribly well, but 
 at the same time it does not do anything terribly either. Its worthwhile and it certainly should 
 not be at the top of anyone's 360's games list, its certainly a lot better then much of the generic 
 junk on the market. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Sooooooooooo.... when Silicon Knights was complaining about Epic trying to sabatoage this game by 
 releasing Gears of War i guess they thought "Man. This game is AWESOME. Well.. I thought it was 
 quite funny when Silicon Knights lost the lawsuit against Epic and I think its still funny that 
 i prefered to play Gears of War over this game. This game is beyond broken. This game was nowhere 
 near the expectations that Silicon Knights was hyping up. Its got crap camera work and being able 
 to go to "Cyberspace".
  
  This game takes literally 8 hours at the most to beat. And even after your done playing your still 
 scratching your hear wondering "What the hell is even going on anymore?!" before pulling a gun 
 out and painting your wall with your brain matter for wasting your hard earned money and time on 
 playing this.
  
  Norse Mythology is awesome. But... It has no place in the future. Maybe in a Gears of War future 
 setting or a new Lost Vikings Game, but not in this garbage. Speaking of Lost Vikings, Blizzard 
 needs to help put out a new Lost Vikings game again. Eric the Swift was more bad ass then Baldur.
 
  
  Great Graphics, and some "alright" gameplay couldnt save this broken watered down bootleg version 
 of a crappy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is not for everyone. However, if you are like me and love powering up, making your character 
 unique and feeling like a badass while doing it, this game will knock your socks off!
  
  Firstly, to dispell a few rumors. Rumor #1 is that the camera is horrible, and that you have NO 
 control over it. This is a flat out lie. What you have here is a camera that 95% of the time is 
 going to make gameplay way more smooth, because you aren't micromanaging the camera while you try 
 and kill 40 guys at once. Every once in a while it goofs up, but its rare and you do have some 
 options. LB will center the camera behind you, so a quick tap on LB and all is solved. Also, you 
 have plenty of camera angles (close, far, strategic, isometric to name a few) that should allow you 
 to find the view you want.
  
  Rumor #2 is that the right analog stick combat doesn't work right. This, again, is a big lie. It 
 works so well that after playing for a couple of hours, you'll feel right at home.
  
  There is very little I could say that is BAD about this game... My main complaint, and one mistake 
 that probably chases away all but the most hardcore dungeon crawlers is this: The game just throws 
 you into the action. It takes almost no time to explain how the game works... its almost as if 
 they expect you to read the instructions first, which I recommend. I feel this game has been widely 
 misunderstood, and I also think that at least half the people talking bad about it haven't played 
 anything but the demo, if that. If you've been excited for this, and its your type of game, GO 
 BUY IT, you'll be VERY HAPPY.
  
  P. S. If I had to lodge another complaint, and its not a dealbreaker, but kind of a gip... It's 
 very, VERY short singleplayer. I beat it in 28 hours. No, not 28 hours played, in 28 hours of life. 
 I played alot, but I got through the story mode in 12 hours. Kind of a bummer, hopefully the sequel 
 is longer. Either way, I cannot say this game offers 12 hours of gameplay, as I am eager to play 
 at least 40 hours online, as well as play through the game with 1 or 2 more classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dlacy13g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Its a solid game. Don't let the reviews or the Hater user reviews on this site sway you from giving 
 the game atlest a rent to see if you want to buy it. Sure it has some issues, but they are not 
 "major" game breaking issues as others might lead you to believe. I feel like the media and fanboys 
 alike set out to burn Dennis Dyack for being so overly outspoken about this game. 
  
  They gameplay is fun and rewarding. You feel like a bad a$$ and that is the way it should be. The 
 graphics are good, not MGS4 good but they are on par with most next gen games. Sound and story 
 are both very well done too. Norse mythology mixed in with sci-fi takes some getting use to at 
 first but I was quickly drawn in. Loot collecting fans will love this game as the loot and customization 
 are off the charts!
  
  This is a good first step for this trilogy, and I look forward to the 2nd and 3rd games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Wow I really like this game sure there are a few things that could be done better but wow this 
 is really good for a new IP. 
  
  I didn't think I was going to like the control scheme and at first to be honest I didn't. That 
 all changed within a hanf an hour wow it really has a evil sick fun precicion that makes you feel 
 kick @@@ to play. I really feel powerfull when baldur does some of these moves. 
  
  Granted you don't have any conversation tree's like mass effect, but remember they weren't going 
 for that thinking man's RPG. That's not to say that this game isn't deep and doesn't benifit from 
 thinking out a strategy. It just means you don't have to worry about what answer to give any character 
 at any time.
  
  This is really just a sit down and play fun time, I love the fact that I can just explore and beat 
 up baddies, then after collecting some lute I get to go build and customize my implement of godly 
 retribution so yah this is a LOT OF FUN TOTALLY AWESOME!!!!
  
  I really can't wait for number 2 and I can't wait to play thru this version many many times. Yes 
 it isn't perfect but What game is. GO BUY IT ALREADY LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominusSabathan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Too human is one of those games that you love or hate , i personally love it , it's great at first 
 the controls can be annoying but once you get use to , you will find Too human , Too awesome it 
 would be nice if we get a patch with 4 player co-op , graphics are really nice , i really like 
 the way that enemies look , "robotic dark elves: D is just awesome.
  If you don't want to expend 60 bucks at least rent the game , now if you have a good friend on 
 xbox live try the co-op feature is awesome , specially fighting over sets of armors and weapons 
 hahahaha lol mad fun , Too human is a great game but a lot of people is not ready for Too human.
 
  Too human is a great concept but it needs a fix specially the camera , oh my god it's just annoying 
 at first but once you get used to it it's ok but if they make Too human 2 they have to fix that 
 problem , another thing is de Aim sometimes you are shotting and later you realize that you didn't 
 kill anyone , beacuse you were not aiming the right enemy or thet auto aim was shooting the wall. 
 
  Music in Too human one of the best in video game history , i really like the music in too human 
 , goes perfect with the game, overall Too human is a great game if you like action/rpg games MY 
 SCORE a strong 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAlford
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  This isn't diablo, this isn't god of war, and it isn't some third person action shooter. Its all 
 of them!! They have taken the best aspects of all 3 game styles and rolled them into one of the 
 best action RPGs i have played. No its not as long as diablo, no the action isn't as deep as god 
 of war, and no the shooting isn't as great as FPS, but when you put all 3 into a game, and make 
 them fit seamlessly, its more fun than any of them.
  
  This game at its heart is an action RPG/dungeon crawler/loot hunting. Dont come expecting to play 
 a shooter or a pure action game. You wont get it and I suspect that is where the bad reviews are 
 coming from. But for people like myself who love a good loot hunt, you will love this game. 
  
  They have taken the dungeon crawler and turned it on its head. Point and click is gone, and 
 replaced with a combo system that rivals god of war. What many people are claiming they didn't 
 like, i loved. The fact that all melee is controlled with the right analog stick. Push in the direction 
 of the enemy and u slide towards them an attack. if you are surrounded, twirl the stick around 
 and you will attack them all. Push both sticks towards them at once, u will do a finisher or a 
 fierce attack depending on the range, and there is all kinds of other combos. throw an enemy into 
 the air and juggle them with melee or guns.
  
  Gun play is great because you don't have to switch weapons like every other ARPG ever made. Right 
 and left trigger control this. Aiming is a bit spotty, but you get used to it pretty quick. Boss 
 mobs have different parts that you have to destroy to take them down. With pistols, you can aim 
 at 2 different spots at once, taking out his giant face crushing arm and one leg all at once. BTW 
 if you take out the bosses weapon arm, he cant attack you with it, adding some strategy to a genre 
 where boss fights are normally battles of attrition!!
  
  My few complaints are that the camera is a little rough at first, you are so used to moving it 
 with right analog stick, it takes a little, but after 30 mins, you don't miss it at all. And gun 
 aiming is a little tough to get down as well, but again, you adjust. My biggest complaint is death. 
 There is no true fear of ever failing. When you die, a Valkyrie comes down and takes you to heaven, 
 just have to you pop back up 100 yards away from the fight. Now if it started back at a save point, 
 it would be cool. But it doesnt. you jump right back into the same fight. So if the boss was almost 
 dead when you died, he is still almost dead. It really takes a game that is got a good difficulty 
 lvl, and destroys it by having no fear of death.
  
  But even with the death issue and camera, its still the most fun i have had playing an action RPG. 
 Diablo kept me busy for years point and clicking a mouse over and over and over again. Now i get 
 to perform true combos, have some strategy in my boss/elite fights, and feel true 360 degree combat, 
 all while still hunting for that perfect piece of loot.
  
  On the story, i don't know why everyone says its so bad. Most action RPGs dont even have a story. 
 This game has beautiful cut scenes that i have not skipped through once, and i rarely read the 
 story in an ARPG. I haven't finished it, so it may suck later, but it is a trilogy, so im assuming 
 that might have something to do with it.
  
  Final verdict, if you like action RPGs, and you are willing to learn a new, innovative combat system, 
 you will love this game as much as i do. if you want your action RPGs to play like diablo 2 forever, 
 you might not like it as much. But its worth trying to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiSarge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Gamespot you are f*cking retarded! I'm sick of all these reviews by supposedly "unbiased" sources 
 bashing this game. The main reason that people dislike this game is because they don't understand 
 how to actually play it. Most of the negative reviews I've seen have consisted of personal bias 
 against the control scheme and the combat system overall. You have to actually take the time to 
 understand what you're doing to enjoy the game!!! Sure you could run around the levels doing the 
 basic melee or ranged attacks and kill enemies that way. There's a very good chance that you will 
 die a lot and not have any fun if you do that though. I have a feeling that's exactly what Gamespot 
 did on this one. So instead of shooting yourself in the foot and then blaming the developers for 
 you getting your ass handed to you, please, PLAY THE GAME THE WAY IT WAS MEANT TO BE PLAYED! WITH 
 YOUR BRAIN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardknock
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Well all I can say is don't pay attention to the bad reviews they obviously just don't "get" this 
 game. I'm the type of gamer who loved Crackdown, Dead Rising, Ninja Gaiden 2, Devil May Cry 4 and 
 Bioshock. If you have similar tastes as me, TRUST ME you will love this game. Very addictive and 
 extremely fun in co-op!!!
  
  Well all I can say is don't pay attention to the bad reviews they obviously just don't "get" this 
 game. I'm the type of gamer who loved Crackdown, Dead Rising, Ninja Gaiden 2, Devil May Cry 4 and 
 Bioshock. If you have similar tastes as me, TRUST ME you will love this game. Very addictive and 
 extremely fun in co-op!!!
  
  Well all I can say is don't pay attention to the bad reviews they obviously just don't "get" this 
 game. I'm the type of gamer who loved Crackdown, Dead Rising, Ninja Gaiden 2, Devil May Cry 4 and 
 Bioshock. If you have similar tastes as me, TRUST ME you will love this game. Very addictive and 
 extremely fun in co-op!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  This Game is SuprisinglyGood Although Gamespot Scored it low. i Found this game to Be enjoyable 
 and Alot of fun to Play. It has a Few Chalenges that Are thrown in that makes the game have a Spin 
 on how you Play it. I dont Agree with Gamespot on the Storyline Either I think it has a Cool Story 
 and its Cool how they Slowly unfold it. And i Disagree Again With Gamespot Saying how the Guns 
 are pointless I like the Guns they can be quite Fun to use, Plus there are Enemies Where you Must 
 use the Guns Or you may get Frozen or BLown up. So Far this is The Worst Review Gamespot has Given. 
 i give this a 8.5 outta 10. 8.5 because there are Spots where the Camera Kinda Lags when you Snap 
 it. Either than that This game is Solid and i think Gamespot needs to Re Review it. The Detail 
 in the game is Really Good. overall i find the Game to be a hit out of all the Bad hype it has 
 been getting.. i think Gamespot is just Upset at Silicon Knights For sueing the Creators of Gears 
 of war For Sellilng them a Bad Game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infin1123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  I like this game and apparently many people do, it's one of those games that you love or you hate. Granted 
 that the control scheme is a little off (takes a little getting used to) , it would be nice if you 
 could customize the buttons but other then that its a really good.
  graphics are good, the fights are really nice, flashy and great sound
  My only downsides to this 
 game are the controls and the boss fights, they could have added more strategy behind beating them. 
 Four player would be nice also, but not a big deal
  Other then that pretty solid game to me.
  
  I dont think it deserved the 5.5 that gamespot 
 gave it. This game is no where near that bad.
  Just because the game is different then most, people will just write it off (I had to rant on because 
 this system wont allow a short, to the point review)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifftor1126
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a while. Patiently. I figured if Silicon Knights was spending 
 all that extra time, there was a reason. Now that I've played for a minute or two or six-hundred, 
 I think perhaps they should have delayed it... again. There aren't any obvious "glitches," but the 
 flip between absurdly easy and impossibly difficult is frustrating, the total lack of explanation 
 of the bonuses conferred (what the hell is "soothing"?) drive me nuts, and the aiming system? Don't 
 get me started, ESPECIALLY on the pistols
  
  That said, the  does bring up my nostalgia for Deus Ex (the 
 original for PC) , which I loved, the control/gameplay isn't so bad as to be "broken," just not 
 even close to being "polished"... and the overall concept is still good. Oh well. At least I'll 
 have Colonial Marines for Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM-Lucra
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game probably four years ago and back then it got me excited. A month before 
 the game was to be released I was all excited that I was finally going to get to play it. And then 
 I read the Gameinformer review of the game that said nothing but bad things about the game. They 
 gave the game a 6.75 and said another ten years of development might of helped it out. I started 
 having doubts but then I remembered that I they have been wrong before and I waited to see gamespots 
 review. After seeing the 5.5 I just couldnt believe it. After playing the demo there is no way 
 that the game was as bad as they said. As soon as I could I went and picked up the game and after 
 just an hour of playing it I was addicted. Everything about the game was great. The graphics made 
 me sit back and say wow at moments were the game would show you the size and scale of some of the 
 areas you are in. Yes the gameplay took a sec to get used to but as soon I did it was nothing. 
 One thing that the reviews complained about was how you cant target the exact enemy you want at 
 any moment when shooting and for some reason I never had this problem and I chose to play as the 
 commando who is the long range specialist. Another thing is the death sequence when you die that 
 has a valkarye come down from Valhalla to take you with her and some people say that its to long 
 and that its so irritating because you cant skip it but they are just being stupid. The cutsecene 
 take about ten to fifteen seconds and as soon as its over you get to imediatly start playing again 
 and frankly i would rather whach that over and over again instead of looking at a stupid load screen 
 with a moving bar at the bottom. The story in the game is not the greatest masterpiece ever written 
 but its still a descent story for the game and its not that hard to figure out. With so much being 
 offered with all the customization in the game from the different pieces of armor to the different 
 weapons Too Human is a game that will keep you coming back for more nomatter what those other reviewers 
 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weavols
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  The game is gorgeous, and fun. The cinematic presentation is right up there with titles like Mass 
 Effect if not better. The action is fast paced, difficult at times, and constantly rewarding. The 
 parts of the game that take you out of the action aren't fun, they aren't terrible but the action 
 is good enough to really be missed when it's time to treasure hunt. The reviewer on this one is 
 just dead wrong. In the video he's complaining about how "lifeless" the city is as he walks down 
 a hallway and gattling gun turrets wake up and track his movement as he passes. The game's full 
 of that kind of detail and this reviewers blind ignorance of it is a discredit to the site. This 
 game would be a 9 if the co-op wasn't limited to 2 players (you can't have a holy trinity with 
 2 people!) , hopefully that can be resolved by a patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Short review and to the point
  
  PROS
  - Nice graphics
  - A unique intruiging world 
  - The more you play with it the more you like it - Some deep RPG elements
  - A all to one story
 
  -------------------------------------------------------
  -------------------------------------------------------
  CONS
  - a little frustrating gameplay 
 until you get use to it
  - Camera has problems...
  - Story becomes a bit boring some times
  
  CONCLUSION
  At first you may not like the gameplay 
 because its deeper and more complex from the average Action-RPG games but when you learn it and 
 get use to it the game is a rough diamond 
  
  Score 5.5 ??
  No freaking way the game is much better from that.
  The gamespot reviewer must get fired in my 
 opinion
  
  Try the game and do not waste your time reading what that gamespot reviewer says.
  This is not 
 the first time that Gamespot mess things up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e424pd5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  This Game is not for everyone. Some will hate it, others will love it. Yes the camera sucks, yes 
 the "locking on" targeting system has a learning curve. But damn if it isn't fun launching a baddy 
 in the air and letting your buddy take him out or just jumping up and finishing him off yourself. 
 It's a RPG/action game, again it's a R P G/ action game. If you don't like get constant streams 
 of new items witch result in you updating your character all the time or if you don't like rpg 
 games at all..... stay away! This game is a hybred bent on kicking your ass if you don't keep pace. 
 It does have times were it slows down, that's because it's an rpg and like all rpg's there is exploring 
 and finding new places or things. When the action kicks in it is relentless, non stop and a hell 
 of a lot of fun! You do feel like a god and your combo meter goes further. My review is short and 
 sweet. Give it a chance! Shame on Gamespot for such a poor review when they've given so many bad 
 game great reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poppen695
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is what it claims to be: An Action-RPG. If you bring bias into the game, it's your own 
 fault for not enjoying it. Action RPGs are almost always about heavy combat and generous loot. 
 This game does not disappoint in any way. I will break the major points down into sections to explain 
 why this game wins on just about every aspect, and why the "official" review here is just plain 
 wrong and quite frankly... amateur.
  
  Graphics: Excellent. From weapon particle effects to minute details on creatures and characters 
 this game is top notch. The enviroments feel real and will engross and draw you in quickly. In 
 my opinion it's more visually appealing than Mass Effect. You can tell effort and skill went into 
 the level, weapon, armor, and creature design. 10 for my final score here.
  
  Sound: This to me was the only minor drawback. The combat sounds are adequate and sometimes quite 
 heartpounding especially if you are playing with surround and a good subwoofer, you can feel the 
 hammer strikes. But.. the soundtrack was a tiny bit vapid for my tastes and sometimes the fade out 
 from battle seemed a bit disjointed with the recent action. Voice overs are perfect and very professional 
 so no complaints there. Overall sound gets a 7.5 from me
  
  Combat: Rockin'. That sums it up nicely. If you are looking for a fire and forget no brainer skill 
 use like WoW then you should pass on this game. You are given very little info on how combos work 
 and what they are and THATS A GREAT THING FOLKS!! The game doesn't hold your hand like a little 
 baby and explain every combo for you. The fun is in finding them on your own and there are many 
 and they are awesome to pull off. The learning curve isn't bad and if you spend an hour or more 
 with the game you will find your own combos and master then pretty quickly. But don't stop there, 
 because you will keep finding new ones. Don't forget to take the fight to the air, that's where 
 some of the most spectacular moves originate (and some creatures are more suceptible to air attacks) *gasp 
 you mean I have to plan my attacks?!! Yes.. leroy... yes you do. Combat 9.5
  
  Controls: It's no secret that this game has broken the standard mold for button and attack assignments 
 and this is probably why many neigh-sayers choose to badmouth it after 10 minutes of play, because 
 many games have become so ingrained with "left stick=move right stick=look A=kill" that they can't 
 get past the new system. Try it.. it works, and it works well. It's actually refreshing to have 
 something new besides the same old stale controller formula we've been beating around for 10 years. 
 The hud can be a tiny bit confusing until you take about 30 seconds to actually look at it and 
 understand the layout. Once you do, it's actually very easy to use. Equipment and Skill trees are 
 very straightforward and you will have them down in no time. Overall I give the control/hud/equip 
 menus a 9.0 for not being afraid to try something new, and giving us a layout that actually works 
 very well for the game it's used in.
  
  Creatures: Very good. The biggest issue here is that if you play the game like a FPS you will fail 
 on an epic scale. It's not a point and shoot only game. Some creatures require you to think a bit 
 and target certain areas or their body or aspects of their attacks to counter and destroy them. 
 Did you know you can disarm some of the tougher boss mobs with a well placed strike? If you didn't.. it 
 means you're playing it wrong. Getting slaughtered by a big meanie with a nasty AoE attack? Take 
 away his arm/weapon and the fight gets a lot easier. Graphically the creatures are excellent.. if 
 not sometimes a little too much like some of the Mass Effect genre, but still original nonetheless. 
 Overall, 8.5 here.
  
  Items/Loot: God I love a good loot hunt game. This game does not disappoint at all. There are so 
 many customization options and weapon choices that you could play 50 times over and never come 
 out the same on any two characters. You know how in WoW everyone with the best loot always looks 
 the same? Well.. NOT HERE FOLKS. They did an awesome job on the graphics, stats, and bonuses these 
 items confer. If you mind your equipment screen well, you will be smiling from ear to ear in no 
 time as your character becomes William "Billy" Badass in the loot department.
  
  Overall/Final Thoughts: This is a keeper and a buyer, but only if you like games based around loot 
 hunt and dungeon crawls with tactics. If you are looking for some kind of FPS, or Lara Croft hop 
 skip and jump adventure you are in the wrong place. If you are looking for a game with bone jarring 
 effects, huge overkill combos, and sweet sweet loot then step on in this one will not fail you 
 at all. 10.0 for delivering the action RPG goods.
  
  Caveat: I'm normally quite critical of gamespot reviews for PC games as I have always felt they 
 tend to get it wrong on many PC games because they are a pro-console website, but I have to voice 
 my dissapointment with the main review here. I'm not sure what the reviewer was looking for in 
 the game, or in fact if he/she gave it more than a 30 minute shakedown, but it's obvious that 5.5 
 is just not even in the ballpark on this one. Shame on you Gamespot, you've really missed the boat 
 on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erostad01eb
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I expected a lot from this game. How could you not? The basic idea rolling around with a dev for 
 10+ years and finally it's realized. You'd think they'd been able to stream line it a bit more 
 and deliver a solid game with perfected mechanics rather than focusing on the cut scenes. 
  
  But that basically what we've got here. VERY disjointed gameplay constantly interupted by mid 
 produced cut scenes and overly long rez sequences. The game just does not flow.
  
  Perhaps the devs were thinking "Hey! We're making a trilogy so the first game can be decent... 
 we'll make the following two chapters more polished." Sorry SK! The first chapter needs to be the 
 bait with the hook and unfortunatley, you didn't pack the right stuff to reel me in.
  
  I SERIOUSLY doubt we'll see a second chapter to this game given the internal problems at SK and 
 the fact that this game is basically a dream in development that was hastened together under rush 
 conditions to produce a shadow of it's potential. 
  
  Disjointed and sub par. The devs would have invested time well had they played a week of Phantasy 
 Star Online and at least modeled it after that. 2 player co-op??!!?? WFT is that all about in this 
 day? No split screen co-op??!!?? WTF is that all about??!!??
  
  Nice try SK but this is a rental at best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo I nearly counted myself out of buying the game. It was only after a dry 
 run of downloadable demos that I found myself playing it again, then again, then again.
  
  I ended up doing a pre-order and after picking up the full version I found myself enjoying it more 
 and more.
  
  Its not as polished as it should be, its not as deep as it could have been, but I do enjoy it none 
 the less.
  
  I consider myself a little picky in the games that I do play, but would say this lived up to the 
 hype better than a game like Lost Planet did, though I did enjoy aspects of that game as well.
 
  
  I feel like this will be a game that you either enjoy or hate, but I think that if given the chance 
 to improve and grow the game over the rest of the trilogy it will become a really great set of 
 games.
  
  Take it or leave it, I'm not trying to change minds, just give my two cents.
  
  Just as a benchmark for myself, I loved:
  Titan Quest (PC I know) , Fable (even though in my 
 mind it didn't live up to the awesomeness I had dreamed it would be) , Bioshock, MGS4 (I know its 
 PS3... and minus some of the TOO long cut scenes) , Halo 3 (not as stellar as I had hoped but a lot 
 of fun) , Ultimate Alliance, Dead Rising (where's the sequel?) . 
  
  Just a few games that I really like to give a sense of where I come from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beacher1212
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  If you like Diablo 2 style gaming you will probably like this. Camera takes a little getting used 
 to for some people (not me I aclamated quickly) controls too. I think this is the most under rated 
 game of the year.
  
  This game has great cut scenes, a good story line (based on norse mythology) , so if you happen 
 to enjoy norse mythology I believe they do the story line justice in this game. They also add a 
 tech appeal with cybernetis and guns/sword hybrid action which makes for very dynamic game play.
 
  
  The only real problem with this game is the fact that the coop is limited to 2 people. However 
 I am hoping that they will patch the game to allow more people to enjoy it together.
  
  This game is ambitious and has had a long torrid history, however I think the aforementioned history 
 may have skewed some of the reviewers opinions. I can't believe this game recieved multiple poor 
 reviews. It is easy to say a game as ambitious as this tries to do too much and fails at each genery 
 it tries to combine, however it just takes getting used to b/c it is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlanemperor
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Too Human is a different type of game to be precise. It isn't devil may cry, and it isnt final 
 fantasy, but is a mixture of both.
  
  The best part of the game is definitelly the hack and slash type of gams. At first it takes some 
 getting used to the way it is handled, but once you get into it it becomes intuitive (for the greater 
 part) . Same goes for the gunning option, it seems broken at first and frustrating sometimes, but 
 once you get the hang of it you have a blast and tend to overlook its faults.
  
  That being said it has a very deep RPG elemnt, with more armor variations, parts and options than 
 most MMORPGs, and with a skill tree that compares very well with WOW it is very interesting to 
 try different combinations. The best part is the restructuring. How many RPG's allow you to rebuild 
 your characters abilities from the ground up at any point?
  
  Answer none.
  
  And once you actually build your character it becomes very fun to play. Juggling your enemies in 
 the air and comboing them is not as good as DMC, but it is so frantic and fun that it grows on 
 you, and considering the types of enemies you will be facing it becomes also very strategic.
  
  For the story, you really dont need to know a lot about the real myths and legends, but at 
 least a glancing knowledge would help. That being said, if you dont get it use the internet, information 
 is very easy to come by nowadays, learn to read.
  
  The problem with the story is not the story itself but the presentation. It is not bad, but it 
 is very chopped up and hard to follow if you dont really pay attention, but if you pay attention 
 to it, it starts to make sense, as explained chopped but not broken.
  
  Graphics wise, there are better graphics out there, but few that trully look as good or as epic. 
 Yes everything is big, but it adds to the epic feel of the story, and is very nice to look at without 
 being revolutionary. Congratulations to the art team.
  
  Music. Save for the few times where it chopps up it is superb and once again epic, very nice and 
 cool. The characters are somewhat repetitive, but they sound so real, that it feels as if they 
 where realistic soldiers (with a huge amount of mythology integrated)
  
  The script could be better, but it isnt bad, once again more chopped up than bad.
  
  What appealed 
 to me the most is the cybernetic take on the mythology. I am a technogeek, who loves sci-fi, and 
 this game resonates with me in that way. But I accept that it could deffinitelly be a better game. 
 It is not bad but it could be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Well le me start of by saying if you made fun of HAZE for sucking so bad get ready to do it all 
 over again.... i played the game for 5 hours and it really showed me something...... I SHOULD READ 
 MORE REVIEWS.... same thing whit HAZE, i got it the second day and sold it back the third.... i 
 sold this pice of broken c: rap, the fourth day i got it..... too sucking bad...
  
  I read in so many articles, from so many websites including Gamespot..... THAT THE GAME WAS GONNA 
 BE AT LEAST OK... and NOT SUCK SO MUCH....
  
  Now lets et right with it....
  
  Graphics.... not bad, i mean not bad at all.... but for a game thats been out in development for 
 10 years come on...... seriously.... 10 years..
  
  I remembered when it was announced, i was young and played on PS2 or so... maybe it was PSone.... 
 anyways we were told the game was gonna be 10 discs long, SUPER NEXT GEN GRAPHICS AND GREAT STORY.... 
 yea right and im Master Chief writing this review.....
  
  I dont understand... if HALO 3, MGS4, or Gears Had been out for 10 years in development they WOUL 
 BE SUPER KICK ASS GAMES... not the great games they are, but i mean REALLY FREAKING SUPER GAMES....
 
  
  Well we know Too Human isnt..... what a waste it almost makes me wanna play HAZE, or some other 
 crapy stupid broken, old dumb game... like Too Human .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgaren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I would like to note that I have not played completely through the game, and that my opinion 
 of it is based on a short amount of time with the game, and may be slightly biased. On to the review.
 
  I have to say that my initial impression of the game was simply awed by the grandeur of the scope 
 of what Silicon Knights have planned for the game. Touches from the mythology can be seen throughout 
 the game, such as (I think) , interpreting Baldur's death (mythological) as a span of time where 
 he didn't remember who he was (game) . The character design, when considering the cybernetic twist 
 on the mythology, couldn't be better. Baldur comes across as a very powerful figure from the start, 
 and NPCs like the Wolf Guard visually convey the Viking condition, if you will. Little details 
 like the helmets shaped like the mouth of a wolf accurately reflect the mythology. For me, that 
 is one of the main selling points of the game, the retelling of the myths. I am given to understand 
 that a knowledge of the mythology is required to make sense of the story, but so far I have found 
 it to be more or less untrue. More accurately, it could be said that knowledge of the mythology 
 is required to make sense of the little details in the story, such as the substitution of amnesia 
 for death I mentioned above. 
  Graphically, as I have mentioned, the characters are quite beautiful. I'm particularly fond of 
 Freya. The characters move pretty convincingly, and I have to mention the awesome design for the 
 Valkyrie. I do have to swallow my pride, though, and admit that the mouth animations are a bit 
 square-jawed. 
  In terms of sound, I have to agree that the swoosh and cymbal crash accompanying Baldur's jumps 
 do seem a bit out of place. Aside from that, however, my experience with the sound has been pretty 
 solid so far, some high points being Baldur's sword ringing against metal, and laser and slug weapon 
 sounds.
  The controls do take a little getting used to, especially with the large amounts of button-mashing 
 fighting games we've seen recently, but once you've got the hang of it, you'll be sliding around 
 the battlefield hacking up mechanical goblins with the best of us.
  Overall, the game seems to be a very positive experience so far, and I'd just like to say that 
 many of the Gamespot review's complaints about the game seem very petty and easily overlooked to 
 me. Not to mention that every other user who has given it a negative review presents little to 
 no evidence for why it is a bad game. Why? Because there is little cause for complaint in the first 
 place! 
  And as for needing a solid knowledge of Norse mythology to understand plot points, there's a simple 
 solution to the so-called problem. Some of you might find this useful. If something in the game 
 catches your eye, and you don't quite get the reference, look it up. With the internet at our disposal, 
 and not to mention the many books and encyclopedia articles written on the subject, it should not 
 be a difficult task to dig up some information on Norse mythology. And if that seems like homework 
 to you, trust me, I've read the material. It is thoroughly enjoyable, and may also give you a greater 
 appreciation for Too Human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddeye99
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The very first thing you will notice about this game is how terrible the movement frames are. There 
 are very few and make for a non-fluid character movement. The next thing you will notice is the 
 terrible button layout. Right analog stick to swing your sword? LOL ok.
  
  If you get beyond those two things then I give you props. However, anyone with some common sense 
 will stop right there and break this game in half.
  
  The terrible controls will have you frustrated all game long. You will constantly be thinking to 
 yourself, "Why didn't they just assign that action to such and such button?" 
  
  The storyline is not engrossing at all. You won't find yourself turning on the game just to see 
 what's going to happen next.
  
  The character variety is terrible. There is nothing fun about any of the different character classes.
 
  
  Stay away from this game at all costs. I'd even consider recommending that you save yourself the 
 $4 rental fee on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ez054098
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  What happened Gamespot, did Silicon Knights or MS Studios not throw enough advertising coin your 
 way? Seriously, a 5.5 out of 10? Look, maybe this wasn't your type of game. But to give it such 
 an average score means you missed something. Did you play the game? Another of your complaints 
 is the story length. 10 hours is a sizable investment. You game critics always complain of a lack 
 of game play variation and then you turn around and slam a game for being too short. So are you 
 suggesting that game developers add repetitive levels just to increase the game play time? Make 
 up your mind. 
  
  The story is cool. The upgrades are cool. The combat (once you get use to it) is really cool. The 
 only drawback is the camera, but I am getting use to it. The game provides a challenge from the 
 beginning. For example, the second boss battle hones your ranged weapon skills. Other bosses, as 
 expected, hone other skills and challenge you to find their weakness. I highly recommend this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin4128
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I have long been waiting for a game on my 360 that included massive amounts of hack and slash, 
 ranged fighting and magical attributes. Needless to say, I love looting large amounts of armor 
 and weapons as well. this game is a love or hate type of game. i think some people would agree with 
 the gs review but most people prolly would not. if you liked the too human demo. then i say its 
 defintlly worth getting, overall fun faced paced combat, that is a change from the normal combat 
 for this genre, so many armor peices weapons and sooooo much custimization for those weapons. This 
 is different in it's setting and approach, but gives me the feel I've been looking for. It may 
 not be perfect, but it looks fantastic, plays great in my opinion and the RPG elements are deep 
 and highly customizable. I know this type of game is not for everyone, but no game is. The cut 
 scenes are not as bad as many reviewers would have you think, and the dying cut scene is far better 
 than watching a blank or static loading screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, First off, Gamespot reviewers are just a little off on this one. No a lot off. This game 
 is fun and a real fresh step in a different direction that combines RPG action with fighting and 
 even adds in multiplayer co op via Xbox Live. The only real complaint that I have is the camera 
 positioning. I wish there was some way that I could reposition the camera to see what I was aiming 
 at in the distance, but the buttons are all used up with other actions, so I don't think it is 
 possible. The story line is unique, but granted it won't win an Academy Award, but it is a game 
 and it is fun to play. That is what video games are meant to do, They are not intended to go above 
 and beyond that. This game does what it is intended to do. Give you a unique experience while also 
 giving you great graphics and a chance to have this fun while playing with your friend online. 
 BUT, I have to add, that the annoyances have to be fixed for the next title. The Co op sucks. You 
 do not get any of the storyline which is a big reason to play games, it is a form of entertainment. 
 The save mode in co op is horrible and I suppose the developers believed that the gamer is to finish 
 the game in one sitting with a friend. The camera is one of the worst that I have experienced and 
 I have played more games than most of the editors on Gmaespot.. Guaranteed. The inability to jet 
 through the death cut scene is really annoying and is a waste of time and disc space. But hopefully 
 these annoyances will be fixed as overall I enjoyed the game as it is something different, but 
 definately not a top 10 hit, so if you dont have much money.. rent it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Once again another title that is hyped up alot gets a bad review by gamespot. I don't know what 
 it is about the people who do the reviews on gamespot but they have no compassion what so ever 
 for the people who make games. They have been working on this game for years now and i think it 
 deserves a better score than a 5.5/10. I mean if you can give HALO 3! A 9.5! SERIOUSLY?!! Mainly 
 im just saying this game deserves better than a freakin 5.5. I just got the game yesterday and 
 i for one think its really good. If you like hack and slash games with pretty decent graphics and 
 sound check this game out. It may not be a buy for alot of people but definitely a rent! Graphics: 
 8/10
  Sound:9/10
  Gameplay:7/10
  Replay Value: Moderately high
  
  Overall score: 8.5/10
  
  This game may not be the best made game of all time but it is fun 
 to play and that is what playing games is about. They are setting the bar so high for these games 
 that when they come out if its not like gta 4 or halo its not good. LIke i said don't pay any attention 
 to gamespot's scores. They review the game for 5 minutes and go by how the game starts out. The 
 load times are a kind of long when you die but thats what they meant to do. It's punishments for 
 dying. As you can probably tell im pissed about the score but just go by my word its a pretty good 
 game and if you read this give the game a try at least and you will see what im talking about! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finegas
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Although it is really, and I mean REALLY short, (youll probably go through it in less than 5 hours) . 
 Too Human is surprisingly fun to play and interesting enough to check out. Being a fan of Nordic 
 mythology helps, but not as much as you would think.
  What I will say, is that the programming is awful, I cant believe Silicon Knights have been doing 
 this game for over 10 years and: 
  1) The game is TOOOOO short
  2) The frame rate is pretty clumsy
  3) The character interface will make you cry.
  
  I suppose 
 that if this game was done as it was originally intended with the Unreal Engine, it would have 
 kicked ass, but due to the circumstances the company suffered, I guess we can give them a break.
 
  
  Bottom line, the game is not as bad as a lot of people are saying. It is surprisingly good and 
 entertaining. But if you really dont want to spend 50 bucks on it, I would definitely suggest 
 to rent it. 
  
  Give it a test drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonehelmer
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Ok, not really into reviewing games... but with the dismal 5.5 rating I see here, I felt I had to 
 throw it out there. I have long been waiting for a game on my 360 that included massive amounts 
 of hack and slash, ranged fighting and magical attributes. Needless to say, I love looting large 
 amounts of armor and weapons as well. Take me back to the days of Champions of Norrath and Return 
 to Arms. This is different in it's setting and approach, but gives me the feel I've been looking 
 for. It may not be perfect, but it looks fantastic, plays great in my opinion and the RPG elements 
 are deep and highly customizable. I know this type of game is not for everyone, but no game is. 
 The cut scenes are not as bad as many reviewers would have you think, and the dying cut scene is 
 far better than watching a blank or static loading screen. I would say rent it first if you have 
 any reservations, but fans of the above games will be very pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpayne3
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  I think some of the reviews have been too harsh because this game had a ton of hype. Its a solid 
 game, but it does need some patches to reach its potential. To be honest, i agree with the video 
 review given by Kevin on this site, except for a few points.
  
  1) i am enjoying the story so far, but yes it helps a ton to know some norse mythology beforehand, 
 maybe the game could have done better in introducing the characters or give some better back story.
 
  
  2) yes the Hub is way too big, it takes way to long to walk around, and theres no sprint to help 
 you out.
  
  3) i think the score they gave was way too harsh.
  
  The combat mechanics take a while to get used to, theres no denying this. Melee works pretty well 
 in most cases, and sliding around the floor to your next victim is pretty cool. Ranged combat is 
 decent... but just decent. If you zoom the camera in as close as possible you can somewhat get into 
 a first person shooter zone. The problem with this is there is no way to control the camera, which 
 really sucks.
  
  But all in all i am totally enjoying the game so far, and i look forward to getting all the loot 
 i can, and then replaying as other classes.
  
  I hope they come out with some patches relatively quickly to fix up some stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureEyes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't get why all the reviewers are hating on this game. Not every game needs to be some cinematic 
 epic. This game is all about fun, killing lots and lots of baddies with a little character building 
 layered on top.
  
  Really, this game reminds me of street fighter even though they are different games. At first you 
 think its kind of dumb, you just smash buttons and it seems random whether you win or not. But 
 after playing a bit there really is an elegant system to the madness and a serious difference between 
 playing correctly and just randomly pressing buttons.
  
  As far as the story, yes you may need to do some outside reading about norse mythology to get whats 
 going on. But if you follow closely its pretty cool how they super imposed super-tech of the old 
 legends.
  
  My one detraction so far is that range combat could've used a little tweaking. Depending on the 
 situation it is sometimes hard to change targets especially if you are trying to dodge a large 
 mob at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sseals23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I have never reviewed a game before i have it, but seeing that someone at gamespot feels a need 
 to try to sink this game before it comes out, i felt the need. Now while the game doesnt come out 
 till tomorrow, i will have to base my opinion on the demo that i played for about 3 hours. This 
 game is far from the review this website gave it, while the camera can seem a little off at first, 
 give it about a half an hour and it will get better. There is a lot to do in this game with tons 
 of weapons, armor, and a co-op that from most other sites sound good. Whatever beef this reviewer 
 has against silicon knights or this genre, or god knows what. Do not let it detour you from at 
 least going to some other sites to read a fair unbiest opinion of the game. I have been coming 
 to this site for reviews for a long time, disagree sometimes, agree most times. But this will be 
 the last unless they retract this garbage review, let someone review it that has played it for 
 more than 30 minutes and can be fair to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunamoonfang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  lets be serious now, just because load times are a tad long while dieing, guess what, normally 
 in your average rpg you get punished by something, and in this game, thats the load time, god forbid 
 a silly reason to give this game such bad reviews, anyone can pick up a controller and manage to 
 learn to play and have a blast, the battle mechanics are truly revolutionary, and surely will dawn 
 a new era with this kind of rpg/console relationship. It has its rough spots, but the Co-op is 
 a blast, it does have plenty to do, but also doing it over, completely different, the class's are 
 said to not be balanced, well, once again, like any rpg, Healers generally do less damage, and 
 damage doers and big ol beasts do extra damage without the option to heal. It doesn't take nearly 
 as much effort as you make it out to learn about the Norse Mythology that the game revolves around, 
 and it makes it even more interesting, as you watch history unfold itself in a futuristic thriller 
 like this. Now I will agree that the cities are too big, just a simple remodel would be appreciated, 
 but not expected. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somebadguy
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'll try to make this quick because I'm sure you have heard this all before. After some time 
 with Too Human, the game feels ok, but it doesn't wow you like it said it would. I give it points 
 for trying to be difffernet and new. SK's choice of combat controls, while unique are a little 
 of the mark. Ranged combat needs help with targeting but melee is more fun than most people think. 
 Weapons and armor offer a huge amount of tweeking opions if you have the time to hunt down all 
 the runes, blueprints, and charms in the game. 
  A down side is the current class selection. While all the classes have their own different feel 
 to them, they all have balancing issues when it comes to higher levels. As it stands now, only 
 one class has the ability to regain life out side of combat or breaking open containers. It sucks 
 because you are going to die alot with out any good healing. SK has claimed that other classes 
 can be downloaded from Xbox live later on. By then their should be a few classes with better survivablity. 
 
  Story wise is met with a mix reaction. If you know Norse lore and all the other stuff about Ragnorak, 
 then you'll be ok. If not, you're going to have to wing it and make so guesses. It's not a bad 
 story, it just needs more to it to make the player feel like they are apart of anything. 
  Too Human is again, not bad but it needed more time to fix these issues. SK says this is the first 
 of three games, lets hope they learn from this one and can wow us in the next two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I just don't see all the negative feed back that Too Human has been received since the game as 
 been shown. This is one of the games that you would either love it or hate it. If you've played 
 the demo of Too Human on XBL you'll have an idea of what the game can offer at it's entirely. 
 
  
  I've been in a good 2 hours of the game and I've had nothing but fun playing this game. I love 
 the fact that the combat is done by just moving the analog stick to the direction you want to attack 
 instead of using the face buttons. This is one of the things that makes this game different from 
 the God of War and Devil May Cry games. Another thing this game brings to the table is the RPG 
 elements of leveling up your character and customizing your armor. Which you'll be able to unlock 
 as you move a long in the game. So far I've unlock some cool weapons as well in just the 2 hours 
 of play.
  
  The graphics are nothing to write home about I mean it was expected. I'm sure some of the negative 
 feedback has been about the graphics. But some of the environments in the game do look nice at 
 a distance. Also there is online multiplayer which allows you to play with a friend in co-op. Obviously 
 this game is not for everyone if you've play the demo you'll know what to expect. If didn't play 
 the demo and you're curious about the game; you should at least rent this game. There are some 
 pretty good achievements for this game available. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damuxz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Okay well what should i say ive only played the demo and it took some time befor i learned how 
 to move around and do combat and stuff good.
  From my opinion its a really cool game that has a little new stuff in it that i havent experienced 
 before.
  I just gotta say that it grows on you when you played it for a while and then i dont mean that 
 you just play it through ones, I played it through maybe 4-5 times before i really liked it. 
 
  Sure its not like what they said but hey that happens qouiet often if you ask me.
  
  I just recommend that ppl who havent played it just try to rent or borrow the game and really try 
 it out before trashing it and not just go after the reviews.
  Especially if you like hack & slash twisted with some good tactic options and RPG!!
  
  This 
 is my thinking about the game so...
  
  Peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Maverick92
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Too Human isn't a bad game, but in my opinion it should be a lot better for being in development 
 for 10 years. One thing I really do enjoy about the game are the visuals, some of the scenes look 
 extremely beautiful. I like the time spent on the visuals of the weapon and armor models, I felt 
 they did a good job with that. 
  
  The bads of this game are it seems like it has an extremely weak story until towards the end. It 
 really helps to know our norse mythology in this game which I think isn't up to the gamer to HAVE 
 to know norse mythology. Combat is definitely broken in some way... I think having to use the right 
 stick for melee combat ISN'T the way to go. Dashing doesn't seem right either... it's more like 
 sliding. It's like a bad version of Devil May Cry in the future. 
  
  Overall it's not a bad game, but I think it should definitely better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperknight9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying this game to me wasnt a complete fail but it could have been way better.
 
  I'd say one of the main issues was the sword combat
  everything was kinda hard to get into because of bad movement like when baldur dashes he kind of 
 just slides and it makes the game look real bad. and all the attacks are very repetitive and can 
 be boring some of the side tools like the spider and battle cry are pretty neat and help alot but 
 usually its easiest to just blast your enemies down from far away with the guns. as for the norse 
 mythology its kind of neat but if you dropped out of school before that history lesson the story 
 will be confusing. the gear is also very nice because there is so much different gear and you always 
 have different weapon and armour choices. I was expecting alot better from this game but I think 
 if they were to make a sequel as long as they spent less time making gear and more time making 
 the key elements of the game It could be a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanxley
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, I agree with the Gamespot write up. My first play through with the commando 
 class really highlighted some of the short-comings of ranged combat. Enemies close the gap quickly, 
 and the vast spaces that the site review took issue with were essential -- in my experience, anyway 
 -- for kiting and evading the hordes of minions that would swarm me level to level. 
  
  However, criticism about your home base being too big is spot on, and not just because it is large, 
 but because there is so little of interest there. Occasionally you'll run across an NPC conversation, 
 but they are of little consequences aside from a morsel of background.
  
  A shortcoming that I hope Silicon Knights decides to patch is the lack of healing elements. I'm 
 not suggesting portable potions or medpacks -- just the ability to regenerate out of combat. Zerging 
 groups of mobs because of lacking of healing saps the fun out of what otherwise is pretty enjoyable 
 combat.
  
  I didn't have as big a problem with the pace of the game. Since enemies drop out of no where, and 
 you're never quite sure when it will happen, I enjoyed some of the suspense wile deliberately exploring 
 each level and then dealing with the inevitable ambush.
  
  I'd also like to note that I think the chase camera on this game is off, even with the ability 
 to recenter it with a command. There are bosses where you are dodging and rolling and jumping, 
 and I think you'll find that in the frenetic effort to evade, the camera will be your most frustrating 
 adversary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBustCh33ries
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  this game sucks there is no beating around it and with all the hype this game has been recieveing 
 it should have been alot better which goes to show you that some reviewers and pre veiwers are 
 paid to keep their mouths shut, cause i doubt that at any point while this game was being made 
 that it was any good, sure it looks great but it has one of the worst control schemes i've ever 
 used and i think they tried it in the jet li game a few years back.... it didn't work then so it's 
 not going to magically work now. and to the makers of the game you spent way too much time on making 
 the game looks pretty which is definatly does, but that does mot make for a good game or a memorable 
 experience.... atleast not a good one, you can't fool me with a pretty smoke screen with no substance 
 and call it s gameit might work on people who don't know any better but this game is pure trash.... 
 try agin friends, try again. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
