-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Top Spin 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/topspin3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of tennis pros and tournaments.
 Players are realistically animated.
 Looks and sounds great.
 Challenging gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficulty might alienate casual fans.
 No Ana Ivanovic.
 No Rafael Nadal on Xbox 360.
 Player-creation tool could be more user-friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 443 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Pam Development
Genre: Tennis
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Top Spin 3 is a great tennis game, offering a deep challenge for diehard fans and one of the closest 
 experiences to playing a grand slam. 

  Top Spin has always been one of the more realistic tennis games on the market, and Pam Development 
 has worked hard to keep up that tradition with Top Spin 3. While the game's challenging style may 
 alienate casual players, it will keep dedicated ones occupied beyond this season and for a long 
 time to come.  

  Despite being initially unforgiving, the controls feel responsive and straight-forward once you've 
 got the hang of them. Face buttons perform flat, top spin, slice, and lob/drop shots, the triggers 
 perform risky or power shots, and the shoulder buttons help you dash to the baseline or net. However, 
 the timing of button presses has been substantially altered, and failing to release the button 
 on time will result in a missed shot. Depending on your position to the ball, you might unleash 
 a weak shot, a wild swing that misses the ball altogether, or an overpowered attempt that sends 
 the ball beyond the baseline. The AI players rarely make clumsy shots either, forcing you to refine 
 your technique -- particularly when it comes to volleying -- before mastering the game.  

           You can play as an instantly recognizable pro or create a new player from scratch.    
   

  There are plenty of game modes, from the usual exhibition, career, tournament, and tutorial options, 
 to online and offline multiplayer. If you're new to the Top Spin series, it's highly advisable 
 to head to the school before taking to the courts, as the AI will punish novices even on medium 
 difficulty settings. Doing so will give you a headstart on hitting those aces and returning every 
 shot that comes your way. The game eschews traditional in-game meters and gauges, and instead requires 
 you to use intuition, reflexes, and good, old-fashioned timing to nail your shots. The only onscreen 
 displays are the score and a heart rate monitor, which gives you an idea of how your stamina is 
 holding up. The higher your heart rate, the tougher it is to hit those hard-to-reach shots between 
 the lines.  

  The career mode takes you through five stages: amateur, challenger, junior, pro, and legend. Throughout 
 your career, winning matches will earn you experience points and unlock other points which you 
 can use to increase your skills and buy new merchandise such as outfits, shoes, accessories and 
 racquets. They're a nice addition to have, but will have no bearing on your performance. New skills 
 include forehand, backhand, service, return, volley, power, speed, and stamina, and you can purchase 
 dozens of different outfits, racquets, and accessories. The career mode matches Top Spin's serious 
 approach to tennis, but it does mean the game lacks the variety and mini-games of other tennis 
 games.  

  Beating three opponents in the game's career mode will advance you from amateur to challenger rank. 
 Winning a tournament in this mode will then propel you to the lofty rank of junior. Junior -- and 
 the subsequent pro rank -- lets you play through a regular season, choosing tournaments as you see 
 fit with the aim of finishing the season with the highest rank. Do all that and you'll get a crack 
 at the grand slams, and eternal tennis glory in the legend rank. Needless to say the competitors 
 get harder as you progress, but as long as you keep earning experience points and using them to 
 increase your skills you should have a fighting chance of making it at the highest level.  

  The roster of licensed players in Top Spin 3 is sizable with 40-odd players available, including 
 Roger Federer, Maria Sharapova, Justine Henin, Andy Roddick, Amelie Mauresmo, James Blake, Andy 
 Murray, and Gael Monfils. There's also a roster of classic players for good measure, including 
 Boris Becker, Bjorn Borg, and Monica Seles, as well as a number of ficticious players. It's pretty 
 cool to be able to face off current champions against those of yesteryear in a "what if" scenario. 
 Recent French Open winner Rafael Nadal appears exclusively in the PlayStation 3 version (the only 
 major difference between the two versions) , so if you want a player even vaguely resembling him 
 on the Xbox 360 you'll have to master the comprehensive create-a-player feature. This will no doubt 
 come as a big disappointment for Xbox 360 tennis fans who can't play as the current world number 
 two simply due to contractual obligations.  

  Top Spin 3's solid player-creation tool lets you make your mark on the tennis world without relying 
 on licensed players. You can tweak dozens of settings for your chosen model including a range of 
 settings for your face, body, outfit, and more, including tattoos, headwear, and even a desired 
 grunt style and frequency. Some of the settings are a bit arcane, however, with eye colour being 
 set via a numerical range rather than being labelled as something that actually makes sense -- like, 
 say, the actual colour of the eyes.  

  Top Spin 3 includes a wide range of famous licensed tournaments, including the French Open, the 
 US Open, and the Australian Open. Wimbledon is an unfortunate exception, but the game does present 
 you with the chance to play in more exotic and far-flung locations such as Seoul, Casablanca, and 
 Buenos Aires, with more than 40 in total on offer. It will take you a long time to get sick of 
 the variety of courts on offer, which are all recreated in fine detail including crowds that almost 
 look life-like -- normally unheard of in sports games and something other developers should take 
 note of.  

           The game's player animations and stadiums look great.      

  The game's multiplayer mode allows singles and doubles matches between human and AI opponents both 
 locally and online. You can play a quick match, or compete in the World Tour mode's ranked matches 
 either in individual matches or nine different pre-selected tournaments. We found the overall online 
 experience to be lag free and there weren't any problems finding players to face off against in 
 individual matches, or tournaments, and was much the same as playing against a friend sitting next 
 to you. Online leaderboards will help you track your skill against the rest of the world.  

  Top Spin 3 is a great-looking game, and is technically and artistically the best example of the 
 genre. The re-creation of famous stadiums looks spot-on, even down to detailed crowd shots and 
 authentic tournament advertising. On the technical side, we didn't experience any issues with chuggy 
 framerates except for when the camera was introducing us to venues while loading -- for some reason 
 every one suffered from this. Characters have realistic movements, their clothes move and sway 
 as you'd expect, and their faces have detailed expressions and animations. Winning a grand slam 
 feels that much better when your character looks and sounds like the real deal.  

  Top Spin 3 is a serious tennis game for serious tennis fans, and it's incredibly true to the series' 
 simulation roots. If you're looking for a deep, challenging experience, this should keep you busy 
 for some time to come; but if you prefer the occasional arcade match, or like the variety of minigames 
 that some of Top Spin's competitors offer, you'll want to look elsewhere. Despite a few minor complaints 
 the game looks and sounds great, and it feels almost as authentic as having front-row seats to 
 a real-life grand slam.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  I have always been a huge fan of tennis. Not just computer games but tennis in overall. What I always 
 loved about tennis was those long grand slam 5 set matches between 2 great legends who played with 
 such a passion that you could feel those sparks yourself. 7:6,7:6,6:7,6:7 10:8..... who hasn't watched 
 a game with that kind of a result, has never watched a real tennis game :)
  
  I was never meant to be a tennis player myself so what I could only hope for was a great tennis 
 game that would simulate the same drama, struggle and feel of acomplishment the same way it is done 
 in real life.
  
  I tried Virtua Tennis 1,2,3.... but this game dissapointed me with an arcade aproach to the tennis 
 genre.
  
  I decided to try TS3 simply because I thought that maybe this time the programmers while using 
 a next gen system will simply create a truly realistic and beautiful tennis game that will swallow 
 you in for many months to come.
  Unfortunately they only succeeded only with the latter.....
  
  But lets start from the beginning.....
 
  
  The game starts with an unconvincing intro. It's one of those intros you always skip after you watched 
 it the first time.
  Once the intro finishes or after you skip it you will get to the main screen after pressingstart 
 ".
  On the main screen you can choose from couple of different game modes. You can choose an exhibition 
 mode, tournament mode or a career mode.
  Honestly, as I couldn't wait any longer, I chose the career mode right away because that's always 
 been the only mode I was actually interested in.
  
  First you need to create your player...
  You need to pick a name, nationality, place of birth, country 
 of residence.. Now.. here's the first glitch. Place of birth.... I don't really know what the programmers 
 meant by that. Does it mean your country of birth or the city where you were actually born? It's 
 a weird, fluff and unnecessary addition to the character creation screen as it basically confuses 
 me and doesn't affect anything. Ok, maybe for online purpose but still... nationality is enough for 
 other players to know who they are playing with....
  The big plus of this game is the character customisation. You can basically recreate any human model 
 you like through tens if not hundreds of options regarding your body. You can choose your weight, height, fat, muscle 
 structure, face  hair styles and color etc.
  But one thing that may irritate some is that this creation tool instead of giving you a color pallet 
 that would give you the ability to choose your hair color right away, it gives you the choice to 
 choose your color based on tens of numbers.
  So instead of picking a blue color and be done with it, you have to scroll through almost 40 different 
 colors not knowing which color will be next, so it may lead to a situation where your favourite 
 color is the last on the list.
  It just takes to much time.
  You can choose your grins, your play style, backhand and forehand style, even your players reaction 
 after winning a point on the court.
  All of this is a big plus and adds to the immersion.
  
  Gameplay......
  
  Once you are done with it, you are introduced to the career mode.....
 
  You start as an amateur. Your goal is to become a legend...
  In order to become one, you need to pass all of the previous stages of your career.
  Amateur - 
 Challenger - Junior - Pro - Legend.
  I thought: Wow!, a real progression feature! No more of that arcade crap! ".
  So I enter the 
 amateur competition and what do I see? Instead of a normal amateur tournament with let's say 16 
 or 32 players on a tournament ladder, I only see 3 players who you have to defeat. Once you defeat 
 all 3 of them you will advance to the challenger mode.
  I thought: well, maybe it's because it is just an amateur level and the programmers wanted to 
 introduce the player to the game in a quick and less painful way ".
  So I decided to play my first game....
  You are introduced to the tournament, the court. The camera 
 is spinning around it and after that you can see who is playing with who and how many gems, sets 
 will be played.
  What hugely dissapointed me here was that I had to play a tie break right away! I mean.. what the 
 hell! Here I am waiting for a 2 set game on an amateur level and I get to play only one tie break! 
 Before you get to know your opponent or the game mechanics you are already done!
  But I stayed calm hoping that it is only an introduction for the things to come at a later stage.
 
  Boy I was wrong....
  I will skip the challenger mode because it is basically the same thing.
  Once you get to the 
 Junior level it's where the fun actually starts. It is the first level of your career where you 
 are playing the intire season from January to December.
  To be able to join the pro season you need to finish the junior season in the top 3 of the ranking. Each 
 month gives you two tournaments to choose from. You can pick a hard mode and join a tournament with 
 harder opponents or choose a much easier tournament with easier opponents. As you have to finish 
 the season in the top 3, to be able to reach the next level of your career you need to be smart 
 about which tournament to choose... Do I choose a harder one where I can get more experience and 
 ranking points or do I choose the easier one where I might have better chance to succeed but I 
 will get less points?
  Unfortunately the game is constructed in such a way that ironically you don't have any choice here 
 because even the easy mode is really hard at the beginning. Why? I will explain....
  Every won game gives you experience points which can be distributed to increase you abilities ranging 
 from  and so on. You start with the overall statistics 
 set to 30/100.
  By the time you get to the junior level you will probably increase your overall stats to around 
 32-34 and at the junior level you get to play with opponents with an overall stats set to around 
 50 - 58.
  What that creates is an unfair advantage of your opponents. Everything would be ok if there was 
 some kind of training that could improve your stats but unfortunately winning games is the only 
 method of improving your stats and how can you win matches if the difference between you and your 
 opponents is so big? Considering that especially at the beginning you will be drawn against no.1 
 of the tournaments through seedings you have a really small chance of succeeding at the beginning.
 
  It all causes a huge dose of frustration and as for me? I was yelling, cursing and throwing my 
 pad away the first couple of times. I was turning off my console 3 times and playing something different 
 until I calmed down. Only after couple of days after giving it yet another try I started winning 
 a little and getting better with each hour.
  Another thing that doesn't have anything to do with realism is that in real life for each month 
 you usually have 8 tournaments. Each week provides players with 2 or even more tournaments to choose 
 from so hundreds of players can choose between challengers, smaller tournaments and ATP Tour Masters 
 cups even at the same time.
  In this game you can only choose between 2 tournaments so you basically play only one per month 
 and without any training in between you will get to December in no time realising that the only 
 positive thing you did during that season was to visit many different courts in many different 
 locations without even the locals knowing, you were actually playing there because you lost even 
 before they were able to choose their seats....
  This is a second blow to the realism I was looking for in a tennis game...
  
  Time for the 
 third......
  
  I chose my first Junior tournament, easy mode...
  Everything is the same... the introduction, who is playing with who, each players' achievements and..... what 
 do I see? 1 set,3 gems....." You must be kidding me! "- I yelled -3 gems per set? Are they f... g 
 serious? "
  No really... I don't know what the programmers were thinking. This game was advertised as the most 
 realistic tennis game ever and they serve you with 1 set and 3 gems? 
  Every tournament apart from the Grand Slams consists of 2 sets,6 gems each ( with 7th as a tie 
 break if both players scored 6 gems each ) . In Grand Slams like Australian Open, Rolland Garros, 
 Wimbledon, US Open, players compete until one of them wins 3 sets,6 gems each.
  I felt cheated. What is that? A poor man's tennis? Some kind of an easy mode tennis for the non 
 patient players?
  I would understand it if they included some kind of an option ( Arcade - true simulation ) so each 
 player could choose if they want to play a real world experience or just some easy and short mode 
 for the people who don't have that much time.
  The same thing is in pro mode but this time you get to play 2 sets,3 gems each and the grand slams 
 that appear in the pro mode are a scandal. Instead of playing 3 sets,6 gems each you play 2 , 3 
 gems each! 
  
  After each win, along with exp points you also collect credits for which you can buy some items. You 
 can buy new  was surpised you couldn't buy any caps....
  Buying those is useless and doesn't make any sense. The are very cheap and don't make any difference 
 when it comes to playing abilities. What this causes is that when I bought some nice T-shirt + pants 
 + racket set I didn't visit the store again. What this also causes is that all that credit you gain 
 for winning matches is useless and unnecessary ( unless you want to own all of the shops in game 
 ) . Same with money rewards for winning games. You can't buy anything with them and it looks like 
 prize money has only one goal in mind.... online showing offLook! I have 2 milion dollars in 
 prize money! I am a great tennis player! "
  
  What is great about this game is the mechanics, the way you control your player. It's not some random 
 button smashing and random slice, drop shot, top spin playing. Each hit you perform has to be thoroughly 
 prepared and timed.
  Hit the ball to early and you may hit the net or the shot will be so weak that your opponent will 
 smash your side of the court while laughing at you in the process, or swing your racket too late 
 and you may not even hit the ball!
  It is the most difficult part of the game... positioning and timing. If you won't get it right, you 
 won't have any chance against your opponents.
  It's not easy and even joining playing school won't guarantee you will be kicking Federer's ass 
 in no time. It all takes practice and what's most important... plenty of PATIENCE!!!
  The important thing is that once you get the hang of it, it may be one of the best and most realistic 
 playing experiences in any game of tennis. You just have to be still there to experience it :)
 
  
  Graphics/Visuals
  
  Well, now this is a really strong point of this game. The visuals are just beautiful! The way the 
 players look, behave is just so realistic and great that you almost feel like watching a real tennis 
 game. Everything is nicely detailed. From their face grins, to the natural behaviour of their clothes, the 
 way they sweat or the way their faces are getting red and you can see how much exhausted they are. You 
 just have to see it... Masterpiece!
  It's completely other story how the programmers lazyness made your player react to the events on 
 the pitch. It looks like they have 4-5 preset default reactions to the events on the court and the 
 most annoying of all is the way they show their happiness after winning the tournament. It just 
 doesn't matter if you win a challenger or a grand slam. It's always the same hands waving and lack 
 of smile.
  One would believe that winning a grand slam would mean tears of happiness, shouting, running around 
 the court or parading around it with your trophy. But no.... your player behaves like someone told 
 him to play whether he liked it or not while holding a gun to his chest. No excitement... zero.
 
  
  But all in all... the visuals ranging from the players to the stadiums, courts are top notch. Brilliant 
 work.
  
  Audio
  
  Now I don't know about you but I hate Jamiroquai. Now I even hate it more. This game seems to have 
 around 3-4 different songs and I think only one is worth listening to. The rest is just crappy and 
 it seems Jamiroquai is the main motto of it and I think there is a limit to how often you have 
 to listen to that guy.
  When it comes to in game sound, it is far from perfect too. It's not bad but it's far from perfect. The 
 ball sounds cool but the lack of commentary or the lack of referree shouting in some places is 
 at least weird.
  Some courts feel alive and some feel like they were located somewhere in Greece and the games were 
 played during Siesta time. It's not funny to play and see that the crowd or even the referee don't 
 practically give a damn about what you do.
  
  The game is bug free. There is no problems with any lags except from one situation where the court 
 is being loaded just before the game and the camera starts rotating above and around it.
  
  To summarize my review.......
  
  Top Spin 3 is a beautiful game with some realistic game mechanics 
 but with a half baked career mode that kills it for me personally. It has plenty of potential that 
 in my honest opinion has just been plain and simple wasted.
  If you are a huge sports fan who loves absolute realism then this game isn't for you but if you 
 love tennis, challenge, really good gaming mechanics and you don't mind the lack of realism in the 
 career mode then I can absolutely recommend this game for you.
  After all even with it's flaws, it's still the best tennis game to date.
  It's good and bad. Why 
 bad? because it doesn't say well about the tennis genre in a computer games world.
  I am still waiting for the perfect realistic tennis experience. I just hope I will leave to tell 
 the tale..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamephoenix992
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. Once you get past the learning curve it's not that difficult at all 
 and begins to get boring though. At first, one of the most frustrating things is the movement. 
 The players seem to have preset movement graphics so a lot of the time my player would be right 
 next a ball but would slide past the ball instead of swinging because that graphic sequence already 
 started. Another problem is its too easy. I expected the very hard level to be very hard, but instead 
 ended up winning 6-0, 6-0, 6-0 which was disappointing (Although i could see how a new/casual gamer 
 would have a lot of trouble playing this game) . Player development is also lacking as there are 
 no options to choose your players ability to control the ball with spins and precision that were 
 options in TS2. Career mode also lacked options such as practice/training and other events instead 
 of only tournaments... Otherwise though, I really liked the game its fun, and the graphics are 
 pretty good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmstradCPC
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  One of the most frustrating and inaccessible tennis sims around. The game makers have abandoned 
 any sense of "fun" and have attempted to create something as realistic as possible.
  
  The opening few games are quite enjoyable and the new "EVERYTHING is timing" variables do make 
 the game more realistic, something that is certainly not a bad idea. The problem is, there is no 
 balance between this realism and playability.
  
  The problems start when you become a Junior player. You go from playing complete wasters, to guys 
 blasting the ball down the line, lobbing you and generally whupping your arse big style. The leap 
 is just too great. You seriously go from playing run-down dumps, to modern arenas.
  
  The first two Top Spin games were superb. This one takes itself too seriously, which may well hurt 
 the sales of the next venture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJPRZA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  A must for tennis fans. Great graphics. Real clothing brands. Real satisfaction when hitting the 
 perfect shot. No mini games (Some may see this as a bad thing but after having to do the same ones 
 over and over on vt3 I was glad.)
  
  This game isn't as hard as people say it is to play. If you do the training you will know what 
 to do and after a few practices you will know how to do them properly. Whenever I had not played 
 it for a few weeks I just thought to myself "Wait for the bounce" pressed the button down and once 
 I seen or heard the bounce let it go and I would hit it smooth. It's the easiest way of explaining 
 it to someone new, if you do that you'll hit the ball and you'll hit it well.
  
  I enjoyed the single player career mode as you can change difficulty to suit you so the game doesn't 
 have to be too hard for people, you can change it to whatever level you enjoy. I unlocked all the 
 achievements for single player and a couple for multiplayer but I didn't like bothering with that. 
 If you go on an unranked match it's the same football online scenario where everyone picks Barcelona 
 or Man U, gives it to Messi or Ronaldo passes it across and it's a goal. Boring. On this everyone 
 goes Andy Roddick, power serves out wide and when you return they just hit it across the other 
 side of the court. I usually went Roger Federer as he had a good return and I could mix it up but 
 it was repetitive against them.
  
  The ranked matches are the same; everyone creates a player with maxed out power and forehand and 
 just repeats the wide serve - cross court combo. It was pointless and not at all fun. 
  
  So along with online players the only disappointments I have with this game is that the celebrations 
 at the end of a match got repetitive and it's missing Rafael Nadal on 360 and Wimbledon.
  
  All in all the best, most realistic tennis game out there. Just only go online if you're playing 
 with mates.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFares
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  That's the first thing you need to know about Top Spin 3  whether you're a fan of the series or 
 a newcomer, this is not a pick up and play game in the same way most other tennis titles are. Instead, 
 it's a game that requires players to essentially unlearn much of what they thought they knew about 
 tennis videogames, and it's a game that rewards practice. the only bad thing about the games is 
 that you don't have rafael nadal. the first in mundial ranking. just this .
  the rest is alsome. the best tennis games ever
  the dynamic of the player are perfect and u have 
 nice graffics. for example the hair of the players . they esed a new tecnology for this stuff, 
 its pretty good.
  for whom like tennis , u should buy this, i'm sure that you'll enjoy.
  i've played the virtual tennis 3 , and its nota that good. as i said this is the best tennis game 
 ever. [
  im my opinion another good thing is the difficulte to play it. you really need to practice a lot 
 in the court to become a winner.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mavalasko
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  I was rather excited about the release of this game since I am a Tennis fanatic and had followed 
 the series of this game from the start. Third installment and I was expecting a leap up from Top 
 Spin 2. We got the new control system which at first, is challenging but after constant play, you'll 
 be rising the ranks quickly. Sure it could scare away the casual fan but it offers more durability 
 as a long-term, playable game. 
  
  The biggest thing for me as a tennis fan is realistic gameplay and I feel like they captured a 
 solid chunk here. Great graphics for the 360 version with the increasing sweat on a tiring player, 
 fluent strokes and quality arena's. Even though there is not too much to complain about in this 
 regard, there are still little things which could add so much i. e. commentary, bigger audience 
 reaction (they are half-asleep for the majority of the match) , bigger player reactions.
  
  Although after owning it for around a month now, I'm beginning to find it tedious. I have completed 
 the career mode (which will satisfy you only the first time through) , I've have defeated all players 
 on the top difficulty, I've created 7 players and am frustrated beyond belief that I can't verse 
 them! Why not!? Why can't I play against a character that I've created? Is it really that difficult? 
 It was a tremendous feature in Top Spin 1. The career mode in that game was a foul aspect of the 
 game but being able to verse your own creation called for endless fun, but here I really feel like 
 I am back where I was with Top Spin 2. Unable to compete against my own creations, defeated the 
 entire roster on top difficulty, completed the career mode and if you don't play on X-Box Live 
 then there's nothing left for you to do.
  
  That's not to say it is a bad game, it meets many expectations as the best Tennis game available 
 but not the expectation to be a great game. A great game defined by me is one designed to play 
 many times over without boredom. Unfortunately the tedium is sinking in and while although the 
 gameplay holds up as solid, missing features diminish its potential as a truly, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foz123
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Top spin 3 grows on you after you've got past the deep learning curve. its the biggest let down 
 to this amazing game. the graphics are awesome so when you see the likes of murray and federer you'll 
 know its them straight away. but its one of the hardest sports game ive ever played. when you go 
 to get something from the shop its all of the same stuff in each brand so it doesnt matter which 
 brand you chose there all the same. Also the pace REALLY slow compared to virtua tennis.
  For some stupid ( but its no big let down if you hate playing as the sweaty spanish guy ) reason 
 on the 360 version you cant play as nadal which is a bit of a let down and one last thing, ive 
 played both the 360 and ps3 versions of the game and the crowd is MUCH better on the ps3 version. 
 But altogether its a really satisfying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 is a much awaited game by all tennis fans. Sega's series is known for it's more "professional" 
 handle of the tennis games. Top Spin 3 isn't any different.
  Probably the only game that competes with Top Spin 3 is Virtua Tennis 3, which is pretty old.
 
  Probably the main difference between the two is the pace. Virtua Tennis is very fast paced, while 
 Top Spin 3 is slow paced concentrating more on the timing of your shots.
  The game looks impressive. The players look very much like their real counterpart and the arenas 
 and crowds look very good. The players move very realistic on the court and the most notable thing 
 from all other tennis games is the way their hair moves.
  Besides the great graphics the game also has a pretty good gameplay which will take some time to 
 get used to, it still is very fun when doing it right.
  Everything in this game is pretty good, the player creator is one of the best I've seen in any sports 
 game. Besides that the career is pretty good, which is a little different from Virtua Tennis 3.
 
  Top Spin 3 is a good tennis game, but the lack of any minigames and very few licensed players make 
 it look repetitive and shallow.
  
  My Score 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is one absolutely amazing sports game. First, lets begin with the visuals. Every player in 
 this game almost perfectly resembles their real life counter part. The different courts and stadiums 
 are perfectly depicted and look great. The graphics in this game are just really top notch overall. 
 The game play itself is fantastic. I am a huge fan of sports games and i have to say that this 
 is one of the most realistic sports games that I have played to date. This game also has a superb 
 career mode. It is very engaging and real. You must create your own player and take him all the 
 way form amateur to junior level and to pro. The career mode is very fun to play and it just great 
 overall. In the end, this game presents the player with one great package overall. Fans of tennis, 
 and newcomers alike will appreciate what it has to offer. In fact, this game can easily be fun 
 for a person who has never had anything to do with the sport of tennis before. I highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman13579
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Now. The Top Spin Franchise has been going on for quite a while. They choose to take a massive 
 step from top spin 2 with the controls. People say they are terrible but in my opinion: Pratise 
 makes Perfect. You can get so much better as you play along. In my opinion I think they are fine 
 and i love the kick serves with the right stick. The Graphics are absoulutey amazing. You can see 
 your players sweating whilst battling it out on the court. This will depend on the weather. If 
 its blazing hot your players will sweat alot more but say you were playing in Dublin, its pretty 
 cloudy and they wont sweat. They use this to use a heart rate monitor. This depends if you can 
 pull of some great shots or miss them. You can tell if the shot is great from the sound. But the 
 audience sometimes can be very stupid and no reactions comes out of them. No commentary is quite 
 aletdown but still you can create an atmosphere from your playing. I recommend this game to a tennis 
 player. You either love it or you hate it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  
  During the character creation part of Top Spin 3, I was amazed at how detailed one could get with 
 his/her look and feel. The ability to actually use 3d software facial points to create specific 
 details was good stuff. And at that point I couldn't help but think, "wow, this is going to be 
 good." Well, not so much, and the rest was pretty much downhill from there.
  
  Graphics  I will admit, the tennis venues were fantastic and very nicely detailed. Playing on 
 clay felt and looked like clay, grass the same, etc. etc. The characters motions and physics were 
 also nicely done, but that is all I can say positive about this game, so if you want to hear the 
 bad, just read on.
  
  Sure the stadiums were great looking, but I think they probably modeled 5 or 6 different fans and 
 then put them all over the stadium. And I never once heard a word come out of their mouths that 
 made sense. Blah is a very good word to describe the look and sound of the crowds. The actual character 
 modeling was horribleother than some occasional motions that looked like the actual player, the 
 player graphics for a game in this day and age were weak at best.
  
  Gameplay  Well, its tennis, and that is pretty much it. The new control system was very unique, 
 and nice compared to standard button mashing. However, play one or two sets and you have the entire 
 game. Winning matches earns you pointspoints you can spend on equipment. Cool! I get to upgrade 
 my equipment just like in Tiger Woods or Virtua Tennisagain, not so much. From the time you turn 
 the game on, you get a choice of semi-decent clothing and about 12 rackets. Nothing has any value 
 other than looking good. So by the end of the game I had (guessing on the low end) 10-20 thousand 
 points. I nice Nike shirt costs about 80 points. So what's the good of all those points? Throughout 
 the game you don't gain access to new equipment, its just the same old stuff. You also earn $ in 
 the form of career earningsand for what? Absolutely nothing is done with earnings, unless you 
 want to brag that you have 2 million dollars. Playing the same people at each level of the game 
 10 times got old real fastIn one game player "a" would kick my a*s in 10 minutes and hit everything 
 under the sun thrown at himtwo games later the same guy couldn't hit the side of a barn. And when 
 I say player "a" I mean just thatwho are these guys? I was hoping to play some real tennis players. 
 I wont give away who they are, but playing against Andy Murray should never be a highlight. Federer 
 of course was a god, and about 75% of the time it was almost impossible to get a shot past him, 
 you just needed to play human backboard until he screwed up. And trust me, I had my guy maxed out 
 and it wasn't just mejust ask my brother, he had the same issue. The other 25% of the time it 
 was liked he was stoned and on muscle relaxers at the same time. 
  
  Winning each mach resulted in the same thingCharacter cheers, crowd cheers, hands in the airdone. 
 Again, and again, and again, etc. etc. etc. I thought after winning my first major against Federer 
 that maybe I would get a trophy, you know, walk around the court with it in the air. Apparently 
 my guy was no more excited about winning a Grand Slam Major than he was winning a match on the 
 streets of Chicago.
  
  Overall  There was abosolutely zero thrill or desire to win a tournament. There was absolutely 
 zero reward for time spent playing the game, and almost no challenge at all. The multiplayer aspect 
 is just fine, but by the time I got to multiplayer, I was done with the game in general. 
  
  And btw, did I finish? No, I was at the second to last match of the [spoiler] when the game 
 decided to freeze, and despite rebooting my brand new Xbox, my countless hours were out the window. 
 Yet another reason why I don't like console gameshad this been a pc game, I would have had multiple 
 back ups and could have just got back a game or two.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobby2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, the gameplay is all up to you, to hit a good shot you need good timing 
 you can't just press a shot button as soon as your opponent hits because your player will stretch 
 out and won't connect with the ball well and it will have no power, this is fantastic because its 
 not just a game where you press a button and get a perfect shot you have to time it. The game looks 
 so real when you are playing it, also your player starts to get exausted there cheeks become red, 
 sweat starts off at the armpits then the more you play the more you sweat your back and front become 
 sweatey also your shots get less accurate when you get exausted. A few things on this game that 
 will drive you nuts, sometimes your player will just stand still and not attempt to hit the ball 
 and it will hit you, this is rare don't let it put you off the game.
  
  When i first bought this game i was so frustrated at how bad i thought the game was i couldn't 
 beleive how people could give this game a good rating i didn't think it deserved a 1.0, i was ready 
 to sell it the next day, i decided to play it first i couldn't beleive how my opinion changed after 
 a few hours i thought the game was amazing. You should really buy this game make sure you play 
 it for a few hours before you make an opinion on it, i have read other people's reviews and they 
 have said you need to play it for a while. Its a MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  I am not a tennis fan but after playing the TS3 demo i was impressed and went out and bought the 
 game and started to dislike it a lot moslty the game can frustrate even good tennis players wll 
 be shouting but thats because the game feels like its against you from the start to finish. Top 
 spin also has no wimbledon no nadal and tons of bad players no one could possibly care about so 
 is this a tennis game or a frustrating watered down pile of crap? well top spin does have some 
 good points for example
  the graphics are fantastic and the players actually get dirtier and sweat starts to show after 
 a while which is all great and it really does feel like real tennis but at the end of the day it 
 will frustrate and it never forgives you so lets go through the Pros and Cons
  
  Pros
  fantastic graphics
  simulates real tennis 
  players get dirty and sweaty
  
  cons
  Frustrating 
 on harder difficulitys 
  game is not very forgiving 
  missing must have events like wimbledon and players like nadal
  VT3 will challenge you and reward 
 you unlike this
  
  TS3 is a decent game but its not even close to being as fun as VT3 and it has gone to far to try 
 and simulate the real thing its missing the FUN FACTOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GH2_GTA4_H3
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  2K sports has finally made it's first decent game. It's very realistic, for example, when your 
 tired, you become red, sweaty, and your shots have less accuracy, also your player's ratings affect 
 gameplay a lot more. Top spin school is a new idea, and a great ine that is very innovative, which 
 is one of the many qualities of the game. The drills can be easy or rigorous, they help you practice 
 timing or things your struggling with, good for keeping skills up and making them better. Some 
 drills can be as hard or even harder than a tournament with Roger Federer. As for carrer mode, 
 customizeation is perfect for creating yourself in the tennis world. There is some much to edit 
 and to use, if your willing to spend enough time on it, you might be looking at a mirror. But the 
 dowside is you choose from presets and adjust it to you, but also a plus if you don't care what 
 your character looks like and just want to play. In carrer mode your point ditribution for improving 
 ratings and buying clothes is genious and a good way to keep the game challenging. One of the best 
 things is the crowd, their reactions of oohs! and awes! Plus they look pretty realistic and not 
 choppy, the best looking crowd in a any sports game I've played so far. But like it's first two 
 predecesors, with time it's boring and repetative, eventually there's nothing more to do than win 
 clothes and improve your ratings. When your not challegned it become routine and boring, junior 
 tour sucks after a while, but pro tour is harder and becomes the same thing, becoming a ledgend 
 isn't much different, not very interseting. Also frustration may make your not like the game, the 
 computer will piss you off sometimes, and so will your player if you mess up, yopu might break 
 the game or the controller, if your temper can get that hot. But overall it's a solid game and 
 above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Summer is finally here and with it comes another season of tennis, as the pros take to the courts 
 to amaze and delight us. It's also the perfect time for game companies to release their take on 
 the sport, for those of us who enjoy playing tennis with a controller instead of a racket.
  
  Top Spin 3, from publisher 2K Sports and developer Pam Development, is the third game in the 
 Top Spin series and the only tennis game scheduled for this summer. Unlike other games from other 
 publishers before it, Top Spin 3 is not an arcade-based tennis game, thus making it a bit challenging 
 for casual players. Luckily, there's a Top Spin School where you'll learn all of the moves and 
 tricks to help you get accustomed to the controls, and when you do, they feel very sharp and accurate. 
 The controls are quite basic in nature. The face buttons perform flat, top spin, slice and lob/drop 
 shots while the triggers give that extra 'oomph' of power to them. The shoulder buttons make your 
 player sprint across the court. Although learning how your player hits and moves isn't overly complicated, 
 the timing of your button presses can be a bit tricky. You'll need to press and hold down a face 
 button to power up your swing, move the left analog stick to position it, and then release the 
 button to hit the ball. Believe me, this takes some getting used to and a lot of practice, but 
 when you get the hang of it, you'll soon understand why there's no better tennis game out there 
 that imitates the real-life sport as well as Top Spin 3 does.
  
  Aside from the tutorial game mode featured in the Top Spin School, you'll have four other modes 
 to choose from. There's Exhibition, as well as online and offline multiplayer, which are pretty 
 self-explanatory. Just know that the online multiplayer is lag-free, that it's easy to get into 
 a match and that it can be played in singles or doubles competition. But the biggest draw of the 
 game by far is the Career mode, where you'll take your player through five stages including amateur, 
 challenger, junior, pro and legend. The game has a pretty hefty player creator mode, with tons 
 of customizable options to choose from. Playing as yourself in a tournament where you kick Roger 
 Federer's ass is surprisingly gratifying.
  
  As you play through your career and win matches, you'll unlock experience points, which can be 
 used to upgrade your player's abilities, which range from your forehand and backhand shots, as 
 well as your service, stamina and power, amongst others. You'll also unlock other points which 
 will allow you to buy clothes, shoes or rackets from the stores at the mall. All of the well-known 
 brand names are there, including Nike and Adidas. Although the clothes look damn nice (for the 
 most part) , they do not influence your abilities or how the game is played, which is kind of a 
 bummer, but I'm guessing that a company like Yonex didn't want to see their sneakers be out-performed 
 by Nike sneakers, for example.
  
  While you claw your way up to the top of the tennis food chain, you'll come across most of the 
 well-known players of today, including Federer, Maria Sharapova, Andy Roddick and Amelie Moresmo, 
 amongst others, as well as stars from yesteryear such as Monica Seles and Bjorn Borg. If you expect 
 to go one on one with this year's Wimbledon winner, Rafael Nadal, you'll be disappointed to learn 
 that he only appears on the PlayStation 3 version of the game due to contractual constraints. Most 
 of the popular tournaments are featured in the game, including the US Open and the French Open 
 but sadly, Wimbledon is not present.
  
  One thing's for certain, this is by far the best looking tennis game on the market. The players 
 are amazingly lifelike and their animations are fluid. The locales where the tournaments take place 
 are varied and unique, from beach clubs to indoor gymnasiums, and everywhere in between. I also 
 noticed that the crowds look and react like real crowds do, which is very rare for a sports game. 
 Usually, you'll see the same looped animation over and over again while you're playing a match, 
 which can get pretty annoying at times, so kudos to 2K for creating the best AI crowd in the business. 
 Top Spin 3 also sounds great. You'll know when you're hitting a powerful shot or a weak one from 
 the sound the ball makes when you smack it with your racket. The ambiance is also very noticeable, 
 as you'll barely hear a clap or a yell when you're playing in lower-level tournaments, compared 
 to the roar of the crowd when you hit the big time. There is a very limited soundtrack in the game, 
 but it's nothing to write home about, especially since the same 2-3 songs seem to loop ad nauseam. 
 There's just so much Jamiroquai a man can take before cringing, you know?
  
  If you have the patience to tough it out, Top Spin 3 is a very solid game of tennis which takes 
 itself very seriously. It offers a realistic, no-holds-barred take on the sport which will have 
 fans craving for more. This game offers so much tennis, with solid career and online modes to boot, 
 that you'll be playing it for a very long time to come. Bottom line, if you love tennis, you'll 
 love Top Spin 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomthedude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 3, developed by PAM Development and published by 2K Sports, is a video-game focusing on 
 the sport of Tennis. It is branded as the 'Most visually and physically realistic tennis experience 
 ever!'. I was lucky enough to pick it up on release day, and I am very glad I did.
  
  It features completely new gameplay mechanics to deliver a technically superior game of Tennis. 
 Unfortunately, those looking to this after loving Virtua Tennis 3 may find it quite a struggle 
 to adapt. Firstly, it is a lot slower and trust me, that isn't a bad thing. It allows you more 
 time to aim your returns and regain composure. Second, the way of actually hitting the ball is 
 different. In Virtua Tennis, you simply ran (at amazing speed) towards the ball, charged up a Power 
 Smash in about 0.25 seconds, and let rip. This may be a slightly more fun way to play, but come 
 on, this generation demands pinpoint accuracy that mirrors the sport.
  
  So, picture this. Your opponent, drunk on his own sense of power, hits a poorly timed shot, and 
 you have a while to think about your choices. You opt to play a smooth slice placed straight to 
 the corner. As soon as the ball comes off the other players racket, you hold X (X being slice) 
 and then you move to the position needed to get the most out of your return, your shot charging 
 while you move. You will know you are in the right position because your player won't move anymore. 
 Use this time to aim your shot. Next, you release the X button at the right time, to get the maximum 
 potential out of your swing. Release too early and you probably will swing at nothing, the ball 
 zipping past you. Too late, and you will hit a weak shot and lose your balance. The system works 
 well, but sometimes, you may forget to hold or let go of a button, or randomly hit a shot wide 
 or at the net. Yes, it sound's complicated, and you will probably have some trouble for the first 
 few games, but you will begin to understand how to pull off complex moves like drop-shots, lobs 
 and risk shots. Speaking of risk shots, they are one of the game's biggest problems. Pulling off 
 risk shots take exact timing, so sometimes it is better not to use them if you don't have to. 
 
  Can't grasp the new change? The Top Spin School is the place for you. Here you will learn the 
 new controls, via training exercises that give you feedback on your timing and positioning. Even 
 if it is a 'School', some of the training sessions are difficult. With those down, you can move 
 on to the risk shots and other advanced techniques. So even if you are a veteran, going back to 
 school to hone your timing and power is a good idea.
  
  Your abilities are now up to par with the champions. But how do you challenge them? Exhibition 
 matches, which allow you to pit any characters against each other in singles and doubles. Sure, 
 that's fun, but wouldn't you rather become the next John McEnroe yourself?
  
  The Top Spin series is renowned for its excellent player creator, and the third revision doesn't 
 fail to impress. Starting with a base model (these range from caucasian, to yellow, to black) and 
 you are then presented with a host of different settings. You can beef up his chest, thicken his 
 eyebrows, pucker his lips, everything is there. I just wish there were more hairstyles to choose 
 from, because too many of them are 'Exreme'. You can really take your monster to the next level 
 of ugliness by using the new 'Sculpt' feature. Using this, you can directly modify, in real time, 
 your characters face. When you click on Sculpt, one half of your stars mug will have white dots 
 in key positions (eye pupil, end of eyebrow, bridge of nose, bottom lip etc.) . Selecting these 
 dots, you can drag them, and they will edit that part of the face. So let's say I clicked on the 
 dot at the end of my stars lip. moving the analog stick left or right, I can lengthen or shorten 
 the length of his kisser. Get it?
  
  But don't stop there. You can also select from numerous different serve types, what type of forehand 
 and backhand you use and even choose a grunt type! It's obvious that PAM wanted to continue the 
 sucess in this area, because it is so fleshed out you could spend hours creating your own champion.
 
  
  But what do you do with this finely sculped master? Again, PAM have included another great mode, 
 the Career. It works the same way as the previous iterations, but the presentation and navigation 
 have been completely redone. There are now 5 levels, and each level has an objective. If you complete 
 the objective you are raised to the next level. You're dropped into the 'Amateur Level' and your 
 objective is to beat 3 newcomers. When that is done, you come to 'Challenger Level'. The objective 
 is essentially the same, but against harder opponents. The 'Junior Level' is where it all kicks 
 off. There is now a calendar, with an easy and hard tournament on each month. Your aim is to have 
 a certain ammount of 'Season Points' at the end of the year. The easy tourney's are less forgiving, 
 but you don't get as many points. Unfortunately, it isn't as in-depth as is could be, where are 
 the sponsor challenges? Where are the training sessions? I understand that they aren't needed, 
 but they add variety and fun to the game.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. The player models, while not being true to their real life counterparts, 
 are full of detail. As a match plays on, you can see sweat dripping from foreheads and staining 
 underarms. I'm not just talking about the players here, the crowd look just as good from far away. 
 The arenas the matches take place in look great as well, with reflections from skylines blazing 
 onto the floor, casting shadows. Talking about arenas, there are over 40 different places to hold 
 a game, and about half are fictional. Wimbledon being one of them. Or should that be 'The London 
 Open'? Surely it couldn't have been too much trouble to add in one of the greatest Grand Slams 
 ever?
  
  Each pro has their signiature serve. From Bjorg's straight arm to Roddicks bend, everything is 
 as you would expect it to be. Except for one thing. Serves are the only thing signiature for the 
 players, which means they all hit the ball with the same animations. Apart from Roger Federer. 
 He is the only player who has completely different animations from everyone else.
  The animations are top-notch, with players sliding on clay, stretching for long balls, and bending 
 backwards to avoid a ball in the jaw. The running motions are also good, but sometimes it can feel 
 like you are moving to slow around the baseline, or running forward to hit an oncoming shot. The 
 'Emotion' button from Top Spin and the sequel has been removed, instead players show hapiness or 
 anger themselves, depending on the situation. These are a nice touch but can get repetitive.
  
  The sound effects are superb. Grunt's echo, the crowd react louder on the more important points 
 and the racket-on-ball sounds are as they should be, unlike the plasticky sound from Top Spin 2. 
 The game also now features a liscensed soundtrack, featuring The Go Team!, Calvin Harris, Jamiroquai 
 and more. The tunes are really catchy, but it is a shame there aren't more of them, as you hear 
 the same songs too often.
  
  Top Spin 3 really is as good as it looks. The new gameplay mechanics, though dificult at first, 
 make it a realistic tennis experience. This is all helped by the smooth graphics and great soundtrack. 
 It has it's problems, but they are only skin deep. Any tennis fan or anyone looking for a true-to-life 
 game that they can sink their teeth into should not hesitate to pick this one up.
  
  THE SCORE:
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Plays like any tennis game should. The new mechanics,
  while hard 
 to learn, make Top Spin 3 a joy to play.
  9/10
  GRAPHICS
  Great looking models, weather effects and fatigue system. The
  menu colours are not very varied.
 
  8/10
  SOUND
  Great set of tunes in the soundtrack, but a bit too repetetive.
  The sound effects are great to listen to.
  8/10
  LASTING APPEAL
  Lengthy and challenging 
 career mode with good online play.
  A variety of game modes will keep you coming back.
  8/10
  OVERALL:
  8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoganms
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  The better points:
  
  -Looks great. Players, even clothing looks real when you move. 
  
  -Once you get the hang of the controls, it's awesome (might take you longer than you think.. or 
 not) . It's been one of the more satisfying games to learn. You either get the controls or you don't, 
 and the game is not forgiving. Once you get it though I don't think you'd have it any other way. 
 That's not to say that before I figured out the timing I didn't curse how sloppy the game was and 
 wanted to throw my controller through the wall. I was really happy to find out that it was me that 
 was sloppy, not the game.
  
  -Smart AI. You're probably not going to find too many ways to glitch a win. Smart tennis and timing 
 are your best bet.
  
  -Sensitive upgrade system allows you to fine tune your player for your style. I think the stamina 
 feature is a good add. 
  
  -Online play is just as fun. Especially because I'm better than you;) I'm kidding, but you should 
 get through a good part of single player before diving on line.
  
  The lower end:
  
  -Really frustrating and unforgiving until you get the timing down (best and worst feature)
  
 
  -Would it be that hard to have a commentary? Maybe a little Johnny Mac? It's the lack of all sound 
 while playing a match that isn't great.
  
  -Why do top spin games always have the worst songs for the title screen? I feel like I have to 
 hurry up and start a match so I don't have to hear the music.
  
  -Player creation is weak. You really can't make a player that isn't oriental (no offense meant) 
 or a guy with downs syndrome (again no offense) . It's just that they eyes are either slanted, 
 or too far apart. They numbered features instead of naming them. I. E. Brown hair is 3, and blue 
 eyes is 2. Why? 
  
  
  Overall: 
  
  Worth buying. If you put the time in to figure it out you'll be greatly rewarded. It's a good solid 
 game that will occupy a lot of time with single player alone. Easily the best tennis game ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_dangles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  The 2k sports logo on your game case can be considered a seal of quality,
  This is one of the most beautifully rendered sports games ive ever played. The animations are so 
 fluid and realistic, the character have all the nuance of the players they are based on ( a nicely 
 timed federer cross court forehand is a thrill to execute) and the learning curve is immersive 
 and rewarding as perseverance will provide you with so many satisfying tennis moments. This game 
 has to be played multiplayer, preferably with a buddy or 3 in your living room, with gameplay dynamics 
 that rival the original mario tennis for fluidity, playability and engagement as you battle to 
 match point. 
  This fantastic game is let down however by licensing or developer oversight issues involving 3 
 Items Ana Ivanovic (the georgeous world number one) , Rafael Nadal (360's omission is painfull as 
 he is the man in tennis at the moment) and the tournament that stands tall above all others WIMBLEDON. 
 i suspect these are licensing issues, whoever signed off on giving the rights of wimbledon to an 
 inferior developer who in turn would not be able to do it justice need to have their head checked.
 
  These omissions are only made so obvious because the game is so beautifull and i would love to 
 be able to play a complete tennis experience.
  In Conclusion though.. this game is a work of art let down only in part by the reality of modern 
 sports gaming rights. Topspin 3's gameplay and multiplayer experience are the bench mark iin tennis 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BourneX
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm disappointed about a number of things so far. Why Hewitt and Nadal... or Djokovic, Safin, or 
 Ivanovic are not in the game is beyond me. I don't get it. It's nice to see Becker and Bjorn, but 
 come on... seriously come on!! lol
  
  Most people may not care about this, but I thought I'd put it out there anyway in case someone 
 from 2K Sports reads it.... Top Spin 2's lighting (anything related to illumination of characters 
 and environment) wasn't that great. It lacked something. 
  The characters and environments have great textures and details in Top Spin 3. The lighting, on 
 the other hand, is still a bit off in terms of today's standards for games. It simply hasn't improved 
 much at all from Top Spin 2. It's missing something. It could've been much more amazing
  
  I still LOVE this game, though :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I played Top Spin 1 on the xbox for a short time and remember enjoying it. I've been playing Top 
 Spin 2 almost since it's release, Within the first few hours of Top Spin 2 I fell in love with 
 it, along with many other tennis fans.
  
  When we heard Top Spin 3 was coming out most of us made educated assumptions that the game would 
 play and feel similar to Top Spin 2. Maybe adding doubles to the online play, adding a latency 
 meter when connecting to ranked matches, updating the roster, greater flexibility in career mode, 
 better visuals, removing RT exploits etc. Nope, none of that happen. In my opinion, I think they 
 made Top Spin 3 a little too sim to appeal to everyone who enjoyed playing Top Spin 2, and that 
 is a lot of people. Why didn't 2K Sports think to address any of the Top Spin 2 complaints or issues? 
 Anyone? Top Spin 2 has a nice blend of arcade and sim style game play, something for everyone. 
 The career mode wasn't too bad either. Create a custom player to your likings within a few hours 
 and experiment with that player and if you decide you don't like your player create another, just 
 like that. There were a few things they could have done differently and that's where we thought 
 Top Spin 3 would come in. I think a lot of players enjoyed the arcade style game play with a hint 
 of the simulation that Top Spin 2 gave us, after all, when the arcade part of the game out weighs 
 the sim the game is usually more fun, but not always. In Top Spin 3 they "pretty much" removed 
 all of the fun arcade style and replaced it with pure sim, boring, literally. Don't get me wrong, 
 I love sim style games, you just have to know where to draw the line when it comes to your current 
 audience. The charactors in Top Spin 3 move too slow, they feel a little herky jerky. Move them 
 to the right or left and they take 3 or 4 steps not one like we are use to, what's that all about? 
 It's almost like they lag in their movement as well. The controls are not as intuitive as they 
 should be, just my opinion. I mean, who wants to relearn how to play 1 tennis game when there are 
 5 out there that are more fun that we can just pick up and play. How much of a learning curve should 
 there be just to hit a ball back and forth.. lol Not much. Don't get me wrong, I like a little depth 
 in my games, I just don't want to spend 2 months mastering the game all over again just to play 
 the next one that comes out with the same control system as all the others. I'm not sure what 2K 
 Sports was thinking when they threw this one together but, I don't think this game will appeal 
 to as many tennis fans as 2K Sports might think. Then again, I could be wrong, we will see...
 
  
  The bottom line for me, the game looks nice but, overall, I am a little disappointed in the way 
 the game feels and how the controls feel. So if you are looking for a fun tennis game you can just 
 pick up and play, you might want to wait for Smash Court Tennis because Top Spin 3 is not it. Too 
 much work involved just to play a game for the fun of it.
  
  Who knows, maybe Top Spin 3 will catch on...? What do you guys think...?
  
  Post your comments, 
 I'm dying to hear what you guys have to say.
  
  ~pc,
  www. pcfitness. net
  www. expertpersonaltraining. com
  www. expertcomputerhelp. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuRen6899
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  If you're a tennis fan, there's quite obviously two series' that stand out from the crowd. Of course, 
 I'm referring to Virtua Tennis and Top Spin. I've experienced every installment of both and my 
 preference has fluctuated with each release.
  
  And so now we're on to the third release of each series. And while I did enjoy Virtua Tennis 3 
 a lot more than it's prequel, my vote goes to Top Spin 3.
  
  It's much more challenging than ever before, there's no doubt of that. You probably will find yourself 
 quite frustrated with it at first, as the new gameplay system will feel quite alien even to veterans 
 of the first two Top Spin releases. A pick-up-and-play arcade game this is not.
  
  And yet, stick with it for just an hour or so, and you'll find that it's so much more rewarding. 
 Making the right shots in the right way is all about two things - your timing, and your positioning. 
 Which is true to life, is it not?
  
  As you grow into the game and begin to hone your timing and movement, you'll be participating in 
 action that is just so much more challenging, realistic and rewarding than games where little thought 
 is required beyond holding a button down for as long as possible. You feel you really are *winning* 
 the points.
  
  The visuals are fantastic - players look a lot better than they have done in the past, in fact 
 most of them are just about spot on. The courts are superbly detailed and the crowds look very 
 nice too.
  
  Sound is a slight issue. I must say that the sound of the ball against the racquet isn't quite 
 one hundred percent convincing, which is a surprising letdown in a simulation of such detail. It's 
 hardly enough to be a major gripe though.
  
  Online play is also very solid. Being able to team up with a friend and take on others across the 
 world in a doubles match gives the game extra multiplayer value too.
  
  In summary, I suppose I'm just saying the same thing as everyone else - Virtua Tennis is possibly 
 a bit better if you prefer a "quick blast" type of experience, but I would encourage anyone who 
 really loves tennis to get this game. Be patient with it at first, and you won't regret it in the 
 long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milosc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 :
  
  Instead of running up to a shot with the proper face button held and watching the stroke animation 
 carry out as you would in the past, Top Spin 3 forces a more realistic approach. 
  
  Now you'll not only have to worry about getting your athlete, who now moves with increased inertia, 
 to the ball but you'll also need to time the release of the shot button with the swing. The game 
 lets you know when you've completed a solid hit with a small vibration, and while it may sound 
 simple enough, the many Top Spin veterans who have stepped up to the plate to try the new mechanic 
 have had serious growing pains.
  
  All in all the gameplay additions that they've made to the Top Spin formula are great for simulating 
 tennis. There are some gamers out there who will undoubtedly give up before mastering the new hitting 
 mechanic, but tennis diehards will definitely appreciate how much better the hitting feels in Top 
 Spin 3. 
  
  BUT!!!
  
  But real disappointment is that the game is missing world's best players!!!
  It's rather boring 
 to play a tennis game without the game's best players like Djokovic (3rd in the world) , Ivanovic (w, 
 1st in the world) , Jankovic (2nd) and some other great players!
  
  All in all:
  Top Spin 3 is good tennis simulation, but it doesn't give you a complete satisfaction when playing, 
 because there aren't enough real world players! And if 2K thought they can get off with that just 
 by giving you option to make up some players, they were terribly worng!!!
  
  SO, TO BUY OR NOT TO BUY?!
  
  Well, if you are a hard core tennis fan, do not buy this game, 
 it's not right thing for you, believe me. It will be disappointment for you. 
  
  If you just looking for a good tennis simulation and you don't really care about how many real-world 
 players the game has, than buy it!
  
  Thanks for reading my review, I hope helped someone to find out if this really is the game for 
 them,
  milosc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I really wanted a tennis game and this was the newest one. The graphics 
 are good and the courses are really cool. The fact that you can customize your own player is a 
 huge plus because you can customize every aspect of the player. An odd thing I noticed was that 
 they're aren't many pros in the game to play with. The really good players like Sharapova, Roddick, 
 and Federer are in it, but then they're are a bunch of random no name pros. But you'll probably 
 create your own person anyway. The career isn't too repetitive so far and the gameplay isn't that 
 hard. Unless your a die hard tennis or top spin fan, then I wouldn't spend 60 bucks on this, rent 
 it first. I haven't played the game on live yet but I'm sure that's solid and the soundtrack kind 
 of sucks, but I only like rap so others might disagree. Something they should of added is minigames. 
 Virtua Tennis 3 had mini games and they were really fun, minigames would of added a lot of value 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdeniro
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I've payed all the tennis games over the p ast 5 years, Top Spin 1 & 2 and Virtua Tennis 3 and 
 Top Spin 3 is head and shoulders above all of these other titles. The gameplay is very realstic 
 with comprehensive controls that allow your player to do just about anything that happens on a 
 real tennis court.
  
  I was expecting a solid game but PAM/2KSports have far exceeded my expectations with Top Spin 3 
 to the point of amazement.
  
  Any reviewer that scores this game low doesnt understand the mechanics of real tennis and they 
 simply do not know how to play this game. It's that simple.
  
  The controls are perfect IMHO and if they were any easier the game would become boring fast.
 
  
  The only complaint i have with this game, and this is being really picky, is would like to see 
 "Commentary with "Fred Stolle" "Tony Trabert" and "Cliff Drysdale" as well as the "Hawkeye Challenge 
 System" implimented in Top Spin 4. That would bring the added atmosphere that this title is screaming 
 out for and would make the overral experience that much more enjoyable.
  
  Don't waste your time pondering though, and take it from someone that knows "real tennis" as well 
 as video game tennis, Top Spin 3 is easily the best "next-gen" tennis game available on any console 
 so get yourself a copy and see you on the court! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erinnicole93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of tennis, both virtual and physical, I am always eager for the next iteration 
 of Top Spin. Top Spin 3 is a vast improvement over the second game but still doesn't match the 
 sheer fun of the original. I haven't yet finished, so this review is only my initial impressions.
 
  
  Visually, the game is amazing. The models are amazingly realistic and the animations are stunning. 
 There are some great effects as well, such as dynamic hair, better use of shadows, and more active 
 crowds (not to mention the deservedly hyped up dirt and sweat) . My only complaint is that for whatever 
 reason, 2k sports STILL refuses to make the ball boys move. It's such a small thing, but I feel 
 it would make such a better and more realistic experience.
  
  I am torn about the changes to Career mode. It's nice that you don't have the 5 year limitation 
 of topspin 2, but I sort of miss the coaches. Training is handled by an experience point system, 
 so you don't get deep into training - which also means that there are no mini games (other than 
 "Top Spin School", which has a lot of hitting balls into squares, but no knocking down of walls) . 
 The characters are a lot better looking than the beasts of TS2, and there are a lot of customization 
 options outside of how your character looks, from how they hit certain shots to how they react 
 when winning or losing.
  
  As far as game play, it's completely different from any other Top Spin game. You're still mashing 
 buttons for the most part, but the meters are all gone. You have to release the button to complete 
 your swing now, as opposed to being able to hold it down for the entire shot as in previous games. 
 You can do easy serves with just a button, but if you want to serve up some aces, you need to learn 
 how to use the right stick to serve. You can also use the right stick to lob and do drop shots, 
 but I've still yet to make one actually go in the court. Oh, and the people you'll be playing are 
 much better than they used to be. AI is vastly improved, although the models' reactions are a bit 
 stiff (you're not supposed to be able to hit an ace into a player's head) . Position is also incredibly 
 important, although they're a lot less forgiving than an actual tennis match. There were many times 
 where I was just a few inches away from where I was supposed to be that a shot would end up far 
 out of play - even on a safe shot hit lightly. The learning curve is actually kind of steep, especially 
 if you're used to playing other games.
  
  On to the included players. I didn't get too deep into exhibition mode (and not far enough in career 
 mode to play against any named players) , but their models look, for the most part, great. James 
 Blake looks almost as if he's actually on the TV. Same with Sharapova and Mauresmo. I was disappointed 
 in the Henin model - I still don't see a resemblance even after I've played against her a few times. 
 Federer looks a little plastic, and I'm disappointed that Nadal isn't included in the 360 version. 
 Maybe they'll release him as a DLC, along with the half clay/half grass court that he and Federer 
 played on a few years back.
  
  The sound is very well done. A slice shot hit twice in a row doesn't sound the same. You can also 
 tell by the sound of the ball against your racquet (and against the ground) how solidly the ball 
 was hit - which is paramount to being able to prepare your next shot. I'm really disappointed in 
 the soundtrack, though. There are only about 4 or 5 songs and all of them are pretty much awful. 
 Eventually, I turned the music all the way down.
  
  In spite of the graphical improvements, gameplay still pales to the first game. I'd recommend the 
 game over the last-gen throwback Top Spin 2 or the arcade-like Virtual Tennis 3, and again, the 
 graphics are definitely the best of any tennis game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cha7520
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 3- Game Review
  
  By: Charlie Durie (Tennis Video Game Collector)
  Cha7520@aol. com
  
  *Pros
  *Cons
  *Graphics
  *Music/Effects
  *Controls/Functionality
 
  *Challenge/Difficulty
  *Game play/"Fun Factor"
  *Realism
  *Addition Comments
  *Overall Rating
  
  Pro- *Excellent Animation/Graphics
  *Tour Mode
  *No-Mini Games
  *Wide 
 Variety of Rackets/Clothing
  *On-line play
  *Create a Player
  
  
  Con- *Weak Roster
  *Not all Pros have their signature styles/animations (ex.. Monica Seles hits 
 with a 
  One handed forehand 9 times out of 10, etc.)
  *Big Learning Curve hitting the ball (mostly risk shots)
  *Can only create four players at a 
 time
  
  
  Graphics -10
  
  The Graphics on this game are the best of any tennis game to date. With clear crisp fluid animations 
 and bright colors, this game is very easy on the eyes. As you play you will notice shadows on the 
 court due to the clouds and the environments are very realistic, with even waterfalls being depicted. 
 But the most detail is in the tennis players and how their hair flops around, how they sweat and 
 how their shirts move according to their body movement. The crowds are in 3D which adds to the 
 realism along with proper logos and markings on the tennis courts.
  
  Music/Sound Effects- 6
  
  I liked Top Spin 2's music because it was more rock bands that I 
 could relate to. But in Top Spin 3, I feel like I'm not "hip" enough to "dig" the new 80's retro 
 music. "I like white girls, I like black girls, I like big girls, I like skinny girls.. etc" I'm 
 sorry but I don't get into the type of music that is on this game, besides I've never heard of 
 Jamiroquai, Calvin Harris, Boys like Girlsum are they suppose to be famous or something? The sound 
 effects are okay. First of all, we now that the grunts from Monica Seles and Maria Sharapova are 
 not their grunts, and so that was disappointing. Perhaps next time they can capture accurate sounds 
 for the players. The sound effect for the ball is okay, but still sounds the same from Top Spin 
 2 and sounds like your hitting a baseball. Once nice addition is the air plane going overhead at 
 the US open.
  
  Controls/Functionality- 6 
  
  This is a Big One for everyone. I have mixed feelings about the Functionality and the Control scheme 
 that PAM decided to utilize. However, Kudos to PAM for totally going out on a limp and attempting 
 to revamp the whole concept of how tennis games are played and for that I give them credit. I can 
 understand their reasoning behind the new control scheme because as a simulation they wanted to 
 make it as close to the real thing as possible. Being a tennis player myself since 13 yo, I can 
 tell you that they tried to capture the essentials to stroke mechanics. However, I believe that 
 PAM went a little "overboard" with the process. As far as your basic strokes, they are pretty easy 
 to master after several hours getting the timing down correctly. As for the risk shots, they are 
 another story. You are essentially focusing and concentration of three elements during the stroke 
 process. Number one, get your characters in position, the quicker you get your player in position 
 the faster you can then concentrate on adjusting the stick for the ball trajectory. Second, you 
 have to hold down the shot button and as the ball is rising you release the button to make the 
 shot all the while directing the ball where to go. I have found that you need to have your character 
 positioned and set up and the button pressed for several seconds in order to get power behind your 
 shot and especially to get any angle on the ball at all. The LT is used to strike the ball closer 
 to the baseline and the RT is used as a risk shot. If you press the LT and the RT at the same time 
 and strike the ball you will hit the ball with a extreme risk shot. One suggestion that I would 
 make is that if we could take one step out the equation to make it a little more user friendly, 
 but still keeping the control scheme intact would be that they create Top Spin 4 where you run 
 toward the ball and have the option of computer help to stop your character from "handcuffing" 
 himself (getting to close to the ball) or not getting close enough to the ball, so that you can 
 focus more on the stroke and having a clean, crisp shot.
  
  
  Challenge/Difficulty- 10
  
  I have to say that this game is not for those who like the arcade, "just press a button" mind 
 numbing type of play. This game is for the thinker and for those who like the challenge and who 
 are not afraid to learn something new. There is a bigger learning curve in this tennis game unlike 
 any others in the past and so it does require patience and effort. And for those who are into the 
 arcade type, I do have to say I believe the days of "button smashing" is over. We have to get use 
 to this new type of control scheme going forward, because I think this is the new wave of tennis 
 games. I believe it's the challenge and the wanting to Master a game that makes a video gamer a 
 true one, so if you are one, you won't mind keeping at it until you master it. The transition to 
 the Junior Circuit is a hard one as your created character will average about 34 overall ranking. 
 If you decided to play the "Hard" tournaments your opponents will average in the 50's. I pretty 
 much got blown out the water in the first Hard Dubi Tournament. You can choose to play the "easy" 
 tournaments in the Junior circuit and if you win you will get like 40 some points, so you can easily 
 end up being one of the top 3 juniors in the world after the season is over. So all in all, yes 
 it's hard at the beginning and wanting to learn to master the game, does make it addictive in a 
 good way.
  
  
  Gameplay/Fun-Factor- 8
  
  The honest truth is that simulations can only be so fun, compared to the arcade type tennis games. 
 But this game does seem to offer more gameplay, options and overall fun than Top Spin 2 did. I 
 believe the option for online gaming pretty much saves the game in this department. I believe with 
 the tournament mode, the tour, etc will keep you busy playing this game and wanting to come back. 
 The over all playability is good as there is more shot selection, i. e Flat, slice, topspin shots, 
 until Virtual Tennis 3 that didn't offer any type of top spin serve or stroke.
  
  
  Realism- 6
  
  Now this is where I have a problem. I know some reading this review will think 
 I'm a little OCD (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder) about this but I believe I have valid points to 
 make. First off, the players are very realistic! Excellent Graphics and animations as far as stroke 
 and movement don't get me wrong, but when it comes to depicting the pros accurately I have a problem. 
 2KSports claims- "Signature Style- The world's best players are accurately depicted with actual 
 apparel, equipment and even swing animations." For the apparel and equipment yes, for the swing 
 animations, no. First off, not every pro in the game hits their serve like they do in real life. 
 For example, Gael Monfils serve is way off and so are some of the others. So in the serve dept. 
 PAM should have made sure that all the pros serves were accurately depicted. This takes away from 
 the realism of the game. Also, the grunts are generic and are not the actual grunts of the players, 
 i. e Monica Seles and Maria Sharapova. Lastly, the biggest disappoint I found in the game is that 
 90% of the players hit the ball the same, and there are no signature stroke animations for all 
 players. Did PAM create cloned bodies and paste different heads on them? It seems they only have 
 paid attention to Roger Federer as he has accurate animation that corresponds to how he hits the 
 ball in real life. Rafeal Nadal once in a blue moon hits the ball with the whip arm around and 
 over the top of his head and Monica Seles pretty much hits a one-handed forehand through the whole 
 match. I have to say Monica Seles was my favorite tennis player growing up in the 90's and so naturally 
 I play with her first when I got my game (I got this game for my PS3 and my Xbox360) and I was 
 so confused and outright baffled as to why she kept hitting the ball with one hand! I managed to 
 get her to hit a two handed forehand like twice in the whole match. But it seems PAM didn't take 
 the time to capture each player's unique playing style and that's very disappointing, especially 
 when you hype a game up and advertise about Signature moves. Maybe they should have put a * by 
 that and listed only several players at the bottom on the game boxLOL. Ohand where is Wimbledon 
 at?
  
  Additional Comments:
  
  I have to say all in all this is really not a bad game, but neither is it a big break through either. 
 The Graphics are better, the sound is still the same, the controls are definitely different (and 
 I believe need more a little more work to simplify) , still a less than desired Roster, but now 
 that we don't have mini-games it's a plus. I believe the Tour mode is more accurately depicted 
 and is a very nice addition, especially the junior tour to increase your players attributes. I 
 believe with this game, there is a positive step forward to making more realistic tennis games 
 in the future. In a way this game is a step above Top Spin 2, but really don't jump ahead like 
 I thought it would. I believe more than anything I will enjoy the on-line play and create some 
 of the pros that are not in the game. For me I think I will enjoy the game, once I master is more, 
 but for those who can't get into this game, look for Smash Court Tennis 3 coming out in August.
 
  
  OVERALL RATING- 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehardgames2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Do you all remember Pong? Tennis in game form has come an exceedingly long way since that great 
 game and Top Spin has just proven that.
  
  I normally pick Tennis games up pretty easy and can just go into a match and start winning but 
 this was not the case with Top Spin 3. This game really did anger me when I first started playing 
 it a few days ago. If you think for one second that you will be able to win by just charging up 
 your shot power and letting one rip then you have got another thing coming. I found out that the 
 key to success is to try and get your player into the correct position and then timing your shot 
 perfectly. 
  
  For the first 45 minutes or so, you will get used to seeing balls rattle passed you left, right 
 and over your head (in the form of lobs) . Don't worry though, you'll soon get the controls locked 
 down and you will be able to start dominating your opponent with your smashes and powerful forehand 
 shouts. 
  
  The career mode is the same as any other tennis game, but with a few slight differences. These 
 being that you start out playing somewhere small like a playground or something, you can then get 
 put into local colleges and if you spend enough time there you will be invited to become a professional 
 etc. Your player at the start of his/her career can barely tap the ball but you do get a few of 
 those lucky wins which would leave all the pundits saying stuff like "That was a fluke" or "Beginners 
 luck" in the real world. If you study your opponents' skills and gain quite a few experience points 
 a long the way you will gain ranks in no time.
  
  Top Spin 3 will get you hot under the collar at first but once you get the hang of it, the sweet 
 controls and fabulous gameplay will soon win you over. This is a must have game for any tennis 
 game fan. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I have had all the Top Spin games so I naturally had to get this one too. To be honest I am not 
 so sure it's any better than Top Spin 2. The game is a little harder to learn and has some bizarre 
 graphic issues. What I mean by bizarre is that the lettering is blurry, player names, the score, 
 even the directions are not clear, not sharp at all. Close up shots of the players look good, but 
 scenes have a lot of jaggies and need some anti-aliasing help.
  
  The hardest part about playing this game is getting your timing down, that takes a little while. 
 Once you start getting that down then the game starts to get fun, so don't be to quick to give 
 up on it.
  
  The game also has a good number of legendary players but leaves some real good ones out. There 
 is no John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, Ivan Lendel or Chris Everett, that was disappointing.
  
  Overall the price maybe a little much for this game, but it is fun once you get the hang of it. 
 If you like tennis then it's certainly worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikub1992
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought top spin 3 about 2 hours ago and was amazed by the graphics. The little stuff 
 like marks on the court and crowd cheering made the experience that much better, just try not to 
 look at the crowd, they're not exactly pleasing to the eye. The graphics were still pretty incredible, 
 just what i would expect from 2k. The overall gameplay was pleasing and in my opinion worth my 
 money. While the lack of mini games and nadal hurt me emotionally, it didn't take away from my 
 rating much at all and the online play is superb. I'm just going to throw out there that i thought 
 the music sucked, OK I just had to say it. The best is probably the character creation. Making 
 a near identical copy of myself and pit him against federer, and winning puts a smile on my face. 
 Overall the game was amazing, not perfect like GTA IV or anything like that but pretty incredible. 
 Compared to virtua tennis 3 I'd say it's better. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
