-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Top Spin 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/topspin2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun, responsive gameplay.
 Engaging and varied career mode.
 Lots of great, subtle detail in the sound design.
 Maria Sharapova.
 Surprisingly deep player creation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Menus plagued by the same three, generic tunes.
 Facial features can be eerie.
 Less-than-optimal camera angles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,895 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 29, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Top Spin 2 has no ambition to redefine how tennis games are played. It just delivers a responsive 
 and well-rounded tennis game that shouldn't be missed by fans. 

  Following a slapdash PlayStation 2 port of Top Spin last year, PAM Development has gotten its tennis 
 game back in order with Top Spin 2 for the Xbox 360. Top Spin 2 offers little that hasn't been 
 seen in other tennis games -- the original Top Spin included -- but the gameplay has been sharpened 
 to create an experience that expertly balances technicality and quick, accessible fun. Add to that 
 a first-rate presentation and some solid solo and multiplayer offerings, and you've got a package 
 that any tennis fan would be foolish to pass up.  

          Those weaned on Virtua Tennis may have to adjust to Top Spin 2's more-technical style. 
     

  Top Spin has always offered a slightly more technical game of tennis than Sega's standard-bearing 
 Virtua Tennis franchise, though it's still quite easy to pick up. The four face buttons correspond 
 to the four basic swings you'll use. The A button triggers the safe swing, which is your most straightforward 
 swing. It's often your go-to swing, because no matter how hard you tilt the left analog stick while 
 stepping up to your swing, the shot will never, ever go out of bounds, while the other three shot 
 types require a bit more finesse to keep inside the lines. The X button nets you a slice shot, 
 which flies low and fast and is great for crossing up your opponent, while the B button delivers 
 a topspin shot that flies straight and bounces high but moves fast and can slip right past opponents 
 who aren't on their toes. The Y button is used for lob shots, which are to be used sparingly but 
 can be very potent against aggressive opponents apt to ride the net.  

  While the four basic shot types can be used at any time, there are eight additional swings that 
 require some portion of your momentum meter. Momentum is gained and lost naturally as you score 
 points and are scored on over the course of a game and can be used for either risk shots, which 
 take up big chunks of your momentum, or advanced shots, which eat up a more modest amount of momentum. 
 The advanced shots are high-powered versions of your standard swings, and you can access them by 
 holding down the left shoulder trigger before you start your swing.  

  Risk shots are even more powerful, but as the name suggests, they're rather risky, too. Holding 
 down the right shoulder trigger before you start a swing will bring up a rising power meter, which 
 you need to stop right at the top. If your timing is off, you'll botch the shot and likely give 
 your opponent the upper hand. If you nail it, the ball moves hard and fast and can be difficult 
 to recover from. As potent as they can be, though, risk shots are usually worth taking only during 
 your first serve, when you have a free pass to hit the net. Otherwise, the stakes are too high, 
 and it's prohibitively difficult to keep an eye on the meter and your opponent while also keeping 
 your player in motion in the middle of the match. While the risk shots still don't have an optimal 
 risk-to-reward ratio, they've been refined a bit since the first Top Spin, and they don't have 
 any ill effect on the rest of the gameplay, which is consistently responsive and, thanks to some 
 aggressive and skilled artificial intelligence, regularly quite intense.  

  Digesting all of the tennis jargon in Top Spin 2 can be a bit much if you don't know the sport, 
 and hopping right into the game's exhibition or tournament modes may give you a bit of a rocky 
 start. It's best, then, that you go into the game's career mode, which does a fine job of casually 
 acclimating you to the nuances of the gameplay as you play. Before you start mastering your smokin'-fast 
 ace serves and humiliating dump shots, though, you'll have to create your own custom tennis pro. 

  In addition to basics like gender, age, and nationality, the character creation system in Top Spin 
 2 gives you rather impressive control over the facial features and physical build of your player 
 and is almost comparable to the character creation system found in 2K Games' The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion -- though, as far as we could tell, there was no option to create a crazy magic-adept 
 lizard-man tennis pro in Top Spin 2. Maybe next year! There's kind of an "uncanny valley" thing 
 going on with the facial features. The skin tone often has a flat, mannequin-like sheen to it, 
 but the player models still feature a good amount of realistic detail. Most impressive, though, 
 is the animation. While a few of the transitions can be a touch abrupt, most player movement is 
 incredibly smooth and believable. A lot of the impressive stuff in Top Spin 2 is subtle, like the 
 way players shift their center of gravity after planting their feet and winding up for a swing, 
 but it's the kind of detail that sells the experience without your knowing it.  

          Their eyes might freak you out, but the players in Top Spin 2 move with impressive fluidity. 
     

  Once you've created your player and dolled them up in some appropriately fresh gear from major 
 tennis apparel companies like Adidas, Nike, Wilson, and Lacoste, you'll start your career at the 
 bottom of the barrel with a rank of 200 and a low-level sponsorship. Your goals over the course 
 of your career are to build up your player's skills, increase their rank, and rake in an obscene 
 amount of coin. Time in the game progresses a week at a time, and each week has room for one training 
 event, one tournament event, and one special event. The training events should be your primary 
 concern when you first start off -- you won't qualify for most of the tournaments when you first 
 start anyways, and even if you did, the competition will more than likely eat you alive.  

  Training is handled much the same as in the original Top Spin, and in the Virtua Tennis games before 
 that, turning the tennis court into the stage for a series of skill-building minigames. Sometimes 
 your task is as simple as hitting specific spots on the court a number of times, but more often 
 than not, you'll be hitting balls into rows of giant dominoes, bowling balls, gigantic tennis balls, 
 and towering walls made out of translucent bricks. The variety of training games you'll encounter 
 over the course of your career has increased since the first Top Spin, and it's a change that helps 
 make the career mode here much more compelling -- while training has been a little tedious in the 
 past, the variety and the novelty of the minigames here makes training something to look forward 
 to. Successfully completing a training event nets you stars that you can apply to up to three of 
 the eleven different attributes, techniques, and skills that define your player's performance. 
     

   

  But training events cost money. Eventually you'll run out of money, and the only way to get back 
 into the black is to participate in and win tournaments. You'll start off competing in minor regional 
 tournaments, which are often held in extremely inauspicious locales such as community centers or 
 outdoor public courts, and go all the way up to centre court at Wimbledon. Aside from the distraction 
 of stands filled with thousands of tennis fans watching you during a grand slam event, there are 
 other, more tangible performance differences depending on the court you're playing on. The grass 
 courts at Wimbledon beget a slower, more methodical pace, while red clay courts, like those found 
 at the Paris Open, move much faster, and also cause players to slide around on the surface. There 
 are subtle atmospheric differences between the courts too, such as the casual poolside chatter 
 you'll hear when playing at a Mediterranean resort, the international announcers you'll hear at 
 different venues, the way tennis shoes will squeak across a hardwood floor, or the way a player's 
 grunt will echo in a large stadium -- it's too bad that there just isn't a greater variety of grunt 
 sounds. Additionally, no matter where you go, you'll be treated to the same generic rock and hip-hop 
 Muzak, over and over again.  

          Unfortunate camera angles aside, Top Spin 2 is a solid-looking game.     

  Top Spin 
 2 doesn't do a lot of technical grandstanding, but there is a consistent competence to the presentation, 
 which really comes alive when shown in HD. For all the nice depth-of-field effects, self-shadowing, 
 and minor ambient details that the game is peppered with, there are flaws that stick out, such 
 as the odd sense of detachment between the players' feet and the court itself. The most egregious 
 problem with the presentation also happens to be one of the most basic. When you're playing solo, 
 rather than being able to keep your player on the side of the court closest to the camera, you'll 
 regularly find yourself on the far side of the court, which presents some frustrating perspective 
 issues. Your only option is to switch to the zoom camera, which is lower and closer to the player. 
 It can take some getting used to, but it's definitely preferable to playing on the back side of 
 the court.  

  Winning or even placing well in a tournament will increase your rank, which will in turn open up 
 bigger and better tournaments to you and will also garner you invites to special events. Before 
 you know it, you'll be playing for your country in special international events, getting invitations 
 to play in private matches for the amusement of wealthy bon vivants, putting on exhibition matches 
 for your incredibly grateful sponsors, and trading barbs with rival players.  

  The career mode goes on for years and years, and if you chose to play every last match yourself, 
 it could take that long to finish it. Taking a cue from the lengthy career/dynasty/franchise modes 
 found in nearly any other serious professional-sport game, Top Spin 2 will regularly let you simulate 
 your matches, and it does it on a surprisingly granular level. You can choose to simulate an entire 
 tournament, all the way down to a single game. So, if you only want to step onto the court when 
 it looks like you might lose otherwise, Top Spin 2 makes it possible.  

  If you'd rather not invest yourself into the career mode, or you'd rather play against someone 
 with a pulse, Top Spin 2 has several options for you. Exhibition matches are available from the 
 main menu, and you can choose both your player and your opponent from dozens of today's hottest 
 tennis stars, including current top-ranked players like Roger Federer, Andy Roddick, Maria Sharapova, 
 and Lindsay Davenport. You can also build your own custom tournament, which lets you choose the 
 number of both real and AI players involved, the venue, and the name of the event.  

          Online performance is great, but online options are slim.     

  Both the exhibition 
 and tournament modes allow for multiplayer action, though Top Spin 2 also features some multiplayer-only 
 modes. The party games are somewhat similar to the training minigames, in that they put a wild 
 spin on conventional tennis. Time bomb sees you trying to score points to slow down your own countdown 
 clock, wall breaker challenges you to knock down your opponent's wall of boxes while protecting 
 your own, and splash court covers portions of the court in paint whenever a point is scored. Additionally, 
 Top Spin 2 includes Xbox Live support for up to four players, though the match options are pretty 
 bland and include only the most basic match types. Additionally, you can only play online ranked 
 matches with a custom tennis pro, which means you'll have to spend a lot of time in the career 
 mode if you intend to compete seriously online. The online play in Top Spin 2 could and should 
 have been much more fleshed out, and the game's surprisingly silky performance just made us wish 
 that there were more online options to explore.  

  On top of being a fun, well-crafted game of tennis, Top Spin 2 is being sold at a price lower than 
 your average Xbox 360 game, making it all the more attractive. Top Spin 2 definitely has its flaws, 
 the majority of which are so head-shakingly clear-cut it's hard to understand how they made it 
 into a product that otherwise shows such polish. If you haven't cared for tennis games in the past, 
 Top Spin 2 won't change your mind, but if you enjoy the genre, you'll be hard pressed to find much 
 better.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (128 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Black-Magic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This could be a great tennis game. I couldn't play it long enough to find out. It could have a 
 great career mode with perfect tennis mechanics, but I will never know. The career mode and character 
 creation are very extensive. This much I know. I began with career mode where I made my new pro-player 
 and began training learning basic skills with drills that lasted anywhere from 30 seconds to several 
 minutes; however, I lost patience when there was at least a 20 second load time between every practice 
 session. This doesn't seem very long but when you need 20 or 30 practice sessions before you can 
 play a tournament. I spent half my play time on the loading screen. They must have realized this 
 was a problem because the included a interactive map of all the tournament venues where you can 
 scan the globe and read about them. This, however, is the only loading screen and I quickly read 
 through all of them in my first 20 minutes of play time. Don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is a balanced tennis game from 2K Sports. 
  
  It takes a little getting used to, but once you know how to play, its very fun: you can customize 
 your tennis player, choose what he wears, and destroy rookies, slowly climbing up the tennis hierarchy.
 
  
  So, in a sense, you become the virtual tennis champion of your dreams.
  
  That is, until the game progresses.
  
  As you move up the ranks, your opponents transform from 
 casual rookies to android-superhumans that cannot be beaten. The frustration is overwhelming.
 
  
  However, when you do manage to best these superhumans, the feeling is great.
  
  Graphics - 9 / 10 
  (The animations are great and the scenery beautiful)
  
  Sound - 6 / 10 
 
  (The songs -- although catchy -- are repetitive and begin to annoy you. However, this is made up for 
 by great sound effects.) 
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  (It plays almost like real tennis. I sometimes caught myself breaking a sweat slamming down the 
 buttons) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PotHeel
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 really tries my nerves. I read the large base of positive reviews and found the game 
 at a bargain price a my local GameStation. I then read the manual, was thoroughly confused, so 
 then decided to jump in to see what it was like.
  
  I created a player, female, fairly good-looking albeit she resembled the Avatar of Fate more than 
 an average human female (those eyes *brrr*) . I took the fairly standard tuition type first few 
 training sessions and then started on a match. I tried all the different shots that I'd been taught, 
 and the end result was a confusing array of wildly inaccurate, haphazard thwacks that lost me a 
 set. Fairly bummed by this I simulated the rest of the match, I lost.
  
  After this I decided that what I should do was properly level my character, so I did, increased 
 my seed and then tried another contest. I lost. This is the tale of my experience with Top Spin 
 2: loss, loss and more loss. I'm not incompetant, I'm not crap, but the game seems to have an in-built 
 ability adjuster a-la-Oblivion, so that all players are ranked to your ability. Every match is 
 a slog. I'm of Generation X, I like my games easy and my rewards big, and in this sense the game 
 delivers absolute bugger all.
  
  So if you are a sado-masochistic nobody with nothing better to do, buy Top Spin 2 and enjoy hours 
 of failure and loss. If you are like me, then stick to Pro Evo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefanx12
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 24 Playable Pro Characters, Great Graphics, Easy to learn hard to master, extensive career, 
 Xbox LIVE enabled, Good Multiplayer, variety of world-wide venues, many different shots to learn 
 
  
  Cons: Horrible and slow character creation, annoying unrealistic aspects, barely any choices for 
 hairstyles, career is a little confusing at first.
  
  Many People say "You've played one game in a series you've played 'em all" (Or at least alota people 
 I know say that) Well with TopSpin2 for the Xbox 360, that's most definatly not the case. In Topspin2 
 There are a decent amount of game modes to play including career, Party games and more! There are 
 24 licensed pro characters to play with, 12 men and 12 women, each with their own unique playing 
 style and strengths. In career mode, well lets face it, it's the same as career mode in any tennis 
 game, you play in tournaments and you train, though the career is very interesting and extensive, 
 it could be confusing for first time players in the beginning before you get the hang of it. My 
 main complaint (as well as that of my cousin and my dad and some friends) is the character creation, 
 you have limited choices for hair styles, hair color, surving style, as well as some other things, 
 and as if that weren't bad enough, its near impossible to make a non-ugly or non-scary character, 
 I havn't seen a decent looking character yet, player made or in game characters. Plus who the hell 
 wants their character to have skin stains!? I mean really, who's bright idea was that? Another 
 thing about TopSpin2, if you've ever played Othello you've heard the term "A Minute to Learn, a 
 Lifetime to master" Well that definatly also applys for this game, its extreemly simple to learn, 
 but mastering complex shots and strategys takes much longer, keeping you wanting to play months 
 after beating the career mode. On top of that the multiplayer is a blast, you can play with up 
 to four people in a competitve game or 2 people can play more goofy, abstract party games. One 
 annoying thing about the gameplay is, a volley could be goin fine and then out of nowhere, you 
 do nothing different than you've been doing the whole match and the ball hits the net for no reason 
 whatsoever giving your opponent a free point! Not only is this annoying but its majorly unrealistic, 
 in real life tennis when the ball hits the net, its because the player hit the ball diffrently 
 or did something wrong, this is not the case in TopSpin2, it's totally at random. I have lost many 
 a tournament in this way and I have looked at every possible angle to jutsify this and to find 
 a reason for it happening but came up with nothing other than its random, which just isn't right. 
 This last point may not matter much to most people but I personally like it, there are venues from 
 a lot of countrys and in the beginning of the match the announcer speaks in the language native 
 to that country. Such as in Tokyo they speak Japanese at the begging of the match which I find 
 pretty cool and in France they speak french. Like I said that may not matter to most people but 
 it just adds something to the game. All In all, TopSpin2 for the 360 is a fun game and definatly 
 worth getting, for fans of the genre and not. Well Cya Later.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great. The reactions are great. The courts are great. The sound is great. Blah, 
 blah, blah... You know the difference between fun shooters like Mercenaries and the all-too realistic 
 ones like Ghost Recon? This is the tennis version of Ghost Recon for realism.
  
  Like Top Spin Tennis for the X-Box, it starts off well, but gets too hard too fast. There isn't 
 a difficulty selection bar, at least not one I could find, so you just go. You have to train to 
 be able to compete. The training challenges are better than in the X-Box version. There are a lot 
 of different games like knocking down dominoes, pushing a jumbo tennis ball where you want it to 
 go, knocking down boxes, an odd sort of bowling... all done by whacking the tennis ball where you 
 want it to go. Each exercise gives so many stars to put to your choice of attributes that relate 
 to the game.
  
  The problem is, every time you get better, you play opponents that are better than you. You start 
 with no stars. The first opponents have 10-20. You get 10-20 and your opponents have 30-40. You 
 get almost all of your bronze stars, and every opponent already has almost all silver stars, and 
 so forth. So each time you play, you're going to play someone better than you. How about someone 
 with even stats, but a different style of play? On top of always playing someone better, the sets 
 are just too long. Then when you combine three sets for a tournament that you'll probably lose 
 anyway... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilclown123
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game Decent Graphics and all but it can get it bit boring.
  In career mode you get 60 stars to upgrade your character witch is no where near enough. I like 
 the training sessions but on the higher lvls it can be Extremly hard to get the maximum amout of 
 stars.
  
  When your in a match every shoot thats not a safe shoot can be hard to use to the maximum potencial 
 because when u try and angle a for example a 
  'Top Spin shoot' it is rare that it will stay in the court most of the time it will just go out.
 
  
  The Lob shoot can be very good and helpful but is almost impossible to score against a computer 
 player. No matter how close to the net it is. 
  
  
  (And the game is a little slow)
  
  In top spin 3 i would like to see a more detail in the stats and wat they do to
  Like in 
 the book it groups them and say wat that set of stats do but it needs to give more detail on what 
 each of the stats do.
  
  But apart from all of that it is a decent game worth getting
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  I finished Top Spin 1 and enjoyed it alot so that's why I bought this game. After I started playing 
 Career mode in this I was sick of it in about 2 weeks. Sure the sound is good and the visuals are 
 fantastic; but all you do in campaign is just play game after game after game until you get sick 
 of it. I know it sounds like this is something you should expect from a tennis game but there was 
 something about Top Spin 1 that made you want to just pick up the controller and keep playing.
 
  
  There are also some big changes in Top Spin 2. Such as the close up view that all Top Spin 1 players 
 would remember has been taken off and replaced with a full court view and the close up view in 
 this is absolutely nothing like that in Top Spin 1. The Major slams such as the Australian and 
 American Open are also much different because it is an extremely long knockout process that will 
 take you a good 6 hours to finish. There are too many problems too list here so I will just cut 
 to the point. Top Spin 2 is a waste of money and will never be as good Top Spin 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot_Managy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  People playing Virtua Tennis have to really adjust to this game! I liked in this game the great 
 character detail. It was fabulous animation and made it look like the real tennis players themselves. 
 One of the cons though, was that it was harder to get the ball, cause it was more like a real-live 
 tennis match. The players sometimes hit really hard shots that really do make you frustrating. 
 It was also hard getting the ball just right. Most of the time when I press the B and X buttons 
 on my 360, it just goes out. That's kind of a pointless feature becuase we can't aim it. In that 
 it's all of luck. Good game overall though. The characters really got emotional, and career mode 
 was cool. Good game, needs little improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samherrett
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 promises very good tennis gameplay.
  Even on easy this fails to impress,
  Even being one of the best on the game running to hit the ball back is horrid, the player will 
 run slow and when trying to hit will miss.
  The graphics are ok but laggy and slow.
  For players who want to lay back relax and play I would say do not get this game and get virtua 
 tennis 3.
  2K Sports made an effort at this game but not a good enough effort.
  I will not be buying top spin 3,
  But for all means if you was a fan of top spin please get this.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bat0009
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  id say this game is actually quite disappointing, slow, and, i mean, wen u look at wat top spin 
 1 did, this game shoodve been a lot bettr. and it is. as i sed the only really bad tthing bout 
 it is that its slow wen u move ur player around, wich causes frustration and annoyance, but u still 
 can perform the awesome shot here and there. im no freek at this game, but were it comes in with 
 its goodness is that it rewards u 4 hard work. the best games do that with ease, and this games 
 problem is that it needs 2 get u 2 1st base 1st. apart from that, a well constructed game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 published by 2K is a tennis game which features many of today's top tennis professionals.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  At its core tennis is a slow paced game, and it can be hard for non tennis fans to play tennis 
 video games because of this. Therefore, if you have any interest in tennis or want to know more 
 about the sport this game is for you. The controls for the game are simple, simple to the point 
 where almost anybody can pick up and play. I found myself perfect with the controls even after 
 not playing for a month. Easy controls are a plus in my book because it introduces gaming to non-gamers, 
 but I like tough games and controls. Different shots are mapped to the face buttons: Y is a lob, 
 B is topspin, X is a slice, and A is a safe shot. The Left and right triggers can be pulled to 
 perform risk or specials shots, and for the most part they are challenging and rewarding when one 
 is successfully pulled off. Serving also uses the same buttons. 
  
  The on the court action is a perfect representation of the game of tennis. Any tennis fan and gamer 
 would love this game. Personally it is the best tennis game on the market, but I have yet to play 
 virtua tennis. The game features a number of pro tennis players including Sharapova, Roddick, Federer, 
 and Henman. The modes in the game are exhibition, career, and xbox live play. The exhibition mode 
 is where you can customize match settings and play against the computer or friends. The meat of 
 the game is the career mode. You start off by creating a player using a good player creation system, 
 and you also get to dress your character. Before you start playing you also need to sign a sponsor. 
 The career consists of 5 years of play, and each year covers many months of the season. Each week 
 you have three options. You can train your player, play in a tournament, or play in a special event. 
 When you start out your career the only options are to train your player. The training system is 
 terrific. You can choose what skills to work on and you play fun minigames to build up those skills. 
 Your skill progression is based on stars, and you can get bronze, silver, and gold stars. After 
 a few weeks of training you will be able to participate in minor tournaments. There are four types 
 of tournaments: minors, majors, masters, and slams. You have to progress your ranking from minor 
 tournaments in order to compete in the other tournaments. The career progression is fun and very 
 rewarding as you can easily see how much your player has developed. By winning tournaments you 
 increase your rank, win cash, and strive towards the goal of becoming the number one player. It 
 took me a little over 28 hours to progress through the career. Xbox live is ok, but not many people 
 are playing because this is an older game. A lot of the people playing are highly skilled and the 
 average player would get crushed. There is enough game here where you don't have to play online 
 at all.
  
  Some complaints I have about the gameplay are that the game is too easy, and it can get extremely 
 boring. The game only has one difficulty in the career mode and I found it very easy. Near the 
 end of the career I was pounding even the best players and sometimes not even allowing them to 
 score one point. The game can also get extremely boring as I feel the career mode can drag on at 
 some points and the competition is weak. This really brings the game down for me. I am a tennis 
 fan (I follow the big tournaments) yet I still found it overly boring. I can take it for what it 
 is because tennis is generally boring.
  
  Gameplay: 6 out of 10
  
  Graphics
  Simply put the graphics are stunning. I couldn't believe how this game looked in HD and it is still 
 pretty good in SD. The environments and colors are so vibrant; it is simply amazing to look at. 
 Granted there isn't much going on but it is still an accomplishment. From what I played there really 
 weren't any issues with clipping or collision detection. The player animations are very smooth 
 and it really looks like you are watching a tennis game. This game is worth checking out just for 
 the graphics.
  
  Graphics: 9 out of 10
  
  Presentation
  The presentation is great in this game. This is mainly due to the fact that it is very authentic. 
 The only voice you hear is the PA announcer calling out the score during the match. There are no 
 commentators at all which is a good thing. The in game menus are also good, and the career is presented 
 very well.
  
  Presentation: 8 out of 10
  
  Sound
  The sound in the game is good. There isn't much going on besides sound effects on the court and 
 from the PA. 
  
  Sound: 7 out of 10
  
  Lasting Appeal/Value
  Because of the long career mode there is a lot of value to this game. Also the game now comes free 
 with some 360's. The only thing which might shorten the value and did for me was the boringness 
 of the game. I would recommend picking this game up if you can afford to spend 25$ for. I got mine 
 free with my 360.
  
  LA/Value: 7 out of 10
  
  Overall: 7.6 out of 10: rounded to 7.5 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana_Dei
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game actually got me back into playing tennis on weekends. Sounds lame, i know. 
 But it'll keep me entertained on those rare rainy weekends in Vegas. Also, it's fun to do a round 
 robin with your family, while passing around the controllers. The graphics are good and the stadiums 
 are well detailed. The strategy is solely in how you build up your player. Because depending on 
 how you build your player, you will kick the computers butt at the hardest level, but when you 
 are competing online, it is always a different story, especially when you can't understand why 
 you are constantly losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathStar17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll keep this short, there seems to be little need for me to elaborate on things that you 
 probably already know. The heart of the game is found in career mode, which offers you a good deal 
 of things you can do. Or more like attempt to do. At first your character will be absolutely horrible 
 and you have to go through countless drills to make your character better. These drills are alright, 
 but often more frustrating than fun. Then you can start participating and tournaments and watch 
 yourself get mostly destroyed. You will slowly improve and then your career will end. With regard 
 to the actual matches, they can be quite enjoyable. Except for the developers seem to have lost 
 their focus from time to time. The single biggest mistake in the game, is that there is no option 
 to keep the camera behind your player at all times. How the developers made a mistake of this magnitude 
 amazes me. Besides that, the matches play fairly well, until you notice how much more momentum 
 the computer gains than you do and how unresponsive the controls can be from time to time. The 
 online play is decent, if you can find someone to play with.
  On the plus side, the graphics are pretty good, the game is cheap ($20) , and has some easy achievement 
 points (if you are into that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Did you play the original Top Spin? If you did then you will feel right at home with Top Spin 2. 
 Want to know why you will feel right at home? You will feel right at home because there is absolutely 
 nothing different between the two games except for the graphics are a lot better. The single player 
 game is practically the same (there is more emphasis on character building this time around though) 
 as are the controls. I think that there are more pros in this game than there were in the original, 
 but like the first one this game is all about building a tennis pro to play with a rise through 
 the ranks. Graphically Top Spin2 does look very very good. I normally would not have a problem 
 with a sequel being close to the same as the original, but Top Spin 2 really has no change at all. 
 I played the original Top Spin to death so I got sick of this game pretty fast. If you havent played 
 the first one than pick this one up though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The player can work their way up through the amateur ranks to the pros in tournaments all over 
 the world. They can do this by using the various licensed players, or by creating a unique character 
 with looks, playing styles and personalities all their own. The game can be played via the internet 
 with XSN Sports and Xbox Live for online match-ups. Over the span of five seasons, Top Spin 2 lets 
 you guide your player through training, minor tournaments, sponsored tournaments, and perhaps to 
 victory in all four Grand Slam events. With Digital Identity, players can create realistic player 
 models and customize them with the highest level of details. Hairstyles, shirts, shorts, shoes, 
 etc. allow you to create a player with your look and your style.
  
  Quick Match
  
  This mode contains the basic features that let the player get into a match as quickly as possible. 
 The characters can be selected from the professional players available, or by importing custom 
 characters from the career mode option. A match can be held on the various available courts, ranging 
 from Grand Slam venues to practice facilities.
  
  Career Mode
  
  The career mode in Top Spin 2 begins with a very complete create-a-player interface which begins 
 with, DNA type. There are many strands to choose from with each containing a different skin color 
 and unique player traits. Create a character continues with many face and body modeling options 
 and apparel choices, making it easy to create a striking likeness of the person playing. The career 
 mode begins with an option to choose a continent that has various opportunities for a player to 
 better their rank by training and tournaments. A player must also make coin (money) in order 
 to pay for training which increases attributes such as power, serve, forehand, backhand, and volley. 
 Coin is earned by being sponsored by one of the corporate tennis apparel icons by performing commercials 
 and other public relations duties for them which are completed by scoring well in various stroke 
 or serve exercises. Tournaments come in various types across the globe, from simple pro to major 
 Grand Slam events. Winning tournaments increases your world ranking, with more difficult tournaments 
 taking much more precedence. Being number one in the career mode and keeping that status is a long 
 and extremely difficult task which adds to the longevity of game play.
  
  Interestingly, this mode features a rival for your created player, a person who shares the same 
 nationality as yours. Throughout your career, the rival will send you messages deploring you, challenging 
 you and discrediting your achievements.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The Optimatch feature, while part of every Xbox Live sports title, works well in Top Spin allowing 
 the user to be very specific about the match that will be played including surface type, venue 
 and how stiff or flaccid the competition will be.
  
  Custom tournaments
  
  This mode is for players who enjoy the increased difficulty of tournament play without going through 
 the career mode. This mode is generic, but is configurable in any way possible. Top Spin also allows 
 users to load their career player into the tournament mode and other game modes as well. Custom 
 tournaments also make a good practice site for those wanting to improve their skills before tackling 
 the career mode.
  
  Players
  
  There are 25 players available in all:
  
  Men * Roger Federer * Andy Roddick * Lleyton Hewitt * Guillermo Coria * Tim Henman * Carlos Moya 
 * Tommy Haas * Max Mirnyi * James Blake * Brendan Evans * Alex Kuznetsov * S&eacute; bastien Grosjean 
 * Sydquan Harris Women * Lindsay Davenport * Maria Sharapova * Am&eacute; lie Mauresmo * Venus Williams 
 * Anastasia Myskina * Alicia Molik * Svetlana Kuznetsova * Elena Dementieva * Ai Sugiyama * Angela 
 Haynes * Jamea Jackson * Corina Morariu
  
  Controls
  
  Gameplay has a shallow learning curve, intelligent control configuration, and realistic reaction 
 to user input. The various swings include: flat, top spin, slice, and lob, with swing velocity 
 increasing with each moment the buttons are depressed. Everything from jumping and stretching to 
 full horizontal diving is appropriately selected by the game engine. Serves are executed in similar 
 fashion, but with the addition of an on-screen power meter started and stopped with either the 
 top spin, flat, or slice button. The triggers buttons place you into a risk mode with the outcome 
 of the shot being determined by how close a frantically moving bar is to the center of the meter. 
 A quick tap of the right trigger starts the bar moving, a second tap will stop the meter and attempt 
 either a power serve or a power groundstroke. The left trigger attempts either a spoon serve looks 
 like an underhand softball pitch or a drop shot, both used to combat those who play deep behind 
 the baseline. Another component to the risk mode is the ITZ In-the-Zone meter which builds up 
 as momentum is gained with won points, making future risk shots easier to hit. The player can also 
 express their characters emotion after a point through an array of cut scenes options. These cut-scene 
 reactions range from fist pumping to racket throwing.
  
  Graphics and audio
  
  The graphic interface creates a great amount of depth and is well rendered. Objects, people, and 
 locations are accurately detailed, such as the snowfall outside a window of an indoor arena. Motion 
 effects on the ball depending on the strength or weakness of the shot are also very impressive, 
 as players watch vapor trails and blur effects appear, or pitch a lob and see a yellow stream map 
 out its trajectory. The renderings of the characters are solid giving the game a very realistic 
 feel when working with the motion captures. Whether a player bounces the ball before the serve, 
 dives for a shot, or jumps up for a volley- it all looks as it should without anything appearing 
 out of place. Pro players look extremely realistic down to the player's exact hair style and facial 
 features. Graphics in the career mode scenes and trophy ceremonies help make Top Spin the leader 
 of sports tennis games genre.
  
  The soundtrack incorporates sounds which appear fit for a high energy tennis match. From sneaker 
 squeaks and racket snaps to player grunts, the sound effects are accurate and add great realism 
 to game play. Crowd noises are complete with cheers and jeers, down to fans even yelling out we 
 love you. Announcer commentary also adds realism to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 could have been so much better the game play is top notch and the graphics are excellent 
 and the players are realistic but the season is terrible thats the only let down and the fact that 
 so many pro's are missing from the game but it is a good tennis experience. Training can be fun 
 especially when your knocking down huge bowling pins and knocking large tennis balls of the court. 
 There is a variety of shots like drop shot, lob and top spin this makes the game very realistic. 
 I do think the season could have been better the fact that it is almost impossible to compete with 
 other pro's makes it a big let down. All in all i think Top Spin is a good tennis experience and 
 if you manage to conquer career mode then your a pro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Now I have to admit that I do not like to play or watch tennis. In fact I would rather watch a 
 lot of other things. That being said this game rocks. I played the first one a while ago and I 
 was addicted. The sequel did not let me down at all. You have the normal career mode where you 
 create your own player and progress from a nobody to a pro. What makes this mode different is that 
 you hire coaches to help you progress your skills. You can hire different coaches to help you along, 
 each coach can help advance a part of your game and as you get more money you can hire different 
 coaches. The best thing about it is this time it is more challenging. In the first Top Spin I felt 
 it was way to easy to beat the career mode. Overall this game is very entertaining and for the 
 low price of $20 it's hard to go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braydee1234
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Having had the game for only a short period I can already tell the game certainly isn't going to 
 have the longevity of a first person shooter. Having said that, I don't think many sports games 
 have that kind of replay factor. As a big football, rugby and tennis fan I can say Top spin 2 is 
 an impressive title with solid graphics, nice physics which is definately shown by the players 
 sliding on clay courts etc. The career mode is enjoyable, with fun training sessions and good AI 
 with competition levels changing as you progress through your career. Nice little touches like 
 rivalries and fan clubs are different and add a little something to the game.
  Party games are a bit of fun and definately different and make for a little bit of extra replay. 
 Having not played the online portion of the game I may be losing out on some of the extra replay, 
 but with games like Halo and Gears of War dominating the online sector I feel I'm probably well 
 placed to make a judgement.
  All in all, Top spin 2 is a very good tennis sim. A good career mode, nice graphics and reasonable 
 replay factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosss4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Recently I've been on the lookout for games that are different to the norm.
  Bogged down with Soccer, Racing and first person shooters I took a chance on Top Spin 2. Its great 
 loads of features including a career mode which has had me hooked since I bought it.
  I've never had any interest in Tennis but Top Spin 2 has the knack of reproducing the game brilliantly 
 with great atmosphere.
  The tension is great with epic battles against all manor of major opponents slogging it out 40/40 
 then adv then back to 40/40.
  When you pull of a tight win right at the end of a major you jump for joy like it really meant 
 something. It really takes you along as you get involved with the game play my advice is don't 
 be put off with the lack of testosterone and gun slinging just because its a tennis game. The only 
 down side is the music its a bit plain in the menu's but thats not really important to me as the 
 gameplay makes up ten fold for this feature.
  A hint of the days of PONG when games were all about game play on not graphics and glamor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eweinkam
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The original Top Spin did a good job of providing good graphics, solid gameplay, smooth animation, 
 and realistic physics. These things are also present in Top Spin 2, and slightly improved.
  
  They have improved the controls for risk shots and created some button combinations that didn't 
 exist before. These things along with more realistic AI movement, make the matches even closer 
 to real tennis. Strategies that you might use to try to manufacture an opportunity for a winner 
 in real life, are also effective in this game. There are also plenty of opportunities to make errors 
 or hit shots that set up your opponent for an easy winner.
  
  Virtua Tennis seems very arcade-like and elementary when compared to Top Spin 2.
  
  The best 
 part of this game is the career mode, which does an amazing job of following the pro Tennis circuit. 
 To be successful, you need to develop your arsenal of shots, and learn when to best employ them 
 in matches.
  
  I can also see how the career mode, and the more technical approach to the gameplay could turn-off 
 people who prefer a more arcade like experience, but anyone who actually plays a lot of Tennis, 
 will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I haven`t played any of the current tennis games out there, only this (and top spin 1) , so i can`t 
 be reasonably, nor justly comparative, so this review will focus on the top spin 2 vs top spin 
 1. If you are looking for a reason to be convinced about whether to play or buy this game or not, 
 this will be for you, if not, a review with a more broader, or general comparing view of tennis 
 games is perhaps out there, i would keep looking:)
  
  Anyways, this game is very similar to its predecessor in all aspects, i believe it not to be very 
 far from the truth by stating that its more of an extensive add-on, where there are (as far as i 
 can remember) better overall sounds, and graphics, which is is to be expected, be where it more 
 significantly differs, is the amount of variety of pitches, tournaments, trainers, skill distribution, 
 story... (!?) . Where it most differs is the customizing of your created player. In the first, is 
 was very good, whilst in this, you will most likely have your dude or dudette look like a mentally 
 challenged monkey, where you can actually, (and must) choose how many (as i have dubbed them) ugly 
 spots on the face. And you can`t even know how tall the player will be as there are now way of 
 telling. Another thing is that all the clothes are just plain, i mean really plain. Of course tennis 
 is not about the best dresser, nor is it focusing on narcissism... (hmm) , but all you can do is 
 mostly just change the color of your shorts, the same goes for the hair styles for that matter
 
  
  The gameplay is actually better then the first, that means its awesome; as there are a lot more 
 skills to train, and therefore more strategic. You can also hire trainers with different focuses, 
 so you can really create a completely unique player. But having trainers and spoken massages etc, 
 doesn`t actually add any more depth to the game, it only makes it more atmospheric, or personal 
 if you will. The general overview, is also of the same characteristic, as instead of being a top 
 view of the map as in the first. Here you will have a main page for events, another for sponsors, 
 massages etc.
  
  Another thing is that (you can ignore this if you haven`t played the first) the first game was 
 allot more difficult, and the transition will be plagued by you totally laying waste to your opponents, 
 but in the long runs perhaps this is better, especially for beginners
  
  I know this looks like i am ripping on the game, but that is not my sole intention, because this 
 game is totally cool. I would recommend top spin 1, if you are wondering, but you will not regret 
 this playing this one, as it is a top notch game.
  If you haven`t played the first, i know i havent given you a proper description of the game in 
 full, but i don`t really need to. If you like tennis games, or any game for that matter, you will 
 not be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ringworm32
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  This game has no revolutionary features, but it gives you a good, solid tennis experience that 
 is just plain fun. However, it has some new features like mini-games, party mode, and career mode. 
 It is also a blast playing online with your buddies!
  
  Thee graphics are good and sharp, just what you want on an xbox 360. The gamplay is good, with 
 you being able to select from a variety of shots. It is very simple to learn, and before you know 
 it you'll be winning matches and tournaments.
  
  If you want a game that will give you many hours of fun, then grab this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamtale666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Now as mentioned i really hate tennis such a boring annoying sport, backwards n forwards, backwards 
 n forwards... yer you get the idea but one day whilst browsing xbox live marketplace i found this 
 demo, played it and completely fell in love with this nifty little game, the career mode is fantastic 
 and will have you going for ages ith plenty of matches (since you will probly get you ass kicked 
 like no-ones business until you get your stats up) the player creation is one of the most in-depth 
 ive seen in any game and theres some nice little downloads available free of charge from xbox live.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - Playing virtua tennis 3 and then playing this... theres no comparison this feels 
 realistic and somewhat pleasing everytime you score a point, plenty of little strokes to play and 
 lots of nifty tricks to master to cream your opponent, problem being it may be a little hard to 
 start with when your character stats are low.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Beautiful, really really beautiful, players look like who theyre supposed to be 
 and as mentioned before the player creation is fantastic.
  
  Sound 8/10 - Well it... erm.... well.... it sounds like a tennis game.... a few cheers here n there 
 the odd UGH! added in to the mix and a constant ping, pong, ping, pong 
  
  Value 9/10 - There really is a shed load of things to do on this, especially given its low price 
 tag you can beat your best mate senseless in a singles or doubles match, take on the challenge 
 of a HUGE career mode, play some amusing mini-games or simply pop online and see how much better 
 everybody is compared to you.
  
  Tilt 9/10 - As said before i hate tennis, and for me to buy this game it must really be something, 
 its a nice game to pick up and play, or equally its a good game if you looking for a long lasting 
 experience.
  
  To summarise this is probably one of the best sports games on the xbox 360, it looks beautiful, 
 it feels beautiful, and it offers a challenge to all level of gamers and online mode to makes this 
 game that much better, whether you love tennis or loathe it, its a must buy, at the very least 
 its worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFireboltMan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge FPS fan. I would usually skip a sports game. Not this one.
  
  Gameplay: Nothing short of amazing. Long 'campaign', its incredibly fun. There are a bunch of different 
 shots you can use, more attributes than from the first TopSpin. The trainings actually fun. Its 
 not just, hit a ball at a target, there are a bunch of things you can do. Theres even get a strike 
 with a huge bowling ball for training.
  
  Going on to multi-player, its just as fun. If you are good at the game, Xbox Live is never ending.
 
  
  Graphics and sound: completley redone. Sounds awesome (except grunts) and looks nothing short of 
 fabulous.
  
  Its $20! tis the best 20 dollar game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I know its tennis, but winning a tournament is not all that satisfying, apart from a little scene 
 of your character holding a trophy, there is no real sense of acheivment. Unlike other sports games 
 where you can unlock items, and courses, Top Spin offers nothing of an insentive to get out there 
 an win.
  
  Having said that the actual gameplay intself is good, the controls are responsive, the characters 
 move realy well, and range of shots has been done well, but something is missing. The characters 
 look good, but apart from different clothes or hair seem to all be the same.
  
  I love watching tennis and realy wanted to enjoy this, but the FUN factor just wasnt there for 
 me. The detail to the tennis itself is great, if you dont know anything about the game you will 
 struggle because it is a very technnical game. Without knowing what each type of shot does you 
 will be stuck at number #100 for ever. The tennis side of it is great, but more fun please guys. 
 If I REALY wnated to win Wimbledon I wouldnt be sitting on my couch with a beer in my hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeob1106
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  From Maria Sharapova to Roger Federer this game includes many professional tennis players most 
 folks hear about. In the career mode you start by choosing the gender of your player then go through 
 an elaborate physical build of what you want your player to look like. With a lot of mini-games 
 to increase your stats the game play stays fairly fresh. One thing I didn't like was the risk shot 
 meter. If you're playing a tight match against Serena Williams you don't have time to hold down 
 the right trigger, aim your shot and get the quickly scrolling power bar in the sweet spot. This 
 could be mastered for someone with the time but I think it's asking a bit much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trystkl1826
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  First thing that sticks out for me is the limited amount of stars you can have via training. If 
 I have the coin, I should be able to attain more attributes as long as I need to. Next is the limited 
 amount of clothing that you can purchase from the sponsoring companies. I think that's a bummer 
 because the clothing is a part of the career aspect that can offer a little break from the tournament 
 monotony. It could give the game more of a flare. Maybe I'm just into clothes and want to look 
 good every time I am on the court. I think the clothes aspect was just half assed.
  All in all what to say, it's tennis. The game is close enough to the real deal to keep you interested... if 
 you like tennis. There have been plenty of nights where I've fallen asleep with the control in 
 my hand. Yes the game is grinding but enjoyable. I'm glad to have it in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I bought it because it became a classic a few weeks ago.
  Goods, Nice gameplay, trainings are fun, lots of sponsers and coaches, good player creating.
 
  
  Bad, takes to long to get to numbr one, much things not explaned, always the same sounds.
  
 
  (somebody knows how to end a career?) Its really nice because you can play save or risk and that 
 makes it really interesting, but ther is always one bad player that you defeat really easely in 
 a common tournament, but in a private match really hard.
  
  Players look good and really seem to be in the game, but they are cheering just as hard if they 
 win a little match, as they do as they win us open.
  
  Audience always chears, a little fake, and they do 2 thing, stand op and cheer or just clap. and 
 they always stop together, thats a little fake,
  
  I thing they could have take a little more powerful engine to make the audience nicer and more 
 stadiums more detailed.
  
  Overall a nice game for 15/20, maybe more hours.
  now its in the US 20dollar and in europe 30/35euro its absolutly worth a (risk) shot.
  
  Max: D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clumish
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 carries on from where the original Xbox game ended. Basically it carries over all the 
 elements of the original which made it such a smash (if you'll excuse the pun) . It sticks with 
 the same core gameplay elements - you have your four types of shot (lob, slice, top spin, and standard) , 
 plus the risk shots, which are harder to pull off but far more rewarding, and serving is simple 
 yet effective, with a surprising amount of variety to it.
  
  There are a good amount of game modes on offer too. There's the simple Exhibition mode which allows 
 you to play a match of singles or doubles against a friend or the CPU, (or on Xbox live if that 
 takes your fancy, although the slightest bit of lag can completely kill a match) with variable 
 match length, selectable courts and s o on. There are also some nice party games to choose from 
 which might not keep you entertained for long, but when played with a friend are a nice distraction 
 from the main game. However, the main bulk of this game lies in the Career mode. Here you create 
 a player, using a frighteningly deep creation system, upon which they are thrust into the life 
 of a semi-professional tennis star. You will have to balance training (to improve your attributes 
 in an RPG-style manner) with tournaments and special events, such as competing for your national 
 team. This mode has a great amount of depth thanks to the fact that you can play it over a span 
 of several game-years, meaning you'll be occupied for hours to come.
  
  In the graphics and sound department the game is solid enough - no more than you'd expect from 
 an early-360 game. Player models are smooth and animations link up seamlessly, whilst wholly convincing 
 people hustle and bustle in the background. Players grunt authentically when serving and the short 
 amount of time spent on the menu screens is filled with a typically generic rock soundtrack.
  
  Essentially, this game is more of the same. Which in this case isn't a bad thing. You don't 
 complain about the difference between a Mars Bar and a Snickers right? You just eat it and smile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say that Gamespot didn't nail. The gameplay is fun and very addictive, although it 
 seems to take for granted that you've played the first Top Spin as it doesn't give you much for 
 a tutorial. Fortunately, I beat the first one, so it wasn't too difficult to jump back onto the 
 court. I'll start with the most obvious: Graphics. It's what most people are talking about for 
 next-gen consoles, and this game must not have got the memo. Yeah, it looks kinda better than the 
 first, but I like the first better. Here, it looks like the developers got up to a certain level 
 of detail and just stopped. The courts, the backgrounds, the players . . . they all seem like those 
 DVD outtakes in a Shrek movie where they show you the stuff that didn't make the cut. But okay, 
 so the details are a little off, and so what if they offer probably the most comprehensive build-a-player 
 mechanic in gaming history even though every player I make ends up looking like something anthropologists 
 dug up in the frozen tundra -- me caveman, want hit little yellow ball, ugh. Yeah. It's that freaky. 
 A lot of people have been saying that it's gameplay they want, not all this hype about graphics 
 . . . well then, here's your game. If you can look past the decidedly off appearance of the presentation, 
 there is some very high quality tennis here. Despite how the characters looks, they move very realistically 
 and there is a genuine sense of control over your player; kind of like Fight Night... ya know... when 
 you take one to the face, it's your fault. I'm really enjoying climbing up the ranks, though I 
 don't like the coaching and schedule interface much. And as Gamespot points out, the same freaking 
 3 songs play over and over so you have to turn the music off right away or else you'll be throwing 
 things at the screen. I'm sort of going up and down in my review here, but that's how I feel about 
 it. Some days, I'm pumped and spend a few hours really getting into the game, not worrying about 
 how bland it looks, just enjoying the quality play, but other times, I'm bored out of my mind going 
 through very silly coaching methods that seems utterly useless. I like the fanmail, and email additions, 
 and the sound effects are superb, especially with surround sound. Nevertheless, this is a rental 
 first and bargain bin buy. What's really disappointing is that the first Top Spin completely changed 
 tennis for console gaming, and seemed to have the makings for a franchise like Fight Night, but 
 I guess all those that worked on the original took the money and retired to the islands, leaving 
 old code for the second stringers to work with. Too bad. Game, Set, Match . . . I think I'll go 
 play Rainbow Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMcCoy14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is arguably the best real life tennis game out their as of now. It features a wide variety 
 of shots that allows you to be creative and truly create your own various strategies. It showcases 
 many of the top tennis stars in the world and is just overall a fun game. The courts are distinct, 
 the sound effects are great. One of the cooler little tidbits I noticed is the dynamic crowd. As 
 you climb up to grand slam level and start playing in some of the better tournaments, the crowd 
 stops being just a couple passer-byes and becomes a roaring crowd that appreciates good points. 
 The only problem I had with this game was the length of the career. 5 years gets to be a lot of 
 matches to play and even though the game is pretty addicting, it fades in about the middle of the 
 third year and makes you feel as if you don't want to pick it up. Overall, 2k did a great job with 
 this game and it's definitely worth picking up if your a tennis fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmyr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Tennis is one of the few sports games I like to play, and this one is very good. It is hard without 
 being impossible. Don't let that make it seem easy though. My player has maxed out his skills and 
 sure, I can beat a lot of players hands down. But the best players take skill to beat and I have 
 had to really fight a few time for the win.
  
  The crowd noises are great. When you win a tough point the crowd cheers louder. I find it actually 
 does inspire me to try harder the next match.
  
  The only thing that irritates me is the achievement points seem to take forever to get. I mean, 
 how long is a career anyway? Plus, I don't play online and many points are for online play. Oh 
 well, I am not a point junky anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Tennis games done right are brilliant. Tennis games done badly are aweful. Top Spin 2 is a tennis 
 game done right.
  
  Like Sega's definitive Virtua Tennis series Top Spin uses the minimum on controls to the maximum 
 effect. However what Top Spin offers in addition is a variety of special shots which (used when 
 you have enough momentum in a match) can have an awesome effect. This is a really neat feature 
 which makes both single and multi-player matches great fun.
  
  On top of the awesome gamplay Top Spin 2 also boasts some breath-taking visuals in terms of both 
 pure graphics and animations. The animations for the licensed players in particular, really capture 
 the way the individual players move in real life, much like the Pro Evolution Soccer series does 
 for footballers. Of course this is also licensed by the LTA, Tennis' governing body so you get 
 all the real venues and events.
  
  All in all, this is probably the best sports game released on 360 so far and its great fun on your 
 own or in online or offline multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is the best tennis game on the market. That being said it is also one of the few tennis 
 games available and the only one on the Xbox 360 as of now. Without much competition, one might 
 assume that the game is lacking in quality and polish, but Top Spin 2 is just the opposite of that 
 and is actually a high end game with some great features.
  
  The main mode in the game is your career. You start out by creating a character using the impressive 
 character creator tool. This is very similar to the one in the Tiger Woods PGA tour golf games 
 and lets you create your player to look like anybody you want. You then hire a trainer and begin 
 your rise to the top by doing various training drills which are repetitive, but help you increase 
 your characters abilities. When you first start out you are ranked 200th on the overall rankings. 
 Through training and playing in tournaments your goal is to reach #1 in the world. After choosing 
 your characters home country you will be presented with a rival from this country. They will always 
 be from the country your player is and will race you to the top. They will occasionally challenge 
 you to a match of tennis to prove who is better, but this rarely ever happens. Something that your 
 rival does quite often is send you annoying messages every time you play in a tournament. Having 
 said all that, this feature is mostly irritating and makes me want to quit playing.
  
  However, something that keeps me playing this game is the addictive gameplay. Although the game 
 is relatively easy overall, the higher ranked players can give you quite a challenge. Finding the 
 right combination of shots to use against an opponent and getting back into place in time also 
 makes this game tough at sometimes. Shots are set up on each of the four face buttons. The X 
 button is the slice shot, the Y button is the lob shot, the B button is top spin, and finally 
 the A button is the safe shot. The safe shot is the most common shot and always hits in-bounds 
 no matter where you aim. Using these buttons along with the left and right triggers you can create 
 a vast array of shots that are useful in different situations. The online mode in this game is 
 virtually non-existent. I tried on several occasions to find a match and nobody was even online. 
 This is a real shame considering about half of the achievements are obtained through online play.
 
  
  The visuals in the game are somewhat unimpressive. This game looks like an Xbox game only with 
 better lighting affects. The courts dont look good at all and most of them look eerily similar 
 to each other. The player models on the other hand look fairly decent with the players clothes 
 moving very realistically.
  
  The sound in the game is very basic. The sounds the players make when they hit a shot with effort 
 doesnt sound good at all, and the shot sounds themselves dont sound anything like they should. 
 The music is very annoying but only plays in the menus. This can be overridden by playing a custom 
 soundtrack however.
  
  If youre looking for a good tennis game then I would suggest picking this up. Otherwise, this 
 title is simply a rent because of the repetitive nature of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Top Spin 2 to a certain degree but the game does have some shortcomings. For one, it 
 does take some good amount of time to master hitting the tennis ball like a pro. It also is very 
 time consuming to play out an entire career. The graphical presentation is very impressive. THe 
 player models look life-like, the anmiation is very smooth and the ability to create a player and 
 make him look like virtually anybody is cool. The sounds are quite good, too. Controls are easy 
 to pick up, but also very hard to master. It will take awhile for you to actually pull off certain 
 moves on a consistantly dominating basis. Overall, I think the game is great for tennis fans. For 
 casual gamers however, it might be a little too difficult and complicated to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lezdeppelin1249
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2
  ------------------------------
  
  The Good: Great detailed graphics, lots of places to play at, fun career mode, fun, lots of items 
 in career mode
  
  Bad: Some charecters look really bad (one girl looks like a guy) , gets boring after a while, ai 
 on doubles can be very stupid somtimes, not too many players to pick on franchise.
  
  What could they done better?... They could done better with make a player mode (most the time when 
 you make a player they all look the same) , load menu thing, ai skills.
  
  Its a great game, any one who likes tennis would like this game
  Buy or Rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqblackjesus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I personally am a huge tennis fan, so whenever there is a tennis game on the market it is always 
 a plus in my book. I think this game is a solid game all-around, and it is very good to play on 
 xbox live or just with your friends offline. The only major gripe I have with the game is that 
 career mode is only 5 years long, and there are no unlockables for say breaking the grand slam 
 records or anything lock that, but with that being said I hope 2k sports continues to make tennis 
 games, because this is a good solid start. I would recommend this for anybody that loves tennis 
 or that want a game outside of football to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyes
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to start playing this game once I bought for $39.99 @ EB Games. Yes the graphics 
 are prettier, but somehow they forgot to include the same gameplay from the original version. I 
 don't know but I couldn't get to some of the shots like I used to with Topspin 1. The controls 
 don't really feel that "connected" to the players either. I was really hoping this would take the 
 Topspin series to a new level but all it did was make me wish for the Virtua Tennis game for the 
 PS3 instead.
  
  Players look okay enough, but if I don't like how the controls feel, I could care less how the 
 players look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everythingj
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Topspin 2 basically has everything you need in terms of a next-gen tennis game. Let's start with 
 the career mode (which is the first thing i jumped into) is very rewarding and addiciting. First 
 off the character customization is very in depth. It's very oblivion like in that you can manipulate 
 every part of the face and body, to get someone who looks very unique.
  
  After creating your character you basically start off career mode by training each week (probably 
 for your whole first simulated year of the career) to build up your attributes (such as forehand, 
 backhanded, speed, volley, stamina etc) with bronze stars. Later on by winning matches you can 
 upgrade your bronze stars to silver and then gold stars. What's great about this feature is that 
 you can truly make a custom character in terms of skill development. If you want an amazing serve 
 and volleyer just dump all your stars into those categories. Or maybe instead you want a baseline 
 attacker, so you put everything into your forehand, backhand and power rating. Or you could settle 
 with a well balanced player and rely on using game momentum (more on that later) and well executed 
 risk shots to seal the deal for you. Basically however you like to play tennis, you can play that 
 way to win at topspin 2. As far as other modes go;
  
  There's also basica head to head modes if you want to take a friend on.
  
  A live mode for 
 you to pick a pro and play against someone online (however you can't use your career made character, 
 you'll have to stick with one of the standard pros, even though it's really not that bad watching 
 sharapova run up and down the court now is it?)
  
  career mode
  
  and tournament mode where you enter into a tournament with a pro trying to win.
  
  What makes 
 this game great is the gameplay depth when it comes to the actual tennis. Theres your standard 
 3 different types of shots you can apply to your serve and regular swing (top spin, spin, and lob) 
 as well as a purely safe swing you can use to make sure you player gets the ball over the net. 
 What gives players an edge in this game though, is mastering risk shots, which is basically a shot 
 that can use game momentum that you've built up (ie winning the past few points or game) to help 
 you unleash a devestating cross or power shot. For these it's all about timing, and depending on 
 how much you have in your focus attribute, you can have little or no leeway in terms of room for 
 error. If you time the shot wrong, it's an automatic miss. Having more focus will give you a little 
 bit more of a cushion to time these types of shots, but not much. Personally i like to forego using 
 these and rely mainly on percision and cunning to win, but i can see how someone who has mastered 
 these types of power risk shots could utterly destroy my player, unless i had some very high mastered 
 speed/reflex player (which if that were the case they wouldn't be to good at a lot of other important 
 statistics)
  
  Anyway the game is pretty much what you would expect from a tennis game. Deep career mode, immersive 
 gameplay, frustrating break points and sighs of relief when your shot lands in or the opponents 
 sails wide, giving you the victory you've worked hard for.
  
  Pros;
  lots of different shot types provide a fun and varied tennis experience, whether you are a risky 
 or conseravtive player.
  deep and fun career mode that only gets boring after you are #1 and have won every tournament 8 
 times. xbox live mode there for you to try your skills online after career mode domination.
  the game also makes very good use of game momentum, which is an important factor in real tennis.
 
  
  cons; risk shots have no chance of going in if you are slightly off on timing,
  the ai difficulty is a little strange. depending on which part of a tournament you meet a player, 
 you may play the #1 seed and have them play like a #47 seed in the first round, or play the #47 
 seed in the finals and have them play like the #1 seed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creatre
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start out by saying that I'm a long time tennis fan, and love tennis games. Top 
 Spin 2 is one of the better i have played so far, however the first on the 360, obviously since 
 its the only that has been released.
  
  Gameplay - 6
  -Honestly the gameplay was not too shabby. Matches were fun, and the Career mode was very exciting 
 and intense to begin! It has an interesting schedule and it was extremely interesting how they 
 made you choose either training or tournament for each week. In the matches, the gameplay and button 
 mapping is phenomenal. I love how you have a different button for each type of shot, top spin, 
 slice, normal safe shot, and lob. If you want it to go left, you can make it go left, so in that 
 aspect its very impressive. However, i was not impressed with some of the doubles gameplay. It 
 seemed off somehow, and it was just not fun to me after a few games. Xbox Live seemed fairly decent, 
 however its not really a game I'd personally play on live very much.
  
  Graphics - 9
  -Xbox 360 and HD kind of set this apart from any other tennis game out. Highly impressive graphics, 
 nice marks in the courts, very realistic, even the fans looked great and 3D. A little too much 
 hair on my characters arms, but ya know, gotta deal with some things :P
  
  Sound - 10
  -Very realistic sounds, had 5.1 surround sound with 12" sub that put this game's sound to the test 
 and it really pulled it off and i was really impressed. Music was a little off, but in-game sounds 
 were so realistic who cares about the menu music!
  
  Value - 5
  -It'll be fun for a little while, but deffinately not worth buying unless you intend to play your 
 heart out online. I gamefly'd this game, and I'm glad I did because it just gets boring after about 
 2 and half seasons of career and a few matches online.
  
  All in all, it was a fun career mode, had awesome graphics, and awesome and realistic surround 
 sounds in the matches, and its worth a rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Tennis games are not the most popular of sports' titles. Tennis in particular, is usually liked 
 by real enthusiasts and not by casual observers. Fortunately, Top Spin 2 is really aimed at that 
 crowd because of its highly technical gameplay. The game's strength is in the career mode. Most 
 of everyone will be sweating and swearing when trying to get your tennis pro to reach the number 
 one rank as this is the most challenging aspect of Top Spin 2. You start off with the character 
 creation which is surprisingly deep... comparable to games like Tiger Woods and Oblivion. You can 
 essentially change every facial feature of your player. One of the major aspects of having a successful 
 career mode is the way you customize your character as you progress through your career. I can't 
 remember a game where character customization has such a dramatic effect on how quickly you can 
 climb the ranks. My advicechoose carefully which skills to increase but balance is key. Tennis 
 is a game of precision, power and speed yet, reflexes can't be overlooked. That's about the best 
 advice that I can offer.
  
  Coaches offer you different types of training and for once, I find all of these are really helpful 
 in learning to master the game. Not only does it increase your tennis pro's attributes but, it's 
 a great way to learn the delicate technical aspects of every shot.
  
  Learning the shots and particularly the timing of every shot, is the key to winning. You have the 
 safe shot with the A button which is the button you will mostly be using at the beginning. The 
 X button delivers a slice shot which I use mostly to slow the pace of the game and to be able to 
 get myself back in position during a rapid exchange against an opponent. The Y button is used as 
 a lob shot which is pretty lethal for those who play close to the net. Finally, the B button is 
 a topspin shot which is the fastest basic shot in your arsenal. Mastering all of these will greatly 
 impact the number of successful exchanges you have versus an opponent. There are also some risk 
 shots that can be used by pressing the right trigger before you start swinging your racket. These 
 shots are very dependant on the momentum meter and they consume rather large amounts of it. There 
 are also advanced shots that take up less momentum and they are triggered by pressing the left 
 trigger before you start your swing.
  
  Finally, adding to the technical aspect of Top Spin 2, are the different types of courts and how 
 different these play. For instance, you'll notice a major difference of the pace of the game when 
 you play on a clay court versus a grass court.
  
  Opponents? Well, there are some I definitely didn't recognize because they are fictional. The mix 
 of existing Tennis players is adequate but there are some that I feel should have been included: 
 Martina Hingis, Kim Clijsters, Rafael Nadal and Andre Agassi would have been a good start. Nevertheless, 
 there's enough here to keep most tennis fans satisfied.
  
  There are different modes of play other than career mode... like Exhibition and on Xbox Live. The 
 only reason to play Exhibition is to unlock the achievements... unless you're playing with a friend. 
 On Xbox Live, you can play in ranked or unranked matches. No matter which one I choose, it seems 
 that I always get dominated by the opponent... I think I still have some practicing to do. The only 
 shortcoming I see on Xbox Live is the fact that you cant play four-on-four doubles' matches, but 
 then again, Im personally not a big double fan. Other than that, the server never lags and it's 
 an enjoyable online experience.
  
  Top Spin 2 really shines on HDTV with bright colors, brilliant stadium designs and fluid character 
 animations. If you're not playing on HDTV, you won't find that theres a significant graphical 
 difference from the original Top Spin. The different look of every stadium court is really well 
 detailed.
  
  The sound design is pretty subtle in variety but the variety is there. When you go from minor outdoor 
 tournaments to the major tourneys in big stadiums, you'll notice major differences like announcers, 
 bigger crowds and even the echo of your player when he screams for a major hit. Even as you progress 
 in the major tournaments, you will notice major crowd sound differences from the opening rounds 
 to when you reach the finals. Overall, Top Spin 2 is a quality pro tennis title with a deep career 
 mode, smooth online play and with very acceptable production values (particularly in HDTV) . This 
 is definitely for tennis fans or for those who enjoy a good challenge within a sports title. The 
 deep career mode and technical approach to the game of Tennis is Top Spin 2s biggest quality. 
 On the other hand, this might be a turn off to casual tennis gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  The last game that came out is top spin 1 and it was pretty fun. But when i saw that top spin 2 
 came out i was exited but when i played the demo its like if you hit a ball made out of plastic 
 and the revolutionary game you dont press x b y a for hitting and you cant move with your thumbstick 
 like the NHL2k7 thats coming out its a rip off for the people who like tennis and for me to.
  
  Overall: overall the game is pretty good you can go in differant places around the world but 
 thats cool and if you like tennis you should rent this game first before thinking of bying it !!!.
 
  
  and maybe im not fair about the review but thats just the demo and if i play the game i will do 
 a review on the game.
  but its a demo version. And when you hit the ball its like a piece of plastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveld
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  If you're anything like me then you may think that a tennis game is nothing to write home about. 
 Well when I picked up Topspin 2 I changed my mind quite quickly. There is more to this game than 
 meets the eye. There is strategy in movement, placement of the ball, power, accuracy, forehand, 
 backhand, long short, short shots, drop shots, volleys, and I can go on...
  
  It went from just being a 2 button game in my mind to at least 12. The fun factor is what brings 
 you back. It has such addictive gameplay that you'll keep cming back again and again.
  
  If you're looking for a game that you can just have some fun by yourself or with friends then I 
 would say pick this one up. It's easy to learn, easy to play, and will keep you playing for hours! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Top spin is a very fun game with a not so fun career mode. The game play is great and very responsive. 
 The load screens get very annoying having to see them every five minutes or so during the career 
 mode. The graphics in the game are less than great but still look decent with great character models. 
 The sound in the game is great there is a lot of detail in the sound effects but the menu music 
 is annoying and generic. The character creation doesn't have many customization options. Also the 
 camera angles can sometimes get annoying and hard to play with but i don't have to many complaints 
 about it. The price of this game has probably gone down allot and is a great addition to any collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Im a fan of tennis games and if you are to this game delivers on that if your just playing it 
 for the sack of playing it you might enjoy it as much as the fan do. 1 big change they made was 
 the story or the franchise mode instead of moving the curser to the stadium like in top spin 1 
 it just goes week-by-week with 3 different things to do training, tournaments, or special invitation. 
 Stats wise its nothing like top spin 1 instead of getting 6 stars in total from your trainer you 
 get up to 69 i think it was and now there are silver, bronze and gold stars that you can get, if 
 you are sick and tired of your trainer you can change that too.
  
  The Good: Clothes move when players swing the racket, single player is better than ever, backgrounds 
 look amazing, training is funnier than ever, able to customize everything on your player.
  
  The Bad: Even though there are different types of courts they all look the same, of timing 
 on the grunts, online is really laggy, if it was possible to get more than 2 stars after training, 
 some of the tournaments were just to easy.
  
  Achievements: Medium
  
  This game defiantly picked up were the first one left off, if you were thinking about getting this 
 one go for it, and if you played the first one and wanted to try this one do it, it just as good 
 if not better, and if your not a fan you still have to try it thats how fun it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadude1083
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  
  
  I am going to start off by saying that this is my first tennis game. That means I will not have 
 anything to compare it to, and that you should take this review with a grain of salt.
  
  With that said, I think Top Spin 2 is a solid game. It utilizes the controller very well, with 
 multiple amounts of hits you are able to do. There are quite a few modes, including Career, Tournament, 
 Single Match, Online, and Party Games. The online portion works very well, with no lag noticeable. 
 The animations are solid, with many different variations of hits and smacks. The sound is another 
 story. You hear the same grunts a lot, and the music is rather repetitious. 
  
  If you are looking for a rental for the achievements, be ready to invest some time into them. They 
 include winning 25 ranked online matches, playing 50, reaching the top in career, beating everybody 
 in exhibition, and a few others. While you can easily go through the online ones with a friend, 
 the Career mode ones will take you awhile. I have already invested about 10 hours into a career 
 for two achievements, and I am only about  - 1/3 of the way done. 
  
  Some of the controls you have include hitting defensive, offensive, safely, and a lob. Even though 
 all these options are available, you really only need to use the offensive shot. You can also make 
 Risk Shots by holding down the Right Trigger, but these really dont have that much of an impact 
 to be using them, especially since the reward may not always be what you wanted. 
  
  Overall, if you have to have tennis next-gen this seems to fill the gap. But it doesnt seem to 
 warrant a buy unless you are extremely passionate about these games. I would suggest Rockstars 
 Table Tennis if you are a more casual player. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  While I have seen many good games hit the 360 none of them had all the extra featurs to buy the 
 game. Condemned, Kameo, and Oblivion showed off some very amazing things, however all i did was 
 rent them. Top Spin 2 is the best buy that you can get right now for the 360. The career mode can 
 promise to be long and challenging. Making your own player is a lot of fun as well. The online 
 mode is fun also. You can bring a guest online to play doubles with you, and I really like that 
 touch. 
  
  Also this game has a very strategic feel to it. It will take you a while to master the game. Y 
 is the lob shot, you use this against playes on the net. X is the slice shot, this shot is useful 
 whenever you are at the net because of the spinning away motion it can have, and it has a great 
 angle. You can also use this whenever you are on the baseine to slow the game down a ittle bit 
 so you can run up and ge3t into posistion at the net, giving you an advantage on the return if 
 you posistion yourself right. A is the safe volley, this just returns the ball safely to the other 
 side. No tricks about it. I like to use these whenever somebody hits a really good serve at me. 
 The B shot is the top spin shot, if you use this shot up by the t he net it is a very powerful 
 shot that can put the ball past the4 opposing player (s) . However, it has a grat risk of going out. 
 Also use this shot whenever you are back by thr baseline. This shot produces a high bounce. This 
 is also an effective shot to use whenever you are hitting cross court. You can also make all of 
 these shots while holding the right trigger to make them risk shots. You can get a lot more out 
 of the shots but with a very high chance of goingh out. You also can use the left triggerd then 
 one of the four buttons to execute advanced shots, these shots can occur whenever you win enough 
 points. A bar is displayed at the top corners of your screen. This will tell you what advanced 
 shots you can use. 
  
  You use all these shots combined with the left abnalog stick to posistion them. All of these shots 
 have a lot of use, so none of them are wasted buttons. It gives Top Spin a very tactical feel. 
 Keep this in mind however, like in real tennis, the posistioning of your character means everything. 
 That is the thingat will prove challenging for most in this game. This is what makes Top Spin 2 
 a great Tennis Simulator. 
  
  Whenever my friends come over to my house we have a Top Spin party. They have a feature called 
 party games but I never play any of these games. We just play doubles exhibition matches. Very 
 competitve. graphically, the game looks awesome. Player models are excellent, but as Gamespot mentioned, 
 there eyes do look weird but I did not even see that unl I read the Gamespot article so it is not 
 that noticeable.
  
  In conclusion, Top Spin 2 is the best game out for the 360 out right now in my opinion, but I am 
 a big Tennis fan. So if you are a big tennis fan abd you own a 360 you need to pick this up now!!! 
 Not to mention I also think it is the cheapest game to hit the 360 right now at a 40 dollar price 
 tag. Yet another awesome thing about Top Spin. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin on the Xbox was a great game. Top Spin 2 on the 360 is also a great game but it looks 
 almost identical to the Xbox version. Again the players don't look anything like their flesh and 
 blood counterparts, more like a bunch of plastic dolls set loose by some mad puppet master. The 
 animations are limited and often repeated are there are NO REPLAYS at all, which is completely 
 unforgivable in a sports game. Instead you're treated to a lame close up of your player's reaction 
 after EACH AND EVERY SHOT!!.
  
  The career mode isn't as good as the original and some of the player customisations have been ditched 
 - you can't alter your player's socks anymore, which is only a minor point but I don't want to 
 have white ankle socks all the time.
  
  Overall it's disappointing, more so because it's been powered by the Xbox 360. Rent it and wait 
 for Virtual Tennis 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  You've seen this game before, it was called Top Spin 1. Seriously i'm disappointed with 2K sports, 
 there was a two years and a half gap between this game and the first one and this is all the improvements 
 we get? There's hardly any improvements, and i'd go as far as to say that we get the opposite!
 
  
  First, this is supposed to be a next gen game, but it sure doesn't look like it. The graphics engine 
 looks the same as the one in Top Spin 1. Come on you can't fool us, the first one looked awesome 
 but this is on the 360! Sheesh.
  
  On the gameplay side, there were some improvements. In the original all you really needed to use 
 was the A button, the flat shot. But in Top Spin 2, if you don't use the Top Spin shot and the 
 slice, you'll most likely get burned. Also there are the new advance shots which are kinda cool, 
 especially the slice advance shot. But in the end, the game feels exactly like the first one.
 
  
  Soundwise there's nothing to say really. The music is forgettable but the use of custom soundtracks 
 can easily override that, the rest of the sounds seem pretty good.
  
  The game is a pretty good value, especially since multiplayer gaming is great with this game. It's 
 just weird that you can't play ranked doubles matches with a friend on live. One thing to mention 
 though is that the career mode is really brain dead compared to the career in the first game, it 
 feels like you're on a rollercoaster ride; absolutely no control on the thrills you get. It's linear, 
 slow, slightly boring, and very long. 
  
  All in all, Top Spin 2 is good, and if you haven't played the first game to death you might actually 
 love it. But for those who have played the first game, be prepared for more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarauderBomber
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  You will spend the first two or three hours of this game screaming, cursing, and throwing things 
 at your television, but once you get the hang of it, Top Spin 2 is surprisingly enjoyable.
  
  At first, the AI seems almost unbeatable, and aiming your shots is extremely difficult. It 
 takes many frustrating losses before you get a win, but once you start getting used to the feel 
 of the game, there is a fair amount of enjoyment in it. Career Mode starts you off as an unknown 
 Rookie, and you must train, hone your skills, and win tournaments in order to advance in the world 
 rankings. Becuase you start out with a low ranking, very little money, and not much sponsor support, 
 the beginning of the game is the most difficult part. After going through some interesting training 
 mini-games, you are ready to compete.
  
  While on the court, winning is mostly about getting in position and hitting the ball away from 
 your oponent, and shot selection isn't very important. Each of the four face buttons performs a 
 different type of shot, such as a "slice shot" or a "lob." The AI oponents are fairly predictable, 
 and once you begin to understand how the gameplay work, it becomes extremely easy to win. A little 
 too easy, actually. As painfully frustrating and difficult this game seems to a new player, after 
 several hours of experience, all challenge in the game seems to disappear. This gives it a rather 
 short lifespan, and saps some of the enjoyment out of it. After you complete your first career, 
 which can be done in a matter of hours, the game becomes boring, and you find yourself constantly 
 dominating the AI without even really trying. Online multiplayer helps this problem a bit, however.
 
  
  Multiplayer is fairly basic, and pretty much the samw as single player, except your oponents online 
 will be smarter than the computer-controlled player you meet in career mode. Another problem that 
 is thankfully not a factor in multiplayer is the come-from-behind victories that are a very frustrating 
 part of career mode. Just when you're one point away from victory, your AI oponent will suddenly 
 turn into Superman, and catch up almost instantly. While this frustrating problem occurrs in many 
 sports games, it is painfully frequent in Top Spin.
  
  The only thing about this game that is blaintly horrible is the sound. Terrible voice-overs and 
 cheesy announcers are so terrible that I had my TV muted most of the time while I was playing. 
 Music selection is absolutely horrendous, as the same three of four awful songs play over and over 
 in the menu screens. Graphics are good, but noting special. While the character models look pretty 
 in the cutscenes, the "victory dances" that the players perform inbetween points are so incredible 
 cheesy and annoying that words can hardly describe them.
  
  All-in-all, Top Spin 2 has fairly good gameplay, but terrible sound and rather plain graphics/textures 
 subtract quite a bit from this game. Top Spin 2 is good for tennis fans, but it won't do much for 
 anyone else.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fracot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I didnt enjoy it because I thought it was boring hitting the ball 
 back and forth. But when you progress through the career it gets really fun! at first the training 
 aspect is crucial to get your player half desent. you will be able to play in minor tournaments 
 and win them without to much trouble. as you progress winning majors and masters is important to 
 hold your rank. It is tough at any level to win slams but it a good challenge. Other little things 
 like playing in sponser cups and pro challenges are a nice touch. I think there could have been 
 more choice in the shop as when you get alot of money there is no real point in buying anything! 
 
  
  In the two player mode I do not find the normal game very exiting but the party games are fun! 
 although there could have been more of them.
  
  Overall this is a good game that even non tennis fans would enjoy and well worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepfreezed
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Career mode is fun. Training keeps you entertained. Graphically the game is only average with characters 
 looking dark and few missing animations. I would rather they spent more time on other aspects than 
 having a fully robust character creation tool. All the effort you put into creating the character 
 is barely visible. 
  
  Load times are subpar and I have a Premium 360 with the hard drive. Menu navigation can get tedious.
 
  
  Gameplay does make up for most of the shortcomings. Good game to play for a month or so before 
 it gets old.
  
  All in all, its a good game for almost being a launch title and coming on so early in the 360 
 life span. If they are going to make a Top Spin 3, they have to do much more than improve the graphics, 
 other wise it will get tedious.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartar23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Tennis Game for Xbox360 - You expect so much , then You get Top Spin 2 - You are Disheartened , 
 I don't mean to be critical - but c'mon , all that fuzz & You come up with this graphics standard 
 ? 
  Anyways , I love the gameplay technique - totally real life ( I'm a tennis pro - so , I assure 
 You they made every shot in tennis possible in this game ) .
  The Long & Realistic Career gives it a very good depth - best part of the game is the caharacter 
 design - I demoed myself ( totally looks like me Dude - rock on ) - only chance you're ever gonna 
 get to win Wimbledon.
  I was tremendously disappointed when I saw Pete Sampras & some other few names missing from the 
 players rosters - cmon , couldn't you guys keep him as a legend or something so that he can be 
 unlocked or somethin ? They already have his license from the previous game ( top spin ) - why 
 not use him ? I really wanted to play a Sampras & Federer head to head - now that sampras has retired 
 - which is impossible to see , the only chance i had was this & thanks to 2K idiots - they have 
 ruined it .
  Anyways , I still like the game .
  And wassup with - no "kournikova" ? hot level 50% down the drain .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reece590
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Fun, Good-Looking, and BORING!!! Top Spin 2 has alot of good qualities but the lack of compeling 
 gameplay holds it down. The story mode makes you pick from premade faces and body structures (Its 
 no Fight Night R2, Oblivion charecter maker) Then you can pick from about 2 differnt sets of clothes. 
 Once your in the game you have to train. Some training mini-games are immposible, You can try over 
 and over but they cant be beat. Once you have finished your trainin gyou can start a match or tournement, 
 Good luck, You have to qualify for a game then if you skip to a game you do qualify for you might 
 not be able to becaue when you jump it brings you to the day after the day you jumped to!!!!! Online 
 play is about the same as the single player exept you have some kid scream ing in your ear about 
 hoe he is not called chocolet milk!!! There are power shots in theis game which you can do by holding 
 down the right trigger, a little meter comes up with a bar going back and forth you have to release 
 RT at the top of the meter sounds easy but it isnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockinaway
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Well I got the demo and I had a go.. firstly i think the prhics are slightly pixelated... Not as 
 good. 
  
  But I played it still and well it wasn't that bad. There is realism, the sounds are good, specially 
 for Sharapova! 
  
  I probably wouldn't get, this but that is probably because I am not a tennis person, although I 
 think it would work well for many tennis addicts. There is also the reason that it is the only 
 tennis games for the 360 yet, but I guess there is also Virtua Tennis coming soon which I think 
 may be better than this. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a solid tennis game with solid gameplay through out. I really enjoyed playing this 
 tennis game. This was my first outing with a tennis game however, I think it will be my last.
 
  
  This game is so solid throughout that once you master the game there is nothing left to do. Beat 
 all the Slams get number 1 ranking.. now what? Online is a joke with so much lag I couldn't even 
 play let alone know what I was doing. The biggest problem I have with this game is lack of options 
 besides career and exhibition modes and how repetitive the game can get therere is no excitement 
 and no way to mix it up.
  
  The sound and graphics are good but more emphasis could have been put on the crowds or players 
 face example, like after I hit a crushing hit to the computer the camera should zoom into the players 
 face and show the screaming proud reaction that I was currently expressing. Instead what the game 
 gives you is the same expression of a small fist pump or what not. And for the crowds, while this 
 is a tennis game and in the tennis the crowds arent a major factor they should no more than just 
 clap and occasionally snap photos. 
  
  With the lack of online play this game is just a rent, pick up, beat, and return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game to play, but it's not hard enough, and not interesting enough. The training 
 can be difficult, but you don't even have to play matches to get anywhere... you can just simulate 
 them and breeze right through, which basically allows the player to make money quick, up your skills, 
 and rise to the top, slowly. I guess for a bigger sports fan, this game is a lot of fun, but for 
 those of us who like sports but are looking for more of a story, this game gets boring quick. There 
 should be more that the player can do with their money, like buy a house or car... it should be 
 more like a sim game (but not a full blown, live their life thing) . I don't know... this is not 
 nearly my favorite game or the most fun, but it's enjoyable for a short time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is cool because it's tennis and I kinda like that sport and I've played it in real life 
 too... sometimes. the career mode is cool and the xbox live gameplay is too. there's players like 
 Roger Federer, Maria Sharparova, Venus Williams and some others. very enjoyable because I don't 
 play much sports games. except for the arcadey-like ones; kinda like Mario Tennis or NFL Blitz. 
 I mostly spent time playing TS2 on live and the career mode. I don't have this game. I rented it, 
 but I want to get it. that's how much I liked it. it's a good game if you like tennis. you should 
 try it out if you're looking for an easy sports game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  top spin 2, as the second game in the series is bound to have something wrong with it. i had the 
 original top spin and i loved it. but top spin 2 doesnt have the same kind of affect on me as the 
 original did. the characters all looked kind of funny. the controls were decent but not perfect. 
 online was boring and repetative as well with career mode. in career mode everything was very repetative 
 so i found myself simulating through the entire thing to get a couple of achievements. it was also 
 very hard. i only recommend this game to real fans of tennis as it would prove a good challenge 
 to them and they would respect the insine repetativeness. back and forth, back and forth, will 
 it ever end?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuel-martens
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  I played the first Top Spin , from the moment i got the game, every week for the last 2 years or 
 so with friends. I thought that the second game wouldn't be able to keep me busy. Wrong i was!!!! 
 The singleplayer has a great career mode that can keep you bussy for a while ( if you want to reach 
 the number one spot ) . However it is definately the multiplayer that's gonna make sure you're still 
 playing this game when the follow up to the 360 appears.
  In comparison to the first game, the first game would look like a stupid game without any depth. 
 That's because top spin 2 adds all kinds of shots. Like dump volley, side spin slices and so on. 
 So the gameplay is superb, i think i made that very clear. Now, when we look at the graphics, we 
 must come to the same albeit nuanced conclusion. The game looks much better than top spin 1 ( reflections, 
 audience isn't made of 2D bitmaps anymore, ..... ) , however if you've already played another xbox 
 360 game like perfect dark zero or something , this game is going to feel like a step down because 
 it isn't able to give you great special effects like those games did. If you're thinking about 
 what should be your first xbox 360 game i would recommend that you go for a game that shows what 
 the 360 can do from a graphical standpoint and just buy top spin 2 a bit later. But it is definately 
 a MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  for as long as i can remember, i've been a fairly avid fan of tennis, starting back in the early 
 90's with goran ivanisevic and progressing through the years with becker, roddick, agassi, mcenroe 
 ... so, when top spin 2 came out i was all over it. i had played the original top spin and loved 
 it and figured this one would be top notch. yeah ... not so much.
  
  the game is fun, don't get me wrong, but i feel so limited in playability. i either train -- spending 
 an inordinate amount of 'coin' that i really haven't earned yet -- or on the rare occasion that i 
 receive a 'minor' competition selection that i might even be capable of having a fair shot at, 
 i make such a measly sum of cash that it wasn't worth my time. i tried a major competition ... 
 creamed.
  
  player creation was fun and my vin diesel character looks great in an adidas sleeveless t with 
 a pair of dark oakley wrap-arounds but moves like special ed child playing with his own shadow. 
 he jumps the opposite way at times or doesn't even respond to button presses and just stands there 
 while a ball sails lazily past, easily within reach. it gets a little frustrating. graphics are 
 great and as it stands, that's almost all this game has going for it. sure, it has its moments 
 of competitive fun but nearly every time i am at the top of the screen, i lose the game ... and 
 the close-up camera doesn't show the entire court on your side and you easily miss returns. i absolutely 
 abhor the camera setup and would really have liked the way that mario tennis -- yes, i went there -- kept 
 the camera at the players back even after you switched courts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezmastah
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well I personally thought Top Spin 2 was a more rounded and more playable game than its predecessor. 
 The advanced shots add another aspect to the game and the mechanics are just really well implemented. 
 It plays lag-free online, and theres fully functionable leaderboards. All in all, 2K games have 
 done well with the next installment of this and they have added a more interesting roster of players. 
 Its a game that is easy to pick up, but is very hard to master and it requires a Herculean effort 
 to beat Federer or any of the top pros in Career mode. Dont expect to storm to the top of the leaderboards 
 in career mode either. It takes time to develop your character and progress up the rankings. Congrats 
 to 2k for making another solid sports game, and one that should quench the thirst of all tennis 
 diehards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhemberger
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  I hope you have a callus on your thumb before you start playing, it takes patience but is worth 
 the time put in, especially in career mode. If you are looking for achievement points, don't waist 
 your time. If you are looking to play a lot of tennis to aspire to the ranks of the top ten, you 
 found your game. 
  It seems that the seasons go by way too fast when you start your career trying to get the much 
 needed experience points to even have a chance in the majors. But as you get those the game likens 
 itself to a need for speed upgraded car, it gets alittle easier to make those impossible shots, 
 but the competition is also a lot tougher. It has a real feel for what it would take to make it 
 to the big games, I just wish the career mode was a little less of a daunting task. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  The Good  
  - Best tennis game on any console/pc
  - Gameplay is well done; Great variety of shots
  - Player creation is nicely done
  - Less emphasis 
 on risk shots
  - Federer and Sharapova included
  - Pretty Hard at the start ie For Tennis fans
  - French referee at the french open
  - Zoom 
 view is the way to go 
  
  The Bad  
  - In some courts you can't see the ball; EXTREMELY frustrating and that's on a 42" TV
  - "Cheating 
 AI" in season 5; close to breaking my controller
  - No Replay?!
  - No Save Anywhere; at least game by game
  - Confusing career 1000 pts achievement
  - Character 
 graphics looks old generation
  - No next-gen feel
  - Animations could be better especially after serving
  - Menu loading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey3221
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was a much better tennis simulation than the first top spin was. The AI interacts, and 
 also reads and reacts to what the player is doing. The game becomes increasingly difficult against 
 better opponents. Which is expected. I had a glitch working against me for a while, but I solved 
 the problem and now it's fine. I love the sound in this game mostly because in the French Open 
 they speak french and Wimbledon has a British accent and so on. The fans get louder when a point 
 goes on for a while. The most disappointing thing about the sound is when the crowd gets loud between 
 points the net judge doesn't say "quiet please" as they do in most real life matches. Player Creation 
 is better than in the first as well. It's also a good value at $40. I wish more companies would 
 put out some good cheap games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 strayed from the original in some ways which will provide a different atmosphere while 
 playing it. So, if you liked the original, it may not be the same case here. This time around, 
 there is much more emphasis on creating a player to suit your needs. 
  
  The create a player system works well and allows for you to create whatever face you can imagine. 
 It is very in depth system leaving the creativity to the player. Once done with the basic look 
 of your character, you go on to select things like if you are right handed or left handed, and 
 your serve type. Once done with this you will begin your career. For the stats, as you progress 
 throughout your career you will play a series of mini games to raise them. Basically, you have 
 60 stars to use in building your stats which is half of those that you can actually fill up. I've 
 found that what works best is to build your character to one extreme or the other. For example, 
 if you want to attack on the baseline, focus on that instead of trying to come in and volley. It 
 took me three tries to get a precise player that allowed me to raise in the ranks in the top 20 
 online. So, there may be some frustration here trying to decide what attribute to put each of the 
 stars into. However, when you finally figure out the right formula the feeling is satisfying.
 
  
  Now, I'll talk about the gameplay. It is just a solid game of tennis much like the virtua tennis 
 series. So, if you are used to that, you can basically pick up and play. The "B" button hits top 
 spin, the "X" button hits slice, the "Y" button hits a lob, and the "A" button is your flat safe 
 shot which will never go out. The farther you hold the left thumbstick to a certain direction the 
 closer it will get to the line. But, if you hold it too far, it will go out. Simple enough. Then 
 there are these new shots that were introduced to the series. These are called advanced shots. 
 You basically can perform an advanced shot when your momentum is high. You will hold down the left 
 trigger and the button matching to the different shot. Shots include an extreme angle, a drop shot, 
 an offensive slice shot, and a counter attack shot. To fill up your momentum, you must win points 
 and games. There are also risk shots to add to your arsenal. In this game they changed up the entire 
 risk shot part of it. There are now four risk shots instead of one, and you will be able to execute 
 them better if you put stars into your focus, and if you have a high momentum.
  
  The graphics look just ok. This is while looking at it on a high definition display too. It doesn't 
 scream next gen but that can be forgiven since this was released as a $40 budget title. The character 
 models are decent, but the environments are nice to look at, at times.
  
  The is just ok as well. It is just ordinary sounds of you hitting the tennis ball and grunting 
 from time to time. The sound of the strings hitting the ball is satisfying enough but left room 
 for improvement. The soundtrack is very weak though with this game. You will hear the same one 
 song looping all throughout the career mode while in the main career mode screen. What was funny 
 though is as you progressed through the seasons, singing would be added to that annoying verse 
 of the song. I guess that was our rewards. There is no commentator which would have been a very 
 nice feature. The announcer in the game when calling the score is accurate, and corresponds well 
 to what arena you are playing in. When you are playing in the French Open, the announcer will call 
 the score in French. The sound department in this game is weak overall and leaves much room for 
 improvement.
  
  You can find plenty of replay value online. With that said it may be hard to find a match to play 
 against someone, becase not too many people actually play this online. The career mode may get 
 boring too and you may just use it to create a player, max him out, and jump right online. It just 
 doesn't give you too much reward for playing through all of it. There are the achievements for 
 it though if you are into that.
  
  Overall, it will satisfy your urge for a tennis game and it is the only one available right now 
 for the 360. However, it does have its share of annoying character animations that will get in 
 the way of you reaching a ball in time. What will happen is your character will choose not to reach 
 a ball before he is even there. Also, there are some glitches like the ball boy will run straight 
 across the screen instead of towards the ball. Another annoying feature is you can't run backwards. 
 So, if you are at the net and you get lobbed, you will never run back and hit a tweener. Your character 
 will back pedal back and not actually turn around and run. This game does have its flaws, but for 
 $40 most of them can be forgiven. I can't actually say I'd reccomend this game, but to fans of 
 tennis, you will find some enjoyment out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightwalker18
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  It is the best tennis game out there. Also it is the only sport game for xbox 360 that requires 
 a great play of time for 1000 gamerpoints. The controls of the game is easy to learn. You have 
 to play the season mode to make your character the best in the world. Season mode last for 5 seasons, 
 and it can get boring, because at the end of your 3rd season your character would be fully upgraded. 
 Online game requires to use your created player only, and gives you a chance to prove on the internet 
 who is the best. I highly recommend this game to all the sport fans out there, it is a worthwhile 
 to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty good and its pretty cheap, but i dont think its the best game on the 360 right 
 now. graphics on this game are phenominal! but common, what do u expect from the 360. the character 
 creation is not very good, not a lot of stuff change when you are making the face. the gameplay 
 seems like any old tennis game with exception of the risk shots and advanced shots. the sounds 
 are ok, but the have no voice overs! why is that? the only voice you can hear is the umpire and 
 announcers. some of the screams for the grils are a little inappropraite, if you know wat i mean. 
 the game doesnt have a lot of mini games (3 only) . its a good game but i dont reccomend it for 
 a non-tennis player.
  
  after gettin to number one ranking with all gold stars there really is nothing to do after except 
 creating anew character and then have to do the samething over and over again so it gets really 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelgorthon
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  A great pick up and play game. If you are looking for a game that is challenging from the start 
 this is not it. If you are looking for a game that is solid, but not so difficult that you will 
 have to spend endless hours losing just to be able to build up stats enough to compete at the lowest 
 level than this game is for you. The career mode is engrossing with the ability to hire a coach, 
 and sponsors to keep happy by going on winning sprees. Graphics are outstanding as is to be expected 
 from EA and the 360 engine. If you want to take a break from pummeling the computer AI into the 
 clay then jump into Xbox Live for mano a mano action and challenge. The online mode is really the 
 only way you will find a challenging match so keep that in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_connexion
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 23, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This games really grows on you, in the end you just cant stop playing it because you really want 
 to beat all thoes "great" players at the top! This game have a lot of modes, make your own player 
 and make him the best in the world. This game offers cool things like the traning is fun it cant 
 get boring! 
  good things: 
  Real players, a lot of mods, it never gets booring, feel the contro, just love how the players 
 move! really great! 
  bad things: 
  hmm... if you really do not like tennis games do not buy this one! It is really for thoes people 
 who liked top spin 1! just with more stuff! I really love this game the best game i own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 22, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Is Top Spin 2 comparable to Virtua Tennis from the Dreamcast??? 
  
  GAMEPLAY wise, it most definitely is. Tennis is tennis. It doesn't really change over the years. 
 The players always grunt, the ball goes back and fourth, and the best looking girls are always 
 under 20. With that being said, it would be really hard to screw up a tennis game and in my opinion 
 2k didn't screw up at all.
  
  The GRAPHICS aren't up to par with other 360 games. They resemble the graphics in 2k's Amped 3, 
 and basically look like one of the better Xbox, PS2 games to come out recently. The bottom line 
 about the graphics is that they are not graphics that you will want to show off to your friends. 
 They definitely aren't bad, they're just not spectacular. Let me emphasise though that they are 
 not BAD, do not let them effect your purchase in this case.
  
  The SOUND is pretty good. Once again I must stress this is tennis, so it's not something you will 
 want to go out and by the soundtrack for. The players grunt and the common sounds of the environments 
 at each court are really nice. There are a lot of different environments and they depict the sounds 
 of each one quite nicely. The music isn't the greatest, but play some music from your 360 hard 
 drive and you will be fine.
  
  VALUE wise this game is great. It's $39.99 and a really fun game. The graphics aren't the best, 
 but the gameplay is pretty good. It's got a nice online mode, as well as a nice long single player 
 career.
  
  As for my tilt, I would say buy this game if you are interested in tennis games. I still find myself 
 playing Virtua Tennis for the Dreamcast from time to time with my friends, and Top Spin 2 takes 
 that and improves on it, which means the replay value should be high. Is this game as groundbreaking 
 as the original Virtua Tennis, no. Is this game a huge improvement over the original Top Spin, 
 no. Is this game $39.99, yes. You won't be disappointed if you throw down for this game because 
 it's good old tennis fun.
  
  NOTE: Still not sure about Top Spin 2? Rockstar's Table Tennis maybe the tennis game that you are 
 looking for with sweet graphics and addicting, possibly groundbreaking gameplay.
  
  Check my other 360 reviews!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: your_mom91
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is one of those games that is fairly easy to learn and impossible to master. In the 
 earlier levels of the game the player is able to return shots easily with the A button, but when 
 you get to facing the better players, (#20 and above) your risk shots and advanced shots start 
 coming into play. Your player is fully customizable and its fun to see what you can do, but if 
 you see it from the Next-Gen standpoint you realize the possibilities are fairly limited. The game 
 itself is pretty fun, but it looks more like it's between Current-Next Gen instead of the True 
 Next Gen everyone was hoping for. The (live) multiplayer is also very limited. You can only play 
 as one of the 24 pros or your career mode player. Mixed doubles is more of a con instead of a pro. 
 (2 players local to play) but overall, the multiplayer may take up a good 2 hours before you finally 
 realize it isnt all that. Overall this is a pretty good game (if it was for X-Box 1) and for $40 
 it is a pretty good buy whether its Current or Next-Gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 16, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Originally planned as an Xbox 360 launch title, Top Spin 2 has now been released and I'm happy 
 to report it is a good update of a great game. The best of the original game has been refined and 
 reworked to create the best game of tennis yet. However there are still some minor issues that 
 have transferred to the sequel.
  
  The core of the game is retained in Top Spin 2, fans of the original will be right at home but 
 newcomers will find it accessible and easy to learn. Four different shots are mapped to the face 
 buttons; safe, top spin, slice and lob. The risk shots return and are activated by holding the 
 right trigger and a face button for different shots. You have to release the buttons when the bar 
 on the gauge reaches the top, other wise you will fire into the net or out of bounds. A. I. in the 
 game isn't too bad, as soon as you know the game well and can pull of some advanced shots, you 
 can easily win by ridiculous scores. If you don't have an Xbox Live Gold account or anyone to play 
 multi-player with, I'm afraid beating the CPU repeatedly gets repetitive.
  
  Career mode now features a calendar system over five seasons which is simple to use. Each week 
 you can either spend your time training, competing in a tournament or attending a special event. 
 All the big competitions like Wimbledon and the US Open are here but there are also minor tournament 
 for when you're just starting out. The options for customizing your player are rivaled only by 
 the system used in Oblivion (also for 360) . Everything from skin tone to nose length and serve 
 style to hair style can be molded in any way you like. It's quite possible to put yourself in the 
 game if you have enough skill with the creation system. As good as Career mode is you won't have 
 much desire to go through more than one unless you want all the achievements. Matches get tedious 
 and the challenge disappears once your player is at maximum ability. The simulation feature helps 
 this somewhat but the player should want to be playing every match, even late into Career mode.
 
  
  Top Spin 2 features 24 licensed pro tennis players that include Roger Federer, Mariah Sharapova 
 and Andy Roddick. All the character models look like their real life counter parts. The attitude 
 system really shows off the detail put into facial expressions. They jump for joy after winning 
 a long rally or slam the racquet down in anguish if they lose the point. The courts have a realistic 
 feel to them, especially the slides on clay courts, but equally impressive are the surroundings 
 outside of the courts. The "playground" level of courts often has people passing the court in the 
 background and some of them stop and watch. Unfortunately the sound isn't on the same level as 
 the graphics. Although the sound effects are good, like the grunts or the ball hitting the court, 
 the music is boring. Players of the original will soon recognize that most of the music has been 
 re-used from Top Spin. You'd be better off listening to a custom soundtrack while playing.
  
  Despite improving the core of the game, Top Spin 2 still suffers some of the problems that 
 plagued the original game. The A. I. offers little challenge and Career mode becomes very tedious. 
 I would recommend the game to any tennis fan and anyone with Xbox Live Gold, as well as anyone 
 who plays multi-player a lot. However, you might want to rent it first if you expect to be playing 
 single player a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a lot better than average tennis video and it's also a lot better than mario tennis. Don't 
 believe me? Read my review. This is a great game and it's best quality is definetly that it's only 
 40 bucks. Here's the only bad thing about it is that it's not perfect like the first top spin, 
 but it's still a solid game. It has pixel perfect graphics, pretty good sound, and awsome gameplay. 
 Oh yeah another thing I don't like is that if your only looking for good x box live than... well 
 this isn't the best game for you . Remember this is a great game and it's only 40 bucks.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbx360gamer
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I seem to be the only one to think that this game has great graphics. I think that 
 the player models look fantastic, and the face textures are awesome. However, despite the good 
 graphics, the gameplay is only so-so. It seems like all matches are the same. Another annoying 
 aspect of this game is that sometimes when you simulate a match, the computer will win, even though 
 your opponent is much lower ranked than you. One of the high points of this game is the price. 
 Only $40. This is a pretty good deal, but I would still recommend renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosin91
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 10, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  The first game of it's kind on the 360 and well basically it's totally crap. The sound of the game 
 are so boring like for example, you hardly hear any of the croud cheering and the sound of the 
 ball hitting the racket is just complete rubbish. You see i am not actually a tennis fan, so mabye 
 the tennis fans might like this game a bit more than what i do.
  I've got to admit that it is a challenging game even on the easy mode.
  
  The only thing that 
 is ok with this game is the career mode as it has lots of stuff to do in it.
  
  I would only recommend this game for tennis fans as this game does really and i mean really get 
 boring after about 1 hour of playing it.
  
  
  Hoosin91 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazza04
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 6, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Great Game! Haven't even opened the other Xbox 360 games I picked up with the console last week. 
 Enjoying career mode, as well as exhibition matches. This game is well worth getting if you have 
 any interest in tennis games at all.
  
  It takes a little bit of time to get into the swing of things, but once you do, the game is quite 
 addictive. I'm looking forward to getting my character built up so I can give online a try - it 
 will be the first for me with xbox live.
  
  It's also interesting to see what skills are best to build your character... some are obvious, but 
 it's not so clear when it comes to things like focus, spin, and reflexes. Imagine I'll have many 
 quality gaming hours with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This was the first sports game i've ever played. Im glad i chose this one first because it was 
 Awsome. At first i didn't like it because i didn't get how to play it but after a while i caught 
 on. This game is very easy till you can get into the masters and slams tourney's. the graphics 
 and character animations are great and work wonderfully. one thing that i didn't like was how bad 
 the simulation system worked. it was soley based on you stars. since i had mostly bronze and a 
 few silver stars it made using the simulator worthless. i have won all my tournaments (25) and 
 still have the same stats. otherwise the game is great and well worth a rent and a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 had a lot to live up to, but 2K Sports have delivered a thoroughly solid and well-rounded 
 tennis experience. You will also find the game to be very slick in terms of its visual direction 
 and overall presentation. The menu interface is clean, uncluttered and very polished, and the exact 
 same can be said for the actual structured polygons themselves. 
  
  Textures are sharp, highly detailed and very realistic  would you come to expect any less from 
 a next generation title? The tennis players themselves (both the real-life ones and the ones created 
 via the character creation tool) are not as "creepy" as some other critics might have you believe, 
 but they certainly do convey plenty of realism with their facial expressions, and fine details 
 such as arm and leg hair, glistening eyes and fully animated motions go to complete the image of 
 realism. 
  
  The clothing is another area the game nails perfectly. T-Shirts, shorts, and other clothing items 
 flow just as you'd expect, and react perfectly to the animations of the characters as they dart 
 across the court. The game is also very bright and colourful; in fact Top Spin 2 is probably one 
 of the most colourful of all the next generation games released so far. 
  
  But aside from a slick visual presentation, what really stands out in this game is the gameplay 
 itself. The original Top Spin was famous for its more simulated tennis experience, as opposed to 
 the more arcade-like nature of Sega's Virtua Tennis. If these two games were in the racing genre, 
 then Top Spin 2 would be something akin to Gran Turismo, Virtua Tennis would be something like 
 Burnout Revenge. 
  
  But just because Top Spin opted to be slightly more realistic didnt mean the fun-factor was lost, 
 on the contrary, the simple and addictive fun found in Sega's title was also present in Top Spin 
 - though perhaps admittedly in a slightly smaller quantity. This sequel is exactly the same, it 
 retains the fun and the realism in one solidly put together package. 
  
  Essentially, Top Spin 2 is a next generation upgrade of its older brother. 2K Games havent tried 
 to re-invent the wheel, they have just optimized it for a higher resolution audience, and added 
 a few nice little features, too. 
  
  As of writing this review, it has already been announced that Sega is developing the third iteration 
 of the Virtua Tennis series, and something tells me that their game will be the more innovative 
 and revolutionary title between the two. Just looking at the screenshots plainly reminds us that 
 they are all too literally taking the franchise into the next generation, and in a way Top Spin 
 2 doesnt quite manage. 
  
  Still, what you have here is a very well made game, and a game that manages to be fun, exciting 
 and rewarding in equal measure. Visually and aurally the game pleases, and so much so in fact that 
 it easily qualifies as a superb-looking game, even in the face of games such as Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter and The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
  
  But if you really are looking for the next big tennis experience, you'll have to wait until early 
 2007. Until that time however, Top Spin 2 is the game for you, and I cannot stress enough just 
 how much fun you will have with this title. It might not be one-hundred-percent next generation, 
 but it comes pretty close. 
  
  The game is very good online, too. It is perhaps not as fleshed out as it could have been, but 
 it still manages to embody enough modes of play to keep you entertained. And playing this game 
 online with friends or strangers is a lot of fun, trust me. So, just to summarize, if you are looking 
 for a good, well-rounded tennis game with silky-smooth good looks, rock-solid gameplay and decent 
 online options, then Top Spin 2 is your game. If you want the next big thing in the genre, then 
 youll need to wait a good few months  the choice is yours. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell26
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  Being a big tennis fan and buying every tennis game available, playing Top Spin 2 made me realise 
 that they were all so bad. With Excellent gameplay, amazing graphics and easy to use controls, 
 Top Spin 2 should definitely be associated with the greats of the gaming world, like Halo 1 and 
 2, GTA and G. R. A. W. I was amazed at how detailed just creating your player is, never mind playing 
 on court. There is kind of a story line to the game. A random player will become your rival and 
 send you messages about your performance, sponsors like Adidas, Diadora, Wilson and Lacoste sponsor 
 you if you play well and my personal favourite, if your manager is restricted to teaching you crappy 
 things like improving your focus then you can sack him or her and get a coach who can teach you 
 power shots and serves. The Detail is almost perfect on the court. There are people running past 
 and stopping to spectate, birds flying over head and the odd helicopter goes past. When you stop 
 just staring at the screen and actually start playing tennis, youll see why Top spin 2 deserves 
 all its credit. 
  For what I think is the first time on a tennis game running actually looks real, if you are in 
 a hurry and want to get to the final you can take a chance and simulate games, sets or matches 
 and the shots are the icing on the cake. There are so many different ways to hit a shot or serve 
 and holding LT before a shot button allows you to hit a special shot and holding RT before bashing 
 the shot button will perform a risk shot. For example, pressing B will allow you to perform a top 
 spin shot, but holding LT and pressing B will make your player hit a passing shot and RT and B 
 hits a diagonal top spin risk shot shot. The only difficult part about using any shot that is not 
 a safe shot is getting the right angle on the ball. Too much and it will go out, too little and 
 your out of position and your opponent will finish you. Ill say no more about playing the game 
 and let you do that but I think Top Spin 2 is well worth buying for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xoverkillx
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is equal to the first top spin. Its a lot the same with excellent graphics. The players 
 in this game are very realsitic and customizable looking. The camera angles can get annoying sometimes 
 but you will get used to them. Top Spin 2 isn't the best 360 game out there but its a good game 
 if you ask me. The multiplayer in TOp spin 2 online and offline is great. Its very fun to come 
 stomp on your friends or hook up a match on Xbox live they are both very fun ways to player. I 
 would definatly reccomend buying Top Spin 2 because of the 40$ pricetag which makes it one of the 
 cheapest Xbox 360 games to launch at that price. Also because it is fun and you will definatly 
 get your money out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Good: Career mode is super deep and very enjoyable to go through. It offers more than just a regular 
 tennis game. You get to do unique training drills, which are a blast, and doubles tournaments. 
 The controls are pretty responsive and works well. It is just a very solid game.
  
  Bad: The online for this game is hard to just pick up and play because you must use your created 
 charactor instead of picking somebody like Andy Roddik or something. This forces you to play through 
 career mode and max out your charactor before you take it online. Otherwise you will killed everymatch. 
 The Player models are absolutely horrible. There are only a few players who look like there real 
 life couterpart. The graphics are just so so.
  
  In summary this game focuses on its gameplay which is its strong point. The bad points are really 
 just cast in the shadow as you play this game. I think this is a great game that at least deserves 
 a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weazel1838
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 3, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  when i picked up top spin 2, i had pretty high expectations. The original for xbox was such a ground 
 breaking game. It featrured great game play, xbox live, and not to mention a beautiful layout. 
 When the disc went into my 360 i was ready to see vast improvements from the original, and sadly 
 i didnt get them. The game is great, dont get me wrong. It just didnt give me the groundbreaking 
 features that the first on gave me. TS2 has great graphics, although their faces kinda freak me 
 out. It also has a very in-depth career mode which isnt to challenging at first but gets a little 
 harder as you go on as you start to play the real-deal players. The new training is much better 
 than before, but still is very similar to the original TS. I love tennis, so this game is still 
 one of my favorites, but if your not a die hard fan, you may want to rent before purchasing. One 
 other thing, dont even bother looking into the party games. I dont know what 2K was thinking when 
 they designed these but they suck! I dont know about anyone else, but when i play on xbox live, 
 it seems very choppy as well. Overall, a good tennis game for tennis fans. But nothing more than 
 taht. If you have an xbox, buy or keep top spin, i guess you pay what you get for. I thought i 
 was getting a steal!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mope01
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 1, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the previous games, you'll probably like this game - for a few days. It's 
 definitely a rental game. Career mode lacks depth and really doesn't bring anything new to the 
 table. Train - Tournament - Train - Tournament, rinse, repeat. Sponsors come and go, and by only 
 a few hours into career mode I was ranked #12th in the world with marginal improvements in stats. 
 The highest level tournaments (Masters - Wimbledon, US Open, etc) are challenging at best. Trick 
 shots are implemented badly with a difficult to learn timing system for each. 
  
  Gameplay - Not bad. Fun at first, but loses its appeal fast. After about 10 matches I was bored 
 with the game play and found it extremely repetitive. The AI is very predictable most times and 
 you can really play through the game without learning the trick shots at all. Furthermore, there 
 are ball placements off serves that guarantee a miss by the computer to make it even easier. As 
 mentioned above Career mode leaves a lot to be desired, and there is no real incentive to play 
 the other modes at all. The training modes are boring and can be frustrating, but at the higher 
 stages of career mode almost no time to train between tournaments, special events and the like. 
 Upgrading rackets and gear seem to have no effect on any of your stats and only effect the look 
 of your character. Playing on the far side of the court is really bothersome. Simulation seems 
 to always favour the CPU. Overall - 6/10
  
  Graphics - Sub par for Xbox 360. The cut scenes and crowd look pretty good, but other than that 
 - it really doesn't look any different than PS2 or Xbox could pull out. Animations often lead to 
 characters being forced a certain way, and conflict with timing and movement quite easily. The 
 ball boy has one animation and if the ball travels more than a foot from the net the runner won't 
 even go near it, just running half-way across the screen and disappearing into nothing, leaving 
 the ball on the court momentarily. 
  Overall - 6/10 
  
  Sound - Not much to say here. Not bad, but nothing special. Multiple languages keep it semi-amusing, 
 basic crowd and player noises are there. However, the menu's get extremely annoying with the same 
 three or so tunes playing in the background. Overall - 7/10
  
  Value - Again, it lacks lasting appeal. The multiplayer isn't bad and Xbox live is nothing to bolster 
 about. Career mode doesn't offer many rewards worth while and gets repetitive and boring quickly. 
 Overall - 6/10
  
  Closing comments: Rent this game if you must play it, as it will probably only appeal to the hardcore 
 tennis fans. Another disappointing sports game for the already disappointing xbox 360 sports lineup.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamMM3_Xbox
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 1, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge tennis fan but i normally like sports games. This game is the worst sports game 
 i have ever played. The graphics are good but the game itself is terrable. I guess if you were 
 a tennis fan you could possably like this game but i hated it. It was fun playing it with two vs 
 two with my dad but the carrer mode was bad. I didnt even try online but i am not very good at 
 the game so i would probably be bad at it online. Its the first game i have returned after only 
 3-4 hours of playing. Deffently dont recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved Mario tennis.... but since that will never show up on 360.... I figured this game would be 
 the next best thing.... and it is...
  
  I had never played a realistic tennis game before this one, so i didn't really know what to expect. 
 Although this game didn't leave me as confused as Fight Night with its total control punching, 
 it still took a while to get used to the special swings.... or risk shots...
  
  I find serving to be a little difficult to get perfect, especially when using the risk shot style. 
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but by no means do they push the envelope when it comes to the capabilities 
 of the 360...
  
  The sound is pretty good but I'm not sure how the sound track is since I never really pay attention 
 to it anyway. 
  
  Bottom line.... if you like any tennis games... and you want one for the 360... Top Spin will not 
 dissapoint for the meare $40 it costs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyes1904
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Good:
  The game has many new characters for both male and female.
  It features a 5 year career and you even get features like a rival from your own country, special 
 events and this time u play the tournaments when they actually happen and a new feature called 
 simulation which lets u sim full matches, sets or just games.
  There is also many new shots and stats to fill up with stars.
  There is of course a good online 
 mode as with most games coming out now.
  
  Bad:
  The game gets repetative with every character you play they do the same shots in the same places 
 which are usually serve out wide then hit left then right then left.
  The risk meter has changed from top spin 1 which makes it harder to do risk shots when moving but 
 u dont need them as u can win just about every game using the B button which is all that happens 
 online aswell.
  They have also changed the zoom cam which is VERY annoying and again they have only singles online 
 unless u have a freind round.
  
  Overall its a good game but gets VERY repetative and annoying and even easy as i completed this 
 in about 1 day.
  I would reccomend the game but if u get annoyed with games easy then dont buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfa1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I play tennis in the real life to and I have missed a really good tennis game for a long time. 
 Now Top Spin 2 is here and I don't have to wait anymore.
  
  The career in Top Spin 1 was quite easy. Unfortunately, it hasn't change that much in Top Spin 
 2. You can still be ranked #1 only by playing 10 hours or something like that. It should have been 
 harder. But that's the only thing I wan't to complain on.
  There is a better arrangement and it is really good that you can choose between playing a match 
 or train when there is a tournament. It is good that you can loose ranks if you don't compete in 
 enough tournaments and etc. And the career becomes a bit more challenging if you wan't to complete 
 all sponsor challenges to.
  Creating your own player is something I like in games. And in Top Spin 2 there is so much you can 
 adjust that you should be able to make the player look almost as you do, if that is what you want.
 
  The ability to choose coach is very positive, so you can learn different ways to play tennis. 
 And it is good that they are better on some parts than the others and not that good on other parts. 
 That makes it important to think if you want your player to be a net player or a baseline player. 
 The ability to get 60 stars to improve your stile is also good. Once again, do you wan't your player 
 to be a net player or a baseline player? Depending on what you wan't you should spend them differently.
 
  There are 4 types of tournaments, minor, major, masters and grand slams. Of course the grand slams 
 are more difficult than the minor, but there is no really big difference. The opponent is a bit 
 faster, shoots a bit harder and returns the ball a bit better.
  If you don't want to play a tournament there are sometimes special events like mix tournaments, 
 offer from a pro to play against or to play in a team for your country. There are a lot of variations 
 which makes Top Spin 2 to last longer.
  
  The multiplayer offers some different party games for you and your friends, like painting the opponents 
 side with permanent color and other stuff. If you only wan't to play a regular match, you can do 
 that, of course. If that is what you want, you can play both singles against each other or doubles 
 with or against each other.
  
  The graphics are impressing. It looks very real. And the way they move is very real to. There is 
 shadow and the ball is more or less easy to see depending on if the ball is in the shadow or in 
 the sunlight.
  The sound is real to, even though there is not much sound in the game actually. But the feeling 
 when the ball bounces or hit the tennis racket is just right.
  The control couldn't be better. It is very easy to learn it and there should be no problem to learn 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acerbicgeoff
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  for as long as i can remember, i've been a fairly avid fan of tennis, starting back in the early 
 90's with goran ivanisevic and progressing through the years with becker, roddick, agassi, mcenroe 
 ... so, when top spin 2 came out i was all over it. i had played the original top spin and loved 
 it and figured this one would be top notch. yeah ... not so much.
  
  the game is fun, don't get me wrong, but i feel so limited in playability. i either train -- spending 
 an inordinate amount of 'coin' that i really haven't earned yet -- or on the rare occasion that i 
 receive a 'minor' competition selection that i might even be capable of having a fair shot at, 
 i make such a measly sum of cash that it wasn't worth my time. i tried a major competition ... 
 creamed. 
  
  player creation was fun and my vin diesel character looks great in an adidas sleeveless t with 
 a pair of dark oakley wrap-arounds but moves like special ed child playing with his own shadow. 
 he jumps the opposite way at times or doesn't even respond to button presses and just stands there 
 while a ball sails lazily past, easily within reach. it gets a little frustrating. graphics are 
 great and as it stands, that's almost all this game has going for it. sure, it has its moments 
 of competitive fun but nearly every time i am at the top of the screen, i lose the game ... and 
 the close-up camera doesn't show the entire court on your side and you easily miss returns. i absolutely 
 abhor the camera setup and would really have liked the way that mario tennis -- yes, i went there -- kept 
 the camera at the players back even after you switched courts. 
  
  enough ranting for now. i feel like smashing a few balls ... tennis balls, that is.
  
  -g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zogamer7
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Topspin 2 just doesn't serve up the kind of features I have come to expect in a sequel. As soon 
 as I turned on the game I jumped right into a exibition match. 24 licensed players to choose from 
 off the bat..... (okay thats good) . As this is a Xbox 360 title I was expecting to be wowed by the 
 amazing graphics..... but unfortanetly that fell short like a bad dropshot. It looked as though 
 the developers used the same Topspin engine in Topspin 2. All they did was run it on the 360 hardware..... okay 
 aside from the dissapointing graphics the gameplay was pretty solid. same idea as the original 
 they just tweaked a few ideas and the risk shot. After only 1 service game I was ready to quit. 
 The gameplay almost put me to sleep. It's so damn boring i felt like I was sitting through 3 hours 
 of Lindsay Lohan. Overall the gameplay is solid but boring, the music is bland, and if you enjoyed 
 the first Topspin I suppose you'll also enjoy this re-hash of the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaDom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Finally someone has released a tennis game that feels like proper tennis, not the "one button press" 
 gameplay of the past but a more tactical loook on the game where you're forced out of the one button 
 play and moreso into using different shots in different situations. 
  
  After going back through my old tennis games (Tennis on the Sega Master System stands out) you 
 really get a feel for the progression towards this game by those which have been released before 
 it.
  
  the gameplay isn't that much different from Top Spin 1, the added bonus is that when you are playing 
 a game while connected to Xbox LIve, all of your friends on your list can see wether you're pwning 
 or getting your arse handed to you on a silver platter.
  
  The control system is still the norm, but the way it's implemented into the game is what makes 
 it feel like none before it via the apparent use of spin and slice shots in certain situations.
 
  
  Having played Tennis on the Junior World Circuit, this game felt just right. and I reccommend it 
 to anyone who enjoys the sport at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruesonic
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  virtua tennis was a great game, this is good, i mean the difficulty is pissing me right off, but there 
 is a great game if you learn, well i hope but i still haven't adjusted, time will tell.
  
  but for the time had i have been having great difficulty learning it all, i have started a career 
 in it, as if playing as a good charicter was'nt hard enough, now you gotta start as the crappest 
 on the circuit which won't help much.
  
  the graphics are brilliant though, i can't say no to the games infinite beauty, and the sound effects 
 are brilliant, but i think the gameplay really put me off, i still play the game with my friends, since 
 my mate likes some tennis games, so co-op was on the menu, still the **** bots had it in for us. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperTramp707
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  First off, if you enjoyed Top Spin 1, you will most definitely enjoy Top Spin 2, and if you didn't, 
 then chances are you won't.
  
  If you haven't played the original, then read on.
  
  You don't need to have any particular interest in tennis to enjoy Top Spin 2, in fact, this game 
 actually got me into the sport of tennis, and know I watch it frequently on TV.
  The game features most of the pros you would expect, with only a few exceptions (I was extremely 
 surprised not to see Raphael Nadal) and all of their likenesses are excellent.
  On that note, we move on to the graphics. Tennis isn't really the kind of game where you can showcase 
 flashy graphics, and at no point does the game really appear to flex the 360's muscle, but the 
 attention to detail is clear if you bother to look.
  The sound is everything you expect it to be in a tennis game, and nothing more. The player's grunts 
 can get a little repetitive, and the voice mails you recieve in the career mode vary from grim 
 to worse.
  The game features exhibition matches, Career Mode, Party Games and Single and Doubles matches on 
 one console or over Xbox LIVE.
  Of course, what really matters is, how does the game play? And the answer is: very well. The shots 
 are realistic, they behave how you would expect them to in real life, and the shot animations are 
 excellent. There are more risk shots than in the first game, as well as the new "advanced shots" 
 which can only be used by building up your momentum meter. All in all this system works fairly 
 well.
  The opponent AI is very clever, and will often give you a real run for your money, especially when 
 playing the top ranked players.
  
  In conclusion, Top Spin 2 plays an excellent game of tennis, one that will probably be enjoyed 
 by most people willing to give it a chance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is a good game, but it won't keep you interested for more than a month unless you really 
 love tennis.
  
  When I first started playing this, I wanted to hunt down the developers and make them remake the 
 game. If you've played the original Top Spin before, the learning curve is quite a while longer 
 than you'd expect. You'll have to get used to how easy it is to hit balls out with certain swings 
 like top spins and slices, and that was my biggest problem. The game feels much more like real 
 tennis though, with more unforced errors and more variety is needed in swings to beat some opponents.
 
  
  The career mode is a little more in depth, but they leave out a few small things that made the 
 first one's better, but make up for it with neat additions like the training programs and more 
 complex stat system. The AI starts off easy, but in the Grand Slams, they turn into monsters. They 
 are able to hit the ball so nicely into corners that even if you hit it back, they'll make sure 
 you won't get to it a second time. Sure, it is realistic and adds a level of difficulty, but this 
 gets really frustrating, and takes away the casual gamer audience.
  
  Graphically, the game is good, it looks a little better than the Top Spin graphics, which is a 
 little sad. But there are certain problems, like the loading times for a 360 game with these graphics 
 are too long. Plus, the old Near camera view has been replaced by a horrible Zoom view that half 
 of the time doesn't even let you see where you are hitting. The normal view is often terrible and 
 you sometimes look like you are watching yourself on a zoomed out TV tennis match instead of being 
 in the game.
  
  The sound is good, but most of the sound effects and music is highly repetitive and tends to get 
 annoying. Some of the music doesn't fit the game at all, and there are few tracks. In fact, the 
 best song is at the character creation screen, which is sort of odd.
  
  A big problem with the game is that it lacks a certain value. Unless you love tennis, it will get 
 old fast, probably in a week, because the career is, once again, highly unsatisfying. XBox Live 
 probably helps it be more interesting so you can have someone other than the occasionally extremely 
 difficult AI, but I would still say this is essentially worth a 1 to 2 week long rental.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty good. Don't give up on it because you were good at Top Spin but keep 
 making errors in Top Spin 2. If you buy it before renting and learn that it bores you, though, 
 don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve11113
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  the gameplay is highly addictive 
  it seems better than previous attempts of tennis games
  great career mode very challenging
  world class tennis players 
  great venues
  one of the 
 best xbox 360 games out
  great buy 
  very good graphics very realistic 
  a + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + ++ 
 + + ++ + + + ++ + + + + + + ++ + + + ++ ++ +++ + + + + + + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegemo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely for the hard-core tennis fan. If you don't mind boring repetitive action, 
 and harder than hell gameplay this is the title for you. 2K sports seems to be missing the boat 
 on all of their sports titles and this is definitely no exception. The game has very good graphics 
 but loses it's novelty when you begin to realize that in order to make advanced shots you need 
 to have ungodly reflexes and alot of luck. 2K seems to have forgotten that even though all the 
 bells and whistles are cool, what really matters is a fun gaming experience instead of a game that 
 seems like work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanirama
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  The first Top Spin really gripped me and I played countless hours on it. It had a few shortcomings 
 that I hoped TS2 would fix. 
  Unfortunately, not only have they not fixed those issues but added a few more to cause an overall 
 let down for this top spin game. It really should be called : Bad Spin 2 , since thats what they 
 did with the classic original. 
  
  Here are some negatives -
  1. They did not fix the damn Far Camera view. You regularly find yourself on the other side of 
 the net i. e. camera doesn't switch with you when you switch court sides. You cannot play with you 
 on the far side of the court as all the shots have to be in reverse now. 
  
  2. Zoom Camera is not fluid as in the original. Its a static camera fixed looking down the center 
 line which means you cannot get a feel for the proper angle on shots. Feels more like a spectators 
 game than a real players game
  
  3. Long loading times that shouldn't be present on Next-Gen. Period.
  
  4. Graphics are sub-par 
 for next-gen. Good for Xbox but not adequate for Xbox 360. 
  
  5. Player feet seems odd on the surface. There's no skid marks, slide marks 
  They seem oddly 
 detached from the playing surface. Looks wierd 
  
  6. TOO DAMN HARD. I was a good player on the Xbox but here I get my ass handed to me.
  
  7. 
 How come exhibition games pit men against women ????
  
  8. Sound is not top notch. Its passable. 
  
  Overall : 6.5/10 Very poor next version and I 
 hope they do a better job for TS3 and make it come out on more platforms please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab123321
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  i've been playing this game for the past two weeks or so and it is a lot more interesting than 
 i exptect a tennis game would be. the only thing i'm not satisfied with is the graphics and of 
 course the loading time. the multiplayer mode is a great way to go when you want to just have fun 
 w/ a friend in a face on match up. career mode in my view is too long, you'll probably get sick 
 of it by the end of second season and just ended up sim'ing through the rest of career mode. and 
 did i mention you'll probably spend more time waiting for the loading screen instead of actually 
 playing tennis? the soundtracks are decent, but i've noticed they put chinese and japanese music 
 in the same stage, which makes me think whether or not they know what they were doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofika8
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Then the flaws come. it isnt a simulation, but a way for you to toss your controllers. piece of 
 crap controls=you itting the ball out of bounds a milion times while the enemy keeps serving bull 
 crap hits. yeah, it isnt worth a rental, trust me. so far, the dumb skill challenges are boring. 
 then the dumb cheap tournaments. i thought it would be fun, but then came the flaws. the ai dominates, 
 while learning players struggle. it simply isnt worth paying $40-for. and and and and and and and 
 and and and and and and and and the game isnt like the fun older version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - After about an hour or 2 you will get sick of playing this game. There are 4 different 
 ways to hit the ball , but the only one that really seems like a different kind of hit , is when 
 you hit in the air - but that is a useless tatic anyway . It's just hitting the ball back and forth 
 hopefully you get lucky and score. There really is no way to play better than someone else it's 
 all compleltly luck .
  
  Graphics - The graphics aren't improved much from the one on the xbox , it dosen't look like a 
 next gen game at all.
  
  Sound - The game has a hard rock soundrack , and it's tennis. 
  
  Value - The ranked multiplayer matches require you to beat career mode first , which is mostly 
 - a TON of loading . When you want to train in career mode , you have to load . When your done 
 training (which takes about 2 minutes to play) then you have to load back to the menu . It's a 
 ton of loading for nothing. Also , there aren't many players playing the game. 
  
  Bad Tilt - when i was playing online barley anyone had a headset
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is obviously the sequel to the great Top Spin game from the original Xbox. The original 
 Top Spin was a great game, and Top Spin doesn't change much of the formula, but their are some 
 minor problems with the game that really bog down the game and make it a bit frustrating. Frustrating 
 is a bit of a relative term. If you played the first Top Spin and were good at it, chances are 
 that you will be good at this game and find it not much of a challenge.
  
  There are four basic ways to try to beat your opponent. The A button is the "safe shot," which 
 will never go out of bounds. Then you have your slice, top spin and lob shot, which all have a 
 chance of going out if you don't have aim them right. Then, there are risk shots, where you hold 
 down the right trigger, and then press whatever button you want for the situation. However, there 
 is a meter that goes up and down, and if you don't hit it exactly, it'll hit the net or go out 
 of bounds. The last of the shots use the momentum you gain from winning volleys and games. You 
 hit the left trigger, then the corresponding X, Y, A or B button. If you can master the risk shots, 
 you are totally unbeatable. However, safe shots should probably get you by, and it is really hard 
 to be able to hit the risk shots with any regularity.
  
  There are four modes for you to choose from: Exhibition, Tournament, Career, and then your standard 
 online mode. Career mode is easily the best mode. It ties into the online mode, as your created 
 character can go online and play against others created characters. The career mode is pretty cool 
 and there are three big achievements that are tied with the career. In terms of customization of 
 the character, you there are just tons of ways to make your character look distinct. If you want 
 to put it the time, you could probably make a character look like you.
  
  The actual gameplay in Top Spin offers a pretty solid game of tennis, but the AI seems to be a 
 little strange. There are times within the game where you just tear through a person in a set or 
 within a game, where they just play horrible. Moments later, it seems like you can get the ball 
 by them. There really seems to be no rhyme or reason to this, because sometimes the computer will 
 go cold when he has a lot of momentum, and then go warm when he's been playing horribly. I can 
 understand in any sport that there ups and downs, but the AI is so inexplicably spotty that you 
 can't help to think that it could be much better. One strange glitch that I experienced though, 
 is that your character will go invisible at times. I had to play a whole major tournament going 
 only by a headband on where my character was. I'm not sure if this was from me playing the game 
 too much or if it is a problem with the code.
  
  If there is one place where Top Spin 2 excels, it is in it's graphics. The player models look extraordinary, 
 the environments and crowds look nice, especially in the minor tournaments, where there are things 
 going around in the court that really add to the whole presentation. The animations are really 
 smooth and the cut scenes look top-notch, even if they are a little repetitive. There is a nice 
 touch when you play on clay and you slide across the surface, it really adds to the realism. Although 
 it does have a problem. You slide across, and the slide mark appears basically out of nowhere. 
 It looks nice afterwards, though, and I don't know if it is a fair criticism to ask them to have 
 slide marks in real-time at this point. The game features some of the best crowd graphics yet.
 
  
  Top Spin 2 sounds good. The sound of hitting the ball sounds true to life, and the crowd reacts 
 louder after a nice shot or an ace. It doesn't feature any licensed music as far as I could tell, 
 but it really doesn't hurt the game at all. If you want some rock music going while you are playing 
 some tennis, you could always hook up your IPod.
  
  The game also boasts some good value. If you are a really big tennis fan, you could get some tremendous 
 amounts of playing time logged in the online mode, which from what I've played, plays really smoothly, 
 with just really minor lag. The career modes, achievements and 39.99 price tag means that you don't 
 have to worry about not getting your money's worth.
  
  In end, Top Spin is a good game for tennis fans. If you love your tennis, Top Spin 2 will give 
 you your fix. But AI glitches, graphical glitches and the punishing risk shot system bog this game 
 down, and make Top Spin 2 just a rent for an average Xbox 360 points junkie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Great game play, very competitive, highly addictive, nice visuals, the frame rates could have been 
 a little smoother. I played TS for the XBOX and loved it. When I got TS2 I was like, wow. This 
 game really kicks ash. Definitely worth the $39.99 at gamestop. 
  
  I can't see how anyone could have anything negitive to say about this game. What is there not to 
 like. Once you sit down you will wonder where the time has gone. That is how good this game is.
 
  
  If there were anything I would say is not good about it, it would have to be that you can't move 
 your stars around to give your career player different strenghts and weaknesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliem2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Had it for just 3 or 4 days now and I really really like this game. The game feels very polished. 
 
  
  Graphics are good but not mind-blowing, animations are absolutely superb - the players move in 
 a very life-like manner. When you play on some of the unofficial and not-so-great courts, there's 
 usually loads going on. For instance, I was playing on a court in some park and there were people 
 jogging ast, a few onlookers and at one point my serve went out through a gap and a dog started 
 to chase the ball! One tiny nitpick is that the bllboys/girls just run across the net and not actually 
 towards the ball. Sloppy when you consider how much detail has gone into everything else. 
  
  Sounds are great. When you've got a 5.1 system hooked up it feels as though you are actually 
 on the centre court of Wimbledon. Very satisfying sounds when you connect well with shots and when 
 you don't, you can hear it. Some great tunes thrown into the mix including a track by Hoobastank. 
 Some of the generic menu music gets a little repetitive. 
  
  Gameplay. If you like tennis then you can't get much closer to the real thing, save for getting 
 out there and actually playing it. Shots are wide and varied and the slightest tap on the analogue 
 stick may affect the shot you pull off. In one way it's very easy if you keep things basic but 
 then pulling off risk shots is really quite tricky but well worth it and not to mention very satisfying! 
 The AI appears to be absolutely spot on as things aren't too easy on 'easy' but on the 'hard' setting, only 
 seasoned Top Spin veterans will survive. On the easy setting I managed to find a serve that aced 
 an opponent almost every time, which was a little disappointing but then again, it was on easy. 
 
  
  Lastability. Ok, where to start. he game has a lot to keep you playing for a long time. The career 
 mode is very addictive. You start off by creating a character where there are ridiculous amounts 
 of options to configure the way your player looks. We created my housemate and I cannot believe 
 how much it looks like him - it's actually scary! Anyhow, once you've created your caracter you 
 proceed t your career. You have licensed sponsors (a la Tiger Woods) and can kit your character 
 out with numerous licensed manufacturers of Tennis aparel (e. g. Adidas, Nike, Lacoste, Yonex, Dunlop, 
 K-Swiss, etc) . The career is done through a calendar and at each point in the calndar you can chose 
 whether to train (improve your abilities by earning stars - bronze, silver and gold) , play in an 
 event/tournament (move up the ranks to progress towards the bigger competitions) o play special 
 events. It is highly addictive and will eep you occupied for ages!
  
  There's also exhibition mode, where you can play singles/doubles in a single match or tournament. 
 Haven't actually played XBL yet but that's something i'm looking forwards to. Oh yeah, before i 
 forget, there are 20 or so licensed players to chose from (Federer, Hewitt, Roddick, Williams, 
 Sharapova, etc) . I usually sell my games on ebay but this one's a keeper for sure and will take 
 it's place alongside PGR3 and Oblivion. 
  
  All in all, TS2 is a cracker of a title and well worth the purchase. It feels very solid and well 
 polished. Iif you don't like tennis, it might not be for you but if you do, this is an essential 
 buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin from 2K sports is an in deph tennis game the career mode is pretty fun im not gunna like 
 kinda hard in the beginning but get the hang of it and yeah you will play it so much u will finally 
 know how to score in tennis for a first time tennis game player this turned me on to the sport 
 not saying im gunna watch tennis i mean id rather watch paint dry dam thats a fun thing to do but 
 yeah Top Spin i mean its better than getting a round house kick to the face from chuck norris keeps 
 u ocupied the best thing about it is career mode u can in great detail make a guy and go through 
 a career start off from spot 200 and make ur way to #1 if u understand tanget like Mark K ur really 
 gunna have a blast figuring out the angle to hit the ball the basic controls are easy but the advanced 
 hits are kinda tricky depending on ur basic tangent divided by the cosine aka where u are on the 
 quart graphics mmm well there like an xbox far away but when ur looking at Sharapova shes just 
 as hot on the 360 all in all ur gunna like this game if ur a tennis buff ur gunna love this game 
 but they dident put enough players in it music can get a little old to not saying go buy it but 
 u know if ur so bored u watch ur dog eat its own fecal matter (Rosane Hardies words) pick this 
 one up plus its 40 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin Tennis 2 is a great game if you like tennis games. While the graphics could've been a 
 little better in my opinion, they still hold up against any other tennis game on any other system 
 as being better. 
  
  The controls are simple to learn, but take a while to truly master. I suppose that's the most challenging 
 part of it, actually spending enough time to get good enough with your character to rise to #1. 
 
  
  This game offers a really deep career mode, not unlike every tennis game out there. Mini games 
 help build stat points and tournament wins net you sponsorships. Fairly standard stuff, but done 
 well.
  
  Achievement points are reachable, but the developers make you work a little for them unlike some 
 other sports titles available. You need to retire a player to start getting into the highest point 
 achievements which will no doubt take some time. On the flip side, there is a nice in-match sim 
 option that helps keep things moving if you feel that you have the match won before it's actually 
 over. 
  
  With a price point of $40 new, you can argue that the graphical short-comings balance out, but 
 ultimately you'll need to decide for yourself whether to actually buy it or just drop $6 on a weekend 
 rental. Either way, I'd recommend at least one of those choices. This is one that even your girlfriend 
 will like to play. Bonus points there, too. you can even do a mixed-double format. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  After playing top spin 1 on the good old xbox, I was expecting top spin 2 to deliver the reaction 
 top spin 1 gave me. It didn't perform like I hoped it would be, but its stil a superb game.
  
  The graphics are mediocre in game, but the character models are really sweet.
  
  There 
 are alot of famous characters to play and the likenesses are amazing.
  
  The carrer mode is very long and repetitive, but fun at the same time.
  
  Live is good, and 
 there are doubles tornaments now.
  
  They have taken out replays which is really annoying as I wanted to watch all my amazing shots!
 
  
  Overall, its a well made tennis game, but only for the extreme tennis fans out there. Rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirion
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  If you like tennis u must grab this title and play it online for weeks. 
  the graphics are ok but not the very best of the xbox360. but who needs it.
  the gameplay its 
 very very good. its so much enjoyable to play this great game without lag (ive played the first 
 part over months on my old xbox; but the netcode was terrible) with peoples all over the world. 
 now it works fantastic.
  
  dont know why topspin2 got so many low scores in the us magazines. here in the eu the game got 
 higher scores. and again: if u like tennis, plz try this game. it makes much of fun.
  
  Good:
  +good learning curve
  +very good mplayer part with a much better netcode as TopSpin1
 
  +solid Carreer Mode
  
  Bad:
  -loading times
  -some translate mistakes (german version)
  
  Its the best tennis game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I found the original Top Spin to be an addictive, well rounded, extremely enjoyable game. I've 
 been waiting for a long time for a sequal and I'm glad to see that it finally arrived and ready 
 for the XBox360.
  
  First of all, there are some real improvements over the original version. For one, rather than 
 playing in generic tournaments, it seems that 2KSports acquired some licensing deals on this one. 
 They use the real courts and official names (like US Open) . That makes it more real and more fun, 
 in my opinion. Also, in terms of game play, they've really added a lot more to the controls, specifically 
 with advanced shots. In the original, you had four basic shots and two "risk" shots. In the new 
 version there are all types of configurations depending on where you are on the court and what 
 buttons you use. There certainly is a learning curve, but it's worthwhile.
  
  In general, Top Spin2 is a lot like Tiger Woods Golf from EA when it comes to the career mode. 
 You need to build your player, make him/her better by training and competing, and eventually you 
 can be good enough to move on to bigger and tougher competitions. The career mode is a little frustrating 
 at first. Due to your need for money to train, your forced to compete too early, in my opinion. 
 I found my player completely unprepared for my first tournament. And, while I made it to the finals, 
 I didn't win. Also, some of the training sessions are VERY difficult. Although, if you fail the 
 training, you still can improve your player a little. It's just frustrating to waste the money 
 and not succeed.
  
  Visually, the game is very nice to look at. The player creator is almost spooky in the amount of 
 details you can mess around with. Although, some of the creation controls are not very clear as 
 to what they do, so it can be a little annoying to tinker with if you're trying to go for a real 
 specific look. Each court is very well detailed. The lighting is strikingly real and the environments 
 are very vast and impressive to look at. The player models look really nice and the movements are 
 much more fluid than the original (even though those were very good, too) . I would have liked to 
 see more interaction or closeups of the crowd and/or seeing the judges, just to make it a little 
 more interesting.
  
  Sound in the game is rather nice as well. The music is a little annoying, due to the lack of variety. 
 But, it's not terrible. The crowd noises are nice, and although I haven't experienced a Grand Slam 
 crowd yet, it's nice to see how they react to things and seem to have a favorite in certain matches. 
 I would have enjoyed a play by play commentary of sorts. Not exactly play by play, I guess, but 
 you know, in between points it would be nice to have someone review a replay and make comments 
 like a real broadcast.
  
  I do have a couple of complaints that prevent this from becoming one of my favorites. First of 
 all, like I said, the training is tough and the need to compete too quickly is unrealistic. I can 
 understand that people don't want to do nothing but train, but I wish it was more like the original 
 in that you can take the time to train properly if you want before you run off and start competing. 
 It's discourgaging to lose so early in your career and know that you have a lot more to learn. 
 Also, the lighting, while very real, can also make it very tough to see. Certain courts, from certain 
 angles, completely hide the ball. It's really annoying to lose the ball in the background elements. 
 Some contrast adjustments should have been made there. And lastly, the lack of play by play and 
 news items. I realize that tennis broadcasts don't usually include a lot of comments on each movement. 
 They usually only comment in between points. But, adding something like that would make it a lot 
 more interesting. Also, a lot of sports games have news headlines or even highlights and such from 
 around the sport in a given timeframe. It would be nice to see a sports page headline about your 
 player winning a tournament or something. These are just "icing on the cake" comments, so they 
 don't prevent the game from being fun. But, they would make it more fun.
  
  All in all, I really enjoy Top Spin2. The game is challenging, but not impossible. Its certainly 
 not as easy to master as some games, but that makes it last longer. The overall game modes and 
 game play is very good and extremely addicting. So far, it's my favorite sports title on the 360, 
 so that should tell you something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espnrosters
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  TS2 is the first game I played that actually couldve been $60 but wasnt. To put this in context 
 Madden 360 is on the other side of the spectrum. TS2 has out done almost everything Virtua Tennis 
 2 did but still didnt capture how fun the training mini games are in Segasports Tennis 2K2 (SST2K2) . 
 The one thing that made me stop playing TS1 as much as I wanted to was the insane load times and 
 the amount of them. TS2 is still almost as bad as TS1 in that respect which is something I dont 
 understand. You can either train twice a month or play in tournaments if youre ranked high enough 
 to participate. Now you have to hire and fire coaches depending on what part of you game you want 
 to be train on and how high they can train you on that particular attribute. Instead of getting 
 less than 20 stars to distribute to your attributes like in TS1 you have 60 stars to go between 
 your attributes but they can be turned into silver and gold stars which makes a total of 180 possible 
 stars to distribute. Like I mentioned before P. A. M. has squeezed in a lot more training games but 
 still didnt capture how addicting and fun they are in SST2K2. VC helped Sega with SST2K2 and you 
 see some of the players from that game in TS2. The one thing that made VT, SST2K2 and TS1 so good 
 to noobs was its pick up and playability. PAM changed the gameplay some which may turn some people 
 off. TS2 can still be picked up and played by anybody but if you want to win and not end up with 
 hour-long volleys youll have to use more advanced shots. TS2 is only slightly better looking than 
 TS1 but thats still pretty good. The player creator in career mode is the deepest Ive ever used 
 but you can make some of the ugliest players on accident trying to put your own face in the game. 
 The sound in TS2 is okay but it sure would have been a lot better if you couldve used custom soundtracks 
 while practicing or playing exhibition games. Some of the songs from TS1 made its way back into 
 TS2. There are a few other things PAM should have lifted from SST2K2 was making and training a 
 male and female player at the same time so you could use them to play mixed doubles. Also they 
 should have made it where you could hire your doubles partner like in SST2K2. I can still hope 
 they get all that in if they make TS3. If you like tennis and dont want to spend $65 on one game 
 TS2 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrake007
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Every now and then, us tennis fans are greeted with a tennis game. And althogh every one of them 
 is addictiing to tennis and fans non tennis fans, they all continue to come up short. Any one who 
 plays the game of tennis knows that this game is just way off the mark, and yet we still can't 
 put it down. A few examples. Topspin, if the most consistient shot in tennis, not flat balls. Grass, 
 is the fastest court, not clay. Majority of the shots that are "special" pros can hit on a regular 
 basis. The list goes on and on. So , 2k sports, thanks but not thanks. Go out and or check out 
 a man name oscar wegner and see how to play tennis. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunamis8
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Was a huge fan of the first one, and this one is much the same with some improvements and also 
 some short comings. Game play is great. Menus need some work. Not a flashy game though.
  The Career mode came a long long way. Its more tiger woods like. There is a set schedule you can't 
 keep trying the same tournament over and over if you fail, you have to wait till the next year, 
 and if you decide to train that week then you miss the tourney. 
  As for the game play, adding the advanced shots and making risks shots a bit more difficult are 
 improvements. 
  As for next gen I would say not quite there yet, more like gen and a half game. Still a lot of 
 fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boink021
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is tennis. There is not much a company can do in the actual game itself. So where a franchise 
 is to set themselves apart would be through the career, tournies, and extras. This is where Tiger 
 Woods sets itself apart from all other golf games to date. Top Spin 2 is shallow when it comes 
 to the extras. The game is great when playing, but the career mode is a bit flawed. 
  Only being able to either train, play in a tournament, or play in a special event. Once you choose 
 one, you can not do another. Another downfall of the game is only allowing the player 60 stars. 
 Once you start playing against the top tier of players, they have up to 90 stars. So you are at 
 a skilled disadvantage versus players like Federer and Roddick. 
  The flaws of career mode don't totally deal the game a fatal blow. The actually gameplay is solid. 
 I personally have not had a problem with any aspect of the gameplay. Setting yourself up for cross 
 court shots and lobs are essential to winning the match. If you do not set yourself up properly 
 then you will be stuck hitting the ball back and forth until one player gets aggressive.
  Even though the game lacks in depth, it's still a solid title that would be great for competitions 
 with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyaFlight
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  In Top Spin 2, there are tons of beautiful places that the tournaments take place in. But it's 
 a real challenge for the people who don't play sports games.
  
  Developing a character is amazing. There are so many details. You can really personalize "yourself" 
 for your career. You can change everything from your chin to your eyes to your jaw to your nose 
 and really become whoever you want. The graphics for the body are really amazing. The eyes are 
 so crystal. A+ in the development.
  
  I think the game is amazing. The controller setup is great. After a little practice, it becomes 
 second nature. You'll find in the beginning, it's hard to understand what's going on. Just stick 
 with it and you'll want to play all the time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercuryFlash
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Overall Top Spin 2 is a solid game, strongly based on its predecessor Top Spin. The basic tennis 
 action on the court is good, and includes some additional shots above the first game.
  
  Unfortunately, the game just doesn't go far enough to make itself great.
  
  Here are a few 
 of negatives..
  
  1. Load times. During the career mode, the load screens are frequent and long. Early in your carrer 
 when you spend most of your time in training, you actually spend more time looking at the same 
 loading screen then actually training. I can understand the loading time for an entire tournament, 
 but there should be fewer and shorter load times for simple training sessions.
  
  2. Graphics. Yes, they are an improvement from the first game on the Xbox (which is still a good 
 looking game) . The environments and player models have improved, but not enough to be considered 
 next-gen. My biggest complaint is with the licensed players. Most of them bare little resemblence 
 to their real life counterparts. The way they move is fairly accurate, but the faces look fairly 
 generic and their eyes just look creepy. Considering this is a tennis game and the largest number 
 of players you'll have on screen at once is 4, and there are no non-playing characters that require 
 attention (ie coaches, sideline players..) it's very disappointing that the developer couldn't 
 bring more accuracy and detail to the faces of the actual tennis players.
  
  3. Sound and overall atmosphere. There are only 3 music tracks that play during loading and menu 
 screen, making the loads much more difficult to sit through. During matches, the sound and overall 
 atmosphere created by the individual courts and audiences just isn't strong enough to make the 
 matches really compelling. Of course, on the bigger courts you have bigger crowds which helps... but 
 even then the excitement just isn't there.
  
  Perhaps some of my complaints come from the fact that I'm not the biggest tennis fan, but having 
 played Virtua Tennis on the DC and PS2, Top Spin 2 is just missing that something that makes the 
 actual tennis interesting and compelling. VT was more arcade based, faster paced, has faster loads, 
 and offered at least some decent music when you're playing.
  
  Still, Top Spin is much more of a simulation and fans of realistic tennis gameplay (without the 
 realistic atmosphere of major tennis tournaments) will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is a solid tennis game that is fun and challenging. It's a great game that is both fun 
 and good looking.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are solid especially the stadiums and surroundings. The player models look 
 nice and even the crowd isn't half bad.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is solid and is more realistic than the first Top Spin game which I think 
 adds to the overall experience. The controls only take a few games to get used to and I also like 
 how if your player isn't in position to get a shot, he won't get it. That really adds to the realism.
 
  
  Sound: Just your normal sound for a tennis game. Sounds good to me.
  
  Top Spin 2 has its faults but they are few and far between. It is a solid tennis game that anyone 
 would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradjust45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  i played the first top spin game and the gameplay was great. now even the graphics are amaing on 
 the 360 so you really feel like you are playing in a real tennis match. i am not a tennis player 
 but the game makes you want to play tennis! this game is at a great price and only 39.99! you can 
 play online or if you dont have that then you can play bye your self with the great AI. this game 
 is great for your family and friends and l loved it the secont i bought it. 
  9.3 out of ten great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwick7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this review is coming from a huge fan of the first top spin for the xbox. I loved 
 everything about the first one and I, like many others, had huge expectations for this game. I'm 
 happy to say it didn't disappoint. 
  
  The first thing I did was set up a singles exhibition match between Roger Federer and Andy Roddick. 
 The players were introduced by an umpire into Arthur Ash Stadium and some atmospheric music trailed 
 behind it. This leads to one minor problem with the game: The camera. There are only two camera 
 options; zoom and far. Both are just okay but they get the job done. The first thing I noticed 
 when the first serve toss was thrown up was the incredible flow the animations and ball had. The 
 ball seemed real at first since it had the same type of arc and flight a tennis ball has. Each 
 ground stroke the players hit was fluid and well animated. Andy Roddick had his same fast serve 
 motion with a 144 mile per hour serve. Federer had his same "flowing" backhand he has in real life. 
 
  
  The stadiums you can play in are very detailed and perfectly resemble the courts seen in real life. 
 They also took the time to license the U. S. Open, Wimbledon, Australian Open, Indian Wells, ect. 
 The court surfaces look unbelievable. The textures and shadows the courts have looks truly incredible. 
 The "dusk" version of the courts seems to glow as you first see it and has a great feeling to it. 
 All the courts are unique and have their own sense of style and creativity. 
  
  The gameplay of this game has been slightly tweaked. The A button provides a relatively flat ball 
 that always stays in. The Y button provides a lob. The X and B button provide slice and top spin. 
 However, the slice and top spin shots are now harder to get it and require more skill and finesse 
 to get in. If you plant your feet and have more time, it's more likely you'll get the shot in. 
 This provides a nice challenge for those players who love top spin 1. You can no longer push the 
 analog stick all the way on a top spin shot and expect it to create some crazy angle. The best 
 thing about the gameplay and presentation is it really plays like a real match of tennis. The ball 
 hits the top of the net cord, the A. I. actually hits the ball out and misses first serves, and 
 one has to be more aware of when to hit certain shots. This game is not worse than the first top 
 spin it's just a little bit harder. I've been playing this game for about a week and at first I 
 was struggling with the matches. But after the first two days or so I was in control of my shots 
 and witnessing the most realistic video game of tennis to date. 
  
  Overall, this game is an extremely polished, challenging, and fun to play game of tennis. People 
 are getting too hung up on things like the absence of replay. That's one minor problem in the game, 
 that shouldnt ruin the whole game for you. If you like tennis you must pick this one up. If you 
 like video games you must pick this up. If you like a good challenge of a video game that's also 
 rewarding, you must pick this one up! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I believe this is a great game to have for your Xbox 360. There is a couple of mistakes and 
 let downs about this game, but every game is like that. I think this game has better graphics, 
 gameplay, and by far a whole lot better pro tennis people selection. One major thing that needs 
 improvement in this game is I think the carrer mode. It is a major improvement though from the 
 original one for Xbox. I really like that now they have the US Open, Wimbledon, etc. This makes 
 the game more realistic. I would really have liked if they got challanges and replays though for 
 this game and this is another thing it is missing and it is a big let down because the computer 
 judegement is not always right. I think overall this is a game almost all tennis players will like 
 and it is a good sports game to have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I got this game due to being under $50 for a the XBOX360. This game is what I would concider to 
 be exacually like the original TOPSPIN. The game has improved visuals, but it does't shoot you 
 into a NEXT GENERATION area. 2K is my favorite publisher, but this game should have gone through 
 a face-lift and looked more like Fight Night in visuals. I don't know what everone expect from 
 the XBOX360, but I am looking to be amazed everytime I turn it on. This game is good... don't get 
 me wrong.... just the exact same thing that the original Xbox already has. I am glad they have the 
 price a little lower on the $40 side... but if you own the 1st TopSpin.... and do not have an HDTV... you 
 might feel jipped. It is not the worst game... though I can say it is better than MADDEN 2006!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikB0869
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Top Spin since it came out. It was one of the first games I bought for Xbox, 
 and it was (and still is) one of the best games on Xbox. I was happy to hear that Top Spin 2 was 
 coming out in the early spring, and initial reports said that the developer had not fixed what 
 wasn't broke... Oh, how I wish that were actually true. 
  
  Visually, there are some slight improvements, but you know, Top Spin was so visually impressive 
 on the Xbox, that although I know the 360 has way more horsepower than the original Xbox, I honestly 
 don't see a heck of a lot of difference in Top Spin 2. Yes, there are little birdies and kites 
 in the background sometimes, as well as the odd jogger here and there, but that's about it, really. 
 When it came to the create-a-player mode, I was actually rather disappointed with the lack of options 
 in Top Spin 2. In Top Spin, I was able to create a player that looked almost like me, complete 
 with a bit of a gut and male pattern baldness. This is not quite so in Top Spin 2, which was kind 
 of surprising and disappointing to me. 
  
  To be honest with you, though, that's not what is really ticking me off with Top Spin 2. What I 
 don't like the most about Top Spin 2 is the fact that they are messing around with what were very 
 solid controls, and as far as I am concerned, that is fixing something that didn't need to be fixed. 
 I find it quite difficult to hit risk shots and risk serves, and that is even when my momentum 
 gauge is full and my focus is maxed out. What gives with this!? Even normal shots like slice shots, 
 and especially top spin shots, have to done with a lot of concentration on accuracy (as in just 
 barely touching the aiming stick) , or you risk having them fly out of bounds. I've been trying 
 to get my career guy to do a basic top spin serve, which seems to always just drive itself into 
 the net. Gee, this is fun... NOT. 
  
  (Note: The "advanced" and "risk" shots are easier to pull off with the pros that are featured in 
 the game, but I find them awfully hard to do when using my career player, who has just started 
 out, and doesn't have that level of focus and skill yet.)
  
  Another thing that seems to be a glaring mistake is the fact that there are no replays. I don't 
 get this at all. The replays in Top Spin occasionally weren't much good, because there wasn't a 
 long enough delay between the end of play and the start of the replay, which is something that 
 I hoped PAM would fix. Yeah, they fixed it all right: by completely removing it. Brilliant, fellas, 
 just brilliant. Instead, they have chosen to focus on showing the players' attitudes after each 
 point, and although I thought that was an occasionally fun feature to exploit every now and then 
 on Top Spin, I get tired of seeing the same 15 or so animations after each point (4-5 for happy, 
 4-5 for ticked off, and 4-5 for humdrum moments) . Given the choice, I would much rather see the 
 replay of a great play that I made, rather than just see my guy pump his fist in the air for the 
 3-millionth time. 
  
  On the plus side, although training still has a lot of controller-throwingly difficult exercises 
 to be performed, it is nice that you always get at least one performance star to use at the end, 
 even if you fail the exercise outright. 
  
  Honestly, all they all had to do to make Top Spin 2 a success on the 360 was to add the doubles 
 portion to Xbox Live, which they have included here, and add some more pros. Apart from those two 
 things, there really wasn't much that they had to do to Top Spin 2 in order to make it great for 
 the 360. It's too bad that they (PAM and 2K Games) decided to get cute with it. Guys, in the future, 
 know this: Don't mess with success. Or to put it in other words: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. 
 I'm glad you offered this game for twenty dollars off -- I would have been doubly disappointed 
 to have paid full price for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonejester
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Solid game for sports game fans. Me? I like 'em all. Soccer. Rugby. Basketball. Football. Hockey. 
 Snowboarding. Formula One. And yes. Tennis. A few flaws (camera angle, no replay or call disputes, 
 little customization outside of character creation) , but that doesn't keep it from being a good 
 game if you generally like sports and sports games. Character creation is deep, the career mode 
 is challenging, and multiplayer with two or more controllers is great. Could use a bit more music, 
 because what is there is annoying. But thankfully you can turn it down (or off) . 
  
  So, if you are a sports fan and a game fan, this will appeal to you. But if you pretty much stick 
 to RPG's and FPS's, then stay away. You won't find much to your liking here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baztripot
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  besides a few upgrades graphically, there's really no difference with Top Spin 1. the gameplay 
 remains the same, it's just hitting the ball left and right.
  
  some changes were made to the carrer mode because some found it too easy in the first game. but 
 these changes pretty much killed the game.
  
  you get paid when you win championships and receive money from sponsors , you spend it on training 
 but that's about it. Not when hiring coaches and having a lot of money doesn't mean much because 
 the training level you're allowed to get is limited.
  this in turn affects the gameplay because once you start facing the top 10 players, it's nothin 
 but frustration. the player is limited to 60 Stars through training and some of the Pros have close 
 to 90. it doesn't make any sense.
  It's also annoying that in any given week, you can either Train, play a tournament or in some special 
 event. So every time you choose to train, you lost your chance to play in the tourney, and vice 
 versa. 
  
  I managed to beat Federer 3hours ago and my fingers are still sore because you really need to press 
 hard to get some decent power on your shots.
  
  This also affects Xbox Live because you can only use your career player for ranked matches. so 
 if you don't time to create a player in the carrer mode with the most gold stars possible, you 
 can forget about live. you don't stand a chance.
  
  overall, just a remake of the first Top Spin, and this one should last no longer than. 
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Great tennis game, better than the one for the orginal xbox. This game is worth buying since its 
 only 40 dollars! will there ever be a tennis game like virtual tennis for the dream cast. i hope 
 so one day. This game is simlar to the one for the orginal xbox, but they game play seems a lot 
 better. I wasnt a fan of the 1st one but i like this one. Great tennis game, better than the one 
 for the orginal xbox. This game is worth buying since its only 40 dollars! will there ever be a 
 tennis game like virtual tennis for the dream cast. i hope so one day. This game is simlar to the 
 one for the orginal xbox, but they game play seems a lot better. I wasnt a fan of the 1st one but 
 i like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nehe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh Topspin 2 the sequel to the first surprised me with amazing graphics , awesome game play 
 and realistic crowd reactions. The big BUT is the game failed to have challenges and replays. The 
 game was defintely rushed and if the developers would of took their time this would of been a perfect 
 tennis game. Some of the players serves in the game were just repeats. For example, Davenport has 
 the same service motion as Venus. I feel like some characters were worked on more than others. 
 Sharapova has the perfect grunt that sounds just like her yet Venus's grunt sounds nothing like 
 her. I would of liked it if after a match the players would shake each others hand , umpires hand 
 and during a match players yelling out there emotions ( COME ON) or (YES) after a long fought point. 
 As for challenges this is a big part of tennis arguing the shots. This is what is happening in 
 the tennis world and should be implicated in to the tennis game. The things that may seem little 
 to the developers and may not need to be added could be a big down fall to the game as a whole. 
 As far as the replays the developers got lazy I mean come on you couldn't put the replays in laziness. 
 Besides the bad negative reactions I have gave you about the game, the title is still solid. With 
 the exceptional career mode and awesome game play using the pro's playing in different stadiums 
 I have to give the developers two dumbs up for their great work (NOT PERFECT WORK) . If your not 
 a tennis fan don't get the game or at least wait to the price is cheaper about ($20) although $40 
 is a bargain. The game is worth a try besides the negatives you will still find something to like 
 about this tennis game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtoDaJ123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Having played the original for hours and mastering it, was the most fun I've ever had with a tennis 
 game. Frankly things got old with the original and lost interest, mainly the easy and stupid AI. 
 When I found out that Top Spin 2 was coming out I was surprised. I did not expect a sequel after 
 Microsoft got rid of the XSN logo. Well enough of that. Let me just say that Top Spin 2 is a completetly 
 different experience, mainly due to the fact that this game is tough and it will challenge you! 
 But most important of all..... it is very realistic. If you've been wanting to have real sim matches 
 then this is the game you've been waiting for. 
  OK now regarding the difficulty of this sequel... I don't know what 2K Sports did but these pros 
 are running on steroids! Simply put the AI will not give up on any ball, they will always track 
 it down and find a way to get it over the net. Which makes things really fun, rallies are longer 
 than ever and its a great feeling to defeat the AI. 
  Graphics are great, specially on an HDTV. Stadiums and crowds are very detailed and its just simply 
 beautiful. Pros can be recognizable but not so for others (Andy Roddick comes to mind) . The animations 
 are very smooth and textures are awesome.
  Sound leaves something to be desired......... its not very impressive but the crowd is amazing.
 
  All in all, Top Spin 2 is a great game. If you are a tennis fan you should definitely give it 
 a try, its fun, beautiful, and most importantly fun!!! So do yourself a favor and pick this one 
 up! BTW its only $40!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementfreek127
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox Live multiplayer is tons of fun when you have the right opponent. Career mode is awesome 
 because you can create a character and customize and upgrade everything from tennis rackets to 
 your serve. You go through your ranking and can participate in tournements like Wimbledon and the 
 Nasdaq 100. You do training to upgrade your skills and also can get different sponsers and different 
 coaches. And as you get closer to number one you play against real pros such as Roger Federer and 
 Andy Roddick. There are different types of shot like slices and lobs which mix up the gameplay 
 while playing a match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenpeaks
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  I feel in love with the original Top Spin on the Xbox and could not wait to get Top Spin 2 for 
 the 360. Obviously expectations are going to be that the game will go above and beyond the original. 
 I was let down.
  
  One big let down for me was the fact that they completely removed the "replay" feature. So no more 
 watching dueling ralies or awesome returns in slow mo while laughing with friends. The feature 
 is just gone and is a huge let down. Why remove a solid feature that was part of the original game? 
 I'm still in shock regarding this feature missing on the 360.
  
  After getting past this major let down, the game is decent and feels a lot like the original game. 
 Again, was just expecting more. I'm sure I will get hours of enjoyment with the game, just not 
 at the level of enjoyment I was expecting and hoping. 
  
  Overall game is good and a lot of fun, but for fans of the original expecting a lot more, I think 
 there will be a sigh of dissappointment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay69k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Heres my quick review on this game. If you have played the previous Top Spins this game is pretty 
 much the exact same thing. The graphics to me are no better than they were on the previous systems. 
 Very disapointing considering its such an easy game to make it look good. The gameplay is ok and 
 all, but lets face it , its a tennis GAME! I dont know why I wasted 80$ (Can) on this game , it 
 gets old real fast. Atleast there is online play but honestly they could of made the graphix so 
 much better !! Its very diapointing overall 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
