-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Transformers: The Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/transformersmovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highly detailed Transformer models.
 Environments break apart and blow up real good.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Robot-on-robot combat becomes repetitive and dull after a short while.
 Camera causes more problems than it fixes.
 Both campaigns combined still make for a short game.
 Side missions aren't worth doing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.3, 63 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 2,149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Transformers: The Game is a big, loud, shallow action game that severely lacks in content. 

 
  Transformers: The Game is very much the archetypal movie-licensed game. It's got all the hallmark 
 problems of the genre, including short length, overly simplistic mechanics, a barely-there story, 
 and a bit of a sloppy feel. It is simply an excuse for fans of the upcoming live action film (and 
 maybe even some fans of the old cartoons who, admittedly, will take pretty much anything they can 
 get at this point) to run around, awkwardly beating up Autobots or Decepticons in various semidestructible 
 environments. If that's all you want out of the game, then Transformers might provide you a few 
 mild hours of entertainment. If you were hoping for something more, Transformers will probably 
 just disappoint you.  

  The basic premise of the game is the same as the film's. The classic Transformers battle between 
 good robots and evil robots has spilled over to planet Earth as the two warring sides search frantically 
 for an artifact known as the AllSpark. The AllSpark is essentially the life force for all Transformers, 
 which explains why they'd want to get it back. Sam Witwicky (voiced with appropriate "gee whiz!"-ness 
 by Shia LaBeouf) is an average teenager who happens to hold the key to finding the AllSpark. From 
 there, it's a race for both sides to find Sam and get the AllSpark. There might be more to the 
 movie's plot than what is presented here, and you should really hope there is, because otherwise, 
 we're all in for one exceedingly boring film. With the exception of a few bouts of basic dialogue 
 between Sam and the various Transformers (including veteran TV series voice actors Peter Cullen 
 and Frank Welker reprising their roles as Optimus Prime and Megatron with about as much enthusiasm 
 as you could hope for) , there's almost no story to drive the game forward. In some respects that's 
 not surprising, simply because with this method, almost none of the film is spoiled for you.  

 
           Gigantic robots smashing up a city should be more fun than this.      

  The one potentially interesting thing about Transformers is that it splits the game into two campaigns, 
 with one for each faction. In the Autobots campaign, you'll play as Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, Jazz, 
 and others as you hunt for the AllSpark and try to protect Sam, and the rest of humanity, for that 
 matter. On the flipside, the Decepticons campaign has you playing as Megatron, Starscream, Barricade, 
 and company to track down the AllSpark and destroy the Autobots. While the opportunity to play 
 as both the good and evil sides sounds enticing, you'll actually find that there's very little 
 difference between the two campaigns.  

  Regardless of which side you pick, you'll be forced to slog through a copious number of missions 
 that have you fighting easy-to-kill grunt Transformers using the same three-hit combo again and 
 again, or racing around one of the game's few, somewhat open-ended environments trying to chase 
 down one Autobot or Decepticon to fight a few times while using the same three-hit combo, as well 
 as an occasional throw attack. These missions might have been more tolerable if the combat were 
 a little more involved, but as it stands, you just need to mash on the melee attack button to blow 
 through most enemies, and the few that aren't so easy just require a random object from the environment 
 thrown at them to soften them up. As you are Transformers, you can also transform and roll out 
 as one of several different vehicle types. However, driving is decidedly less fun than running 
 around as a robot, as the cars handle very loosely and tend to get hung up on random environmental 
 objects -- which is odd, since when you hit other cars, they just go flying like they're made out 
 of cardboard.  

  The lone bright spot comes from the Decepticons campaign. In certain missions, you're tasked with 
 simply laying waste to one environment or another. Be it a big city or a sprawling military installation, 
 these environments are fun to destroy. Your weapons fire does a lot of damage to buildings, cars, 
 trees, and any other solid objects nearby. In the Autobots campaign, you can do the same types 
 of damage, but it's all incidental, since you're ultimately trying to protect humanity -- not lay 
 waste to it. On the Decepticons side, your goal is to cause as much chaos as you can, and that 
 can be a good bit of fun. What's neat is the way the destruction and battles are presented -- explosions 
 are frequent and large, the damage to buildings looks appropriately massive, and the combat moves 
 you can pull off actually do look cool. Seeing Optimus running around, double-fisting pistols, 
 and Blackout using his helicopter blades as a sword is pretty awesome. Part of that comes from 
 some solid animation, but it also helps that the Transformer models are so highly detailed. Say 
 what you want about the new robot designs from the movie -- they're represented very well within 
 the game, though the one issue is that sometimes you'll actually forget which Transformer you're 
 playing as, since many of them look the same in robot form. That's really more the fault of the 
 film's designs than anything else, though.  

  Adding to the mass-destruction effect is the camera, which violently shakes during battles, and 
 even jerks around a bit as your big, clunky robots run around. Unfortunately, that shaky-cam effect 
 tends to get in the way more than it helps. At times there are so many explosions and so much gunfire 
 going off that the added chaos of the camera makes the whole scene indecipherable for several seconds. 
 This is also one of those games where you can easily get boxed in by multiple enemies or trapped 
 in some chunk of the environment, unable to move because the camera won't steer around to a good 
 vantage point. By the same token, Transformers relies too heavily on contrived "action zones," 
 which are just chunks of the open-world environments that you can't exit while in battle. If you 
 go out, you've got to run back in or you fail the mission. Of course, it doesn't help when you're 
 getting blasted out of the zone and are continually forced out again and again by enemies who follow 
 you out and keep knocking away at you. That isn't a constant problem, but a few missions are made 
 far too frustrating by the fact that you have to constantly try to stay within these stupid action 
 zones.  

  At least you won't have to put up with issues like this for very long. Each of the game's campaigns 
 is only a few hours in length, putting the game's total length right around five to six hours. 
 If you're really looking to extend out the experience, there are a bunch of side missions in each 
 game area (most of which are just simple, slightly dull "kill a bunch of this enemy type" missions) , 
 some unlockable content to mess with, including film clips and photo sets, and some unlockable 
 skins for the Transformers that give them their original, G1 skins from the cartoon. Granted, you'll 
 have to go do all the silly side missions to unlock a lot of those skins, and those just aren't 
 fun enough to justify the effort.  

           You get gigantic blasters, but you almost never have to use them. That's pretty dumb. 

  There are some notable differences among the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii versions of Transformers. 
 The Xbox 360 version has the usual smattering of achievements, many of which can be easily earned 
 just playing through both campaigns, though several of the remaining ones require you to do all 
 the various side missions. In terms of control, the 360 and PS3 versions are basically identical, 
 though the PS3 version lets you use the Sixaxis tilt controls to steer Decepticons that can fly, 
 like Megatron and Blackout. The Wii version obviously has its own array of motion controls, though 
 unlike some other, recent movie-licensed titles, they aren't completely half-baked. Yes, you swipe 
 the Wii Remote or the Nunchuk to attack, but these controls actually feel responsive enough that 
 you don't feel like you're constantly struggling to hit something. The one downside is camera control, 
 which is mapped to the remote. It's not unmanageable, but the camera will often move up or down 
 too far if you just happen to hold the remote at a slight angle. In terms of graphics, the 360 
 and PS3 versions are both entirely comparable to each other, though the PS3 version is a bit lacking 
 in the lighting department, looking overly dark in spots. The Wii version retains the basic look 
 of the other versions, though it's obviously scaled down to fit with the system's hardware. The 
 Transformers still look nicely detailed in the Wii version, but the environments have been scaled 
 back significantly. The frame rate also tends to dip more often on the Wii version, but not to 
 an unplayable degree.  

  Transformers: The Game ultimately delivers a passable, though entirely unremarkable tie-in to the 
 upcoming film. The one thing it nails is the size and feel of these gigantic robots and their ability 
 to cause massive destruction, but that isn't enough to carry the entire game, especially with the 
 burden of the periodic glitches, camera problems, and overly simplistic combat to carry as well. 
 If all you want is to see some nice-looking robots beat each other and the world silly, then throwing 
 down a rental fee on this game isn't a bad way to go. But regardless of your affinity for the film, 
 the franchise at large, or giant robots in general, Transformers: The Game doesn't have enough 
 going for it to make it worth a purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (122 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Oskjerta
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  So.. how would U like to play as any character from the movie?
  WHAT!!!?? They forgot Frenzy, Ratchet and Brawl!?!?
  
  
  This game is my favorite game on 
 my X360, Kicking Ironhide's Butt is pure ownage, I keep dying! but really fun!!!!! Awesome Paint 
 jobs and character cheats, G1 paint jobs and G1 Versions!!!!!!!!
  
  This game is very good, U can choose Your alliance!! I heard the only way U can get Multiplayer 
 is when U have this game on PSP,
  I got this for $30, Let's hope ROTF is as good as this!!!!
  
  this game is pure 
 
  
  The good :) 
  1. U can fly
  2. U can get rapid fire guns,
  3. Very Interactive
  
  The bad : (
  1. Doesn't really got to the story
  2. Ratchet, Frenzy and Brawl R not playable
 
  3. U can only fly 400 Kilometres in speed
  4. Ironhide always finds a way to kick UR butt
  
  This game is very good, I rate it max!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is by far, without a doubt, the worst game I have ever played. Sure I haven't played every 
 game, but I have played a hell of a lot. It is an insult to the Transformers in every way. I really 
 am struggling to decide where to start.
  
  The game is actually fun for a good solid 5 minutes. The level of destruction you can inflict on 
 the environment is awesome and it is a cool idea to allow you to play as the Autobots or Deceptacons. 
 Running around as a giant robot has it's appeal. It is after these first 5 minutes that the game 
 turns to absolute crap. Your robot is supposed to have all kinds of abilities like transforming 
 on the fly, climbing buildings, or picking up objects to use as weapons. I couldn't get any of 
 them to work with any kind of regularity. When attempting to pick up an object at my feet, I usually 
 had to try 3 or more times. Some enemies are only vulnerable to thrown weapons and picking up objects 
 to throw on the fly in the middle of a fight is a near impossible. The controls work fine if you 
 are standing in the middle of a field all alone, but as soon as you bump into something, your robot 
 decides to tell you which way he wants to look.
  
  Driving around as a vehicle is absolutely terrible. The car physics are very floaty and don't handle 
 either realistically or easily. Driving into other vehicles (which is necessary in most driving 
 missions) is a complete crap shoot. I ran through a police roadblock and scooped a tank into the 
 air without loosing speed, only to be brought to a dead stop by a city bus. Upon turning around 
 and hitting the same bus again, it was flung into the air without phasing me. I could drive straight 
 through low walls sometimes, while other times these walls would bring me to a complete stop. There 
 was even a time where I was driving down an empty street at a moderate rate of speed and, even 
 though I didn't hit anything, I was flung spinning into the air for about a half a mile. The game 
 is played in an open world environment with no map available so there is no way to find the optimum 
 way to a goal. There was also a boss fight I came to fairly early in the game that I battled for 
 a half hour without having any clue how to damage him and the hint system in the game doesn't even 
 mention that fight. I spent most of my time with the game trying unsuccessfully to learn the proper 
 way to manipulate the controls. No matter how much time I spent with the game, the controls never 
 felt right and I'm not sure if it was because the controller layout wasn't good or if the way the 
 robot on screen never quite responded properly to the controller inputs.
  
  The graphics in every single area are horrendous. Sure, the robots look kind of cool, but everything 
 else on screen reminded me of the first 3D games I have played. Everything has a very low polygon 
 count and little to no detail. This is also the first game that I have ever played where the cutscenes 
 look worse than the gameplay. Everything is sped up in the cutscenes, making the action look like 
 a low budget Saturday morning CGI cartoon. It is completely unfaithful to the movie. Speaking of 
 unfaithful the the movie, the missions have no connection to the movie (or even the story in the 
 game for that matter) . During every mission, you are running around in plain view of the public 
 with every cop in the state chasing you. As soon as a cut scene comes up, no one knows you are 
 there. Many times, you will reach your goal at an intersection and see no one around, but a cutscene 
 will start and there will be a fight already in progress right in the center of the intersection.
 
  
  I recall the mission where I decided that the game was pure crap quite vividly. Your objective 
 is to race to Jazz and protect him from attacking drones. Once you reach the first spot, a cutscene 
 shows Jazz get knocked across the street and he looks up at you like a complete sissy and just 
 lays on the ground. The enemies that he couldn't handle alone take two punches from you and you 
 move on. Jazz speeds off and you must catch up to him and do the same thing again. He gets the 
 crap kick out of himself three or four times and you must save him every time. Apparently the video 
 game version of Jazz has no combat abilities what so ever.
  
  This game is just a half assed attempt at cashing in on the movie's success. The sad part is that 
 it will succeed. The game seems to be geared at kids, but the movie wasn't so why would the game 
 be? Most of the fans of the movie will be insulted by this game. If you must play Transformers, 
 buy the movie and hold your controller in you hand and act like you are playing. As pathetic as 
 that sounds, it will be a more rewarding experience than the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  Transformers, more popular than ever thanks to Michael Bay's movies and the awesome Transformers 
 Animated on Cartoon Network. I like the Transformers, you can't call me a "hardcore" fan though, 
 just a casual fan. I thought Bay's movie was okay, but I absolutely love Transformers Animated. 
 I had high hopes for this game, well, not exactly high hopes, but I really wanted to like it. I 
 know I shouldn't expect much from a moviebased game, but still... and what do you know? It's not 
 very good, it's bad. The Transformers look great, and transforming to vehicle looks absolutely 
 amazing. You have two stories and as such, you can play as the Autobots or the Decepticons. 
  
  Playing through the Autobot story is an absolute bore, with the exception of the stuff at the 
 end. It's repetitive beyond belief, and when you're the Autobots, smashing stuff is not much fun. 
 And I want to fight the cool Decepticons, not some random, nameless bots over and over again. But 
 at the end you finally do get to fight several Decepticons in some really cool battles.
  
  It's way more fun to be bad, playng as the Decepticons is much better. Too bad Megatron is only 
 feaured in the most tedious level in he game. But I had a good time ruining bases as Starscream.
 
  
  The game can be summed up like this: get to point A within a time limit, beat up bots, get to a 
 new area, smash stuff up and fight some more. It's the same stuff repeated over again. The camera 
 is awful, you'll sometimes have a hard time figuring out what's happening on screen. Sort of like 
 the movie then. Cars get stuck way too easily, and this is really annoying. Especially when you 
 have to rush to a certain point before the time is up. Wapons in the game are useless, so it's 
 just hammering on the X button.
  
  The music and voiceacting... well, cant really talk about that. It sort of drowned in the explosions. 
 And it's annoying to listen to. It's just explosions on top of explosions on top of sirens on top 
 of explosions.
  
  Thankfully, the game is pretty short, and it IS fun in parts, but you'll grow tired of it quickly. 
 I suppose some Transformers fans may enjoy it, I didn't. Now, I'm off to watch Transformers Animated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure many of you remember the Transformers toy franchise. I loved the Transformers. Granted 
 back then, my family didn't have a lot of money to spend on trivial things, so I didn't own a lot 
 of them. But I watched nearly every episode of the old cartoon. Fast forward to 2007 with the Autobots 
 and Decepticons making a big comeback with a successful blockbuster movie. So, I was the least 
 bit surprised with the video game. But I was interested enough in trying it out for my 360 and, 
 while it looks fantastic, it doesn't really fare well in terms of gameplay.
  
  For starters, you'll be tasked in the participation of two campaigns: the Autobots and the Decepticons. 
 The game is mostly mission based, but there is a free-roaming environment for you to explore, take 
 in and utterly destroy if you're into that sort of thing (of course, you'll be rewarded for it 
 if you're playing the Decepticon campaign because Decepticons ARE evil.) The campaigns range from 
 destroying robot enemies, getting from one place to another, destroying more robot enemies, getting 
 from one place to another, destroying some more stuff, and so forth. While it is gratifying to 
 be able to convert from robot to vehicle at will, there just isn't a whole lot of variety in these 
 missions. To compensate for this, there are optional side-quests to take part in which are similar 
 to the normal missions that will earn you unlockable bonuses and content -- like comic book covers, 
 concept art, photo stills from the 2007 movie, and even Generation One skins for your characters. 
 
  
  When you're not busy with missions and such, you can always hunt down the small cubes and special 
 emblems, which can be a tedious and daunting dask considering the rather large scope of the levels. 
 You don't get many opportunities to fight enemies save for special missions that pit you against 
 behemoths like Blackout, Barricade, Megatron and Brawl. The fights are pretty exciting to take 
 part in -- I just wish there were more of them.
  
  The Decepticon campaign can be interpreted as being the more satisfying of the two factions because 
 you get to destroy stuff and not be penalized. For the first time ever, you'll be able to take 
 the reigns of Megatron and Starscream. But it's also nice to be able to play Prime and the Autobots 
 as well. 
  
  The graphics are excellent -- the environments are richly detailed and it is always satisfying to 
 watch buildings, cars and other structures crumble like dust before your eyes when you destroy 
 them with your fists or with some unfortunate robot being thrown against them. Voice work by Peter 
 Cullen and Frank Welker, who voice Prime and Megatron respectively, is solid and on target, although 
 Megatron doesn't quite sound the same as he did back in the 80s -- but the endearing raspiness is 
 still there. Shia LeBeouf and Megan Fox reprise their movie roles in the game, and their work is 
 also very well done.
  
  Overall, the game is good, but it left me wanting more variety and depth. It is not a complete 
 disappointment, however. The choice of playing a good guy or a bad guy is always something that 
 draws gamers in these days, and the developers were smart in including the option of ravaging the 
 world as the Decepticons. If you're a fan of the Transformers, and saw and loved the movie, you 
 might get a kick out of playing the game. For everyone else, if it piques your interest at all, 
 give it a rent first before you commit to adding it to your library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcader321
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste 
 of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just 
 a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of 
 time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a 
 waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just 
 a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of 
 time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a 
 waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just 
 a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of 
 time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a 
 waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just 
 a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of 
 time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a 
 waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just 
 a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of 
 time. Just a waste of time. Just a waste of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Transformers was a great movie in my opinion so I thought of buying the movie game. It turns out 
 I was partially right.
  Story -- The story in this game relates with the movie. A giant cube called the allspark has landed 
 on earth and a bunch of giant robots are fighting over control for it. The Autobots use it for 
 good while the Decepticons would use it for bad. Sam Witwicky (Shia LaBoeuf) has his grandfather's 
 glasses that have markings on the location of the allspark. The Autobots and Decepticons are after 
 Witwicky and his friend Mikaela (Megan Fox) . The movie's storyline is pretty basic, so even if you're 
 not a Transformers fan, you'll be able to understand it. The game does tell the story through cutscenes 
 and while another robot (depending on which side you're playing as) tells you information on your 
 mission. Overall, the story isn't great in this game, but certainly gets the job done.
  Graphics -- The graphics in this game are a mixed bag. All of the Transformers look great and have 
 lots of detail. The cut scenes also look great, despite the fact that the actors don't really look 
 like themselves. The environments aren't, however, as good. The explosions are poorly done and 
 the fire looks bad. Cars generally look good and non-destroyed buildings actually have lots of 
 detail. The frame rate holds up for the most part but there are also some pop-up issues. Overall, 
 the graphics in this game are good for a movie game, but there are lots of issues.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay is fun for a while but gets boring after a few hours. You play as different 
 transformers throughout the game. You can change form into a car, truck, helicopter, etc.., and 
 then back to the original form. Like the Incredible Hulk, this game offers small but open-worlded 
 levels to freely demolish anything in your path. You can pick up objects with the B button and 
 chuck them, but sometimes this can get annoying when objects move. You can climb buildings, which 
 takes far too slow, or simply jog around the level, which is also very slow. The fastest way to 
 move around the levels is by your other form, such as a car. Blowing up cars and buildings gives 
 you a few hours worth of entertainment, but isn't enough to make a game worth $60 when i got it. 
 Where Transformers: The Game really fails in is in combat. You can fire missiles or automatic bullets, 
 even while in car-form. You can chuck objects at enemies or play close quarter combat style, punching 
 and kicking your enemie with melee attacks. This gets repetitive, especially since bosses practically 
 require it. Some enemies (such as barracade) use an unblockable attack so you have to throw objects 
 at him in order to start the dull business of beating him up. Combat utterly fails my expectations. 
 Mission designs aren't that well either. It basically revolves beating up robots, go to point B, 
 beat up more robots, etc. Other missions involve you racing against another robot to get to a certain 
 area, or just racing by yourself to that area with a time limit. There are clumsy side missions 
 that you can do, but they're so repetitive that they're barely worth doing for the achievements. 
 Overall, the repetitive gameplay brings Transformers: The Game down.
  Story: 7.2/10 -- sure, the story is pretty basic, but it's one thing this game does right compared 
 to others.
  Graphics: 6.6/10 -- the animations and explosions look low-budget, though cut scenes and the Transformer 
 models look great and have detail.
  Gameplay: 5.8/10 -- the open-world gameplay provides a few hours of mindless fun but the combat is 
 too repetitive, boring, and frustrating.
  Final Thoughts: For you die-hard Transformer fans, I would suggest buying this game used at a low 
 price, or maybe not even that. I recommend renting this game for anyone who isn't a transformer 
 fan but who is interested in giant robots fighting each other. This game is definitely not worth 
 buying, and for anyone else you should rent it only if you like easy achievements, because it provides 
 only an afternoon of mindless fun. Some things Transformers: The Game does well, like the story 
 and some of the graphics. But for everything this game does right, it does 2 more things wrong. 
 Transformers: The Game isn't without consideration for rental, but for anyone who's not a die-hard 
 fan of Transformers, this game probably isn't worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  It seems yet another game based off it's movie has turned into a disappointment. It's very obvious 
 that the developers have targetted kids again making it very easy and basic.
  
  Oddly enough, there are a couple of points in the game that are extremely difficult because of 
 the way the game characterisations blend with the environment. Hence the difficulty ranges from 
 extremely easy to extremely hard but overall, very easy.
  
  I didn't like the way the game changed the story line a bit from the movie. E. g. Jazz isn't killed 
 by Megatron as in the movie. 
  
  Each mission is very short and unlocking bonuses is very boring and repetitive. Seriously, wtf!? 
 Overall the Bonuses were not even worth the effort except for the G1 skins.
  
  There are some good points though:
  1) The transformers themselves look very good and the transformations 
 are great. 
  2) Voice acting by the few voices in the game are pretty good.
  3) Background music is pretty good too, almost movie like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 31, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  If you are a Transformers fan, like me, you may enjoy this title. You get to play as various characters 
 on both sides carrying out missions and sub-missions based on the film. Unfortunately, the game's 
 flaws outweigh it's appeal.
  
  The graphics are pretty decent with nice attention to detail. The robots look just as they do in 
 the movie. Plus you can unlock the classic skins for some of the characters. The sound effects 
 are good, as is the dialog. The controls are simple to master and the camera angles are sufficient. 
 There's also plenty of unlockable content, although most of it is comic book covers. You can buy 
 a package from XBL to unlock all features, but it ruins the game. Once you download it, all levels 
 are automatically marked as beaten.
  
  Now for the bad stuff. The physics are a bit shoddy, some of the effects seem inadequate. Some 
 of the sub-missions get repetitive and the game holds no replay value. I also find it annoying 
 that it is impossible to harm people, even when playing as a Decepticon.
  
  The game succeeded in mirroring the events in the film, but failed almost everywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Ah Transformers, who out there hasn't heard of these fantastic toys, movies, and TV Shows? To this 
 day Transformers remains one of the most recognizable franchises of all time, and when the annoucement 
 of a live action Transformers movie broke, reaction varied between out right hatred to cries of 
 joy. 
  
  The movie of course was a runaway hit, and like every hit movie these days, a video game based 
 on the movie was inevitable, the result is one of the better adapations in terms of graphics, controls, 
 and character. The game follows the movie fairly good, with the single player campaign split into 
 the cannon Autobot Campaign and an alternate Decepticon campaign. The game's best feature is of 
 course the incluison of many of the main characters of the movie, including such fan favorite characters 
 as Optimus Prime, Megatron, Blackout, and Bumblebee. Another of the game's strong points is it's 
 controls, which are fairly easy to master, and it's graphics which are fairly realistic, especally 
 on the Transformers themselves. 
  
  However the game's major draw back is it's gameplay. The game play is a huge rip off of Grand Theft 
 Auto, complete with an alert system, however the one redeeming quality is that you are able to 
 destroy nearly every thing in sight. The enemies you fight, in addition to characters from the 
 movie, are generic at best, and ammount to nothing more then Drones, that are identical to each 
 other, this alone contirbutes to the game quickly becoming a bore. 
  
  Over all this is the best Transformers game out there, yet it's dull gameplay may in the end alienate 
 many players. However, it will still appeal to die hard Transformers fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I read review about this game before and figured that this would be a game to avoid, but being 
 a Transofmer movie fan I felt that this should at least be something that i want to try out.
  
  I played the game last night and it was a very choppy game with a few glitches and horrible 
 camera angles.
  
  It is fun to blow things up, but the gameplay was very repetitive in the fight sequences and some 
 missions are just too complicated to finish. The graphics alone on the game are stunning and top 
 knotch but gameplay suffers and lacks in many areas.
  
  This game can be finished in 5 hours or so, so value for the game is not there at all. But there 
 are modes to play as the good guys or the bad guys, so if you choose to play each they are around 
 5 hours a piece. 
  
  I would suggest this as a rental game as once you beat it through you will probably never play 
 it again, so renting it to try it out is fine by me, but certainly do not invest full price into 
 this choppy and very short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 4/10
  - Terrible gameplay, repetitve combat but story is great because its the same one from the movie 
 which was also great but this also makes the game not have any originality.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7.5/10
  - Fully destructable buildings and most of the environment is 
 too. Good luck actually ever getting in the zone with this game, I know of one person who did and 
 he was drunk all 3 times, go figure. Still good enviornment.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 6.5/10
  - Other than the transformers being very detailed, the graphics were ehh... a bit above mediocre 
 at best. Not much to say.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Sound was very good voice-wise and just action-wise, but certainly could have had better music 
 in some parts of the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - Truely no problems I could find here.
  
  Replay value: 3/10
  - This game was difficult 
 to play for even an hour, just simply felt like a total waste of time.
  
  Value for money: 4/10
  - Not even close to being worth the original $30-$40 I paid. Can't say 
 it money Ill never get back because I just sold it for $23 on ebay....... if they could have only 
 read my review first... but that would have made me less money, oh well.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Heck no, and 
 if any of my  do mention this as a classic, I may just slap them.
 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Extreme diehard Transformers fans would be seriously disappointed so.... people with the bad taste 
 emblem might just like this or possibly children.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 3.5 - I even feel bad for the guy 
 who just bought this game from me on eBay. Everything about this game feels like it was rushed 
 into development. I feel like I just gave this game an academy award for the rating I gave it. 
 Seriously just don't waste your time buying this unless you have a kid and their begging you for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Transformers: The Game is the very definition of a movie cash-in game. There are two good things 
 about this game. One being the cool box art, and the second being that it has Transformers in it 
 that actually transform and look cool. Everything else about it is just one giant stinking festering 
 turd.
  
  For starters, the game has some really awesomely detailed characters that you can play. They animate 
 farely well, and transforming them is easily the most entertaining portion of the game. Tapping 
 that Y button never gets old. Except for one you have to tap it twice because the game is so buggy 
 that sometimes even hitting one button doesn't quite work.
  
  Now if you are looking anywhere else other then at the robot you are controlling, keeping in mind 
 the alt-modes somehow look like trash too, then you are probably looking at some of the worst graphics 
 to ever grace the current-gen systems. Everything else is just ugly. Garbage textures, flat surfaces, 
 crappy lighting, terrible explosion effects, and horrendously  
 ugly cars all round out the complete packge of crapitude. You would think that someone at Traveller's 
 Tales would have made a decision to make sure this game looks terrific considering the source material. 
 But sadly they were probably more concerned with how low they could keep the budget as to turn 
 the best profit.
  
  The game also manages to sound about as boring as it could possibly get. The alt-modes engines 
 sound extremely annoying. You basically get one sound from them no matter how fast you are going. 
 I suspect the clips for the audio were "borrowed" from websites that furnish audio sample files, 
 because nothing in the game sounds even remotely realistic. Even the voice actors managed to phone 
 in every single line.
  
  The gameplay is sandboxish only in the sense that you are plopped into one level that you can go 
 anywhere in right away, however there are indeed seperate levels. So when you move to another level, 
 you can't get back to the previous area. Unless the next level you end up in happens to be the 
 same level as the previous one, only at night with a different name! But still, it is a different 
 level because all of the "side" quest items are moved around and you get to do the same mundane 
 hunting again. Not that you would want to. There is virtually no reason to stay in any of the areas 
 once you are done with the main quest stages. All you get for doing the side missions are unlocked 
 "bonus content" packages that are basically just promo material for the movie. When the best looking 
 part of your game is a behind the scenes shot of the movie set, you know you have problems.
  
  Not only is the gameplay just bad in it's own right, but it's easily the buggiest I have played 
 in a long time. I recently barfed up a review for the Superman Xbox 360 game, and in all honesty 
 that game wasn't nearly as buggy as this one.
  
  Bugs in this game range from minor, to downright gameplay-interrupting, controller-throwing absurd. 
 Evidentally the developers just don't have the cost of game testers in their budget. Or they had 
 one and he was too busy checking out all the photos from the movie to bother doing his job.
  
  The single stupidest decision made with the game is the fact that each and every robot has 
 two choices of weapons to fire, heavy and light guns, yet virtually NONE of your enemies are effected 
 by them. There are a few extremely lowbie drones that are effected, but that's about it. Every 
 single boss I fought was able to just put up a magic shield and be completely immune to every kind 
 of fire I tossed at them. Yet each and every one of these bosses was able to take a lot of damage 
 just from having crap thrown at them. Now, not necessarily the first piece of crap you throw at 
 them, no. The first thing you throw makes it "possible" for maybe the second or third piece of 
 crap thrown at them to do a bunch of damage. Meaning, every single boss fight is all about throwing 
 crap at them. Now this wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't for the fact that the two mechanics required 
 to do this successfully weren't totally broken.
  
  Picking up crap is done by hitting the B button when standing near whatever it is you want to pick 
 up, but only sometimes. More often then not your character does the animation of trying to pick 
 it up, only to come up empty handed, or even better yet you bump the item just a smidge and send 
 it moving away. Have you ever seen those old slap-stick comedy shows where some idiot is trying 
 to pick up a can only to kick it away as they bend down, then going after it to just repeat kicking 
 it away and chasing it around? That's the Transformers game in a nutshell.
  
  Not only is it darn near impossible to actually pick anything up, but once you have it picked up 
 it takes forever to get the retarded targetting system to actually target your enemy. Even when 
 your targetting reticle is right on top of your enemy and you click the button, no dice. It still 
 doesn't lock on. The lock on success rate is a bit higher then the "pick up the damn car" success 
 rate, but not by much.
  
  The gameplay ends up boiling down to whether or not you were lucky enough to not only pick up an 
 item within the first few tries, but where you lucky enough to turn around, get a lock, and then 
 actually hit the enemy with the item you just chucked at it. Knowing what I know about statistics, 
 and this game, the success rate of this actually happening is painfully low. This is why I gave 
 the game a Difficulty rating of "Hard". Not hard in it's own right, but hard to put up with all 
 the damn problem it has.
  
  There are a few "challenge" missions on each level that are made available when you collect enough 
 magic yellow boxes that are scattered around. Every level has the exact same 4 challenges that 
 are tweaked a tiny bit from level to level. The most annoying one is the "Sumo" challenge where 
 you have to knock a certain number of (18 actually, for every level it's always 18) enemies out 
 of a glowing purple ring. To do this requires either punching them a few times, at which point 
 they suddenly shoot through the air way farther then they should based on how hard it appears you 
 are hitting them. Or you can throw crap at them, knock them on their butts and then pick them up 
 and toss them out. These side quests are just painfully stupid. The stupidest part about them is 
 that if your character gets outside the ring you have 3 seconds to get back in before the mission 
 instantly fails. Now 3 seconds seems like a long time, but not when your "recovery" animation takes 
 up the entire 3 seconds. So when you get knocked out by your enemy you do your stupid little recover 
 animation, then get to watch in vain as your timer makes it to zero and you have to start all over. 
 Just great! Why not make the round instantly end if you get knocked out? Sheer stupidity.
  
  One of the other annoying glitches with the game is that you can't really climb buildings that 
 have been blown up. They are blown up, but there is still a pretty clear frame where the building 
 was. It looks perfectly climbable, but sadly it is not. No matter how badly you want to get up 
 there and claim the yellow box as your prize, you just can't do it. You have to reload the level, 
 or run around long enough for the building to magically become new again.
  
  The most fun I had with this game was hunting down some of the "find 100 of these yellow boxes" 
 side quests. Mostly because I didn't have to fight anything and I could just drive around hitting 
 the magical transform button all the time. But even this wears thin after a very short time.
  
  This game shouldn't even be mentioned in the same breath as the recently released movie. It 
 is, quite frankly, a mockery of everything that Transformers has ever produced, even the crap that 
 has come from the franchise. This game easily sets a new low for the cash-in genre and does absolutely 
 nothing to position Traveler's Tales as a noteworthy developer. If anything I would just keep this 
 game in mind whenever I see their name on a game as a reminder to avoid any future turds they manage 
 to crap into game boxes.
  
  At least I snagged about 300 stupid easy achievement points for playing what I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Movie based games seem like a given satisfaction in the world of entertainment, simply because 
 the source material is already prevalent. Being able to relive your favorite movie moments as a 
 main character kind of helps the fun factor rise just a little. The real stumper is why are so 
 many of these potentially great games low balled into rushed production, choppy graphics, poor 
 gameplay and worst of all pure ignorance to its already solid movie foundation? No answer is necessary, 
 the facts are what you make of them. As for Transformers, they had all the pieces to formulate 
 a great game, but crucial areas of attention were sadly neglected, resulting in ANOTHER lackluster 
 movie based game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Any story that has a hero and villain duking it out, most players are forced into the position 
 of protagonist, the hero. Usually this is not a major concern since most baddies are pretty lame 
 and deserve to get smashed. In the Transformers game, you have the Autobots who represent peace 
 and justice, while the Decepticons are all about cruelty and enslavement. Starting off you can 
 choose what group to follow from start to finish where a varied cast of robotic characters help 
 you carry out missions and side quests. Once in game, you're tossed into mini-sized environments 
 that allow a sandbox type of exploration which is kind of cool until you notice how limited the 
 space is. Going from mission to mission at your leisure and interacting with the buildings and 
 objects is undeniably entertaining as a Transformer. You can't go about mushing every human in 
 sight, but you can lay waste to surrounding areas which resemble titles of the past such as Rampage. 
 Beyond having fun the first 10 minutes going from vehicle to robotic form, you should expect a 
 lot of rinse and repeat gameplay. Even while playing as different characters, the minor obstacles 
 and opposition are so similar to the extent where nothing more than color and names change. A bit 
 retro in that area, but no excuse for the terrible NPC Ai which is at times more annoying and difficult 
 than the actual objective or boss battles. Causing ruckas garners unwanted attention which brings 
 in city cops, FBI, and military forces that hound you with no real pupose other than to chip away 
 at your health.
  
  VISUALS
  For any gamer who has played their fair share of older titles and recalls the days of FMV's and 
 cut scenes that sported better graphics than the actual game itself, usher in Transformers. The 
 work that went into creating visually appealing environments and ambient life that you obviously 
 disturb while trampling thru areas is there. No matter what side you choose from in the beginning, 
 the ability to pick up and smash anything in sight is easy on the eyes until you realize everything 
 is basically built on Lego logic. The seams in destructible structures is sometimes too apparent, 
 but interacting with objects that can be picked up and tossed around with some what accurate density 
 kind of helps balance things out. Referencing back to the limited environments, you get a decent 
 amount of terrain to explore while it all stays true to the film. Yet this doesn't really justify 
 why some areas look like amateur in-game map editor levels. With the handy radar keeping you focused 
 enough on missions and side quest nicely dotted on all corners, its hard to get lost or overly 
 frustrated.
  
  AUDIO
  Everything from distinct Autobot and Decepticon transformations to various weapon blasts really 
 helps this game from boring you to death. Other than that small positive; you got minimal voice 
 work done by some characters of the film and lots of random sounds that sometimes overwhelm you 
 when too much is going on at once. The music track is worthless since it hardly fits for a majority 
 of the game, so low volume or personal music selection is likely prefered. Not much else worth 
 noting in this department unfortunately.
  
  EXTRAS
  Back on the subject of sand-box games, what better setting for a cast of transforming robot warriors 
 in search of ultimate power; a world littered with collectible items! Every completed task usually 
 rewards you with unlocked bonus content that is found at the start screen. Tons of pictures, a 
 few videos, and some retro looks for leading characters serve as the goods, yet the bad is mostly 
 in how you go about getting them. Going through the chapters for each robot camp can easily net 
 you about 300 achievement points, but the real junkie challenge comes from exactly that, challenges. 
 You can display your skills by performing physical maneuvers on each level that pertain to the 
 type of robot you control or you can scour the landscapes for glowing orbs that unlock various 
 side missions. Nothing serious to the main story, mostly fighting and search games that can rake 
 in another 200 achievement points. Beyond the easy stuff, you can really put in some time for the 
 secret achievements that give you points for simply playing the game a lot with certain robots 
 in a particular fashion.
  
  OVERALL
  The best example for how I feel about the Transformers game is "Star Wars". Great source material 
 wasted on lifeless story telling. No doubt, the TF game has solid gameplay mechanics that make 
 it easy for players to complete missions, but it doesn't go much further than that. Adding tons 
 of side missions and some what open environments with numerous collectibles helps extend the small 
 life span by a few hours, but that will barely hold any achievement fiend for long. Zipping through 
 the game is pretty easy due to the simple beat'em up button mashing formula that has plagued so 
 many other similar lame titles. This one being based off a legendary fan favorite franchise that 
 had all the right pieces for a solid game really shames me to say it barely limps away as a rent 
 worthy hunk of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Another review by Willy Wombat: I am possibly the biggest transformers fan ever, my friend Matt 
 will back me up on that, its an unhealthy obsession I even wasted 2 days of my life putting the 
 whole new movie onto my PSP, but Transformers, in its infinite glory made a freakin fantastic movie 
 but a game that TRANSFORMS CHILDRENS DREAMS, INTO TEARS!!!! I was strongly dissappointed once I 
 had brought the game, It has a short storyline that has nothing to do with the movie, has the graphics 
 of a WII when it comes to everything apart from the robots. For instance in the movie, megatron 
 gets the allspark in his chest and dies, and in the game he does that and it gives him infinite 
 power. Another thing is how unreal it is, I mean you hold down block and a big red or blue shield 
 appears in front of you, and long rance attacks can only kill civilian crap cos every enemy has 
 a never ending shield that can only be broken by melee or throwing a billboard at them. If you 
 tread on a human in the game, they just walk out through the robots foot, I doubt that much metal 
 to head, arms waist and rear-end would do any human too much good............. Transformers, has 
 reached its alltime low with this, the old PS2 game had better graphics and a much better storyline..... 
 I still love transformers but I would not recommend this game to anyone....... sorry Optimus................. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLuv2game23
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  I usually go into games with an additude that all games are good until proven bad. Not the same 
 for this game, because, lets face it, we knew it was going to be bad. It was a movie tie in, and 
 we all know how most of those turn out to be absymal flops, and Transformers: The Game is no different. 
 The combat is fun, for about ten seconds, until you realize that your basically moving the anologue 
 and pressing One button the entire time. The story won't win any awards, either, as it is just 
 all previous Transformer Story lines mashed up and puked out by the obviously uncreative writers 
 of this story. The driving in this game is decent, but still flops when it come to making quick 
 turns, as I found myself time and time again skidding into buildings and not being able to get 
 out of some situations. The timed missions in this game are annoying and are used often to fill 
 the void between the outright mediocre action sequences and repitive car chase missions that make 
 up the rest of the game. The graphics are flashy and watching the Transformers switch from car 
 to mech is pretty cool. But honestly, I can't even recommend this game for rent its so bad, so 
 my advice is: stay away, and don't make the same mistake I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cold_fear
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Wow where do I begin? This game was so bad that I couldn't even finish the single player. The only 
 fun part about the game is transforming, that's it. I mean it's great that we get to play as a 
 few transformers, but the levels are all identical. Every mission is just chase someone before 
 time runs out/ destroy enough enemies to go on. 
  The graphics: The graphics were great, for the original xbox that is. The transformers themselves 
 look alright but there are so many clipping issues that you barely notice your transformer. You 
 would think that, because you mindlessly kill so many of them, your enemies would look good. Nope, 
 they too, look horrible. 
  If you love bad graphics, mindless repetitive game play, and camera angles reminiscent of the blair 
 witch project, then this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Transformers: The Game is your average movie tie-in game such as King Kong was. The game basically 
 follows the plot of the film with a few story changes to increase the length. One extra is to be 
 able to play not just as the autobots but also the decepticons which thrive on destruction. These 
 are harder missions but much more fun. 
  
  The gameplay is your basic 3rd person beat-em-up. You are placed in an open level with a map to 
 point out your next objective. You can either go to these or choose to find all the secret icons 
 which help unlock bonus features/achievements. There are also several challenge missions on each 
 level but these cannot be accessed untill you have collected a certain number of cubes which there 
 are a 100 on each level. A lot of the missions are generally the same thing which does get boring 
 and repetitive after a short while. They generally are go to the location and destroy all the drones 
 or race to the next checkpoint before the timer runs out. You do have the occasional boss fight 
 with various characters from the film but these are just hit him till he hurts then chase him down 
 and then hit him again. Despite all this it is still a generally fun game to play. you can destroy 
 the environment and pick up trees, cars and lamposts and use them as weapons.
  
  The graphics are not to bad. They are certainly not next-gen but do have a good easy feel to them. 
 The transforming animations are especially good and look very much like they do on the film. The 
 levels are large but also repetitive. Your either in a city or rural area. With the exception of 
 the Dam level the environments are recycled through the game quite a lot.
  
  Transformers is an enjoyable if also somewhat irritating game at the same time. If you are a fan 
 of the movie or even the old cartoons or are under the age of 12 you will enjoy this game especially 
 at its now low price. If you are more of a hardcore gamer looking for a long lasting experience 
 then don't buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkieman91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  It's a good game for children and for big transformer fans like me. Its has a storyline which has 
 been built in with the movie and you are basically playing the movie. It can be challenging at 
 some points but hey its still a fun game.
  
  Graphics: They are particularly good for an X box 360 game but if you look at the more recent ones 
 like Assassins Creed and Timeshift you will see what I mean. But it is still of good quality, for 
 a game bought out mid year, I mean graphics are improving a lot and it must be hard to make a transformer 
 -they took ages on the movie.
  
  Sound Track : You really don't hear much music or even main menu music. But the Sound effects are 
 good and all in sync which make this game even better. The ambience of cars, wind, ECT, you can't 
 really hear because of you being such a big heavy machinery but I guess that's normal for an autobot.
 
  
  Overall to me I like this game but It could have been better, they could have considered using 
 some of the movie transformers for the game and just scaling them down. But hey its still a good 
 game and it has a partial interactive environment. I woul defiantly recommend to transformer fans.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Amongst the blitzkrieg of merchandise heralding the arrival of the new Transformers movie, it's 
 no surprise to see a spin-off game on every lucrative format. However, how you feel about this 
 mechanised mash up will completely depend on your level of robot obsession.
  
  For Tranformers aficionados the adventure is irresistible, offering huge levels where every building 
 can be demolished, trees are easily uprooted and used as weapons, and there's acres of space to 
 master your robot's car or airborne forms. The opportunity to play as the Autobots or Decepticons 
 also makes this a fanboy's dream, and the robots  modelled gear-for-gear on ILM's movie machines 
  look stunning and convey the size and weight of the film's chunky protagonists.
  
  Casual players will probably want to drop a couple of points from the score below as the game simply 
 blends the familiar carnage of Hulk: Ultimate Destruction and sprawling levels of GTA, yet lacks 
 the variety of challenges found in other mission-based escapades. But if you just want to control 
 Optimus Prime and smash stuff up, this devastating smashathon will let you live out all your destructive 
 fantasties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  The movie was very great but the game was kinda iffy. It's like the movie. The movie was very great 
 but the game was not as good. The story line is Robots from another planet called Auto-Bots and 
 Decepticons. The main Auto bots name is Optimus Prime and the main Decepticons name is Megatron. 
 A kid named Sam buys a new car and it is actually a Transformer. So to be blunt, if you want to 
 understand the storyline watch the movie, dont play the game. This game f'n Stinks to be very very 
 very blunt. THIS GAME STINKS DONT PLAY IT EVER WATCH THE MOVIE ITS CHEAPER THAN THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Transformers the game prequals and continues the movie experiance with great graphics and awesome 
 destructible enviroments but the game play is lose and the you are confined to very small action-zones 
 which you are easily knocked out of and a 30 second timer starts until you re enter the area. other 
 than this and the redundant attacks the game does quit well for itself with a great story continuation 
 and awesome fully-detailed mobiles. the game has plenty of worth while unlocks that make up for 
 the gameplay and it contains a great between-missing free roaming mode that is quit enjoyable mainly 
 because you can blow up EVERYTHING. so the game is medicore at best but is still quit entertaining. 
 theirs nothing funner than being blackout and blowing up an army base! Over all the Difficulty 
 can be to much to handle some times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Transformers the game is a fun game at the most, or whilst it last, Blowing up the city and transformer 
 at any given time sounds awesome, but once you put this game into your 360 you think.... no wonder 
 gamespot gave it a Fair 6.0.
  
  Best thing about it is the visual designs on the Robots, they look like the ones from the movie 
 and very detailed, the gackground game graphics are bland and blocky.
  
  The gameplay is simple but very boring with only 3combo attacks and no upgradable weapons.
  
 
  OVERALL:
  Overall transformers is'nt a very good game, it lacks dept and good gameplay, it was a good movie, 
 great infact.... but saddly this did'nt follow up!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Perhaps I'm being too critical. Games based on movies seem to all have the same basic issues. Short 
 length, simplistic game mechanics, and a general sloppy feel. But myself, being a fan of Transformers 
 since, forever, I was itching, nay, compelled to try this game. After all, how bad could it be 
 tearing apart the world as a Decepticon or cherishing it as an Autobot?
  Transformers: The Game offers mild hours of button mashing entertainment. You basically hit the 
 melee button constantly (having to mostly ignore your cannons due to the shields of enemies that 
 seem to block it with ease) , and once in a while throw a vehicle filled with passengers at your 
 foe. Just as the movie, you find yourself in the battle between good and bad robots on planet Earth 
 where they continually spar at eachother to attempt to grasp the AllSpark (the life force of these 
 robots) . Throughout the game, you will control the goodies and the baddies in there own campaigns, 
 controlling guys like Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, and Starscream among others. Regardless of the 
 side you pick, you will be mashing through hordes of drones in order to catch an Autobot or Decepticon 
 respectivily. The vehicle modes are mixed reactions. Most of the cars feel very flimsy and are 
 not coordinated as well as you would hope. On the flip side, the Aerial missions can be quite memorable.
 
  This game has its faults, no doubt, but one thing it does well it the Transformers themselves. 
 They look fantastic, in auto or robot mode. The environments, although not very impressive are 
 fully destructable.
  Perhaps its my forgiving nature as a fan, but I did enjoy some of the frusterating, yet triumphant 
 victories. When it comes down to it, only serious fans of Transformers will get a real kick out 
 of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snozzeltoff
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Ive always loved transformers, growing up with the original series so of course I was excited 
 when they were going to make a film about it, and the game is a tie-in with that. Because of this 
 however it does have the usual traits of being a film tie-in, it does feel a bit rushed, the graphics 
 arent all they could be and the game play/structure of the game isnt the greatest. I started 
 off as the Decpticons before playing through as the Autobots, it doesnt really make much difference 
 which side your play for first. The missions are pretty much the main scenes from the film split 
 into chapters, a lot of these chapters are a little boring and dont require you to do much, nothing 
 too challenging anyway. The Decepticon missions are more fun, quite simply because its not about 
 protecting humanity and all, your aim is simple, blow the hell out of everything on your way to 
 achieving your chapter goal. This can however get a bit repetitive with only two weapons to shoot 
 with, one light and the other heavy and then just the one melee attack button, youll find yourself 
 pressing the same three button melee combo over and over again. But the destruction you can cause 
 can help outweigh this repetitive factor for a while. The transformers themselves do look really 
 quite good, not full next-gen quality in my opinion but still by far the best looking things in 
 the game. The animation of each bot and its movements are spot on, granted there the film versions 
 of the bots and not the original G 1 models but anyway. Sweet touches like when you play as Blackout 
 (MH-53 Pave Low Helicopter) and get knocked back by another transformer, your sent flying back 
 and after a second or two you recover by partially engaging the rotor blades and re-gain control 
 and land back on the ground. Its little things like that and the animation to and from the transformers 
 bot and vehicle form are very slick and look great. Overall it is a good game, not as good as it 
 could be, theres a real ability to make a great G 1 transformers game but im yet to see it. (I 
 know theres the PS2 and old commodore 64 games) .
  Anyway if you like robots, mechs, loud noise, explosions and simple button mashing destruction 
 then its defiantly your game, its simple and aimed more at kids but why should that stop you. 
 Also if you like transformers along with the new film then yeah its worth a buy, maybe not the 
 full retail of &pound;45 but if you find it around the &pound;25 mark certainly get it. Also if 
 anything else its another game to get the achievements for and build on your gamer score.
  Hope this helps anyone interested in the game, Enjoi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjak93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Transformers the game is a good game because it has your favorite characters from the show and 
 movie, this game has fun game-play like beating up robots, well it will get boring doing the same 
 thing over and over just to get the achievements, the graphics are good, the sound is fun to listen 
 to but it gets annoying to listen to when it's playing over and over, the transforming into cars 
 are cool and when you transform back into your main form it takes like 5 or more seconds to touch 
 the ground, when your climbing a building it takes a long time to get to the top because you can't 
 climb faster so you have to get used to it, overall this game is good but not best just rent it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fizzwidgit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game when I got it. I was impressed for a while, then it all went wrong. 
 The gameplay does get very repetetive after afew levels of the game, as you are forced to repeatedly 
 hit the x button because your other attacks are useless against the enemy shields. The graphics 
 aren't the worst, but the physics are awful. A tank could fire at you for ages and do barely any 
 damge, when a lampost thrown by an enemy takes half your health. When the tanks are thrown as well, 
 they bounce and fly into the air. However, it is enjoyable to play if you can stand it, and if 
 you want a quick gamerscore booster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Doom212
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Now, this game is far from perfect. But I didn't agree with Gamespot's score of 6.0. Yes it has 
 it's faults, but it is a simple, fun, beat 'em up/shoot 'em up game with TONS of unlockables to 
 make the little '80s child in you want to jump for joy. Graphics: Now, this is a so/so. That is 
 because the people, NPC (Non Playable Cars ) , and area don't look too good. But, the Transformers 
 themselves look stunning, highly detailed (When I say highly detailed, I mean you are able to see 
 all the parts and little things) . The buildings and their death are also cool.
  
  Story: Well, if you liked the movie's plot, this is essentially the same thing. See the plot for 
 the Transformers film (2007) for this game's plot.
  
  Gameplay: First off, you can choose your side whether it be Autobots or Decepticons (You can do 
 both calm down) . You can find some fun the first time you go through this, driving, shooting, Transforming, 
 doing missions and side missions (While being rewarded with rewarded with an array of goodies) , 
 searching for cubes and secret icons. Well, the main problem with Transformers is your melee attacks: 
 They are highly repetitive. I mean, they do they same crap over and over, with no variation or 
 combos what so ever. Your guns are useless against bosses (I don't get it... A rocket don't hurt 
 Megatron but throwing a tree does?) . This game does have a horrible camera, that shakes when your 
 Transformer walks, but the real problem with that really is with Optimus, Megatron and Iron Hide. 
 The other characters are OK, but I will say Bumblebee plays the best. But, you can look past those 
 (Like I did) if you are a big Transformers fan (Like me) or if you like a nice shoot 'em up to 
 pass time. One big fun thing is the destructible environments, as you can obliterate an entire 
 city for fun. You can do that with the Autobots and Decepticons, but you get penalized if you cause 
 mayhem with an Autobot, which makes sense. This game is INCREDIBLY easy, but it is a guilty pleasure 
 to destroy robots without dying yourself. Sound: I thought that there was an awesome voice cast 
 for this, with Peter Cullen reprising his role as Optimus Prime and Frank Welker as Megatron. The 
 music I thought was also nice, and it had a lot of cool sound effects (The classic Transforming 
 sound, explosions, metal crushing) .
  
  In a nutshell, Transformers isn't as bad as critics say, especially for a Transformers fan. C'mon, 
 who does not like extra skins for your character to remember the good 'ol days. But I aint saying 
 this game is uber ultra amazing , since it has a lot of problems. When will we ever get an amazing 
 Transformers game, since the concept of Transformers can make a sweet game. Only time will tell. 
 AUTOBOTS, transform and roll out (Optimus Prime) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andypipkin85
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Theres no need for an in-depth review of this game as the game itself isnt deep. What you see is 
 simply what you get, and Transformers does exactly what it says on the tin.
  
  You run and drive around as a giant freakin robot blowing other giant freakin robots to bits, and 
 the enviroments around you.
  
  Transformations are impressive as they are in the movie, and theres some great G1/classic features 
 and homages to the original source material. Like Frank Welker playing Megatron, and Peter Cullen 
 as Optimus Prime.
  
  Graphics are nice, but nothing special as youd expect from a cross-platform game.
  
  The game 
 is short, but i found it sweet. Its fun, simple, and entertaining and thats all that matters hence 
 the high score. And if you are a die-hard Transformers fan like i am (and are not a narrow minded 
 G1 fanboy/Micheal Bay hater who cant accept change) nothing beats playing as G1 Optimus Prime whilst 
 listening to Stan Bush's the touch while kicking Decepticon tail pipe!
  
  Lets hope Transformers 2 can supply all Transformers fans with a game that everyone can truly appriciate, 
 but for now this will remain an aquired taste which i just happen to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohslax33
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the biggest disaster ever. This is what possibly could have been a great game. This is 
 such a terrible way to transform from a movie to a game. Hypothetically speaking of course. I would 
 say defenetly rent this. Dont buy this game unless you see it used at the rental store for 20 bucks. 
 Theres no online play and you defenetly can't download anything. I dont see this game ever being 
 anygood ever. the acheivments are way to time consuming and take away from the really short game 
 play. Wish it told a little more about the story and brung a little more from the movie. The movie 
 soundtrack could have been more incorporated and more with the moive story. Not so many little 
 robots that you never saw in the movie. Im glad I rented this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swizzlar
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  everything about this game is bad from the controls to the mission and the boss fights, nothing 
 makes sense in this game. most of the time when carrying out mission all you do is race from one 
 check point to another trying to out race like seven bad guys that block all you fire power. only 
 melee attacks work against them. why would they include all those fire power that dont affect the 
 bad guys in anyway is beyond me. i am so glad i didnt pay full price for this game its not even 
 worth a rent or even to get easy achievements because you will get so frustrated with the game 
 you might end up breaking something. please STAY WELL CLEAR OF THE MEDIOCRE PISS OF GARBAGE!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  What more can you ask for when you have a big robot, a big destructible town, and tons of cars 
 ready for you to throw? I have sat there for a total of 3 hours just destroying the town, then 
 when you get bored, beat two or three missions, then you won't be bored so you can destroy the 
 town more. The graphics are nice and clean, it is an overall fun enjoyable game that you get get 
 and be done with completely in about 2 1/2 weeks.
  
  Of course this game makes my XBOX go WHHIIIRRRJJJGGGJJJ!!!! when im playing it and doing a lot 
 of things at once. and the missions don't last you long, but playing around and exploring is what 
 makes this game fun and worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Transformers is a Toy to TV Show to Movie to Game adaptation, and to say the least its gone through 
 some rough patches in the process. Though the toys, TV show, and movie are all great, the latest 
 game isnt all too worthy to live up to the name Transformers.
  
  Transformers is your classic beat em up game, basically the only thing that you do in the game 
 is destroy stuff, race to a mission objective, destroy buildings, and get severely pissed off. 
 Although some of the missions can be fun for die hard Transformers fans and fans of the movie, 
 if youve never really been big into Transformers then youll probably not enjoy the missions. 
 Transformers: The Game has a tad bit of free roaming in-between missions, allowing you to complete 
 challenges. Challenges are basically what the name says, challenges. They are all pretty hard, 
 and most of them highly unfair and frustrating, so the only rewarding thing about completing challenges 
 are the achievements, but if youre not big on achievements then theres not much of a point to 
 do them at all.
  
  Probably the most memorable part of playing through the two campaigns is playing as Optimus Prime 
 and Megatron, the other characters to play as are pretty fun but nowhere near as fun as playing 
 as Prime and Megatron. Between the two campaigns, Autobots and Decepticons, the one that is more 
 fun is the Decepticons simply since you get to blow a lot of stuff up and be evil. The Autobot 
 campaign is slightly harder, but youll encounter some pretty annoying foes along the way in the 
 Decepticons who will make you see the Chapter Failed message pretty often. Playing as Megatron 
 and transforming into the jet will make you have a pretty geeky grin, and the first time you get 
 to play as Optimus will more than likely give you the same result, and if youre a big fan, a squeal. 
 The Decepticon story isnt all that impressive, and basically Sam Whitwicky surrenders and is a 
 wimp throughout the story, and just surrenders no questions asked.
  
  Transformers: The Game doesnt really have the most impressive graphics youve ever seen, but the 
 graphics are fairly decent and nicely done. The car models arent impressive by any means and look 
 very last generation, but the Transformers themselves and everything look pretty good. The standard 
 for this generation of games graphics are set pretty high, especially with recent releases such 
 as BioShock. So, Transformers graphics arent as impressive as they could have been. The game 
 was set to meet the release of the movie, but it might have been nice if Activision had spent more 
 time developing to improve the graphics and the gameplay, instead of just coming up with crummy 
 missions and lackluster gameplay. A better idea would have been to release it alongside with the 
 DVD, so that there would have been several more months of development.
  
  Transformers does have great music, its probably straight from the movie so theres nothing really 
 added into the game that you havent heard before. The sound effects are pretty nice, but whenever 
 youre hearing the music, explosions, transforming, helicopters, police sirens, tanks, and all 
 that at the same time, it sounds pretty bad and way too loud. Transformers is a game that youll 
 probably just want to have turned down. The cast of the movie do the voice acting in the game, 
 save Hugo Weaving, but the original voice actor of Megatron from the cartoon series lends his voice 
 to the game. If you were a G1 fan, youll love this. But if youre a recent fan who just saw the 
 movie and never watched the TV show, then youll hate his voice. At least Shia LeBouf was in the 
 game, right?
  
  Overall, you could say Transformers: The Game is decent, but if youre a newcomer then you might 
 not be all to impressed. Even if youre a G1 fan, you wont be impressed either, you might have 
 fun with the G1 Character Skins that you can unlock, but that is probably the only thing that will 
 be all too highly rewarding to players. If youre looking for a fun Movie to Game adaptation, youre 
 best looking somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsdavis6
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  most movie games really suck lets face it, and this one was pretty much announced to be a sucky 
 movie game, who didnt exect it....? BUT i was pleasently suprised. Dont get me wrong its not a 
 really great game, but the novelty is there and it is certainly something to relieve boredom. Who 
 didnt grow up playing with transformers, and this game just gives you the oppurtunity to run around 
 breaking stuff, transforming, throwing massive things at other massive transforming machines. The 
 story wernt great, and well really neither are the physics but it certainly put a smile on my face 
 for a few days. Worth renting but dont go the whole length 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlckJck
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  What a let down. When I saw the commercials for this game I was pumped. I was ecstatic for lack 
 of a better word. I spent 60 bucks to play this... this... monstrosity. I expected a cool roaming 
 mode, maybe even a little customization, but no. No multiplayer and no fun. I beat the game in 
 about 4 1/2 hours, 5 at most. Both story lines! It was cool for about the first ten minutes then 
 I realized the rest of the game was the same. If I could, I'd take my money back any day. The graphics 
 are even just ok. All in all, don't even pick this one up, even if your curious. And if you do, 
 can't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beeker1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I went to see the transformer movie on the 14 of August and I found the movie very good I would 
 would give the movie 4 stars so I went over to the game store just up the road and got the game. 
 So I got home and play the game and for about 20 minutes the game got really boring. There is just 
 nothing to do in the game you can not drive that fast in car form and once you do a mission you 
 just drive to the next mission but one of the topsides are the buildings blow up really well and 
 the transformers models are very well made just like the ones in the movie but that is about it 
 and the sound is just broke So I say if you do not believe my review rent the game and you will 
 see And here are my scores because gamespot took them of (Gameplay) 6.3 (Graphics) 7.2 (Sound) 
 4.7 (Value) 3.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alextomaz
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  It is so clunky and sometimes hard that you really just want to throw your controller at the screen 
 just so it would go away and hopefully, never ever come back. I thought since this was an amazing 
 movie with everything that i love in a film, that this game might be a little decent, but i was 
 completely wrong and then slapped in the face with this terrible game. Just save your money and 
 time and never rent, buy, or even get a downloaded copy because it won't be worth it! Never ever 
 put this game anywhere near your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madjockmcmad
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  If you are a 30 ish male, it's likely that what ever bad review this game, or indeed the movie, 
 gets is not going to make the blindest bit of difference to you. I played and completed this game 
 within 4 hours. It does get completely frustrating at times (to the point of nearly costing me 
 a control pad in a wall related incident) the control system is beyond ideal and can feel really 
 clunky and unresponsive. Like I have pointed out, it is a very short game. The Autobot story being 
 the longest of the two on offer. It sounds awful doesn't it?.... but...... its Transformers..... I 
 get to be Optimus Prime..... and Starscream..... and Megatron... and.... well..... you get the point. 
 There is a cheat already available online that enables you to play as the original G1 Optimus.... this 
 game is worth it for that alone. Ok, if you don't like Transformers don't bother. If you plan to 
 make a giggling fool of your self at your local cinema this summer, then it'll be one of the most 
 enjoyable 8 ish hours you'll have when you get back from the movie. Rent it though... just don't 
 part with your cash for it. unless your reading this in 2009 and the game is about a fiver, and 
 your mate gave you the money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjimbob
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The collective squeal of a million giddy fanboys was heard round the Internet the day that Dreamworks 
 announced the existence of the Transformers live-action film. Upon hearing the blood-curdling yelp 
 of a legion of frenzied man-children, the folks at development studio Travellers Tales sprung 
 into action to craft the licensed video game counterpart. The result of that hard work is Transformers: 
 The Game for Xbox 360 and a half-dozen other formats. It features huge robots, expansive locales, 
 and more explosive mishaps than an episode of Mythbusters. Despite having some high production 
 values including sharp visuals and great voice talent, the end product is one best left to rust 
 in gamings junkyard.
  
  The basic premise of Transformers: The Game (henceforth abbreviated T: TG) involves two interstellar 
 robot factions at war over a life-giving device called the AllSpark. The Autobots are the self-professed 
 good guys sworn to protect humanity from the destructive greed of the Decepticons in this mad race 
 to acquire said plot device. Along the way, buildings will be leveled, cutscenes will be played, 
 and many a wireless controller will be broken in disgust, for there are many points in the story 
 campaign that will cause the most patient gamer to scream in frustration. Why, you ask? Let us 
 share our woe.
  
  At its heart, T: TG is a third-person action game of equal parts Crackdown and MechAssault. On 
 paper, merging expansive environs with heated robotic combat is a sound concept, but in execution 
 its more of a failed experiment. For starters, the deceptively open levels are immediately constrained 
 by arbitrary mission timers and nebulous action zones that force you to stay put. Should you 
 stray too far from the task at hand, you have mere seconds to return to the designated area or 
 you fail the mission. Add to that a rigid linear mission structure that runs the gamut from painfully 
 easy to blisteringly difficult, and youve got yourself a game that tries too hard to be challenging. 
 So while youre racing across town to rescue Sam Witwicky from the clutches of a Decepticon hit 
 squad, theres little room for error while dodging heavy traffic and firing off salvos of painfully 
 inadequate munitions.
  
  Strangely, the lumbering metal giants in T: TG are swift capable pugilists armed with glorified 
 champagne poppers. While an errant shot from your cannon might destroy an entire city block in 
 one hit, it usually does little more than scuff the paint off an adversary. Most of the time youll 
 be hammering on the melee attack button to pull off three-move combos. When that doesnt work, 
 youll grab the closest object (be it a light pole, bus, or compact sedan) and hurl it through 
 the air to stun your opponentand then follow it up with the same three-move combo. Youll race 
 to locations, fight other robots, then race somewhere else, destroy some objects, then drive somewhere 
 else, pick up a few collectible items on the way, and then initiate the next frustrating task, 
 usually while under the constant threat of failure as a pointless timer ticks away in the corner. 
 Shoddy collision issues will hang up your Transformer on scenery as gangs of ruthless Decepticons 
 hammer you repeatedly into the ground. Get familiar with that mission failed screen, because 
 youll be seeing it a lot. But dont expect to jump right back into the action. Instead, youll 
 be forced to drive halfway across the world to find the hotspot that triggers the event. After 
 skipping a few more cutscenes and staring at loading screen text, youll get your chance to fail 
 miserably again until you get it right. Over and over again.
  
  Not everything about the game is terrible, thankfully. From the highly detailed and expertly animated 
 character models to the wild and plentiful explosions, the sights to be seen in T: TG will make 
 your eyes smile even as your lips are curled in disgust. And the story, which is typical sci-fi 
 boilerplate, is brought to life by competent voice acting and thrilling sound effects. Perhaps 
 thats why Transformers: The Game is such a disappointmentthe source material and underlying gameplay 
 concepts ooze potential, yet the final product feels imbalanced and rushed. Youre not playing 
 through a story but merely performing repetitive tasks to trigger the next movie. Couple that with 
 a spastic camera, sluggish and nonsensical controls, and criminal overuse of needless timers and 
 youre left with a $60 torture device. Oh yeah, and the game has no online component.
  
  So while diehard completists might be inclined to pick up every collectible to unlock every art 
 pack and side mission, most folks will rip through the Autobot and Decepticon campaigns in a day 
 for some modest Achievement points and call it quits. Everyone else should steer clear, as this 
 poor excuse for a licensed tie-in appeals only to sadists.
  
  Highs: Big robots and bigger explosions; spiffy graphics; its short
  
  Lows: Bad camera; sluggish 
 controls; needless timers and action zones force you through an unforgiving and ultra-linear 
 experience; punishing difficulty in certain missions will cause needless frustration; no online 
 (or offline) multiplayer or co-op
  
  Verdict: Transformers: The Game is a textbook example of a licensed game done wrong. While its 
 pretty to look at and exhibits rare moments of charm, it often devolves into an exercise in frustration 
 and wasted potential.
  
  Originally published at GWN. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Well, such a good material wasted.
  It had to be the lacking of time, it had to.
  The game's dull and worse - poor, in every aspect. Even artistically it is bland. The levels are 
 monotonous, the environments, although destrutable in almost every aspect, seems like it's a city 
 made of paper. It has no feeling of structure , it lacks weight and most of all any resemblance 
 to a real city, even in a make believe world. And, I s*** you not, this is the best technical part 
 of the game.
  Sound is so poor, it is sad. It seems like it's coming from a AM radio station from the '70s. It 
 doesn't set the tension nor urgency. It only steps aside from mediocracy in the cut-scenes.
  Playability, well..., it okish. Some battles are fun and somewhat challenging, but most a so easy, 
 or plain stupid that gladly I can't seem to remember them anymore (I finished the game yesterday) . 
 The hability to make the bad guys win is a nice feature, though. Way cool!
  One positive word to Achievements, wich are nice to pursue, even if they are so lamely plagiarized 
 from several games ( COG fetching ; races with check points exactly like Saint's Row ; Sharp Shoote 
 ; do this and that without Turbo , etc...) , well it works I guess, so it's ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Aww yes transformers, when you hear the name you just wanna drive that sweet cam. The movie was 
 one of the best of all time, unfortunately the i can't say the same about the game. The game was 
 new and pretty sweet, the only thing wrong with it is reptitiveness. It was so cool being able 
 to be both Decpitcons and Autobots being able to transform willing. The mission areas were pretty 
 large and the secrets were great to unlock. It just took a lot of time. There were also side missions 
 which didn't really change after ever mission area. It was usually collect all the coins kill sector 
 seven trucks knock all bots out of the level and cause destruction. The game had a lot to reference 
 to the movie and the two different endings were awesome. But not a buyable game just a rental but 
 it's loads of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i went to see the movie yesterday and i must say it was by far the best ive seen this summer, 
 (yes ive seen Pirates 3, Potter, Simpson and Shrek) but this movie was the best....
  so after the movie i decided to rent the game because i figured at least some of the movie would 
 be in it... THANK GOD I RENTED IT WITH A GAMEPASS!
  i played for an hour and turned it off for these reasons
  
  One: Autobots revealing themselves 
 in their true form in the begging? not kool...
  
  Two: Having to collot boxes to do sub-missions? again not kool...
  
  Three: the fact that nothing 
 in the game looked like the movie.... NOT... KOOL!
  
  i have many other reasons and ive only played for an hour....
  
  i wouldnt recommend it for 
 anyone except for hardcore Transformers fans....
  
  even THEY may be disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Movie tie-ins and Transformer games haven't had the best of luck in the past, this effort from 
 Traveller's Tales certainly doesn't help upset the trend of both. In the game you play as the various 
 Transformers, split up into 2 campaigns; the Autobots, which somewhat follows the events of the 
 film, and the Decepticons which runs through an alternate version if they had won. Broken up into 
 various chapters, you fight, destroy, race and fly through the various locations set in the movie. 
 In-game character models are actually detailed quite nicely, panning around the characters is rewarding 
 in itself. While the environments are also detailed rather nicely, often you are confined to an 
 Action Zone and must remain in it, failure to do so will result in a timer and possibly failing 
 the mission. While you can always restart missions via green and yellow beacons in the locations, 
 its a pain having to be confined when your a giant transforming robot. Also the environments seem 
 too small to truly enjoy playing some of the Decepticons like Starscream and Megatron. You simply 
 don't have enough space and control over vertical lift to make flying around all that enjoyable. 
 When if comes to combat, this game fails... completley. Only one button is for melee attacks, 2 
 are for shooting, and most of your Cybertronian enemies have shields which makes that useless. 
 Constantly mashing the X button becomes so boring, you wish to get throuh the section just to give 
 the controller a break. In certain scenarios, you must fight your way through drones of enemies, 
 some of which have to beat in certain ways, otherwise they'll send you flying away with a charge 
 or swinging device, this is so frustrating its almost not fun to play when these guys show up. 
 Locking on essentially doesn't work until your aiming icon (which remains stationary while you 
 move) is already on the enemy. The game does offer some replay value, collecting energon cubes, 
 Autobot and Decepticon emblems, and performing certain tricks unlocks more and more content, mostly 
 movie clips, merchandise pics, and character repaints from the G1 models. Note these are just repaints 
 and not a change in the model, a disappointment to say the least. The most baffling thing to me 
 is the quality of in-game graphics, opening and ending cinemas compared to the utter crap that 
 is the quick cutscenes before and after missions. They are so bad, there is almost no texture on 
 any character models, some are 5 seconds short. If they had taken the in-game modeling, put it 
 in a larger world, refined the controls, and elminated the Action Zones, this would have been a 
 much better game. Sadly, Peter Cullen and Frank Welker couldn't do much even with their classic 
 voices adding much needed talent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Ever since I knew the movie was coming out, I was looking forward to seeing what Transformers would 
 be like in the 21st century. And since the game came out ahead of the movie, I decided I'd check 
 it out. (Very nostalgic... who wouldn't want to play a game where your vehicle can transform into 
 a gigantic robot?!) In a way, I'm glad I played the game before I saw the movie. Although the game 
 somewhat follows a similar storyline as the movie, it provides a lot more of a good thing than 
 the movie does: Transformer action. (All this Sam Witwicky garbage, U. S. military junk... there 
 are plenty of movies out this summer starring humans. People want to see Transformers for the friggin' 
 TRANSFORMERS... and you only get a handful of Transformers from both factions at that. Highly disappointing...)
 
  
  Since the game is based on the movie, it unfortunately only includes the Transformers from the 
 movie. I'd definitely like to see another Transformers game with a huge selection from the Transformers 
 roster to choose from (and give them all the 21st century upgrade that the ones in the movie got) ... 
 and Traveller's Tales can make that one too. I liked seeing their unique style added to the game. 
 (If you've played Lego Star Wars II, you'll recognize the Tt style immediately in the cut-scenes... 
 and the save/load screen.) And speaking of cut-scenes, the opening cinematic (which is downloadable 
 in HD from XBOX Live Marketplace, so make sure to download it ASAP if you don't own this game) 
 has to be one of the most incredible video game opening scenes I have ever seen! (I would have 
 been happy if they made the actual movie like this.) Even the in game Transformer models are highly 
 detailed... obviously not as much as the ones in the cut-scenes, but pretty close. Graphically, 
 this game is truly next-gen... and refreshingly so, since a lot of games so far for the XBOX 360 
 could have been pulled off by the original XBOX.
  
  This game is surprisingly fun... with large areas to explore, lots of different items to find (little 
 cubes so you can play the sub-missions and faction icons) , skills to master for every chapter, 
 missions and sub-missions in every chapter. You can climb buildings, drive (or fly) around the 
 environment... you'll even run across some Transformer enemy drones in certain chapters. You'll 
 definitely want to search the entire area for each chapter to get all the goodies to unlock bonus 
 features and achievements.
  
  Unfortunately, this game lacks in several areas:
  
  First of all, the controls for this game take some getting used to... more so for the vehicle version 
 of your Transformer than the robot version. Driving fast cars like Bumblebee, Jazz, and Barricade 
 is hard at first... they get spun around too easily, especially when going at higher speeds. The 
 steering isn't up to par either, but once you get used to it, you'll definitely progress through 
 missions and sub-missions more quickly. Optimus Prime and Ironhide are a little too slow for my 
 taste, but they're a lot easier to control when you first get to use them. Blackout, Starscream, 
 and Megatron aren't really all that difficult to control in vehicle form. Scorponok is irritating, 
 period. (And one of the Transformers I consider to be not very well-known.) I'm also not really 
 thrilled about the transforming animation, which for car Transformers, they either spin or flip 
 while transforming and land as the vehicle... airborn Transformers flip and transform into their 
 vehicle. (Optimus Prime's transformation from vehicle to robot is dumb... when he's almost in robot 
 form, he jumps... so you're hanging in the air for a few seconds, which hinders you a bit if you're 
 transforming to attack something.)
  
  Next, you'll notice that it doesn't matter which campaign you play (Autobot or Decepticon) , you'll 
 run into the same Transformer drone enemy types for each faction. They'll just look different. 
 You have a few normal combat type drones (melee attacks, weapon attacks, and some will even pick 
 up things and throw them at you if you don't attack them in time) , and they range in size from 
 short little drones, to somewhat taller ones. (However, no drone other than the Shockwave looking-like 
 Decepticon drone are even close to being as tall as you are... other than the other main Transformers 
 in the game.) Which means you'll be looking down to attack your enemies most of the time. Back 
 to the enemy types though... you'll fight ones that whirl a metal wire around them... they resemble 
 a tow truck or something like that. You have ones that run in one direction (which if you're in 
 their way and not blocking, you'll get damaged) ... you have to wait until they stop running to 
 attack them. Some can't be attacked unless you knock them down first by throwing something at them 
 (a car, street light, etc.) , then either attacking them, or picking them up and throwing them to 
 cause damage to them. The main Transformers (when you fight them as bosses ) aren't really much 
 of a challenge either. A lot of times, you have to get their energy down to a certain point, chase 
 them (or beat them) to the next location, then wail on them again. Note I said wail ... as in beat, 
 bash... melee attacks only. Yeah, you get nice primary and secondary weapons... but in this game, 
 unless you're shooting buildings or human vehicles, they're 100% useless. Can't give Starscream 
 a missle to the face... can't light up Jazz with machine guns... all Transformers (main characters 
 and drones) are absolutely unaffected by your weapon attacks. Also, some Transformers are stronger 
 than others... and as Jazz, you'd better forget it. His melee attacks are the eqivalent of a fly 
 trying to bash its way through a brick wall using its head. I'll give you a hint with him: use 
 his ground punch (jump, then press the melee attack button immediately after) , especially in the 
 sumo sub-mission of The Last Stand chapter... it'll save you a lot of frustration, believe me.
 
  
  Another thing is that the game is pretty short. Yeah, you can go back and find all the cubes, faction 
 icons, play all the sub-missions, and obtain all the skills per chapter... and you can play as 
 Autobots and Decepticons... but the main missions are just really short. And doing all that extra 
 stuff won't take that long either. (Although I'm curious if any chapters have 100 cubes... I've 
 found 99 on almost all the chapters, but haven't gotten 100.) Which means that the replay value 
 is virtually non-existant. Its unfortunate, but its true.
  
  So, with this game you have a mix of good and not-so-good things. I haven't mentioned sound yet, 
 which does deserve to be mentioned. The music (soundtrack) is incredible... fits the action and 
 the game perfectly. Sound effects... well, are sound effects. (Missing the iconic Transforming 
 sound from the 80's cartoon series, but I can forgive that.) The voice-acting in the game is great... 
 especially for those who remember the original animated series. Peter Cullen (Optimus Prime) and 
 Frank Welker (Megatron) lend their voices once again to their respective Transformers.
  
  Overall, a good rental. For you Transformers fans, you may want to play it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  It's not a terrible game, but it's definately not worth the full price. It has it's moments. The 
 cube search is horrible. You will spend insane amounts of time trying to find three or four cubes 
 to finish at 100. It will drive you nuts. If you don't mind leaving a few acheivements on the table, 
 you'll find a neat combo of running around and knocking out enemies. I liked being able to be the 
 different characters at different times. All in all, pick it up for a rainy weekend. I just wish 
 they used the old Transformer sound effect. That was always so cool when we were all younger. Without 
 it, it just seems a little lacking in the sound area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predatorymauler
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  After seeing Transformers, I was stunned. As, I assume, most everyone was. The movie was great. 
 I had my doubts, but Michael Bay did a really good job. After seeing the movie, I wanted to play 
 the game, but never got around to buying it. Buying games is a bad habit of mine, I need to learn 
 to rent first. So, when I finally did get a chance to buy it, I saved my money. Figured I'd rent 
 it first. I'm glad I rented it instead of buying.
  
  Transformers: The Game isn't a bad game by any means. Its fun. Its actually kind of addicting (even 
 though it gets repetitive) . Easy achievements, too. If you're a fan of games where you can destroy 
 anything in your path, this game might be for you. If you want a game with length, depth, and a 
 great story, you might want to stray clear.
  
  The graphics are GREAT, very detailed. The transforming animations are fluid, detailed, and fun 
 to watch, and you might just find yourself transforming again and again just to see it. Fighting 
 other giant robots is great fun, at first. If you're wandering the city, you'll get attacked numerous 
 times, and it'll get kind of repetitive. There really isn't a point to the guns, other than looking 
 flashy, or to shoot up buildings. Most of the robots you fight have shields, so you can't even 
 hit them with your guns. Melee is the way to go.
  
  The game does get a bit repetitive, and eventually even the mass destruction gets old. The police 
 and Sector 9 agents are just a nuisance, bothering you every step of the way.
  
  Now for missions: some of them are fun, some are repetitive (as I stated earlier) , and some are 
 just downright annoying. For some missions, you have to beat a boss, get to a checkpoint quickly, 
 fight the same guy, get to another checkpoint, fight him again, so on and so forth. If you fail 
 a mission, you have to restart the whole thing. There are no checkpoints when you are in missions 
 which is really annoying.
  
  Overall, the game is fun, at first. If you like to blow things up, give this game a try. But rent 
 it first, don't bother buying. But, then again, its your money. Do what you want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Released a mere week before the movie, Transformers: the game has finally hit the shelves. The 
 movie was great fun, and the game stacks up to that fun exceptionally well. Thats not to say that 
 it does have its flaws and is a little too easy, but with the editors saying that it sucksnot 
 so much. The story follows the same storyline as the movie. The Autobots and Decepticons come to 
 earth searching for the AllSpark, the Autobots to restore their home world of Cybertron, and the 
 Decepticons to destroy the universe. Problem is, they dont know where it is. However, this average 
 teenager named Sam Witwicky unknowingly holds the key to the AllSpark. From there on, its a race 
 to find Sam and the AllSpark. Graphics- 8/10
  The graphics are pretty good, but not the best out there. The real element that makes the visuals 
 shine are of course, the Transformers themselves, which look every bit and detailed as their silver-screen 
 counterparts. The city itself also looks great, with really good lighting, although the cars and 
 citizens are painfully average looking. Furthermore, the building blow up really good, and so do 
 the enemy robots. When a building blows, debris go flying everywhere, so its not uncommon to see 
 a part of the city torn up after an intense fight. The cars however, dont blow up, there merely 
 start smoking and the people start running out from them. Probably something to do with the autobots 
 strict policy of not wanting to harm any humans. Still, the cars seem to magically fire at you, 
 with no indication of people firing out of them. Overall though, the graphics fit the game well, 
 the city looks great, and the Transformers have been faithfully re-created. Sound- 8/10
  The sound is also impressive. What really shines out in the audio aspect is the voice acting, which 
 is really solid. Every character is voiced by their corresponding actor (Optimus Prime voiced by 
 Peter Cullen, etc.) It sounds really good, and was very well done. The sound effect are no slouch 
 either. When a building blows up, it sounds like a building is blowing up. When a Transformers 
 walk, you can feel the gravity of them walking just by the sounds. The weapons sounds great as 
 well. The only qualm that I have with the sounds is the music. Its very lackluster consisting 
 of only a few tracks, and at times, its almost impossible to hear with all the action going on 
 screen. Its also annoying to hear another Transformer constantly tell you what to do when you 
 dont do it right away, and I havent found a way to kill the voices. Gameplay- 6/10
  The gameplay is fairly solid enough, but with a couple extra coats of paint, it could have been 
 a whole lot more.
  
  The good: Giants robots + a huge city to fight in = FUN!!! Its a lot of fun at first to be playing 
 as a Transformer smashing up a city while fighting other giant robots. You can pick up virtually 
 anything in the environment and use it as a weapon. Including to your arsenal are gigantic blaster, 
 and simple punch combo, and the ability to throw enemies into buildings. You can also transform, 
 and even get an achievement for transforming once. The driving mechanics are solid enough, and 
 theres also a nitro boost that recharges quickly enough. There are two campaigns, where you play 
 as both the Autobots and the Decepticons, but the story pretty much remains the same. Theres also 
 plenty of sides missions, which help unlock numerous bonus content. The bad: After a while, the 
 combat becomes very boring as theres only one combo, and not enough weapons at your disposal to 
 keep the combat fresh. Before long, people might begin saying This should be more fun. As for 
 the picking up things, theres no multiple methods when it comes to throwing them or swinging them, 
 which makes the combat even more repetitive. The achievements are too easy to unlock and the missions 
 arent even that challenging. Also, on many missions where theres the action ring which you 
 have to stay in. Its easy to get knocked out of them, and if you stay out of them for too long, 
 you fail. Furthermore, the bonus content isnt much to look at and the game feels very shallow 
 at times. In the end, only diehard fans will add this to their collection. Other than that, it 
 makes a solid rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Good grief.... true I did like the old skool transformers I used to play with when I was little... but 
 the game is soo bad... fair enough, u run around shooting decepticons..... but it is not all there.... I 
 mean, the moment you star racing down the road as a vehicle, the engine stalls, and u have to walk 
 it robot mode... by that time tyou may have failed the task....
  
  the best thing to robots I have ever played is Earthsiege 2 and Armoured Core 2... simply because 
 you may have a whole loada arsenal... but u dont stop, u keep moving... and in one form as well.....
 
  
  if the producers had considered amending the gameplay I could have said something further, and 
 gave it a more thorough rating.... but what can I do... I sounf like Simon Cowwal sometimes.... away 
 this game goes into the reject bin... or eject toybox, for old skoolers..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniacZombie
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Further proof that movies and games don't mix, we have Transformers. The voices and overall game 
 plot are decent and follow the basic scheme of the movie, but that is about where it ends. When 
 you try to 'roll out' with BumbleBee and spend most of the time losing control and coming to a 
 dead stop on object that you should be able to plow through, it makes gameplay just irritating.
 
  
  Movement is bad even for giant hunks of steel. I understand these are 20 ft tall robots and I'm 
 not expecting the flow of a ninja, but the sluggish fighting is horrible. And lets not forget the 
 fact that most of the time, your weapons do jack and your left with either slow as snail object 
 tossing, or terrible melee attacks. And God help you when you have to climb. Graphics are decent 
 and the actual transforming is fun, but this hunk of poo is a disgrace to the best movie of the 
 summer, like most movie games. The fun moments are not worth the frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximusPaynicus
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The concept behind the Transformers couldnt get any easier: Autobots vs. Decepticons. Good vs. 
 Evil. There were no drawn out love stories. There was no political intrigue. There was no subtle 
 attempt to slide social commentary in. All you had were two sides of robots that transformed from 
 everything ranging from fire trucks (Optimus Prime) , VW Beetles (Bumblebee) and F-15 Fighters (Starscream) , 
 to more unique items such as cassette tapes (Soundwave) and a Walther P38 (Megatron, baby!) , 
 into giant robots that would pound the living crap out of eachother day in and day out as they 
 fought over the life-giving Allspark. Youd think there could be no way a developer could screw 
 that up, right?
  
  well, somehow Activision found a way.
  
  When you pop the game in, one of the first things youll do is pick your side. As youd expect, 
 there are two separate campaigns to play through; one for the Autobots, and one for the Decepticons. 
 Without spoiling any possible plot-points from the film, all I will say is that the games storyline 
 is loosely based on the film, with the mandatory side-missions thrown in to artifically inflate 
 the replay value. I think I can safely reveal to you all that through both campaigns you are fighting 
 the other side for control of the Allspark. For those of you who dont know what Im talking about, 
 the Allspark is to the Cybertronians (?) what the Holy Grail is to King Arthur, or what a Sega 
 CDX is to me.
  
  One major gripe I have is in the actual forwarding of the plot: The CGI cut-scenes between missions 
 are so horribly compressed that theyre practically unwatchable. Its not particularly acted well, 
 either. Peter Cullen and Frank Welker (who ISNT in the movie, for whatever reason) both do excellent 
 jobs as Optimus Prime and Megatron, respectively. However, Shia LaBeouf sounds like he never stepped 
 into a recording booth in his life. Those of you who have been reading my reviews over the years 
 know that the voice acting is one of my pet peeves, and if its not delivered with some semblance 
 of talent, Im taken right out. This is the case here.
  
  The gameplay is fairly basic: Go around the open-ended city from one mission to another to do the 
 same old stuff every time. There is almost NO variety in the gameplay. Every mission boils down 
 to either Kill these enemies, move on, kill these enemies or Kill these enemies, move on, kill 
 the enemies that are protecting item X, destroy item X. Youll wind up using the same three-hit 
 combo over, and over, and over again to dispatch the bevy of disposable transformers, before having 
 to chase down one of the actual Transformers for a boss battle that boils down to you using the 
 same three-hit combo over, and over, and over again. Only this time you have to throw stuff at 
 them, too. Yippee.
  
  In addition to the combat being repetitive and boring, there are also times where it can be frustrating 
 as all hell. The camera seems to be working against you at times, and the Action Zone feature 
 works against you rather than making the game exciting. The Action Zone is essentially a circular 
 space on the map that you have to stay in. When you get knocked out of these Action Zones (and 
 you WILL get knocked out of them) , there is a timer that counts down, and if you do not get back 
 within the Action Zone before the timer is up, you fail the mission and have to replay it. This 
 will grind away at your nerves as you play over the same mission, fighting the same disposable 
 bad guys to get through the same damn room for the fourth or fifth time.
  
  Graphically, the game is passable, but not impressive. The GoBot looking Transformers look like 
 they do in the film, and there are some nice explosion effects when you beat an enemys face in, 
 or blow up an entire neighborhood. However, the environments are not that spectacular, and the 
 animations are passable at best. I found it cool watching your character transform from car to 
 robot, but lets be honest  these are NOT what our Transformers should look like. Overall, the 
 game is very underwhelming. The idea of robots beating the crap out of each other is a very, very 
 good one. But outside the occasional smashing up the city as the Decepticons, there really is nothing 
 too exciting. In the Autobots campaign you dont get to play as Optimus nearly enough to make you 
 happy, and both campaigns suffer from the same repetative gameplay mechanics that bring the fun 
 WAY down. Travellers Tales has done some great work in the past with their LEGOS series, but even 
 the best development houses can lay a giant turd from time to time. If you want a fun Transformers 
 game, get the PS2 game from 04. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lewilewi02
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of transformers than this game is worth playing.
  The two different campaignes are split into to groups of course Autobots and Decepticons. Once 
 you get over being able to transform when ever you want this game can become a little dull.
  The missions can be somewhat challenging but once you start getting into the game it ends so fast.
 
  During the campaignes you collect special things to unlock cool trailers and pictures from the 
 motion picture.
  A must get for fans but if your into your games and like challenging games this is not for you!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleprodig
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  From the camera control to the fighting this game is so flawed. After playing around 8% of the 
 game the flaws turn to anger. When trying to lock on to targets its almost impossible then trying 
 to throw items and fight becomes a nightmare. Don't get me wrong the game has a lot of potential 
 but its no where near as fun as the game looks. I also ran across the game freezing several times 
 on the xbox 360 system. Then you have to start the whole level over not just at a checkpoint. If 
 they would allow saves at checkpoints and better targeting it would be a different game entirely. 
 When you get tired of trying to play the missions and turn to side tasks they are also so flawed. 
 There are items in the game that you need to collect however on occasion just climbing up a building 
 destroys it so much that you can't get to the item. Then you have to restart that level to get 
 to the items which does not make the game fun any sense of the word.
  
  With all this stated the graphics are great, the sound and transforming is all wonderful. Its just 
 not enough though to keep playing and not even worth the renal price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gretzky1106
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! First of all, it has an easy 1000 Achievement Points. The explosions are great. 
 The bonus content is worth looking at. And it is the best Movie-Based Game Ever! Sadly, there is 
 no Multiplayer. It would be fun if there were Online Multiplayer Deathmatches and modes like Last 
 Man Standing, Capture the Flag, and stuff. Still, I give it a 10.0. I have the Cybertron Edition. 
 Thanks to Activision, TT Games, GameStop, EB Games, Hasbro, Dreamworks SKG, Paramount Pictures, 
 and the makers of both the movie and the game. You must get this game! Transformers, Robots in 
 Disguise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  The Transformers conjures up childhood memories of watching cartoons and playing with the toys. 
 At that time, you typically were either a G. I. Joe kid or a Transformer kid. I was easily a Transformer 
 kid. This year they released a highly anticipated movie that had as many hits as it did misses. 
 On the hit side, the special affects and story were pretty well done and it was nice having the 
 original voices for the primary Transformer characters. On the miss side, the voices werent robotic 
 enough, the characters were given mouths and in some cases teeth, the classic forms were changed, 
 and worst of all, some of the classic lines were utterly misused. The movie was enjoyable, but 
 irksome at times. If only the game were half as good as the movie.
  
  The graphics of the Transformers is done exceptionally well. Models are crisp, clear, and very 
 life like. The buildings and Transformers both are to scale and fit the scenery whether its in 
 the desert or in the inner city. The backdrops look good and the use of smoke and explosions add 
 to the game. Simply put, the Transformers is a beautiful game to look at.
  
  The sound in the game is about average. The music is never noteworthy, but doesnt detract from 
 the game either. The explosions, laser shots are all dead on. The Voice Over work is done well 
 and tends to fit the story. Unfortunately, the one thing that most players expect from a Transformer, 
 the transforming sound, isnt even close to what one would expect and is the one glaring omission 
 from the game. People unfamiliar with the Transformers probably wont notice the lack of the transformation 
 sound, but die hard fans will have a hard time looking past it.
  
  The game play is horrible. Simply put its bad, bad, and more bad. Camera angles are constantly 
 going awry leaving the player viewing the backside of a building instead of their character. In 
 addition, many of the side missions occur in zones, which are areas that player must stay in. 
 These side missions end up being nigh impossible to complete due to the character constantly being 
 thrown out. Instead of being challenging, or fun, the side missions are typically an exercise in 
 frustration. There isnt much to fighting. Each character has a weak and strong gun attack (ranged) 
 and a single melee attack. This results in a lot of pointless button mashing. Even transforming 
 isnt fun as the only way characters can transform is when they are standing. Want to run, jump, 
 and then transform? Then youre out of luck.
  
  The story is short and pretty much follows that of the movie. There are several side missions; 
 unfortunately they dont add anything to the story. If you have seen the movie, then you pretty 
 much know everything you need to know about the games story. Overall the Transformers game is 
 like a beautiful dumb blond, great to look at, but not someone that you would want to try carry 
 on a conversation with.
  
  Even die hard fans will be hard pressed to find the game worthwhile. If you want to buy the game, 
 turn it on, and have a pretty back drop, then the game might be worth a buy. Or if you find that 
 your life is peaceful and that the stress level is a little too low then by all means buy the game 
 and get that stress level back up to heart attack levels. This game isnt even worth a rent. If 
 you are at all curious about the game, then do yourself a favor and wait to try the demo from XBox 
 Live. You will save yourself the heartache of throwing away your hard earned cash on a game that 
 isnt even worthy of the classification of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  i didn't know how to describe this game, firstly the gameplay is sucks, with timing and stupid 
 mission even you can't complete it. second, the game was too short even you combined the two factions, 
 it still short. third you will given a super weapon and sub weapon to fired at an enemy but still 
 it isn't worth firing it because it seen enemy health didn't depleted at all. for your information 
 melee combat is worth than using weapon but it seem the enemy is stronger than you. not to mention 
 the melee combat is too repetative. health is hardly to find. in conclusion you will never finished 
 the games. i'll think this game was for promotion on the movies only. it's didn't worth buying, rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews, which told me the game was crap but then I saw the movie and it left me wanting 
 more Transformer action. So, as I found myself with some extra spare time around the house (I was 
 supposed to be on vacation this week) , I decided to head out and rent the game. I mean it had to 
 be a little fun right?
  
  Transformers: The Game is fun. There is just something about being a giant robot that is cool and 
 the game is, as I said, fun, at least for a short time. And by short, I mean you can finish both 
 campaigns (Autobots and Decepticons) in about six hours. After you have completed the campaigns 
 there is very little reason to go back into the somewhat open ended game world.
  
  At the outset you choose if you want to play as the Autobots (good guys) or the Decepticons (bad 
 guys) . Each campaign consists of 17 levels spaced out over four acts. The Autobot campaign follows 
 the movie more closely, although some liberties with the movie were taken, and the Decepticon campaign 
 rewrites history. If playing as the Autobots you'll play as Bumblebee, Jazz, Ironhide and of course 
 Optimus Prime. A lot of the missions are beat up this bad guy and move on to the next location 
 to beat him up again. It does get repetitive but bashing your enemy into buildings is a blast and 
 because the game is so short it never really gets stale. If playing as the Decepticons you will 
 play as Starscream, Barricade, Blackout, Scorpinok and of course Megatron. The same basic rules 
 apply to the Decepticon campaign but since you are bad you are actually encouraged to destroy your 
 surroundings and kill innocents.
  
  The controls and game mechanics are a little wonky, as you drive by pressing the A button (instead 
 of a trigger like most games now) and handling of ground vehicles is very, very loose. The worst 
 bit of the gameplay though is your long range weapons. Aside from one our two enemy types, long 
 range weaponry is useless and you end up having to bash the same button over and over again to 
 wail on your enemies basically making this a button smashing brawler.
  
  Graphically the game looks decent. The city is detailed nicely, although the product placement 
 was out of hand (it actually makes its way into the achievements) , and the overall draw distance 
 was nice. The Transformers themselves look great and transforming from vehicle mode to robot mode 
 is as easy as pressing the Y button. The game falls a little flat in the sound department as the 
 battles seem lame in comparison to the movie and considering that it is a movie licensed game you 
 would have thought they could have signed on the voice talents of the cast because certain characters 
 are terrible in comparison, although Optimus Prime sounds fine and really isn't that all that matters.
 
  
  There are a variety of achievements in the game and playing through both campaigns will unlock 
 you a good portion of them. If you are one of those 100% gamers then you'll want to go back and 
 finish out all the side missions which while also getting you closer to 1000 gamerscore points 
 also will unlock character skins from the cartoon which can be applied to certain characters in 
 the game. There is nothing better than rolling out with a G1 Optimus Prime, although Megatron not 
 transforming into a gun (while in his G1 skin) is slightly disappointing. If you don't care about 
 100% the game but want to try out the G1 skins you can pop in a button press code which is available 
 on most game sites, just make sure you are done getting your achievements because activating a 
 code disables achievements.
  
  Overall Transformers: The Movie is a good time if you have a free afternoon. I certainly don't 
 recommend buying it but you could do worse if you are looking for a weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamquah
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  How can the game differs so much from the movie even though they both feature the same characters 
 and an almost identical storyline? While the movie is awesome and exciting, the game doesn't even 
 come close.
  
  Gameplay - Forget what they say about this game being a free roam game. It is not. It is just trying 
 to be one. See, the fun thing about free roam is that you are given the freedom to explore and 
 do stuff but you don't get that in this game because there are just nothing interesting to do. 
 Rather than giving you a really huge environment to move about, the developers decided to split 
 them into small areas so what you get are more like really big levels and not what a sandbox game 
 should be, you get what I mean? This game features the same characters as found in the movie with 
 an extra touch. The ability to play as the Decepticons and get another side of the story, maybe. 
 Despite looking like playing another story, they are actually the same with all the same boring 
 unintuitive and annoying missions. Fighting mechanics are like this, each Transformer has two long 
 range weapons and can also do melee. Seems like much doesn't it? Wrong! Guns and cannons are of 
 little use here, they provide little assistance when it comes to combat. No matter how much bullets 
 are thrown to your enemies, they only do that much damage to the enemies and don't bother at all 
 when fighting bosses. So in the end, it is always best to use bare fists. Result... button mashers! 
 Cool isn't it? Just like the movie you can punch the other Transformers silly with alien fists. 
 On the other hand, not all is bad because at least there is transformation in the game. With a 
 press of a button, the Transformer will er... transform from vehicle to robot or vice versa. This 
 also gets boring after a while because controlling the vehicle is hard and a bit annoying. The 
 feel is just awkward. The maneuverability is down to the drain, it is like trying to steer a bull.
 
  
  Visual - Not bad with very nice looking Transformers. The level of destructibility is very high, 
 almost everything can be destroyed. Everything explodes during the heat of battle which in turn 
 worth mentioning because even with all that particles around there is not a slowdown in sight. 
 The cutscenes are definitely below par, not enough details are applied and the characters move 
 like those guys in Toy Story.
  
  Audio - Honestly I have no idea. I don't know whether the actors gave their voices or they are 
 some soundalikes. Also to compare them to the movie would be like comparing the sky and earth. 
 From a game point of view they are just... ok. Alright I admit, I'm not into sound stuff unless 
 they sound really crappy or really good so they are only average.
  
  Overall - This game doesn't even come close to the intensity experienced in the movie so don't 
 expect super action packed stuff. One thing that came pretty close though, the chaos when engaged 
 in battles is quite close to the silhouette version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenogeist
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Just like Spiderman 3 this games could have been done a whole lot better. I would rather it have 
 been 2d instead of camera killing, sparce content having, poor plot transforming fun. The camera 
 willdistort your views, the traffic will hem you up to no end, You will get slowed up by a peice 
 of trash in the street. It is not well thought out and well, just like Spiderman 3, it is a peice. 
 I would rather soak my brain in acid than play this game again. The gameplay overall is ok but 
 the missions are below even the lowest rating possible. To the makers of this game, Don't make 
 games anymore before you fully think them out. This game is sad to say the least! If you want a 
 great game to play, play Metroid, leave the transformers back on crappy-tron! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmerrill26
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 14, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I had just saw the movie like a few days before hand. I thought the 
 game was wicked fun.... for like an hour. Thats when i realized you are doing the same thing over 
 and over again. The camera angles really suck and you just find yourself all over the place when 
 in battle. The only part that is really fun is driving around in free roam and just destroying 
 the city. The transformation animations are really cool looking, and can lead to some fun game 
 play (going back and forth from robot to car) . No xbox live support is a total bummer because this 
 game might have been fun to play online. Overall this game is just a total drag and it just seems 
 like a no effort game made to make more money.... so please save yours and just rent this one first 
 if you really want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyme122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Transformers the game follows the movie almost exactly. When I first rented it I thought it would 
 a boring game but when i started to play it the game started to get fun. Its one of those games 
 where if you don't like what the game says like if you don't like Transformers then you will like 
 the game. This game is full of action, choices, and destruction. There some hard parts but once you 
 get through them its smooth sailing for the casual gamer. If you are a expericed gamer then this 
 game isn't for you. I would totally rent this game. I give it a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game is all messed up the creators made it to quickly so it came out so dull gameplays messed 
 up the storyline doesnt go with the movie and i dont know just if u like transformers and blowing 
 s**t up this game might be for u but my opion is DONT BUY IT!!! waste of space, waste of 60, waste 
 of time, waste of everything!!! if u really wanna try it go rent it okay RENT IT!! its no use of 
 wasting 60 bucks on this piece of crap the graphics and voices are probably one of the best things 
 but the voice of some of the charters really suck ass the explosions are messed up i dont know 
 what to say to you if u buy this game I'D RATHER PLAY RATTATOUIE THAN THIS OR EVEN WATCH A MARTHON 
 OF BARNEY well just forget about that barney part all i have to say to you is dont buy it rent 
 it this could be one of the worst movie based games EVER!! but thats my opinion XD!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rewmac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Well, people are usually afraid of movie games which isn't surprising because most of them wasn't 
 really best selling. I read really low review for this game and I think it's very underrated. I 
 came across with some very nice details for the robots it was awesome to play and destroy and transform 
 and just the whole feeling. They could have done a better job with the enviroment it really looks 
 a bit awful, but it's alright. The other thing is the physics in this game the cars fly like trashcans 
 and they don't break, Optimus in truck mode blocked by the tables or stairs, but otherwise it's 
 nice. Transformations are detailed and thanks to achievements we will play some more with it. The 
 thing I really like is the search for the emblems and energon cubes that gives a couple extra hours. 
 You can also unlock G1 skins (2) and some G1 Repaints which is really cool. The free-roam is a 
 bit strange. You got 2 characters for the autobots for example but if you beat a mission with for 
 example Jazz on a level and then when it puts you back as Prime/Bumblebee you need to die and then 
 it loads Jazz for the free roam. This trick works for every single character. The little annoying 
 challanges are quite nice. They too give you a couple (max 2) hours of gameplay, but you can resume 
 any mission too or destroy a whole base as Starscream... Basically I think it's not so bad, I liked 
 the game it's bringing the whole TF frenchise to 360 with some nice graphics and fights...
  The one boring part for me are the boss fights sometimes (2-3) they are a little boring (Barricade 
 for example) but the others are nice... Two things you need to get used to the targeting which can 
 be a pain in the ass and the driving. So if you liked the movie and want the feeling get this game, 
 but don't expect to be the top game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredrising
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I recently rented this game and I found out it wasn't as good as I thought it would be. Actually, 
 I didn't think it would be all that good from the start. I beat the main story for both the Autobots 
 and the Decepticons in less than a day. Now I am just getting the achievements which by the way 
 don't have much of a challenge to them. That's kind of good if you want some easy achievements. 
 The gameplay is alright, but I've seen better and I'm pretty sure everyone else has too. On some 
 of the big fights in small areas you get knocked around without knowing what's happening, and the 
 camera angles start to mess up so that makes it hard to see your surroundings. When you're fighting 
 in bigger areas there's nothing wrong with the fighting except for the difficulty. You can expect 
 to see a lot of Chapter Failed messages because this game is hard. You have to be pretty fast and 
 skilled to get passed some parts of the game. It's hard but still possible. The graphics may be 
 the best part of this game. They are actually pretty good. There are shines on the Transformers 
 and Sam kind of does look like Shia from the movie. That's about it though; no real suprises. Just 
 like most movie games the value is poor. Not much else to say about it. Because of these characteristics 
 I've given this game a 5.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This was a great innovative game. You got to change from bot to car, or even plane, helicopter. 
 This game was absolutely one of the best games I have ever played. The story line was great. All 
 the missions felt like they had a new twist to them. It has tons of bonus content too. All of the 
 best characters are here too; my personal favorite to play is barricade. It takes a long time to 
 beat 100% of this game too; I still haven't however I have beaten the Autobot campaign and I am 
 on my way in the last mission of the Decepticon campaign. If you love the show and the movie and 
 any thing else that is transformer, this is the game for you, but on the other hand. If you are 
 a jackass and can't stand to play new innovative things then go ahead and leave this good game 
 alone. The only problem I had with the game was the combo system, but hell it was easily solved. 
 Along with the x combo system you also get a light weapon and heavy weapon, and destroying the 
 environment is really fun. You will be a big fan of the Decepticons if you don't like caring for 
 the environment. It really did feel like a transformers game, in all honesty, it was about has 
 much fun has watching a transformers series, which is a lot of fun if you ask me. Play and enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Q236
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  A game of giant robots with huge guns and lots to destroy, who wouldn't love that. Unfortunately, 
 that does not apply to Transformers: The Game. It is definately not as good as it sounds.
  
  The Good: Actually the only good part about this game might be the sound.
  
  The Bad: Everything 
 except maybe the sound. I could go on for days telling you about how bad this game is.
  
  The Graphics: They are okay for a next-gen game. The Transformers have some nice detail, and there 
 are some good explosions.
  
  The Sound: The best part of the game. Good voice acting, and most of the sounds are pretty good 
 compared to the rest of the game.
  
  The Gameplay- The most important part of any video game. Unfortunately, the gameplay here is the 
 worst I have ever seen. Each transformer can change into a different vehicle, but you won't want 
 to. It is easier to get around in their original forms and collisions when you are driving around 
 are very unrealistic. Drive into another car and it bounces off of you, drive into some tiny object 
 and you bounce off of it. The transformers all have their own guns and melee combo. That's melee 
 combo not combos. All you do is push the attack button three times, do some lame moves, and thats 
 it. You have guns but they are pretty much useless unless you are just blowing up buildings and 
 cars. Most of the enemies are shielded from your shots. The missions are dull. You fight someone, 
 he runs away, you chase him, fight him again... That sums up most of the fighting missions. In 
 one mission you fight two transormers at the same time. One of them though has a major weakness, 
 stand as close as you can to him and he can't hit you. His melee attack reaches out to far, there 
 is no way he can kill you. When not on a missions there are a couple things you can do. One is 
 to collect objects hidden in plain sight. Another is to complete boring sub missions. I could go 
 on for days telling how bad the gameplay is so I'll stop here.
  
  Do not waste your hard earned cash on this game, its not even worth a rental. Don't even consider 
 playing this game, it will rob you of *four* hours of your life. Yeah, the game can be completed 
 in just four hours. Something that probably would have saved this game is multiplayer. Who doesn't 
 like killing each other with giant robots that destroy everything? Unfortunately, there is no multiplayer. 
 Stay away, its four hours better spent doing ANYTHING else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deccamann
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm in my 30's and I grew up watching the Transformers. The Game is an absolute must have for the 
 true fan. I've played all games of all genres. I have had many dissapointments and I thought this 
 one would fit perfectly into that category. I am glad I was wrong...
  First off, simply hearing Optimus Prime's true original voice as well as Megatron's was a BIG hit 
 for me. The movie had Prime's original voice but not Megatron's due to the age of the actor. The 
 sound effects are spectacular especially if your system is hooked up with the desired surround 
 speakers. When you fight Shockwave, the whole room shakes and you can hear cannons firing from 
 all angles of the room. When I fought Blackout, I can hear the propellar blades spinning all around 
 me. The music is from the movie and if you've seen it, you know what I mean.
  The graphics are amazing. If you have 1080P hi Res, you're flying Sky high. The graphics are so 
 detailed and intricate you want to pause the game and take closer looks at the characters. The 
 cities are a bit generic and no where near the level of detail of say crackdown or GTA San Andreas 
 but that's not what this is about. You have Big explosions, loud Bangs and Booms, and a Hell of 
 Alot of structural mutilation. The missions are what is expected of an Activision, movie turned 
 video game that hit the stores two weeks prior to the movie's release date. They're a bit challenging 
 and the fact that you can play two different but similar campaigns adds quite a bit to the value 
 and tilt. (Try facing Megatron for the first few times at 2am, you'll realize it isn't as easy 
 as Gamespot says Meets the Eye) .
  Overall, this is a Fun game and a Must have for the true fan. No mini-cons, no Armadas, no Cybertronion 
 wars * (unless if you spent the extra $$ for the limited edition copy) , This is a Kick a $ $ graphixxxx 
 Powerhouse designed for the video game lover. Nuff said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikrath
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Using Blackout's giant Helicopter blades as, well, blades.
  
  The Bad: Oh my... where to begin? Let's see... for one thing, even though you are a giant robot 
 with an arsenal of massive laser cannons and missiles that should blow holes in planets, melee 
 attacks are the strongest thing you'll use. In fact, the 'heavy' weapons you wield barely do any 
 damage at all. For example: Megatron has this weapon that launches missile that are like mini nukes, 
 but they don't kill ANYTHING. All they do is create a 'shockwave' that knocks everybody a couple 
 meters so they can stand back up and keep coming. The enemies are so generic it's not even funny, 
 and even the act of obliterating them is somehow made very boring and repetitive. Speaking of which, 
 the missions are so monotonous it will bore you to tears. By the end of the third mission, I was 
 tearing out my hair yelling SAVE YOURSELF YOU IDIOT! ARE YOU HELPLESS? The Achievements are easy 
 to get, but it's not worth the pain of enduring this game. I mean seriously, not even transforming 
 was fun.
  
  Gameplay: Aweful, repetitive, boring, generic, and too bloody short, I beat it in three hours.
 
  
  Graphics: Mediocre for a 'Next-Gen' game, it looks like someone took Mech Assault for X-box and 
 gave it a spit-shine. Not worth the extra money.
  
  Sound: Good voice-acting, I must admit, but nothing else note-worthy.
  
  Alternatives: With 
 an entire series of Mech Assault and Mech Warrior games, not to mention Chrome Hounds for the 360 
 now, don't even waste your time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorch-62
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  As a said, this would have to be the most underappreciated game of all time. Gamespot, and all 
 the other haters out there don't know a great game when they see one.
  
  About GameSpot's review: I have not yet experienced ANY of their complaints; no bad camera angles, 
 no one button killing the whole game, no bad driving mechanics, and definately not less than 6 
 hours to finish the game.
  
  One thing being complained about is the game's driving, yet it is remniscent of the Transformers 
 Armada game from 2004. The difference: This one is part Twisted Metal with hood mounted weapons.
 
  
  Sure, hitting the other cars looks bad, but the fact that they fly around like cardboard can A.) 
 be used to your advantage, and B.) provide a bit of car-bomb fun.
  
  Another thing that's been complained about is the camera angles. You would have to do some complicated 
 maneuvering to get this effect... 'Nuff said.
  
  Here's how it stands:
  ===Pros===
  It's Transformers
  Two campaigns
  --Autobots are, more or less, the movie
  --Decepticons 
 are an alternate reality of the movie
  AMAZING graphics and cutscenes
  Great sound effects
  Nine of the some of the coolest characters to play as
  Fun fight scenes
 
  Great voice-acting
  Unlockable G1 skins and repaints
  
  ===Cons===
  It's too short
  Ratchet, Brawl, and Bonecrusher aren't playable
  
  Overall, I give this game an 8.7 out of 
 10.
  
  DO NOT LISTEN TO THE BAD REVIEWS FOR THIS GAME!!! This a great game, that anyone can get into; 
 not just Transformers fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Imagine blowing up a building with a giant missile, and looking down only to see tanks and policemen 
 shooting st you. You climb a nearby building and throw a billboeard at the tank, it explodes, but 
 a helicopter comes into view. You lock onto it and send a rain of missiles upon it. Boom! You switch 
 to a car, and zoom past the city. You see a robot in the distance and change back into a massive 
 robot. You punch with your massive streangth and the robot expodes in slow-motion. This is Transformers: 
 The Game. Unfortuannly, this is all the game is. The same thing over and over again which keeps 
 this game from scoring in the 8 or 9 range. It uses the tried and true sandbox / mission gameplay 
 from Ultimate Spiderman. It works. Destroying the enviorment is the best part of the game. The 
 buildings explode well, and the graphics are perfect. They are great. 'nuff said. Climbing the 
 buidlings reminded me of King Kong. When you control a 'bot, you feel the streangth of it. Other 
 than the shallow missions, there are three problems with the game. The timed missions are supossed 
 to create hurriness and fun, but they just create frustration. The action zones are a dumb idea, 
 but the worst part of this game is the car controlls. The helicopter and jet controlls are great, 
 but the car controlls are frustrating and horribal. That said, don't get me wrong , this is a good 
 and fun game that is worth a rent if you like the movie (which i saw and it was great) or if you 
 like just destroying things! Transform and roll out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa_x
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Game got bad reviews i think because of the movie.
  
  Anyways, i thought the game was decent, transforming is very smooth (x360 owner) , doesnt skip or 
 anything.
  Gameplay is not bad, pick bad guys or good guys, its more fun (personally) to be the bad guys, you 
 get to destroy more things.
  Picking the good guys is ok, basic stuff.
  I felt the combos were a little to repetative, but each bot is unique.
  
  I will say this it 
 is not usual movie-game crap is better than the usual movie-game.
  
  Good buy for a transformer die hard fan, a good rental for new comers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuthin_better
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I mean the graphics are really good and the sound and all that glittery stuff but the game itself 
 is lacking big time. I mean I could have came up with more interesting missions than chasing a 
 little robot before he gets to the alarm in the dam or blowing up the fans and getting the heck 
 out of there before you roast (with all that fun debris falling which for some reason you get stuck 
 on) .
  
  There should have been more battles between the robots... you know they could have used the Godzilla 
 games on the XBOX as a basis for this game and I bet it would have been a lot better. Or you get 
 to choose which autobot or decepticon you want to use for each mission (unless it follows the movie 
 then this would not work) . It needed to be more of an open-ended world... very restrained and felt 
 claustrophobic at times. Buildings do not even collapse after being blown to bits... what's up 
 with that!
  
  If there is a second movie and they come up with a second game.... they better listen to the fans 
 before!
  
  I recommend this game for younger kids that have trouble playing difficult games (which there are 
 a lot of) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuele1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think it was that great, Although I'm looking forward to watching the movie my friend 
 said it was freaking awesome! I was disappointed on how bad the explosions were, I mean I was shocked. 
 Like that one picture said, blowing up a city with a giant robot should be funner than that. D&lt;
 
  
  I don't even know why I'm judging this game so early, I mean I just got it. Its just like gears 
 of war at first I wasn't feeling it then it hit me that it was like 10000000 times better than 
 halo. That is why I am hooked to gears now =P.
  
  But then again movies that are turned to games are not that great. They should let real game developers 
 do all the work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahmaul
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  the 360 has got to have the best version of the game, hands down! although I beat the game in 2 
 days, its still a great game, they shouldve followed the lead of the PSP and bring in some of the 
 old school transformers. but other than that , it is a tight game, that I highly recommend to any 
 fan of the transformers, if you read my PSP review I was disatified very! they did the game justice 
 this time around! Oh yeah if you havent seen the movie, you MUST see it, I am going again tomorrow 
 to see it , CLASSIC movie..... cant wait for part 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarod194
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I dont have much to say about this game because it is just so awesome. The graphics are great the 
 voice acting is awesome the gameplay never gets repetitive gamespots just lyin. The freeplay is 
 awesome. sure the driving parts could have been better since if u hit street lights youll be put 
 to a halt but cars go flyin when hit like gamespot said. But the fighting never gets old. gamespot 
 says that all you do is 3 hit melees but thats because they just look for the easiest way to do 
 things. thier are a variety of ways you can kill you opponent transformer with all the eviromental 
 objects. so dont believe gamespot. BUY THIS GAME IT IS ONE OF THE BEST GAMES THIS SUMMER! CANT 
 WAIT FOR THE MOVIE!!! TOMMORO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  i wish the city was like grandtheftauto, and the people and cops would react better and more to 
 the game, it feels like it was rushed like the game needed like 6 more months to make it great, 
 for the people that love the transformers and i do, it is still a fun game and the robots in the 
 game look great. the voices are cool. i would say wait 6 months then buy it for 19.99 and keep 
 it in your collection of games its worth that, but for 59.99 nope just to much not enough there, 
 climbing buildings is cool and knocking them down is fun you can pick up cars and toss them with 
 other items in the game lot of fun to be had just falls short needed more time. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerjoseph6969
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game.. It's a Movie gbased game.. For what it comes with it is very good. The game 
 is no better or aims to not be ground breaking than any other movie based game. The game looks 
 Very nice in HD and the Bots look ttrue in graphics to the one in the movie. So what 't to complain. 
 This game was never suppose to rival Mass effect or Graw, Graw 2 or rainbow 6 vegas or Any halo..
 
  
  Compared to Matrix on Xbox 1 or any other game from movie (IE: spider man) It is actually a good 
 game.
  
  When i finish it i will be glad to add it to my collection of for keeps games.
  Pretty much like crackdown With Robots. The similarities is frightening.
  
  Love that game. 
 Let the devs know what you do not like for they may include it in the next game Transformers the 
 Game 2- 'Unicron' 
  That one will have online multiplayer... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Before Transformers released, I had mixed feelings of anticipation. Trepidation with cautious optimism. 
 That sums up my anxious preconceptions of the game. Transformers manages to both deliver as well 
 as fall short, culminating in a short romp of a game with a good deal of bonus material. The game's 
 shortness, however, cannot be overlooked. It renders the game a rent as opposed to a buy, because 
 you can clear the main stories, unlock the extras, and get all the achievements easily within a 
 week.
  Graphically, transformers is pretty sharp. The environments look great, as do the transformers 
 (despite departure from the classic transformers look) . The effects are pretty well done as well. 
 The explosions, which you'll see quite a few of, are entertaining to say the least. The over-the-top 
 destructable environments are excellently done as well, even though they crumble at the slightest 
 touch. The movements of the characters are fluid and their transformations look great. However, 
 the lack of variety of said movements does become tiring after a while.
  The sound in Transformers is perhaps one of the game's best features. The mechanical noises, explosions, 
 and all the various sound effects are well done. Transformers is complemented by an excellent orchestral 
 soundtrack that succeeds in setting the mood, enhancing the dramatic moments in the game.
  As for the gameplay, I have mixed feelings about it. What you can do is limited, but has variety 
 at the same time. You've got a few moves: block, melee, jump, shoot A, shoot B, grab/throw, and 
 not much else. However, you can pick up many objects and the Transformers themselves do have noticeable 
 variable between the gameplay tactics they require. The gameplay does fail in several aspects, 
 though. There is an unfortunate insistence upon time limits for every little thing that severely 
 detracts from the gameplay in an attempt to simulate urgency. Some pacing autonomy would have done 
 wonders for this game. Also, you're often to confined to a small ring in which to fight enemies. 
 While this keeps you on task, it is also prone to glitches, such as being thrown from the circle 
 and being unable to return within 20 seconds. As the game progresses, many of the challenges become 
 almost unplayably-frustrating and must be done several times before you can figure out the precise 
 set of repetitive moves necessary to defeat your adversary (s) .
  This game does not justify a 60 dollar price tag. Each campaign can be completed within a matter 
 of 4-5 hours, there is no multiplayer available, and the only extra in-campaign action is a sparse 
 assortment of frustrating sub-missions. However, as a bonus for completing levels and collecting 
 widgets in levels, you unlock various clips from the upcoming movie, pictures, and alternate transformer 
 skins. This is a nice addition for those who are anticipating the movie and want to get a few sneak 
 peaks at it before showtime.
  Despite its many flaws, this game is worth playing. As a former Transformer fan, its nostalgia 
 factor is high as well. This game has its down moments, and it has its great moments, each of which 
 are done to extremes. Definitely try this game, but don't buy it. 100% rental unless you're a die-hard 
 Transformers fanatic. Amendment:
  Despite all the technical problems, I've upped my tilt 2 points further. This is the result of 
 having finished both campaigns. I actually do feel a sense of accomplishment and now anticipation 
 for the movie itself. I'd like for this to be the first game that I get all 1000 achievement points... 
 or at least close to it :) Definitely worth a rental at least... even though you can finish nearly 
 if not all of it within that timespan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3572525
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is quiet amazing. There are a few flaws like the action zone if you leave it a countdown 
 starts, but other than that it is a must buy to fans of the series! So if you are a fan get this 
 game because it is great to add to the collection! This game is quiet amazing. There are a few flaws 
 like the action zone if you leave it a countdown starts, but other than that it is a must buy to 
 fans of the series! So if you are a fan get this game because it is great to add to the collection! This 
 game is quiet amazing. There are a few flaws like the action zone if you leave it a countdown starts, but 
 other than that it is a must buy to fans of the series! So if you are a fan get this game because 
 it is great to add to the collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: why_bother1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Transformers the game, is a great movie game adaptation. This game tops spiderman games in the 
 movie to game genre. First the game game gives you a choice to play as autobots (goodguys) or decepticons (badguys) . 
 The story pretty much is about trying to find and secure the allspark, which gives all transformers 
 life. Autobots want to preserve it, and decepticons want to use it to rule the universe. Playing 
 as the autobots means you cant run around blowing crap up. Sad isnt it. But then again its still 
 pretty sweet to kick decepticon butt. You start off as bumblebee and switch back from characters 
 ocasionaly. First issue i notice is those horrible action zones if you leave the circle it starts 
 a countdown for you to get back in. Annoying... But the games great graphics, great cinematics, great 
 action, and great voice overs is astonishing. Play as the decepticons is very fun. Theres not as 
 many obejectives but a lot more clobbern' time. Like to draw out optimus you have to run around 
 with megatron blowing the city up super fun with awesome destruction. The only other problem is 
 the time limits some seem a little strict allowing for nervewracking madness and not so much fun. 
 I usaully get the job done with 3 seconds to spare. Transforming is great looking so is fighting. 
 When you kill drones they fly into pieces .very cool. If your on the fence about buying this game. 
 BUY IT NOW. worth every penny. great action and awesome cinematics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  We all know what to expect from a movie based game (the exception being Riddick) , and somehow Transformers 
 manages to not even meet these low expectations. Most of us are used to open world games that have 
 camera issues and stale gameplay. However, in Transformers, the camera is a total nightmare as 
 well as the gameplay being as shallow as any game in recent memory. All the characters move very 
 slow and ackward, and don't even get me started on what a nightmare it is to drive these things...
 
  
  Almost every mission has a very shallow objective with narrow time limits that make a chore feel 
 like an even more miserable chore.
  
  The story is shallow and an afterthought. The voices are ok but the sounds levels are all way off. 
 Making some much harder to hear than others.
  
  The only really good thing to say about this game is that it is pretty cool to see the G1 Prime 
 and Megatron running around. It also makes you realize how well the G1 megatron look could have 
 worked for the movie, instead of using that horrible evil pile of ice look they are now using for 
 megatron.
  
  If you are a diehard transformers fan, like myself, and remember such good times with the brand 
 from your childhood, then rent the game and play around with it until you can take no more..... won't 
 take long.
  
  Otherwise, just stay far away from this unless you expect very little from games and enjoy getting 
 kicked in the groin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divadave
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  The game is decent.. the only thing I can't stand about the game are the action zones and the damn 
 time limits.. why put that in a game? I mean.. if its for the challenge of beating through a level 
 faster and getting a high score thats one thing.. but come on.. can't we just take out time a race 
 through the streets without a time limit.. To me that's the only thing that sucks about this game.. you 
 want to enjoy it.. but every moment the cut scene ends.. you've got to beat the clock.. I played 
 this game more worried about losing time then beating up the bad guys.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  DURING THE SUMMER THERE ARE ALOT OF SUPERHERO MOVIES AND THEN THEY REALISED GAMES AND THERE USALLY 
 BAD BAD BAD AND THIS IS ONE WHAT SUCKS IS YOU HAVE COOL CHARECTERS AND YOU GET TO TRANSFORM BACK 
 AND FORTH BACK AND FORTH IT SUCKS CAUSE I WANT TO GIVE IT A FAIR REVIEW BUT I CANT
  
  THE GRAPHICS WELL THERE NOT ALL BAD DECENT ILL BE GANEROURIOUS 6
  
  NOW THE VALUE YOULL BEAT 
 IT FAST AND HAVE NOTHING TO DO I ONLY RECOMEND GETTING WELL RENTING IT FOR THE ACHIVEMENTS PRETY 
 EASY GAMPLAY WELL YOU BEAT SOME ROBOTS UP AND TRANSFORMER AND THATS IT OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN 
 AND THATS IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I even feel ripped off since I rented this game cause it was a waste of money. The game in the 
 first thirty minutes is fund and the transforming and blowing stuff up with big robots is kinda 
 fun but it quickly wears off. Sloppy controls with driving as a vehicle, bad camera especially 
 when you get around trees (just can't see) and the missions that can be frustrating to complete. 
 Don't take this as I don't like the game cause I think it's hard but that is just isn't fun and 
 that's the point of getting a video game right? One example is the bumble bee mission where you 
 have to destroy a fan then get out of the tunnel before it blows up. Due to the sloppy controls 
 and sometime just not being able to see debris and so on in the tunnel as I was going It took me 
 awhile to complete it and after I did it I felt no accomplishment just oh this game sucks and took 
 it out of my xbox to take it back to the video store. If someone who actually worked on making 
 this game happens to read this for shame! You should apologize for this piece of crap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotbr17
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was counting the days for this game. After seeing some videos from Activision I was hoping 
 this could be one of the greatest 3rd party's game of the year.
  What a shame. The game is shallow, it seems that programmers forgot to add gravity to the game, 
 everything seems to be floating. Trying to control bumblebee on the second chapter is one of the 
 most annoying thins I've ever done.
  The robots have been well modeled, but scenarios are very poor. As gamespot review said, its terrible 
 to have only a stupid 3 combo attack, and what's worse, due the lack of gravity in the game, after 
 the 3rd puch your enemy is knocked out so far from you that it takes seconds for it to stand up 
 and fight again (now, imagine this on a time based mission, its a nightmare) .
  I've always been a transformer fan, this game is a disappointment to me, if you like transformers 
 just don't get this one, don't spend a dime on it, not even renting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok..... I popeed out my $59.95 the day this game came out. Thankfully it was the last one in stock 
 so the new game had already been taken out of the skrinkwrap......... so I was able to return it 
 as NEW the very next day. So let me tell you about my experience with this game. I was aniticipating 
 this game because as a kid I loved the Transformers. Optimus Prime and the Deceptacons were the 
 coolest toys. And conceptually this could be a really great game. But in reality this game is a 
 piec of crap. If I was a developer, I would be embarrassed to put my name on this product, especially 
 on the XBOX 360 or PS3. It could maybe pass as a bad PS2 game..... if it was released about three 
 years ago. Here's the positives. It looks pretty cool when you switch from vehicle to Robot and 
 from Robot to vehicle. The actual transformation looks pretty cool. Truthfully....... that's about 
 the only good thing. Ok one more thing. If you're really desperate for achievements, you can get 
 some fairly easy points pretty quickly. But it's a high price to pay just for that. Here's the 
 negatives. The graphics are atrocious. Horrible. Almost looking like a cartoon. The gameplay is 
 bad. You try to lock onto your enemy and it locks onto the wrong thing very often. When you turn 
 into a vehicle, the driving mechanics are the WORST I've ever seen in any game. I swear this is 
 true. I've seen better driving physics on the super nintendo. I hope the movie is alot better than 
 the game. I noticed Gamespot gave this game a 6.0. That is being VERY generous and I have a feeling 
 the only reason it got that high of a score is because Transformers has alot of advertising on 
 this website. Cause I've seen much better games get worse scores on here. thankfully I was able 
 to return this game for a new game and I swapped it for Hour of Victory. Let me tell you. Hour 
 of Victory is ten times the game Transformers is. I'm having alot of fun with HOV..... and I see 
 myself playing all the way through that game. However I couldn't stand another minute of the sad 
 and bad Transformers. Yet, another disappointing game based on a movie. Also if there was a storyline...... it 
 was so irrelevant I don't even recall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Transformers: The Game is the movie tie-in of the summer blockbuster Transformers, and you might 
 believe it at a glance, but in reality there is no substance or variety to this game. The game 
 has 8 levels (4 Autobot, 4 Decepticon) , then there's a boss level, and lastly a Cybertron level 
 (this level is just tacked-on, all you do is fight random bots) . Keep reading to learn why this 
 game isn't as good as it should be.
  
  Gameplay: As far as gameplay goes, I didn't really have a problem constantly mashing the X button 
 (which is all you do when fighting except occasionally pick up an item and throw it) but the fact 
 that you could get knocked down, then you'd fly back into a wall, then it would take you quite 
 a time to get up... it just didn't hold up too well. As far as enemies go you'll mash X for the 
 minion-types, and any bosses or varied types you'll usually throw the previously stated object 
 to stutter them, THEN you'll mash the X button until the process continues. Transforming works 
 okay but only as a get-to tactic in reaching your destination, but the lighter cars feel too floaty 
 (like Bumblebee) , some Transformers just don't feel right (like the Blackout, Starscream, and Megatron, 
 which are flying-types if you don't know) , and you'll never get to use them in a fun way.
  
  Graphics: The only thing that looks really good in this game are the Transformers, and for 
 good reason since they're the prime real-estate. As far as levels go, they often look muddy and 
 symmetrical, never anything more. Also, explosions look great, but most of the time you'll wonder 
 why buildings don't fall apart like you think they should. Also, everything is scaled down so you 
 feel like a large robot in the middle of a city, so the artists went lazy on you and the humans 
 look like blobs, the cars aren't detailed, and overall nothing really shines besides the Transformers.
 
  
  Sound: Meh, it's okay. The explosions are boring, but most of the time you'll be listening to sirens 
 because for some reason cops are always on every level to chase you (which, by the way, even if 
 a Decepticon is attacking you they won't notice and they'll keep focusing on you, same as if you 
 were a Decepticon fighting an Autobot, they'll focus on you) . Nothing stands out.
  
  Value: There's about 7 videos, 158 movie and series stills, and a few alternate looks for Transformers 
 to unlock, but you have to go out of your way too much to unlock these things. As far as what counts 
 toward your percentage you have cubes (100 on every level, yup, and that's 800 cubes total, these 
 are small little yellow cubes that are scattered around the level, think of them as agility orbs 
 from Crackdown but they don't make any noise... yea... it sucks) , then you have Transformer icons 
 (5 on every level, so there's 40 in total, these are somewhat hard to find but you'll usually find 
 them by accident while doing something) , skills (this pertains to Throwing, Heroic, Evil, Destruction, 
 Slide, Speed, etc. and you have to say destroy enough buildings and fill the little progress icons 
 to 5 without it disappearing and it just records it, doesn't make you better in any way, there's 
 usually 3 to 6 on each level with Jumping and Heroic/Evil being the hardest ones) , and finally 
 sub-missions (while you collect cubes you can access sub-missions, the first one you use requires 
 20 cubes, the next requires 40, then 60, then 80, so you have to collect cubes to do the sub-missions 
 while are basically stupid mini-game sort of activities that are just annoying) . So basically if 
 you don't like collecting crappy little cubes, then this game is definitely not for you if you 
 like being a perfectionist. The story will run you only 6 or so hours if you rush through it (that 
 counts both sides, by the way) , with only a few frustrating moments. The achievements consist of 
 42, one of them being the 100% completion, so you may want to borrow this or use GameFly, because 
 this may take longer than a rental depending on your determination to collect those cubes. No reason 
 to really play this game once you complete the story, the extras aren't really worth it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Meh, another failed movie tie-in, at least it's better than Fantastic Four: RotSS, 
 it's not outstanding, but it's not terrible. I reccommend you wait for a used copy or till it falls 
 in budget range (which shouldn't be long) . If you're a Transformers fan I dunno what to tell you, 
 this game didn't make me feel like a Transformers, instead I felt like I was playing MechAssault. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomous725
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Transformers is not unlike many other movie based video games. It's too short, only has one difficulty (Hard) , 
 and the now common, Free Roam is available. And I can guarantee you're going to hear many many 
 terrible reviews for this game, people are going to give it bad scores in categories that are well 
 done just to try and prove their point. But This is the way I see it, if you're not a Transformers 
 fan than what you see before you would be some giant robots, who are going to fight other robots 
 and destroy buildings. But for Transformer fans we see Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, Iron Hide, Starscream, 
 and all of these other characters that we grew up with. That alone is enough to make us want to 
 buy the game, and even if it does suck well we still have that. And the game doesn't by any means 
 suck but it's of low quality. I've played many games that were ten times as worse. Anyways I'll 
 go over the pros and cons real quick.
  
  Pros: Giant robots, some fun boss battles, destructible city, pick up poles and cars to use as 
 weapons, Powerful guns, Awesome transformations from flying a jet at 200 mph, to driving a camaro 
 at 90 mph, awesome cutscenes.
  
  Cons: The secret characters are G1 characters though it appeals to fans not so much people who 
 aren't fans, fighting can become repetitive, the game can become increasingly stressful at hard 
 points in the game, free roam isn't all it should be, You're almost always being attacked by military 
 tanks and copters. Overall I like it, though if you're not a true fan than I recommend renting 
 this game on a boring weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game looking for some easy achievement points but what I found was a very fun 
 game. The game starts off with an opening scene which I believe is out of the movie. You get to 
 choose from either the good or the bad bots. The game is completely free roaming allowing you to 
 choose what you do next. Whether it be following the story line or looking for sub quests. The 
 area is pretty large and the graphics are amazing. Everything in the game is destructable and you 
 can use almost anything as a weapon. Hidden throughout the city are hidding icons to collect. Collecting 
 these allows you to do more sub quests. You can either be a car and cruise around the areas or 
 you can be in robot form jumping and climbing buildings. Everywhere you go leaves a path of destruction. 
 Its quite impressive. Lets break down the review.
  
  Graphics
  These graphics are everything you wish Spiderman 3 was. Its very appealing to the eyes and there 
 really is no flaw in this department. Game runs at a smooth 60fps all the time. For those with 
 the Elite you can enjoy this game in 1080p.
  
  Sound
  The game sports some interesting sounds but probably could have emphasized more on the car sounds 
 while driving. Its pretty funny hearing all the people scream while running when you transform 
 in to a bot.
  
  Gameplay
  The controls arent bad. You can lock on your target while fighting which is nice but sometimes 
 it is difficult to get the lock on. Once you do a combo you are forced to watch your bot punch 
 while the enemy isnt even there. The car controls feel a bit tight at first but you quickly get 
 the hang of it. Its actually easier to control the car while boosting lol.
  
  Overall
  This game has a pretty good replay value because there are alot of mini quests to do for more achievements. 
 Plus there are 2 sides of the game to play. To me this game was worth the $60 as I will get many 
 hours of gameplay from it. Unfortunately there is no multiplayer mode.
  
  The Score
  7.75/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  That's how I discribe this game in one word, I could use more words like, Crap, Cheap and Same 
 old same old but i'm not gonna waste any more time on this game because it's nog worth it, go buy 
 something else like a toilet brush or something because even that is more entertaining than this... 
 well okay i'll tell you what's good about this game it's nog alot, come to think of it... it's 
 only one thing that you can destroy everything but that get's old really fast because i've done 
 it in like a thousand other games, but they thought it was easy money making a game where you could 
 destroy everyting and then putting the transformers name on it... so i'd like to say to the developers 
 that they should start meking something that's fresh and plays well until then... don't make any 
 more games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharris01
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I am a) a hardcore Transformers fan, b) love the looks of the movie 
 bots and c) wanted to just run around transforming and fighting.
  
  The bots in the game look really, really good - details weren't skimped on.
  
  Fighting in 
 this game is kinda lame. Button mash for the same 3 hit combo over and over until the other dies. 
 It's a big let down. Boss fights are hella hard because of this and the (seemingly) way overpower 
 AI you have to fight later on.
  
  An example - the Blackout/Ironhide fight. It takes so long you'll easily be frustrated when you 
 die (which you will most likely) then have to do it ALLLL over.
  
  The camera is shotty. Too many times have I been somewhat lost in trees/building because of the 
 dumb angles.
  
  Also, driving in this game is really bad. I don't think they took more than 5 minutes to do any 
 physics work on that aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastikzero
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The only positive thing about this game is the graphics and sound effects... NOTHING MORE!!! The 
 animation on the transformations that Activision prides so much just plain suck. The transformations 
 happen too fast, but this isn't why the game sucks. Every mission is shallow and repetitive. Blow 
 up buildings and kill autobots with a crappy kick kick punch combo. Then every mission takes place 
 in a very small confined circular area that you can't leave or else you fail the mission....... so 
 what is the point in having fast vehicles and jets with nitro? You speed for 3 seconds and you 
 are out of area. Also, when you fight a robot, their weapons hurt you but your weapons do squat. 
 So you are left with nothing to do but the mundane punch kick combo. The lock on system is horrible 
 and so is the throwing and camera. This game is a big disappointment and a true let down to a Transformers 
 fan/gamer. I wont even waste my time trying the Autobots campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Now we get Transformers the Game. Time to relive my childhood. This game has cash in written all 
 over it. Just like any other big movie to game translation, it doesn't live up to the source material. 
 With that being said, since the movie isn't due out for a few more days i'll review this at face 
 value. The game is extremely simplistic. You select autobots, or decepticons. You go through mission 
 after mission, either protecting or destroying (based on what side you chose) . Problem is, the gameplay 
 isn't varied enough to keep it fresh longer than a couple of hours. You start to feel like the 
 missions are all the same, and basically they are. The graphics are pretty good, and the character 
 models are very detailed. This game could've been so much more, but as it stands it is simply average. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillswitchNL
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  That's how I discribe this game in one word, I could use more words like, Crap, Cheap and Same 
 old same old but i'm not gonna waste any more time on this game because it's nog worth it, go buy 
 something else like a toilet brush or something because even that is more entertaining than this... 
 well okay i'll tell you what's good about this game it's nog alot, come to think of it... it's 
 only one thing that you can destroy everything but that get's old really fast because i've done 
 it in like a thousand other games, but they thought it was easy money making a game where you could 
 destroy everyting and then putting the transformers name on it... so i'd like to say to the developers 
 that they should start meking something that's fresh and plays well until then... don't make any 
 more games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDeadIsRising
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  first off its a movie game... so it drops to a 5.0... next the 2 sided story never works for me.... i 
 give it a 1.0 cuz transformers never made me happy anyways... its not the worst nor is it the best... its 
 a little lower than average... i feel sorry for anyone who spend 60 bucks on this game and expect 
 to get 70 hours of game play... the story line is very short and i really was not impressed with 
 the story anyways... personally at first i was hype about the transformers game and movie but after 
 this im not too sure about the movie... overall many people will have different views of games and 
 for me the transformers is just a wa to get parents to run out and by a mediocre movie game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donvarriel
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Game is far too easy. Far too short to be a 69.99 game. Graphics are good but nothing special. 
 Burnout and plenty of other games have had graphics like this before. If this were a $29.99 game 
 I would forgive the Boring Game-Play, Boring Combos. Each Bot feels just like the other. I was 
 expecting much more game-play from this game. I'm still trying to remember back in 1998 a game 
 similar too this came out with bots and the like. I really feel as tho this game isn't coming close 
 to a next-gen game. I would hope game companies would start raising the bar a little and stop shoveling 
 out half baked games that look like they haven't been in the oven long enough. As I said above, 
 if games like these were priced as a budget title costing no more than $29.99 or even less, I'm 
 sure people would have reviewed games like this on a different scale. Unfortunately games like 
 this are priced the same as a good High Budget So i feel it's only justifiable that I be harsh 
 on this game.
  
  Boring
  Too easy
  Repetitive Button mashing
  Seems like you're repeating the same thing every level Graphics could have been better.
  
  
 Overall: Don't waste your money unless your renting it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnvegeta
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  i have enjoyed this game so far, and taking my time going through getting all the items and such, 
 i think this is a good game, yes in smaller city spots the camera angle sucks but deal with it, 
 this is a great transformers fan game, and surpasses the beastwars one for sure. its kind of like 
 grandtheft auto but being a robot and destroying stuff, so what you cant kill the people, like 
 in slave zero :p either way if you are a transformers fan you'd like it. 100 words grrr... megatron 
 sounds good in the game, they should have used in the movie but noooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Fool_Sq
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Yech. The only redeeming feature of this game are it's mediocre graphics. Other then that, you 
 can't even run people over! What the hell? If you're going to play a game where you're a giant 
 robot destroying earth, then you expect that you can crush the life out of little tiny humans right? 
 Right. The game is too short and is mainly comprised of repetitive hack and slash style game play. 
 Booooring. Not to mention the fact that the tilt will make you want to puke. You can't see **** 
 Overall I give this game a 3.1 because of the voice acting and the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Transformers is a game that feels sort of rushed. But when you start playing it, you really just 
 have fun playing the game. The game cannot be compared to the film just yet, but we can guess it 
 follows the story of the movie as close as it can.
  
  In the game you can play as Autobots and Decepticons. You can pick what faction you want so you 
 dont have to play through one story before the other, Which is really nice. The game doesn't follow 
 the original series story very well, so that means the movie wont. The Autobots and the Decepticons 
 are fighting over something called the AllSpark, this is where the transformers came from. Unlike 
 in the original show were it was energon. The AllSpark is from Beast Wars. But you can run around 
 the city looking for yellow glowing boxs (energon cubes) . You play as 4 Autobots, and and i think 
 4 Decepticons.
  
  The gameplay in the game is alright. The game allows you to transform anytime you please, this 
 really makes you feel like one of the transformers. When your in robot form, and walking around 
 the camera can be frustrating in battle. The transformer has two weapons, a light, and heavy. Now 
 the problem with these weapons are the enemies can simply block your attacks. so your resorting 
 to hitting the X button to punch and kick your enemies. When in a boss fight you are sometimes 
 required to block. The blocking works really well actually in some cases. In some boss fights your 
 enemy has a move that can go threw your blocking, this makes the game difficult but at the same 
 time when two bosses are both attacking you, can seem unfair. When in the vehicle form the controls 
 are good, the camera is locked behind you so you are unable to move it unless you are a flying 
 vehicle. The cars dont drive like real cars, but in this case it is a good thing. But when you 
 hit other cars on the road they simply fly away from you, which kind of seems odd. Now when you 
 are autobots you aren't supposed to destroy the environment which takes some fun out of things. 
 As the Decepticons you can destroy the environment and get awarded for it.
  
  The graphics in this game are actually really great. The transformers are very detailed and look 
 like there movie counter parts. Now the only thing with the graphics is the environment isnt always 
 the greatest looking thing. Something in the environment don't look like the belong in the game. 
 The animations of the character models walking and transformer ming are believable and look awesome. 
 When you destroy the buildings and stuff around you, it looks so great.
  
  The audio in the game is really a high light of the game. From the ground shaking bellow you, to 
 the sound of the transforms. The voice acting is great, mainly because it has the actors from the 
 movie.
  
  Over all this is a basic movie game. But every transformer fan out there, will enjoy it a little 
 more than most gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infidelcastro
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Renting games is a great thing. Because if it wasn't for it, I'd be wasting money over dumb games 
 like this. Ok, so it's somewhat cool and all the way they transform and destroy things, and hey! 
 It's TRANSFORMERS. Every Generation X'er knows of The Transformers. But let's not jump the gun. 
 Michael Bay not only butchered the concept of Transformers, but also butchered the idea of this 
 game. I hate the fact that Megatron is not even a freaking Walther handgun. But let's get on to 
 gameplay. REPETITIVE. It's fun to fight robots and all, but it jsut gets so repetitive, the fun 
 factor on this game goes down each and every time. What would have been a great addition would 
 have been a co-op, campaign mode, shoot, even a xbox live deathmatch, but nooooooooooo. Instead, 
 they focused on the 1st player gaming and they didn't even do that right! I'm a big game head people, 
 listen to me when I say this. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! RENT IT. YOU WILL SEE THE LIGHT AFTERWARDS. 
 TAKE HEED TO MY ADVICE AND YOU WILL KNOW WHAT I AM TALKING ABOUT. Now i'm about to tell Blockbuster 
 that this game doesn't even work so I can go and rent The Darkness. Sigh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockero007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying: PEOPLE JUST LOVE TO HATE, and for that matter people don't realize that 
 NO VIDEO GAME IS PERFECT. No Zelda is: which people still complaning about the graphics been carried 
 over from the GameCube to the Wii and it still got excellent reviews. No Metal Gear Solid 3 is: 
 which the same version of the game has been re-touched, from Sneak Eater to Subsistence, and still 
 got excellent reviews. SO WHY WOULD PEOPLE EXPECT TRANSFORMERS TO BE ANY DIFFERENT WHEN THE BIG 
 NAME GAMES COULDN'T EVEN KEEP UP WITH THEIR GREATNESS... people just love to hate. The game is in 
 fact far from perfection but it also brings a lot of entertainment to the table, which not only 
 harcore fans should enjoy, but also for those casual gamers that want to jump into a decent game 
 followed with a decent movie that most of us would probably watch when it releases 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDocctor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Having a good time playing it! Lots of things to break and lots of fast action. It's like the difference 
 between Blood Diamond and the Fantastic Four Rise Of The Silver Surfer. All it has to be is fun 
 to play. Great effects, music and sound. Transformations are awesome and a fair amount unlockable. 
 The Decepticons are a blast to play! The control scheme for the cars is a little loose but I am 
 certain that will appeal to other players. There were some nice touches with regard to the scenery 
 (Seaspray's Fish and Chips and Hound's Hot Dogs) . This showed it was made by people who love the 
 franchise. Day and Night missions have added some variety and each Transformer handles a bit differently. 
 Ironhide is a big bruiser while Jazz is a bit lighter on his feet and wheels. Having fun so far.... can't 
 wait for the sequel. It will only get better from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics good sound but the game play is a little weak. I grew up on transformers so I have 
 seen many games come and go this one isnt the best game out there but it is the best transformers 
 game out there. The graphics are great and almost every think in the game can be picked up for 
 a weapon or destroyed. You do have the original transformers such as Megaton, Prime, bumble bee, 
 jazz and starscream. They look different but these are more modern times so that is expected. It 
 looks like some of the old transformer games should have tried to do. The sound is also good, explosions 
 are crisp the sound is just good all around. Plus as a bonus for you older guys like me the voices 
 of Prime and megaton are the originals from the cartoon which is great. The game play is good a 
 little easier then I was expecting, like are you smarter then a fifth grader simple. One button 
 shoots heavy weapon another for light and one for melee and the list goes on but not much farther. 
 You can play and the good guys or the bad guys its up to you and that is a nice surprise. Missions 
 are straight to the point and good or bad you run the same story line just on opposing sides. So 
 I would assume you follow the movie but that has yet to be seen. All and all this is the best transformer 
 game that has come out it is good but not great. Still it is the best one and yet if youre not 
 a big transformer fan I would suggest renting before you buy. I am a fan but not a zombie so its 
 not a ten but it is still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse20l
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the other transformer games, but i've read they are pretty bad. This game 
 is really fun i don't understand why it got a low score. Pirates of the carribean got a better 
 score and that game was really really really bad. I would say this game is worth buying, I'm not 
 a transformers nut but i remember the cartoon and i can't wait for the movie. this game looks very 
 clean and the robots are awsome.
  
  I don't have much else to say but i have to have 100 words i guess.
  this review requirment is 
 stupid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djson56
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  After reading gamespots initial review i had doubts about getting this game. But i did. This game 
 though it has its problem is just plain fun for a transformer fan. taking out optimus prime's guns 
 and just unloading on a building is tons of fun. The game is short but u can pick any mission u 
 want and do it again so u can pick it up have some fun and then move on to a serious game. I say 
 if your short on cash rent it but if u have a steady job and are a transformer fan i'd buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nejoku
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Ive been looking forward to this game for a while now.
  Its actually a pretty decent game movie .
  
  I did have high expectations for this game, Im 
 also a little bit dissapointed.
  More details below.
  
  The Driving controls are really weird at first but after the first few missions you get over it 
 and use to it. the transformation of the bots are pretty amazing. this game proves to be next gen 
 with the interactive-ness.
  
  Over-all the combat system could of been better, but its still pretty decent.
  I think this a 
 pretty well movie game adaption. You can easily tell its a movie game from playing it of course 
 but it does good in that area.
  
  There are problems with the camera angles and some missions can be ridiculously annoying. The Model 
 details are very good for all of the bots.
  
  along side with the both compaigns, not even the side missions can carry this game a whole lot. 
 I agree with who-ever says they could of made the game alot longer or atleast alot more stuff to 
 do in it.
  
  But yeah if your a TF fan and you cant wait for the movie, either rent or buy this game, eithers 
 fine. You'll probably have a good time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbas
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I only had buyers remorse after I read all the lack luster web reviews. Otherwise, I found myself 
 enjoying the game. The Decepticon missions are much more fun since you're encouraged to destroy 
 the landscape (and it blows up nicely) . Transforming has a purpose and the levels are big enough 
 so you don't feel boxed in. I don't understand the most reviews are giving the graphics poor marks. 
 I'm playing it in 1080p and the models are incredibly detailed, especially the Decepticons. The 
 environments are nice as well.
  
  If your not a mark for the movie hype and don't love all things Transformers, rent it. If your 
 a fan, wait to buy it used or give in to your urges and get a copy now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightSlayer45
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  this game overall is surprisingly good, It was way better then the last one, you get to play opitimus 
 prime, in my opinoin was the best autobot to play in game, except when driving him, it was crazy 
 and hard t o control him most of the time. although bumblebee was cool to as, even jazz which was 
 fun driving him in vehicle mode. but during the game the autobots seem to be limited when it comes 
 to fighting decepta drones because when you are a autobot your not suppose to destroy buildings 
 and smash cars, which causes massive damage , to the autobot meter on the top of the screen which 
 gives you more x's. when you play as the decepticons its open season on anyone and anything that 
 stands in your way, most people will have more fun playing as decepticons because they dont ahve 
 to worry about saving people or protect certain objects 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindchamber
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Traveller's Tales has once again shown, how inadequate they are when it comes to the art of video 
 games. Even with all the intel and art provided they still went for the quick buck.
  
  This game is beyond embarrassment and the company should be shut down, for taking all the hard 
 work from ILM and creating a lackluster game .
  
  look at TTs track record and you'll know. They do not care what property they destroy,
  Just 
 like their Bionics game, this 3rd person sandbox game, lacks any redeeming qualities whatsoever.
 
  
  You punch, shoot, and throw, thats it. No upgrades, or power ups, or any redeeming replay value. 
 Its equivalent to rock'em sock'em mechanics. and it gets old, fast..
  
  stay away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjmueller2
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  After reviewing the game Transformers : The Game i came up with this to say. The missions often 
 get repetitive and the robot-on-robot gets old very fast. On the upper hand the transforming is 
 fun and blowing up cities is one of the only good part. It would be better if there were more side 
 missions, more transformers to use, and bigger areas. Possibly having an x box live addition would 
 have made fun multi player or co-op but it has none in this game. If you like graphics over substance 
 than this game is for you because the graphics are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjolnir2
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I came into this game expecting quite a bit than it turned out to deliver. Part of this is my fault, 
 as I am an experienced gamer, and I should know better than to do so... but I grew up watching the 
 Transformers on TV and the original animated movie, and really hoped this game would deliver a 
 satisfying experience.
  
  First, let's start with the good. The graphics are very good, but one nearly expects that on most 
 big-name 360 titles anyway, so that''s of limited merit. The transform animations are very cool, 
 and the weapons seem useful and reasonably varied. The audio is somewhat cool in that the sound 
 effects seem crisp and satisfying, and the music is alright as well.
  
  Now, the bad. This section will be much longer. I'll start with the bad side of the audio. The 
 audio is VERY repetitive. I know, I know, it's cool to listen to Optimus Prime say Autobots, transform 
 and roll out! , but do we need to hear him say it five times a minute? It's extraordinarily overused 
 in the game.
  
  Next, the game seems chopped up, with missions right after another that don't really flow all that 
 well. The cutscenes don't really serve to bring any continuity, either. It often felt as if I were 
 simply running from one random, unrelated mission to another. The missions don't seem to have had 
 much thought put into them, either. It felt, especially in the first chapter, that I was doing 
 nothing but running around in circles in every mission, as the mission area (starting town) was 
 so small, it only took 15-20 seconds to cross the entirety of the map.
  
  I also didn't find the missiosn to be all that challenging. The Decepticon drones were ridiculously 
 easy to defeat, and even the named Decpticons weren't all that hard, either.
  
  Another aspect I had a serious problem with the is destruction of the surrounding areas. The destructible 
 environnments are very well done... but Autobots aren't supposed to be running around and destroying 
 the environment indiscriminately. In fact, even as an Autobot, you can pick up a city bus, presumably 
 full of people as it is moving, and throw it, destroy it, etc, also presumably killing all the 
 occupants. This random destruction and disregard for human life is the very antithesis of the Autobots, 
 and much more care should have been taken to make the game work without having to kill people as 
 Autobots. Decepticons, different story, of course, bu the game seems to be constructed such that 
 is it nearly impossible to avoide killing people, though the violent deaths aren't really portrayed 
 and are mostly notional.
  
  All in all, this game feels just like a multi-platform title. It seems that very little effort 
 was spent to make the game deep or unique, and really comes off as an attempt to do nothing more 
 than cash in on a big summer movie. If you MUST play this game, rent it or borrow it from a friend, 
 but whatever you do, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aperez428
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Game should of allowed players to stick with what ever transformers they want to beat the game 
 with... but no it switches characters when ever it feels like. The game seems 40% completed as you 
 smash into cars they have a shoe box effect and have no dents. Game is only fun because of the 
 nice transformations which can get tiring after a while. They lack upgrades, different moves, and 
 weapons. For being a robot that could mimic many forms it lacks in specialty's. Game is a good 
 collecters item for a fan and not really a great game if you take the transformers brand off the 
 cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapaleeman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that if you are a Transformers fan then you need to buy this game. You 
 will be happy even with the flaws that the game has. I am a huge transformers fan and have been 
 since the original series. The movie looks awesome even with the redesigns and I was anxious to 
 get an early taste of the movie so I picked up the game and had a go at it. The bright spots in 
 the game are definitely the voice acting and the graphics. The voices are great; Peter Cullen, 
 Frank Welker, and most of the cast reprise their roles as their respective character. They do a 
 great job and even though the look is updated they still talk with the spirit of the original G1 
 show which is amazing.
  
  The graphics are awesome as well. Each Transformer is intricately detailed down to the last gear 
 and servo along with their transformations which are taken directly from the movie. The environments 
 blow up quite nice with very little slowdown. That only occurs when there are a lot of Decepticons 
 (or Autobots depending on how you play the game) on screen trying to kill you. Overall a great 
 looking game, though the humans look a little too unrealistic, but they move and animate very well 
 so that can overlooked. The gameplay is where the game begins to ruin the experience. At the onset 
 of the game you can choose your faction and then play the game from that perspective. The Decpticons 
 that fly control great and move pretty well. All of the other landbase vehicle control very loosely 
 and are difficult to control with Jazz being the worst culprit since he so fast (hes the silver 
 Pontiac Solstice and my favorite from G1) . In robot form you move at a decent pace and pretty realistic 
 except for the slow as hell camera which will not target or rotate at a decent speed or with enough 
 accuracy to get used to. Also it must be noted that the Transformers are packing massive weapons. 
 Screw those little laser shooters from the cartoons, these cannons are massive and look and sound 
 great. They do great damage on the environments which is great for the Decepticons, but very bad 
 for the Autobots which is to be expected, but your guns dont do much damage against the opposing 
 Transformers which leaves you to the same 3 punch combo on almost every enemy which can get pretty 
 tedious. Finally, the throwing system sucks but you are forced to use it against the bosses since 
 that is how you beat them.
  
  Overall the game is above average, but nothing spectacular in the terms of gameplay. There are 
 a few unlockables (tons of artwork, a few movies, and a few G1 skins) but that doesnt make the 
 game in any better. If you are a huge Transformers fan then pick this up since its giant robots 
 that kill things. If you are only a mild fan or if the move does not interest you then rent or 
 avoid this title. My score wont be that high, but a true fan will definitely get their moneys 
 worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enriko
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I gave this a good run last night after I bought it. The graphics feel last generation, the sound 
 effects are pretty bad, the explosions are not the worst that I've seen but they are still pretty 
 bad. The storyline isn't the best either, it feels very fragmented. The action in the game seems 
 pretty shallow, like a really generic shooter. The sandbox'ish style play doesn't do it justice 
 since there's not much to do in the world to begin with.
  
  Being that I've really only said negative things, I'll try to touch up on the positive. There's 
 alot of action, your zipping all around via flying, driving, or underground (Scorp) . You can pick 
 up stuff and toss it around, buildings are destroyed in sections, and when the the Transformer's 
 transform it's quick and fluid. The frame rate seemed good, it didn't have any issues there but 
 that's probably due to the seemingly dated graphics. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone. 
 If people want to see what it's like, spend that buck or two and rent it first to see if you like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkxtnight
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  If you buy it for the reason most do, playing as transformers running around blowing things up, 
 you definatly wont be disapointed! The detail is great. With the robot models them selfs looking 
 fantastic. The animation is solid, especialy the transformations. Controls could of used some work, 
 especialy a better lock on system. If you went into the sum of the game expecting GTA with Transformers 
 of course your going to be disapointed with the lack of content. But this game delivers a somewhat 
 short but sweet experience, that in my opinion could of been made better over time with the addition 
 of Xbox live downloadable content to come from time to time... Dinobots anyone??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scantenii
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Ok... so I was one of those people who when I heard that Transformers was becoming a live action 
 movie, I was excited. And "pimped out" Optimus aside the trailer have made me optimestic. So this 
 lead me to be optimistic about the game, expessially when I saw the graphics. Even though I know 
 video games based on movies always suck. This one doesn't seem that bad. Now admittatly I haven't 
 beat the game yet, but I mean the transformers themselves look good. The enviroments look ok. Everything 
 is breakable in this world. The levels seem about average. Not so say that this game is perfect. 
 Some things are annoying about it. Buildings seem to be destroyed a little too easily and I think 
 I am forced to find too many things in the game. But if you like destruction and want something 
 to hold you over till the movie comes out this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjGandoo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Well I just done with a significant portion of the decepticon missions and I would have to agree 
 the content in the game is practically non-existent,. You go from one mission to the next and feel 
 completely disconnected. One can tell the missions are loosely based on the film, however the game 
 could have easily been developed with a solid story line. Most missions can be completed is extreme 
 ease which does not lend well to the entire game experiance.
  
  On the plus side the gfx are extraordinary and highly detailed, the transformations are fun to 
 do and the fact that there is no restriction as to when you can transform does make the game fun. 
 The highly destructible environment is a definite bonus as the actual game play does get rather 
 mundane.
  
  All in all I would say the developers got some of the stuff spot on and the rest must have been 
 completed by an intern. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty55409
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  When was the last time you ever played a videogame based on a movie or comic book/cartoon series 
 that was worth more than $20? Okay, here's what I ask of movie producers, quit labeling a lackluster 
 game with a movie title!!! Well we all know why they're doing it, so hardcore fans will buy the 
 crappy game regardless of whether or not it's a good game.... I can't believe how much hype this 
 game got NOT TO MENTION idiots at Gamestop asking me if I reserved it! of course I'm not going 
 to reserve a game based on a movie, would that make any sense? no it wouldn't because this is a 
 fumble of a game just like every other exciting action move put into a crappy package for more 
 money.... anybody remember Fifth Element the videogame???? No because it sucked. I rest my case.... 
 Whew venting feels good PS If you think the game rocks when you get it....... try writing a review 
 about it in 1 or 2 months and see how much dust has collected on the game since you beat it in 
 3 days and haven't touched it since. Word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebbles_
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, there are apparent problems with the transformers game, you cant deny that. The camera is strange 
 but after about six minutes you get used to it and its not so bad that you should spend an entire 
 review **** about it... It is amazing how well the transformers were made and Its incredible fun 
 just transforming back and forth. Its true that in all respects the fighting does suck, but personally 
 i managed to find it really fun none the less, they may only be three hit combos but they are cool 
 three hit combos. Basically, this game is just plain fun with nothing particularily fancy to offer, 
 it could have been so much more but its still loads of fun and is worth buying as soon as it drops 
 in price a little bit. Also, if your a Die hard or even just a regular old Transformers fan then 
 you will have fun with this game just, as long as your expectations arent too high, which they 
 shouldnt be because it is infact a movie game. And in regards to movie games, its still quite a 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocktimusprime
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Transformers would be one of the best games to pick up this summer, if it wasn't missing so much. 
 First off the game lacks any multiplayer at all, how fun would co-oping around as Auto bots be 
 with a bud? Tons, too bad it's not here. Secondly it really lacks depth, it is a button masher, 
 and reminds me of the Dynasty Warriors games. Third it really really lacks choice, Optimus Prime 
 is a beast, but why do I have to use bumblebee all the damn time? For the story sake I understand 
 but it's lame to only play a few missions as Optimus.
  
  The game does get the explosions done well, As well as just creating a playground for you to destroy. 
 And the game succedds in hyping you for the movie, which a movie game should do. Also the game 
 tries to incorperate GTA style missions, although these aren't the best mini missions out there. 
 For the price, Transformers offers very little, for it's 60 dollar price tag. Although if you don't 
 enjoy Robots beating each other up, then you need some help.
  
  The game isn't terrible, but it certaintly needed more there. It's like buying a car with out power 
 steering. Good rent, but probably not a great buy if you are looking for something more in-depth. 
 A must have for transformers fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clay_Whitey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing this game. the thing that i liked the most was that you could choose a side, 
 autobots or decepticons, you can play as both on the same file save and switch whenever you want 
 from the start screen. I LOVED the transformations, they were probably the best part of the game, 
 there was so much attention to detail in the transformations it was unreal.
  i also liked how the included alot of characters from the show. it is really fun just to transform 
 back and forth whenever you want. i think this game is a must have for any transformers fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soniczero1993
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the preview of the Transformers game, I was like: Holy their making a game out 
 of the Transformers! That's awesome! Unfortuantly I didn't exactly get what I expected. Though 
 I love to transform, it seems to mess me up more than it helps. For example, I'm Megatron and want 
 to turn into a jet to get somewhere fast. When I do, I end up hitting every single building that's 
 near Megatron's altitude. I know jets are hard to control but common, I have a game with nothing 
 but jets and that handles better than him! I might as well just walk, which I usally do. Another 
 one is Bumblebee. I love fast cars, so I loved his transformation. What I didn't love was his control. 
 Whan I try to make a tight turn, I slide right into a building. I actually have to turn back to 
 robot on turns, turn him around, then transform to car mode again to keep going. If your going 
 to make a Transformers game, can you also worry about vehicle control instead of robot control? 
 Is that too much to ask? Although it was fun to roam around as a Decepticon and destroy everything 
 in sight, I'll give points for that, but other than that, smacking around enemys with the same 
 attacks over and over again wasn't much fun. Can they do anything besides a 3-hit combo? What about 
 like a crazy flip kick, or any kicking actions to go with all the punching and swinging, at least 
 you could mix up combos instead of always repeating the same thing. All in all it was alright. 
 My advice, rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primenova
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game kind of reminds me of Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction. It feels kind of like a 
 GTA-lite, where you drive from one spot to the next, picking up side missions along the way, and 
 searching for hidden objects to extend the gameplay a little. It makes good use of the license-the 
 character models and animations are straight from the film for this version. The best thing this 
 game does is get the sense of scale right. For the movie, Michael Bay didn't wan't to bog the story 
 down with too many details on how the Transformers change shape, so the whole idea of mass-shifting 
 went out the window, making the robots stay pretty close to the actual size of the object they 
 transform into-which is why certain robots are so much bigger than others. The robots still tower 
 over human counterparts. When you transform, or a battle erupts, or are just driving too recklessly, 
 flesh creatures run screaming from you while the police fire their tiny weapons ineffectively at 
 your form. Your character can grab on to the sides of most buildings and scale them, jumping from 
 rooftop to rooftop. The character models are taken from the movie, as are the sound effects and 
 animations. You won't miss the classic sound of transformation too much, but it would have been 
 a nice touch, like the many hidden references to Transformers lore throughout the game (and, I 
 suspect, the movie as well) . When you do destroy the buildings they break away in pieces, like 
 sections of girder and stone, often catching fire and causing chain reactions. I've seen blasts 
 of flaming rubble hit parked cars and blow them up many times already. But why are some surfaces 
 not destructible? If I can drive into a building and destroy a wall, a guardrail on the interstate 
 should be no problem, right? Also, while the models and animation are great, there isn't enough 
 variety in the building details and the ground or other objects. I saw the exact same grass and 
 wall textures everywhere, and I find it hard to believe that a city would have the same fence structure 
 everywhere in the place. The local football field has more than two field goal posts? Come on. 
 The sound is standard -- music and voice-over from the movie actors, large portions recorded just 
 for the game. While I was disappointed a little to learn Frank Welker wasn't voicing Megatron in 
 the film, and understand why, it is great hearing him do the role again. Sound effects lack little 
 details-your feet crunch under you when you walk, but it seems to be the same sound no matter what 
 I walk on -- stopping on grass should sound and feel a little different than pavement. It should 
 look different too. The graphical effect of the pavement breaking under your feet looks the same 
 no matter what. The story basically borrows elements from the movie. The basic plot is the same, 
 but Traveler's Tales gave you missions within that framework to complete. This is probably the 
 game's greatest strength, and it's greatest weakness. The style of these missions involves the 
 typical beat the bad guy to this location, destroy them before they reach a certain spot, then 
 fight a boss battle, then destroy certain objects, wash rinse and repeat. There isn't enough length 
 to them, either; both campaigns can be finished in a few hours, a little longer if you actually 
 try to do the all-too-few side missions. Unlocking them isn't too hard-There are a hundred Energon 
 cubes on each level, and on certain missions you can roam free looking for them. However, you have 
 to deal with Optimus or Megatron reminding you of what your current mission is every five seconds 
 if you don't hustle to the next spot. There are plenty of Achievements to unlock, most of them 
 pretty easy. Each level has hidden Autobot (or Decepticon) icons to collect-these let you unlock 
 classic G1 characters to play as. There are also various skill tests to complete (boosting your 
 speed to Five and then braking really hard, or making an extremely long jump) . Like I said, GTA-lite, 
 there just isn't enough. Bonus missions on Cybertron, or other worlds from the Transformers mythos, 
 would have been great. It might have been better for the type of gameplay present here if they 
 had done individual levels and concentrated on giving us more to do, instead of making it a sandbox 
 game. Regardless, that isn't much of an excuse. The thing that holds this game back isn't the license 
 or the movie, or the type of game Traveler's Tales made it. It's the fact that it clearly lacks 
 polish in so many areas. The camera needs some work. Enemy opponents move around quickly, and all 
 of those explosions going off send them and your character flying around, making it easy to loose 
 track-I often had 'cons getting behind me this way as Bumblebee, and giving me a few good blasts 
 while I was trying to turn enough so I could lock on to them. This lack of polish is evident in 
 other areas, like the final Bumblebee mission, where you fight barricade at the power plant. The 
 plant can actually explode around you, sending you flying away. It does very little damage to you 
 or barricade, but the explosion has about as much detail as an N64 game. Given the graphical detail 
 in other areas, this is a little surprising. I could go on, but the point won't change. One of 
 the reasons why so many people hate movie-based or license-based games (of which Transformers: 
 The Game is both) is because they tend to waste a lot of potential, rushing them to market to capitalize 
 on said product (I'm looking at you, Shiny, for Enter the Matrix) . If they had spent the time until 
 the movie's DVD release working on it, those extra months would have helped fix at least some of 
 these problems. The lack of content though screams for download-able materials. As short as the 
 game is, it isn't justified by the price tag-so that means if download-able content is released, 
 I'd better not have to pay for it, TT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I have had alot of fun with the game so far. The graphics are pretty good - the voice acting is 
 great - and the controls aren't too bad. For a movie licence it is NOT a bad game - but gamespot 
 got much of it right. The game does seem to be on the short side and pretty shallow, but for what 
 it is it is pretty good. Non-fans should probly save their money - but fans should at least give 
 it a rent. Some downloadable content or some more characters would be cool - but if nothing else 
 it is a good easy set of gamerscore point ot add to your liveID. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
