-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turning Point: Fall of Liberty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fallofliberty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A handful of powerful set pieces.
 Terrific orchestral score.
 Clever environmental-based melee attacks add laughs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mediocre combat often made worse by a number of bugs.
 Frame rate can't handle most major events.
 Plot is extremely bare-bones.
 Bland graphics mixed with ugly animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.4, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 742 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Spark Unlimited
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This alternate-history shooter is proof that an interesting premise can't compensate for boring 
 and broken gameplay. 

  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is a perfect example of how a great concept doesn't always make 
 for a great game. In this case, the concept is Turning Point's intriguing premise: Without the 
 voice of Winston Churchill to rally Allied forces, Hitler's Nazi regime spreads like wildfire across 
 Europe and Africa, eventually staging an all-out assault on the United States. It doesn't take 
 long to realize that Turning Point makes almost no use of this potential. The result is a shooter 
 that fluctuates between mediocre and disastrously buggy.  

  For a game that relies so heavily on the backdrop, it's remarkable how little it does with the 
 actual story. Turning Point begins with your character working on the girders of an unfinished 
 skyscraper in New York City as the Luftwaffe comes swarming into view. The fact that your character 
 works construction is one of exactly  two  things you learn about him through the course of the 
 game (the other being his name, Carson) . That's as much character progression as you'll find. The 
 plot itself can hardly be considered robust, either. We know the Nazis have exerted their control 
 over the presidency and that some level of resistance is fighting through the invasion, but that's 
 more or less it. There are no real examples of life under Nazi power and no memorable characters 
 to share in the struggle.  

           Powerful set pieces like this one are a rare treat.      

  While the story fails to 
 do much with the game's premise, the setting of this alternate history has a few breakthrough moments. 
 A handful of set pieces do a good job of stirring your emotions. The first few minutes of the game 
 are fairly nerve-wracking as you race down the aforementioned skyscraper while German airships 
 litter the sky. There's also one scene where you're stationed on a turret gun fighting back several 
 waves of soldiers as the top of the Chrysler Building lies in ruins before you. However, these 
 powerful moments are the exception rather than the rule. Most of the time, you're running through 
 nondescript buildings or underground corridors. It's much too easy to forget you're fighting Nazis 
 on American soil (and in London, toward the end of the game) . For the most part, it feels like 
 Turning Point could be any old World War II shooter, albeit with weapons that never made it into 
 production.  

  The combat fails to pick up the slack, because it's simply a poor imitation of the Call of Duty 
 series. You can switch between two weapons and grenades as you run through linear levels, with 
 most of the action dependent on using the iron sights to take out a room full of enemies. A major 
 problem is that the targeting isn't very reliable, because the gun takes up so much of the screen. 
 This often leaves you guessing where an enemy is before shooting. Even if you do guess correctly, 
 you're usually punished by a wildly inconsistent hit-detection system that can't tell the difference 
 between a headshot and a bullet to the leg.  

  There's a melee system that's almost entirely useless throughout most of the game, but occasionally 
 you'll happen upon an unlucky enemy that can be taken out with an environmental-based melee attack. 
 Some are predictable, like throwing an enemy from a ledge, but some will have you laughing out 
 loud, like forcing a soldier's head down a toilet after finding them using the bathroom.  

  A variety of odd design choices and technical problems further mar the game's combat. Enemies aren't 
 the least bit intimidating due to their predictable AI and cartoonlike running animations. When 
 the game tries to compensate by ballooning the number of Nazis in your path, the frame rate takes 
 a very severe nosedive -- something that also happens in nearly every scripted destruction sequence, 
 like walls collapsing. There are a variety of other problems that range from the comical (enemy 
 corpses fall through walls, but their guns become stuck halfway through) to the infuriating (squadmates 
 stand in your way in narrow corridors and refuse to move) . All of this is compounded by a stingy 
 checkpoint system that forces you to experience these flaws several times over.  

  Turning Point's presentation offers one notable high point. The sound effects are good, but the 
 music is fantastic. It's a grand, orchestral score that expertly recalls 1940s-era Hollywood. The 
 music does its best to add a little extra excitement to the action-packed moments while also lending 
 tension to the slower, more subdued sections of the game. Unfortunately, much of that is canceled 
 out by the game's poor visuals. You'll often see a blurry surface texture and assume it'll snap 
 into clarity once it's loaded, but as you approach it you'll come to realize that it's not getting 
 any better. The PS3 version looks slightly better than the Xbox 360 game, but it's still far from 
 impressive. Visuals aside there really isn't much to differentiate the two console versions of 
 Turning Point: Fall of Liberty, though the Xbox 360 game benefits from some genuinely amusing achievements. 

           They might not be original, but environmental kills are often good for a laugh.      

 
  After finishing the brief and uninspiring campaign, there's little temptation to try the multiplayer 
 mode. If you choose to avoid it, you won't be missing much. The same gameplay woes that plague 
 the campaign are here in the deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, which support a meager eight 
 players. Multiplayer doesn't add a lot to the overall experience, in the same way that the campaign 
 doesn't build upon the overall premise. This theme of missed opportunity is a consistent one throughout 
 Turning Point. What could have been a refreshing twist on the World War II genre instead is a lesson 
 on how not to implement an interesting concept.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (79 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  by "Hard", i mean frustrating. this coulda, shoulda been neat. and at times it was. but it does 
 a whole lot of FPS things worse than all the classics of the genre. gunplay, movement, hit accuracy 
 - all poor in this game. i actually lost patience and packed it in in what i think may have been 
 the final scene - the airship escape. hiding amongst the girders of the bridge, invisible enemies 
 picked me off as i struggled to find weapons with ammo. any weapon! i would have taken a chinese 
 throwing star at that point. a couple highlights though, like dunking a Nazi head first in a toilet 
 and getting a "Swirly" achievement. badly scripted, but amusing nonetheless.
  
  Good:
  - the premise
  - the graphics - at times
  - the atmosphere
  
  Bad:
  - movement
  - shooting 
 wepaons
  - lack of ammo and accuracy
  - lack of dialogue to help along the storyline
  
  Summary:
  a few more months working out the bugs in development would have made a real difference.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:18 am PT
Review:  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty proves to be a good example of how a great concept doesn't always 
 make for a great game. The game's premise is intriguing, though at the same time, it never happened: 
 Hitler's Nazi army has issued an all-out assault on the U. S. Turning Point makes almost no use 
 of this concept, as you'll find out rather early on. The result is a disastrously buggy and boring 
 first-person shooter that shouldn't be recommended to anyone.
  
  The game begins with your character working on the girders of an unfinished skyscraper in New York 
 City as tons of Nazi planes swarm into view. Your character working construction is one of two 
 things you find out about him during the course of the game (other than his name, Carson.) That's 
 how much character progression you'll find throughout the entire game -- that's simply unacceptable. 
 There also aren't any memorable characters.
  
  While the story failed to impress me, the setting has a few memorable moments. Your character gunning 
 several waves of enemies down with a mounted machine gun in front of the ruined Chrysler Building 
 is very powerful. However, most of the time you'll be fighting in dull buildings and underground 
 corridors. This makes for some very dull set pieces that hinder the experience.
  
  The combat feels like a poor imitation of Call of Duty. You can switch between two guns and two 
 grenades as you go through linear levels, most of which require you to use the iron sights to take 
 out a room full of enemies. The targeting system isn't very reliable, either, since it can't differentiate 
 a headshot to a bullet to the leg. The iron sights take up most of the screen, making it hard to 
 shoot.
  
  Dragging the experience down more than ever are the awful visuals. Textures mostly look bland and 
 don't have much detail. Character models look absolutely atrocious. The audio is at least somewhat 
 good, with solid gun effects and good music.
  
  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is disastrously buggy and doesn't deserve anyone's attention. I 
 haven't played the multiplayer, but I've heard it sucks. I don't say this about most games, but 
 yes, this game sucks. Don't buy this game!
  
  Score - 0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  Turning Point: Fall Of Liberty is one of those titles where you find yourself saying: 
  
  It's not THAT bad of a game.
  
  And I think that sums it up perfectly. 
  You get a great 
 premise (What if Germany succeeded in defeating Britain and then headed over to the US to try to 
 do the same) with little in game story to back it up. 
  Some fun weapons (most with awful accuracy) and some even better set pieces (which are shoved between 
 bland forgettable levels) .
  
  And if this had been 5 years ago then Turning Point would have been classed as a great game, along 
 the lines of the better Medal Of Honour titles. 
  But it's not and it isn't.
  
  Instead your left playing little more than a standard FPS that will pass the time and which will 
 give you a little enjoyment every so often.
  
  Unfortunately when you factor in the constant bugs and horrendous frame rate drops, not to mention 
 the punishing save points that have you replaying huge sections of the game over and over, it gets 
 harder to rate this game well.
  
  Get it if its cheap but don't hunt it down.
  As I say, It's not THAT bad of a game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  An alternate history WWII game seemed somewhat promising, and Spark Unlimited has made a WWII game 
 before so it may be good. This was when COD was the only interesting WWII games (now Brothers In 
 Arms is out too) . It was heavily advertised and it sure had promise, enough of my yammering though, 
 the conclusion is that instead of even an average WWII game they created a glitchy, broken mess. 
 
  
  I haven't played this in a while so excuse me if I forget some stuff. I'll start out by saying 
 the only thing even close to good about this game is the somewhat interesting story. Beyond that 
 there is absolutely no redeeming quality of this heaping pile. 
  
  I'll start out by discussing the gameplay. You play as a guy who kills nazi's with the regular 
 WWII guns and special guns never before used in WWII game, the thing is, the guns shoot exactly 
 the same as every other weapon. If these alternate history weapons were actually interesting it 
 would be a good idea, but they shoot like every other weapon in the game. The game lacks originality 
 even with the story that should change the gameplay.
  
  The graphics are horrendous, if I wanted to play an old xbox shooter I'd pop in Black (even though 
 that looks better) . The environments are so dark and mucky and the character models blank expressions 
 and pixelated skin don't help this game.
  
  The worst part is how glitchy this game is. Numerous times nazi soldiers would just freeze, they 
 became unkillable. Basically the enemies you fought locked themselves. That's not all though. Oh 
 yeah, there's more. On occasions you'll get shot, in a room with no nazi's. You randomly take damage! 
 No lie. Graphical glitches are also present. If you want to see all of the glitches you could play 
 it, but I wouldn't recommend it.
  
  Overall, with Call of Duty and Brothers In Arms on the market there's no need for this garbage. 
 Even if COD and BIA weren't on the marker, there would still be no need for this garbage. It's 
 nearly unplayable and completely boring. Don't buy this, don't rent this, don't even look at the 
 box for this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game more than 2 years ago, and although at first i thought that it would 
 be one of the big titles, due to its interesting story etc, but when it came down to release date 
 i heard about the negative reviews, and as a result never got around to playing it.
  Now i have managed to play the game, and like many of the other reviewers, i find Turning Point 
 to be a major disappointment. 
  Lets start with the visuals shall we?. Turning Point's colours consist of dark brown and dark grey, 
 and that's literally it. The textures are very basic and very low res, meaning that the game looks 
 awful in High Definition. The character models aren't all that detailed either, and are strictly 
 average. 
  The environments can be varied in parts, but aren't anything outstanding, and can't be the game's 
 saving grace.
  So with lackluster visuals, the gameplay has to be good, right?, Wrong..
  Turning Point tries to add variety to gameplay with a grapple mechanic, which consists of the play 
 being able to grapple enemies and execute moves for a different outcome, such as human shield and 
 environmental kill. Though these may sound like fun, all of the grapple kills aren't much fun to 
 watch.
  The gunplay is average at best and the enemy AI is appalling. Enemies will take cover, but that's 
 it, most of the time they just sit there, and wait to be blown up by your grenades. 
  The game itself feels bulky too, with slow and uncompromising character movements, and poor animations.
 
  Turning Point does have a relatively good sound library though, and the sound effects and music 
 is appropriate and satisfactory.
  One thing which separates Turning Point from a terrible game from a mediocre game for me would 
 have to be the story. Though basic, the story is fairly unique, putting a new twist on the WW2 
 genre, and the range of experimental weapons is an interesting premise, its just a shame it was 
 poorly executed. 
  Turning point is worth a brief look at for anyone who is interested in the story and premise, and 
 the achievements on Xbox360 are fairly easy to get, so it may be worth a rent, but for anyone looking 
 for an action packed, well made first person shooter, you won't find it here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjimero
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Infumable, IA desastrosa, corto, abominable...; graficos poco dignos. Realmente no es de recibo 
 que una empresa como Codemasters sea capaz de lanzar un bodrio como este. Estafadores de tomo y 
 lomo, si quereis jugarlo, hacedlo, pero nunca compreis nuevo, aprovechad las gangas en ebay y no 
 pagueis ms de 10 $/Eur por l. Le he puesto un 4 y no menos (sin duda se lo merece) por verguenza 
 ajena. Compadezco al que se haya gastado 50 $ por l. Una buena historia de ficcin echada al traste 
 por unos malos programadores que slo estaban pensando en machacrsela constantemente. Ahora que 
 me lo he pasado, intentar venderlo en ebay y quiz algun inocente como yo pique, pensando que 
 pueda ser como un call of duty (infelices!!!!) . Por favor, no lo compreis, no jugueis a esta autntica 
 mierda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyd803
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought this Gamestop while I was hanging around in the store, I coincidentally saw a game which 
 is $29 and it is an editor edition game. I was pretty surprised that an editor edition game which 
 is $29.
  
  Will, I gotta said this game is disappointed, I never heard a game called Turning Point Fall Of 
 The Liberty. Therefore I bought this game which is affordable to me to see how this game is.
  
  Broken! This is the only word I could describe this lousy game.
  
  The game is based on 
 WWII. The prologue is interesting. But later, it become stupid and lousy. I'd never heard this 
 game before until I bought this game. Thf first time I play this game I thought it was released 
 about 2005 or 2006. Then, I glanced at the steel box, WHAT!? This game was released on 2008????? 
 How come a lousy game with a poor graphic can climp up to the shelf???
  Seriously, the graphic is abysmal! It doesn't looks like a 2008 game!
  
  The control is OK 
 with me. but this game didn't shows you the location where you need to finish your objective which 
 made the players cnfusing.
  
  This game also has a lot of glitchy graphic and sometimes you will stuck on a corner or something. 
 You might get frustrated because this game has no ability of destroying obstacles like other FPS 
 does particularly Battle Field Bad Company or Conflict Denied Ops. 
  
  The weapons sounds weird. It lookstoo future ", too. I mean the bazooka. Man, this story is 
 based on WWII, how come a modern rocket launcher can appear in a WWII game?
  
  So, the conclusion is: "Turning Point Fall of Liberty" don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Turning Point - Fall of Liberty
  
  I must say, the game is for First Person Fanatics I nice game for in their collection. Especially 
 if you like WO2 type of games.
  But don't think, because it's a fairly new game that it is mind-blowing. It's a game like the sentence: 
 "Been there, done that" with a lot of elements which you can relate with a whole array of other 
 previous games of that genre.
  Also, an instant classic, because it came on your path and you will walk over it and forget it 
 again.
  
  Okay... 
  
  Like in other reviews, I have to admit, the frame-rate can be nasty sometimes. I also found a bug 
 when I was captured between a wall and a train of which I could not escape. That will happen often, 
 so keep away from the walls or tight corridors which you already know you can't enter.
  
  The AI of the enemy has some good things... When you throw a grenade, they will pick it up and 
 defuse it or throw it back at ya... They run, they hide, they kamikaze... But to say that you can 
 believe they are nazi's? Nope... The whole game does not give you the feeling that you are fighting 
 against the nazi's...
  
  The levels look pretty innovative... Not good, but it has potential.
  
  The gameplay has a 
 lot to offer, but it comes at you like in a very amaturistic way. Like... Blowing up a tank. But 
 when you place the bomb, you get a little extra with it, for the feeling that you are really doing 
 it, like in other games, you place a bomb and run away. In Turning Point, you REALLY place a bomb!
 
  
  I also like the health in the game. You can't really die, unless you don't run away from the bullets. 
 And a rocket or a tank impact will immediatly kill you. Health regeneration. That's why there is 
 no need of a health bar. The screen is too full anyway... ;-)
  
  Nice scenery like the big zeppelins in the sky like giant spacecrafts... Searchlights on the ground... 
 If you get into that light, you get shot at.
  You can use certain parts of the scenery in third person, like climbing a ladder or using a pipe 
 to cross over something. Not that you just walk and shoot your way out... The game has certian 
 elements that will keep you occupied... But all those elements, although very innovative and ambitious, 
 they don't last long.
  
  But the game does understand the environment, the possibilities, the tension, everything! It has 
 everything what a game needs, but it can't express it loudly enough.
  Bad graphics and bad sound effects. Action is all around you, but your personal action doesn't 
 last long enough which you can enjoy. There is no joy to explore the rest of the scenery before 
 you move on, because there is nothing to see. Just a liniear game.
  
  And it can be hard too, because if you walk too far ahead, you die instantly.
  
  I try to avoid 
 the extra action scenes like taking a weapon from the enemy by force and choose one of the 4 difference 
 death modes... I just want to play this game untill it's finished, that's my goal... 
  
  Okay... Overall, the game is good enough to have a good time of shooting in a different setting... 
 A little bit of improvisation is needed for you to move on if your way is blocked. The AI is good 
 enough (if you don't like it, play multiplayer then... I bet they can be more easily killed, although 
 they run a bit abnormally fast)
  Only 2 weapons at the time... So you can't get lost in your weapon collection. Realistic too... 
 The weapons are not realistic, but like in other games, you have about 10 big weapons... Not realistic 
 to carry all of them with ya, right???
  
  Rent it or buy it, it is not that dissapointing... It will provide you fun and entertainment and 
 it takes a few hours of your time away.
  
  I give it an eight. If the graphics were great, this game would really deserve that eight, but 
 the potention is there... Maybe they have learned something from this?
  
  The game does not keep you occupied and focussed like in BLACK (xbox classic) but more like Half 
 Life 2 (without the zombies or monsters) ... I got the same vibes as for that game with this game... 
 
  
  Greetzzzz
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BUD007
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't really that bad but could of been allot better. I admit I thought the beginning 
 was really cool seeing all the Zeppelins and such fly over New York. But over all, the game was 
 alright but definitely not the greatest game to come out. It had a good story and a great idea 
 but put it simply they just didn't execute it very well. The game had good potential but sadly 
 didn't live up to it very well. The game starts with the Nazi's invading New York and you were 
 a Construction worker working on a sky scraper and then your in a resistance group fighting the 
 Germans. (kind of like in Freedom Fighters except in that game your a plumber fighting the Soviets 
 invading the U. S, and was a better game imo) . I say just rent this game or wait for the price to 
 come down, your not really missing a whole lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucamet85
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Maybe I shouldn't be entitled to review Turning Point because I think I literally only played it 
 for a half an hour or so, but that was enough for me. I was kind of disappointed because the story 
 line of the game is kind of cool and I think if you gave that story line to the people who made 
 Call of Duty 4, and this game would have been awesome. Unfortunately, this game was not made by 
 the Call of Duty people. After a brief introduction you get thrown into a mess of chaos and destruction. 
 Not much is explained to you as far as what to do, so it's up to you to figure out how everything 
 works out. The graphics in this game are frankly embarrassing. In certain parts it looks more like 
 an Xbox game than an Xbox 360 game. This game would at least be manageable if you could actually 
 shoot the guns. Unfortunately they are so wobbly and unresponsive that it's a challenge just to 
 kill someone. Apparently in this game Nazis are invincible, because you can take a machine gun 
 and pump 6 bullets into his chest and he'll still be going after you. This pretty much forces you 
 to use the shotgun, but even that took me direct head shots to kill a guy, which aren't easy with 
 the terrible shooting system. Using a shotgun is also hard when most of the game seems to better 
 designed for an automatic weapon. So yeah basically bad graphics, bad gameplay, and very vague 
 objectives make this game pretty much unplayable. I don't understand why anyone would possibly 
 want to play this game over pretty much any other shooter out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-last-samuri
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  boring, boring, boring, boring. this game sucks %@$#. why do developers even bother to put these 
 games on shelves. i wasted alot of time playing wating for something good to happen and... nothing
 
  
  the multiplayer mode looked interesting but basic with all the different classes and skins but 
 i figured out i wasnt going to use them because i could barkey conncect with anybody.
  anyway this game sucks $@#% DO NOT BUY IT REAPEAT DO NOT BUY IT
  
  one more thing game summary: 
 look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang 
 hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi 
 bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look 
 a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead look a nazi bang hes dead 
 you get the point 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of FPS' I downloaded the Demo for Turning Point: Fall Of Liberty and enjoyed it. It 
 was nothing great, but a fun game. I didn't think it was worth full price, so I waited 'till I 
 found one on e-bay for $20. After playing the demo I didn't see how this game was getting under 
 5 scores. Then, after getting the game, it was clear why. The bad outweighs the good.
  
  THE BAD:
  -Choppy framerate
  -Loading screens right while you're in the middle of battle and 
 climbing up ladders
  -Game freezes from time to time making you have to reset it and start over.
  -Buttons sometimes 
 unresponsive. You'll go to aim or shoot and it won't do anything like your contoller's busted.
 
  -A lot of little things in your way that get you "trapped" when they shouldn't. (Like a little 
 2X4 on the ground and you can't run when a grenade's thrown at you cause it's blocking your path)
 
  -Very unclear at times what you're supposed to do and where you're supposed to go.
  -Not enough guns. (There are like 4)
  -Enemies will run behind a corner and disappear then you'll 
 go looking for them just to find out they don't exist anymore.
  -Dead enemies float in the air at times or die "in-between" a wall.
  -Feels like a generic Call 
 Of Duty or Medal Of Honor.
  -The story sucks and you have no idea who your character is.
  ... and list goes on and on.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -It's fun killing people.
  -It's not as bad as 
 Conflict or Hour Of Victory.
  -It's challenging at times.
  
  Overall, it was a fun game... but short. I wish I would've rented it. I'll give it a 6.5 because 
 I don't think it's THAT horrible. Codemasters should have spent a lot more time on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  It was many years ago that I was flipping through a Game Informer magazine and I saw a picture 
 of the White House with Nazi flags drapped across it, i was immediately sucked into the reading 
 the plot of this game and I was impressed to say the least. The idea of playing a game where the 
 Nazi's won World War Two seemed like such a refreshing idea in a world where the World War Two 
 shooter genre is being used too often. As the years past the game got no release and I kept thinking 
 about it, and I assumed that it had been canceled and that I just missed reading about it. Then 
 it came out and got terrible reviews. I myself could not believe it and I rented the game to give 
 it a try, at first I did not agree with the reviews, but after a while the glitches started to 
 show and I realized that this game is just as bad as they say.
  
  Despite the fact that Turning Point: Fall of Liberty has a very original idea the plot and story 
 is weak and it seems like they threw it together in no time at all. This game should have been 
 bursting at the seams with a thick, interesting plot with characters that where just as interesting. 
 Sadly the game does not have such an interesting story and even some pretty big plot twists aren't 
 enough to save the game's plot from being mediocre at best. It really is too bad because the plot 
 of this game was the main reason that I was playing this game. I was willing to look past decent 
 at best gameplay to see an interesting story, but I did not get that.
  
  The gameplay in Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is just as disappointing as anything else. The game 
 is made by the same people that made Call of Duty Finest Hour the original console Call of Duty 
 game. Now i was not a huge fan of that game, and the gameplay in this game seems almost untouched, 
 so long story short is that the gameplay mechanics in this game are four years old and that is 
 just unacceptable.
  
  The graphics in Turning Point are not very bad at first. The backdrops in New York City such as 
 the destroyed Empire State Building will steal all of your attention away from the crappy washed 
 out graphics that are found everywhere in this game. The graphics get quite glitchy as well as 
 you progress through the game. Probably the best looking thing about this game are the character 
 models and the weapons. The sound department is probaly the best thing that Turning Point has to 
 offer. The voice-overs are ok, but the explosions and bullets sound quite good.
  
  Turning Point does have some multiplayer but it is just Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch and every 
 time that I went on I could not anyone to play with so that got me thinking that the multiplayer 
 is just as disappointing as the singleplayer. The game's single player whether you choose to beat 
 it or not just depends on your patience. I got to the Britian missions before I just thew the control 
 down and said that I was done with this game beacuse I just couldn't take it any more. The enemy 
 AI in this game is absolutely terrible. They randomly throw around grenades that most of the time 
 will only kill them and their commrades instead of you and the guys on your team. One time I threw 
 a grenade at an enemy and they kicked it back at me, and I never ever saw this happen again so 
 I don't know what was up with that.
  
  It's a long story short: don't waste your time with Turning Point: Fall of Liberty. The game has 
 tons of good ideas when it comes to the plot, but the story doesn't deliver, the gameplay is about 
 four years old, the graphics are bland at best when they are not acting all glitchy, and there 
 is no one playing the multiplayer and there is nothing that makes the single player worth playing 
 all the way through. Don't bother.
  
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Graphics: 5
  Sound: 7
  Value: 4
  Tilt: 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  In the game you are a Construction Worker and you escape the building that all of the other construction 
 workers are dying. So you versus some of the Germans and you of course should take a gun and you 
 make the way to the streets of the city. Then you are in a squad who is going to kill the germans. 
 A bit later in the game your president is killed and there is a new president that is with the 
 germans and making more Germans come to attack so you kill the new President and you just finish 
 up until the ending the main character dies at the very end.
  
  The good of the game is that it is fun and a little interisting.
  
  The bad is that none of 
 that stuff never happened and it is kinda connfusing. Also it is kinda hard.
  
  Overall I rate this game 6.0 outta  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  Title says it all. This game is "Freezing Amazing." Never once have I encountered a game that Freezes 
 more then this ones does. At first I thought it was my 360, because I just had it repaired for 
 Freezing. So it got me a little worried. But then I GOOGLE'D "Turning Point Freezing." And I found 
 out others who suffered the same as I did. 5x for some guy. 
  
  This game is fun, don't get me wrong. But not fun enough for me to have to keep Restaring my systems 
 to re-do check points after checkpoints. I played Hour of Victory and don't even endure what I 
 did here. Pathetic...
  
  All in all, this game is a huge EPIC FAILURE.
  
  Play at your own risk. I ain't even done with the last mission, but I'm not gonna waste my time 
 doing it. I'd rather YOUTUBE the ending.
  
  2/10
  
  +1 for it being WAR based.
  +1 for it being fun until FREEZING.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn't for a few shinning moments, this game would be even lower then it already is on the 
 rating scale. I'll confess I was actually looking forward to this game.
  
  On the surface it's a game with a lot of promise. Set in an alternate timeline where Winstan Churchill 
 was killed by a taxi cab in New York in 1931, paving the way for the Thrid Reich to spread unchecked 
 across Europe. In 1953, the Alternate Second World War adds a new front to the mix, when Nazi forces 
 begin landing all along the Eastern Seaboard. Over all the levels, and graphics are fairly well 
 done, and there is a wide variety of weapons and vehicles, some of which were actually on the drawing 
 boards during the Second World War, and there are actually levels that take place outside of America, 
 including an alternate verson of what Britian could have been had Operation: Sealion been a success.
 
  
  However, no game is perfect, and Turning Point is far from perfect. The plot of the game, is essentually 
 Red Dawn and Freedom Fighters, just with Nazis, with player taking on the role of an average joe 
 turned Resistance fighter. Over all the graphics are excellent, however they also are the game's 
 fatal flaw. The Graphics Engine of Turning Point is full of glitches, that often slows non-playable 
 characters down to a crawl, taking away much of the challenge from the game. Another problem is 
 the load time, which takes forever, and has to occur way too often. 
  
  While this game will no doubt appeal to fans of Alternate History and World War II games, and will 
 impress with it's gameplay. However the glitches with the game's graphics and long load times will 
 no doubt alienate many gamers. Over all is is the kind of game that should be rented first before 
 deciding to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectDark0Fan
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  First I like to say for a game that has. It has the Unreal Engine but dont let that fool you because 
 the engine really is affective in the background buildings the rest of the graphcs are very poor. 
 The explosions are very terrible aswell. This is a game developed for 360, PS3, and upgraded PC 
 not the 64 & PSX! 
  
  I didnt go far past the first level but anouther huge thing that bothered me this that the developers 
 walk me threw this game. Locked doors, what lookes open like a part of a building will collapse 
 and that walkthrew isnt a walkthrew anymore. I got to shoot people and it feels like im shooting 
 into air because the guns shoot at characters and anouther problem with this is the characters 
 dont respond that well to after being shot. 
  
  There is no muliplayer unless you have Xbox Live, no bots and its sad that I yet to have Xbox Live 
 but soon probably will cannot do any type of shoot ups in mulitplayer.
  
  Overal I felt that the developers where very lazy or very bad, dont buy it. The single player is 
 bad and there really isnt much mulitplayer unless you have online. Though I havent played it yet, 
 if you are looking for a war FPS that is supposed to be real good go for Call Of Duty 4 because 
 many people say that is a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Just_a_peep_21
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I haven't written a review on here but this game deserves it. I have never played such a horrible 
 FPS on the 360 ever. This might just be one of the top 5 worst FPS games ever released. Why? Well 
 have you ever played a FPS and sneak up on a guy and then shot him in the back of the head? Of 
 course you have. But in turning point, even if you shot a guy 4 times point blank in the back of 
 the head, he'll live. Hell he might just kill you. You have to empty half a clip into each guy 
 just to kill them. And if you're to close to ANY object, the bullet will magically shot that object. 
 And when I got to the london bridge level to stop the atom bomb. I'm met with the worst FUBAR level 
 of all time. Unlimited enemies, so many objects in the way that your shots just don't matter and 
 some how in the hope to save the world. Your the only guy doing it, yup back up or reenforcement 
 are just silly concepts to Codemasters. Who wants you to call a 900 number to get cheat codes that 
 really wouldn't help you do much more then just shot more missed shots. I know the game's story 
 sounds interesting but do yourself the favor of avoiding this game at all costs. Not even worth 
 a rental. I should know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I don't know what they were thinking when they made this one. The whole premise of the game is 
 flawed. Based on an alternate version of history were Winston Churchill was killed in a car accident 
 allowing the Nazis to take over Europe and subsequently attack NYC. Suggesting that the only reason 
 the Nazis lost was because of Churchill, which in my opinion, is complete BS. So the story from 
 the start ruined it for me.
  I still gave it a shot, however, and I wish I had put cigarettes our in my eyes instead. The graphics 
 were not up to par as far as next gen games go. I constantly got hung up on crap that I should 
 have been able to glide right over. The aiming and movement where slow, jerky and seemed broken. 
 The guns.... oh the guns... The M1 Garand is a semi auto weapon right? Then wtf when I pull the 
 trigger rapidly only every other pull fired a shot. There is a delay for no good reason. why is 
 there a delay? IDK, but it really p! ssed me off. 
  The controls were no good either. they were awkward and clunky.
  My advice is to avoid this one 
 like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has been maligned by a lot of people who haven't played it. That bothers me. Before the 
 game came out I was listening to one of the devs talk about how they wanted to make an old school 
 FPS." A casually gamers FPS" Now that might have been the devs downplaying expectations from a 
 game that they knew was going to get hammered in the press. However I think that it was likely 
 an accurate statement, or at least more accurate than spin because it was likely both. 
  
  I believe that for a couple reasons it lacks a story and the game design is old school. Older FPS 
 games never really bothered with a story most older games (of any genre) never bothered playing 
 up the story it wasn't considered an important part of the game. That's not the same today people 
 want the relationship with the polygons they control. They want a story, and this game refused 
 to give it to them. That's reflected in the reviews you'll read of this game. Heres a quote from 
 Gamespot's Shaun McInnis "For a game that relies so heavily on the backdrop, it's remarkable how 
 little it does with the actual story. Turning Point begins with your character working on the girders 
 of an unfinished skyscraper in New York City as the Luftwaffe comes swarming into view. The fact 
 that your character works construction is one of exactly two things you learn about him through 
 the course of the game (the other being his name, Carson) " Is it important? I want to say NO you 
 were a nameless space marine in "Doom" and I believe you were also a nameless space marine in Marathon. 
 I had to wiki "Wolfenstein" to see if you had a name (William "B. J." Blazkowicz) The oldest of 
 the old school. Is it important? No, l just wanted to kill Nazi's then and I just want to kill them 
 now. Here's a weird distinction I'm going to make, It's not important in terms of gameplay, but 
 it matters, people like it and they have come to expect it. So, something as basic as Master Chief, 
 a slight upgrade over nameless space marine, matters. Construction worker  
  It has an old school game design included limited weapon choice and it pretty much a straight forward 
 corridor crawler, full of gunfights in nondescript hallways. It reminds me of an old school FPS 
 and I like that, I like this game, I had fun with it. There are technical problems with it and 
 there are certain design problems with it. Floating bodies and shoddy hit detection are problems 
 The AI isn't great they seem to shoot at timed intervals in your general direction as opposed to 
 shoot at you when you stand in front of them, that makes it seem much worse than it actually is 
 but the truth is that there are only certain enemies that present a problem. Then there are certain 
 times within the game that the enemies behave as enemies should, which instead of serving as a 
 shining moment only serves to highlight the game's flaws, namely that the rest of the game isn't 
 like this.
  
  The oddest design choice is in the Halo style health system instead of old school health packs, 
 which makes no sense whatsoever. It also feels like they are trying to play to modern gamers instead 
 of the audience that fondly remembers games from 15 years ago. Nine levels makes this a short game 
 and with the lack of story there is no climax you could reach that would satisfy an audience. The 
 graphics are good but hardly outstanding. The music on the other hand is fantastic. Overall If 
 you compare this game to others of the genre, like COD or Halo than I think it will lose handily, 
 which is a legitimate stance; because there are a number of things this game does that are simply 
 done better elsewhere, and it's hard to name something it does that is entirely unique. I like 
 this game more than I've let on but it's fun to tear down in my casual , broken, ranting way. Fall 
 of Liberty is more than the sum of it's parts, I just don't know how much more, and I feel that 
 most people can get their kill on in other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I cant even begin how dissapointing i was imean come on!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! A game were the nazis 
 win world war 2 and they unleash a empire all over the world and you join a insurgentcy to stop 
 them  dont be tempted this game is not as good as 
 it should have been.......... its not a bad game but by all means it could have been total sweetness!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 first thing its to easy on medium and easy and its just way to hard on hard that u cant get any 
 were without geting shot at!!!! the guns and the atmosphere and the story are the only good things 
 about this game so if you think about getting this dont just rent it its not a bad game its just 
 not worth  thanks for reading this review and i hope it 
 was helpful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this:
  
  I rented this game. Now that I've said that, let me get to the nitty gritty. Turning Point: Fall 
 of Liberty takes place in 1950s America where, instead of the Allies winning the war, the Nazis 
 invade the United States and take over New York, Washington D. C. and a number of other cities in 
 the process. Despite an interesting premise to the game, you apparently start off as a random construction 
 worker that I caught the name to a few times and then completely forgot. That's how utterly forgettable 
 and unknown he was to me.
  
  I want to say his name was Shepard, but I'm probably wrong. Beginning with the characters, each 
 one has a severe lack of development. 'Nuff said. Whether that be animation, modeling, or just 
 basic characteristics that make us human, these poor excuses for Xbox-esque blobs of skin provide 
 nothing but humor, as many glitch across the screen when attempting to run.
  
  Did I mention the AI has hardly any "I" to it at all? It certainly is "Artificial." Now, the news 
 reports in between each sequence of the game add some depth to the story. But other than that, 
 nothing.
  
  The grappling presents itself as one of the best assets this game has. Come on... throwing someone 
 off a huge building is just cool. Plus, you can give people swirlies in toilets and smash their 
 heads into TVs! Did I mention incinerating? A few scenes also provide a sweet feeling, as you are 
 mowing down countless Germans with a heavy machine gun, when APCs bust in and drop even more troops.
 
  
  Yet those times are very few and far between, which sounds a lot like the checkpoints in this game. 
 While it may be chock full of loading times that drag the frame rate considerably, the checkpoints 
 perhaps bothered (no not bothered, INFURIATED) me the most. Some portions of this game have you 
 pitted against quite fearsome odds, even on Normal. The lack of checkpoints only allows you to 
 start back (waaaaayyyy back) and do about three to five minutes of level before you return to where 
 you died (which you may die again) .
  
  SPOILER ALERT!!!
  Just another thing that did not make any sense at all, when you must assassinate the Nazi-supportive 
 President of the United States, I pulled out my pistol and aimed at his head. When I shot, he miraculously 
 still stood there, in the same position, with a pistol in his hand and killed me, even though I 
 brought out my MP50 SMG and unloaded on him...
  
  Hmm... last I checked, a shot to the head killed...
  
  Anyway, unless you, my fellow gamers, 
 find games easily entertaining or simply have time to kill, RENT IT. Don't bother with the buy. 
 The disgusting AI, graphics, character development, and load times, coupled with an unsatisfying 
 story and a COMPLETE lack of checkpoints hinder Turning Point's potential... considerably.
  
  -Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 3
Date: May 20, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  After reading all the other reviews, that pretty much said it all, I wasn't going to bother writting 
 my own review, but felt compelled to after the hours I wasted playing it that I will never get 
 back.
  
  As everyone else has said, this game is awfull. * It looks like an Xbox1 game that was poorly made.
 
  
  * The AI is so stupid, you wonder if someone is pulling your leg.
  * The game is jumpy, and buggy. At one point I was being shot from bullets coming out of radio 
 unit...???!!!! 
  * The opeing scene was looking good, then it all went horribly down hill from there. 
  
  Hmmm.... 
 not sure what else to say really, just dont bother with it at all. Last gen games have done it 
 bigger and better than this very poor effort. It really is an insult to release this game at all. 
 I will just have to fill the rest of the review up up with this sentence so I can submit it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shozz
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 22, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  When I got this game it had been reduced from 45 to 25 which just shows how terrible it is! The 
 graphics are great... for a last gen game. If I hadn't played call of duty 4 before this I would 
 have been a little easier on it. In 2008 with games like Mass Effect, Assassins Creed and COD4 
 setting the graphical standard this just looks abysmal. The levels whilst they have their memorable 
 moments which there a few, boil down to mostly generic corridor shooting. One level which has you 
 land on top of the tower of London for example (which is a great idea had it been done right) just 
 turns into a boring castle swarming with Nazi's scenario. It would have been much better if you 
 could fight in these landmark locations as they actually look. For example in New York, you see 
 the statue of Liberty for a brief second, the chrysler building in ruins but what about the most 
 iconic of New Yorks buildings, the empire state building. Surely a level inside this awesome structure 
 instead of a dull ruined street at night would have been better. The AI is god awful, and I'm not 
 going to say the musical score was its only saving grace because it was just rushed and flawed 
 like the rest of this game, even though it was composed by Micheal Giachino who is responsible 
 for the music in the Medal Of Honor Games. The soundtracks for those games are infinitely better 
 by the way. Don't make my mistake and fall for the pretty graphics on the back of the box. (the 
 real deal doesn't come close to doing them justice) Just don't buy this game, save your hard earned 
 pounds or dollars and wait for GTA IV to come out next week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 7/10
  - Very interesting story, it really keeps you wanting to play unfortunately theres not much to 
 play being its so short. Typical FPS interface. Menu has terrible display options that are very 
 limited. 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7/10
  - Too short to really get into, also to glitchy. Enemies AI capabilities are very poor, they just 
 seem to stand there and are a lot of times oblivious to their surroundings, sometimes they use 
 boxes or crates to hide behind. Environments are great, especially looking up at the sky, there 
 are tons of planes and airborne troops dropping in. Way to dark of environment.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7.5/10
  - Graphics are very good but there is certainly better out there, everything 
 does seem to be to overly shadowed or dark. Great detail of environment and on some weapon textures, 
 some guns do seem to be rather bulky or un figured. Most weapons are really nothing special to 
 look at, nothing to really be excited about. Entertaining environment or cutscene kills, not really 
 interactive but still fun to watch.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  - Good or should I say average voices and sounds, guns are kind of lame and not very exciting sound-wise. 
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 1.5/10
  - Game certainly will turn on, but doesn't seem to like staying on. Basically, game tanks big time 
 during most action sequences or when turning corners, and I had the game fatally crash 3 times, 
 once where I had to actually restart the system. This game should have been properly configured 
 and debugged before being released. Codemasters really let me down on this one, its going to take 
 some serious patching to fix this but I won't be wating around for it.
  
  Replay value: 2/10
  - Game would have been pretty decent if it had been properly debugged before 
 being released. I played this for a while but really just couldn't stand the lag and crashing. 
 VERY short game too.
  
  Value for money: 2/10
  - $60 is a joke for this game, once again maybe if it actually worked properly It would be. If 
 your ok with patching then sure wait a few months and the buy it, for myself I hate patching, unless 
 the game really has something to offer then I won't bother waiting around for a release.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - No, I would 
 say maybe for the fact that it was pre-maturely released but that seems to be way common these 
 days.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - People who like cold war or WWII games and who are willing to wait for a patch release.
  
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 4 - Short game with a lot of bugs. Expect a lot of patch releases. This game has a great 
 story but should have been made longer. Pretty big disappointment from Codemasters. Games need 
 to stop making it seem ok for developers to release un-ready games. This game was a waste of time 
 unless your ok with waiting for a patch.... I'm Not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain292
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  It really is dissapointing when a game like Turning Point, with so much potential to do well with 
 a different story in a familiar period, fails as hard as this game does.
  
  First thing you should do if you dare pop this into a 360 is to go into this game expecting last-gen 
 graphics. Not even up to par with Halo 2, the game just simply looks bad.
  And the AI? Rediculous. At the beginning of one level, after you and a few resistance members hop 
 out of a truck, I actually was killed by a continuous stream of fire into my back by one of my 
 "team mates". They also have the tendancy to lag far behind if they're actually going to follow 
 you, leading them to eventually get stuck in rooms that lock after you pass through them (damn 
 you automatically closing and locking wooden doors!) .
  The enemy AI fares no better in their roles, either. Countless times throughout the game an enemy 
 would simply stand up from cover and run into the open, not even firing. Just as many times, I 
 would walk into a new part of the level, to find two or three Germans crouched and huddled near 
 a corner facing away from me.
  
  Several of the animations in the game are poorly done as well. Running looks comical at best, with 
 the characters thrusting their guns out straight ahead in their arms and taking giant strides while 
 moving unbearably slow.
  Another instance is the rag-doll physics for deaths. Sometimes there's just too much rag-doll. 
 Enemies falling through walls and flying up and away after being shot just shouldn't happen. And 
 after you do shoot them, their guns will go flying in another direction, landing several metres 
 away from where their body end up. This leads to frustrating searches for ammo, where each weapon 
 will yield a dozen or so rounds when you pick it up.
  
  This lack of ammo becomes frustrating as it can take fifteen rounds from a sub-machine gun to kill 
 one enemy due to the extremely buggy hit sensors.
  When firing upon an enemy, you can expect half of your rounds to pass through them harmlessly or 
 register as a minor scratch instead of a major wound. And when you try to take aim at an enemy, 
 good luck hitting him. When aiming down your iron sights, your gun will take up almost your whole 
 screen, and the muzzle flash from one bullet will do it's job to take the rest of what little field 
 of vision you had left.
  As well as the buggy firing system, the grappling system that Spark promoted so whole-heatedly 
 is just broken. Many instances during the game presented me the opportunity to grapple and then 
 kill an enemy who was six metres away, and then when I'd close into another foe to perform a grapple, 
 it wouldn't give you the opportunity to do so.
  
  Lastly I come to the checkpoint system. Going three-quarters of the way down the Tower of London 
 normally would give you at least one checkpoint on the way down, but no. One hidden German firing 
 into your back and you're alllll the way back at the top. This occurs very frequently during the 
 game, with checkpoints only showing up after every twenty or so minutes of gameplay.
  
  Overall, Turning Point is an extremely buggy game that could've used another year of work.
  Or 
 it could've been made by a completely different company. Spark once again delivers a lackluster 
 performance, as it did with Finest Hour.
  If you are dying to play a broken alternate-history style of game, RENT Turning Point. Do NOT throw 
 down more than eight dollars for this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtberry
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  The storyline for Turningpoint is awesome, the Nazi's have invaded America. The opening level is 
 one of the best I've ever played, just the scenery alone is great. 1950's NYC, burning buildings, 
 fighters and huge blimps, paratroopers, it's something to see. Unfortunately, the game doesn't 
 stay there long enough. The DC level isn't quite as awe inspiring, then you end you in a bunch 
 of tunnels. The bridge scenes are pretty cool. The gameplay is good, although there seem to be 
 quite a few glitches. I rented the game, so maybe it was the disc. I like the weaponry, the flashlight 
 on the mp50 is ingenious. There is plenty of ammo for the German weapons. You can heal quickly. 
 There are decent save points. The missions are fairly cut and dry so there isn't a bunch of aimless 
 wandering. Pretty average hit detection. As far as ww2 shooters go, Fall of Liberty isn't great, 
 but I've enjoyed it. One question though. Where's Hitler? You'd think if the Nazi's invaded NYC 
 and DC, Hitler would be around somewhere:) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  I am pretty indiscriminate about what I play. Games show up in my mailbox, I play them, usually 
 find something of worth and then send them on their way. It should come as no surprise that a significant 
 portion of what I play amount to below average games, but even then almost every game has at least 
 one or two redeeming features; something to hold on to that will get me through to the end. I enjoy 
 playing videogames enough that I really don't mind having to overlook three terrible things to 
 get to one good thing. But what if it were four terrible things, or five? Or ten? And what if there 
 was no good thing waiting at the end? Turning Point crossed a line that I did not know was there: 
 it has no redeeming features. It is bad right on past depressing, past deplorable, even past despicable. 
 It is so bad that it's not even funny.
  
  Making a complete list of Turning Point's failings would be pointless, they are both innumerable 
 and unoriginal. This is the first time, though, that they have all been in the same game at the 
 same time. Turning Point is a catalog of atrocities stolen from other places: muddy textures, laughable 
 AI, poor level design, unclear objectives, you name it, it's here. A few of my favorites: completely 
 unresponsive controls; frame rate issues in a game that the XB360 could run while standing on its 
 head, unplugged; and regarding the game's engine, every Unreal 3 game so far has had a problem 
 getting all the textures loaded in time for the level to be displayed. Even Gears of War, a game 
 made by the people who wrote the engine, would have an occasional second or two of ugliness before 
 everything popped in. On several occasions I waited at the beginning of a level because it looked 
 like it wasn't finished loading textures, and they never came in. Whether this was a bug or if 
 it was just that ugly, the effect was the same.
  
  The setting and plot must have been born out of a late night board meeting of stripe suited yes 
 men. It's World War II, but with a twist! What if the Nazi's invaded the main land? The effect 
 is the same: the player is saddled with the same weapons, enemies and scenarios as every other 
 World War II game ever, except worse. AND IT'S STILL WORLD WAR II! It's a wonder the Nazi's even 
 found the United States, they can't find cover or shoot an enemy, seemingly enjoying taking a bullet 
 to their hundreds of identical faces. Perhaps the AI has become aware of the travesty it has been 
 shanghaied into and instead of putting up a fight has chosen suicide, though even that makes Turning 
 Point seem more interesting then it is.
  
  I make it a point to finish as much as possible of a game before reviewing it. Games can take wild 
 turns in the final acts, either for the better or for the worse, and I feel that I need to see 
 as much as I can before giving an informed opinion. I will confess to not finishing Turning Point, 
 but it is not entirely my fault. On the last level, in what I am assuming is one the final areas, 
 my xbox red ringed without warning. If it could speak, these would have been its final words, "What 
 is this? There are dozens of better shooters and you saddle me with this? You might as well be 
 playing nothing. As a matter of fact, screw you buddy, I'm done! You can take your abuse out on 
 that tall, black console sitting over there that hasn't been turned on in 2 months! "
  
  The kind gentleman from Microsoft who I spoke to asked me what game I was playing when the system 
 died. I lied to him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumitchhibber
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Ok i have given it 7 and i will also tell you what to look in game so that you wont be disappointed 
 when you buy it.
  
  what this game has to offer
  1. whole new exciting storyline and concept. Germans have invaded America and you have to fight 
 them with handful of civilians and soldiers. You will cruise through New york city streets, subways, 
 residential apartments and will often see germans take over civilians. It brings emotional factor 
 into gameplay. You will see lot of civilians crying and fighting.
  2. Weapons that are not too advanced but fictional weapons of mechanical age. what germans were 
 trying to develop at that time. weapons design is very innovative and you wouldnot have seen in 
 any WW2 game.
  3. Game set in urban environment and you will interact with it to kill enemies or make your way 
 through
  4. Excellent background sounds and orchestra.
  
  What not to look for in this game
  1. Great FPS: Lets face it. we have many great FPS today. 
 This game doesnot offer gameplay to that level but its not that bad. It has some glitches here 
 and there but i have purchased this game to see what would have been situation and ramification's 
 if germans were fighting on US soil.
  2. Great Graphics and frame rate: looks like game was developed in a hurry. It would be a hit if 
 they have worked on this game for 9 to 10 months.
  3. Co-op: Had a few missions with AI but not very interesting. never played on xbox live till now.
 
  
  All in all this game is unique. if you will set your expectations right, you will love this game. 
 Yes it has glitches and bugs & not competing to standards of todays FPS but still not boring and 
 disappointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellyfeet
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I thought the trailer was pretty cool and the premise - "Nazis rule the world" was quite intriguing. 
 However the actual gameplay leaves a LOT to be desired.
  
  Let's see ; 
  
  The AI is laughable - enemies run around n confusion or stand in front of you waiting to be shot, 
 or someone gets stuck in a door, or goes into this spastic seizure climbing the stairs LOL.
  
  Frame rate can get sluggish/controls unresponsive in some places, and the graphics is sooooo 
 1995 ; there are games on the original Xbox that has better textures than TP (And I cant believe 
 they actually used the same engine as Gears of War to build this) . 
  
  Also using the lader can be quite frustrating a hit and miss exercise everytime, the hit detection 
 is broken LOL, and the few and scattered check points means you you have to be careful where you 
 die!
  
  It's very likley TP was rushed out the door, with little playtesting and QA if any at all. 
  
 
  Best stay away from this train wreck, or rent it if you're curious as to how bad it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendan_o
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has become the console for hardcore gamers this generation and the genre that seems 
 to have made a home for itself on the 360 is the first person shooter. I myself am a vetran FPS 
 player. I played Wolfenstein 3D, Doom and Duke Nukem 3D while growing up and I was around for the 
 launch of many big titles in the genre, like: Half-Life and Doom 3. But I do not enjoy the direction 
 that the genre has taken in recent years. With the exception of ID Software developers have made 
 the mistake of adding things like squad communication and more "realism". For these reasons I found 
 myself drawn to Turning Point. It brought back the one man army concept and wrapped it around a 
 fantastic fiction. In a world with too many WWII shooters this one manages to set itself apart 
 from the crowd with a fantastic story and by staying true to the classic FPS formula.
  
  The concept behind the game is a "what if". As in, what if the British didn't ward off the blitzkreig 
 against their nation and what if the Germans continued their invasion in America. You play the 
 game as Carson, a New York construction worker who is witnessing the invasion on his soil first 
 hand. It's up to you to fight along side the resistance and save America. The idea of fighting 
 a war on American soil and going into the underground to fight back is a spooky and gripping one 
 to be sure. This game plays like a more traditional FPS. You kill hundreds of nazi soldiers while 
 trying to get from point A to B. Fans of Return to Castle Wolfenstein will find alot to like here. 
 You can hold two weapons at once, usually starting a mission with one or two american guns and 
 picking up german ones when ammo becomes sparse. When fighting nazis up close you can initiate 
 instant kills, enviromental kills or nock them out to use them as human shields. These options 
 really help out in tight quarters and the enviromental kill animations are usually brutal and comical. 
 As your character becomes a key player in the resistance the importance of his missions become 
 greater and greater. Sometimes the difficulty in the game is uneven and I think it could have been 
 a bit more polished but it is better than some of the more rushed titles coming out nowadays.
 
  
  I am by no means an expert on graphics quality for current games and without this being a franchise 
 I cannot compare it to past titles. But what I see, I like. All characters and enviroments have 
 a great photo-realism to them. Across New York you will see famous land marks such as the empire 
 state building and the statue of liberty in ruins. You will also see disturbing images like swastika 
 flags decorating the white house. Regardless of how the graphics may or may not look on a technical 
 stand-point when compared to other modern titles the imagery is powerful nonetheless.
  
  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is a game that all console owners should have. being a platform 
 gamer and an adventure gamer I sometimes sigh that the 360s library is filled with so many FPS 
 games, but with games like this I have a few titles to get excited about. I hope codemasters makes 
 a prequel so that I can see what happend in Britain. Until then I will enjoy obtaining achievments 
 in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Turning Point is Busted, Broken, and Bad, it has all the worst possible things you could ever think 
 of. The gameplay is okay, the graphics are decent and the sound is actually pretty amazing for 
 the game, thats all thats really good about the game is the sound. The gamemakers really had no 
 idea of how to make this game, it kinda has a independence day feeling to it, except the aliens 
 are the nazis.
  If anybody is reading this article you should really hear me out, ITS NOT WORTH IT. Its really 
 a rip off of Call of Duty, except they are trying to make it better. You play as a construction 
 worker type guy who must escape new york before the nazis fully invade it. You really are not in 
 new york very long, you are only in new york in a couple of missions, the rest of the time you 
 are at Washington D. C., trying to stop a imposter president, or trying to get plans to an atomic 
 bomb the nazis are making.
  Really do not even think about renting this game or even buying it, just spend your money wisely 
 on a game like Call of Duty 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparts-molvam
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  medal of honor whit an other history! that's what it is! The potential was in the story.. but finally 
 its like playing a game that come out 3 years before. the game start whit a nonsense beginning and 
 really fast you realize the IA is not really good to.... poor game play! in the game, you are a high-rise 
 construction worker named Dan Carson. When the invasion begins, you are walking the girders of 
 a skyscraper in the works, and to survive you needs to find a way to escape that thing... trust 
 me... impossible to die! Linear maps with little question about where to go next.
  
  The game tells its story horribly, your character is both improbable and without any personality, 
 the AI is terrible, the gameplay lackluster, and graphics middling. Even as a budget title, which 
 Turning Point is certainly doomed to become, the game is hardly worth the bother. 
  
  
  its a real waste of time!... good idea but nothing else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micc98
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  I just rented this game, primarily so I could score some gamerscore points that none of my friends 
 have because we all played the demo, were duly unimpressed, and thereafter avoided this game like 
 the plague. That said, while I wait for the USPS to deliver my copy of Rainbow Six Vegas 2, I figured 
 I would go back and rent this sucker, just for laughs... And oh my lord, does this game just fall 
 apart on so many levels. 
  here is a short list: 
  - early on in the game you can stand in the middle of the street can casually aim down the iron 
 sights of you MP50 at the MACHINEGUNNER on the rooftop blazing away at you. A full tugs on the 
 right trigger and down he goes. This can give one a false sense of security about this game, read 
 on.
  - some of the dumbest AI this side of, well, I can't remember a game with bad buys with such laughably 
 poor aim. Which makes it all the more frustrating to have one in the later levels just cap you 
 instantly with a lucky shot. 
  - one of the most broken checkpoints systems I have ever had to endure. This game is for you if 
 you like getting punted back the very beginning of a level because the game has a machinegunner 
 waiting for you nearly point blank on the other side of the door you just opened... (referring to 
 the atom bomb level) or because grenades go off with the explosive power of a B-52 strike and you 
 just happened to be standing near an explosive barrel... yes I said that - EXPLOSIVE BARRELS!!! 
 How lame.
  - craptastic level design. I mean could a game get anymore linear? At least PRETEND you know how 
 to design a level and don't just have random walls sealing off city streets, and I didn't know 
 there was just one winding hallway to the oval office.... total cheese
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  You play as Carson Daily.... erm... I mean just Carson. He is a construction worker from New York 
 during an alternate-early-50's era where the Nazis have conquered Europe and WW2 is still raging 
 on. One day you're on some steel gerders and BOOM! The Nazis begin attacking the United States!! 
 You regroup with... the National Guard? And its up to you and your Resistance group to stop the 
 Nazi invasion.
  
  You'll travel the east coast of the United States to repel the attack. You'll start off in a decent 
 replica of New York (and at one point will see the Chrysler Building ripped in half and laying 
 in the street) , Washington D. C. to save some fictional resistance general from execution and the 
 constitution from being burned (which is an achievement) , in the New York subway system, and a 
 few other areas. The environments look, for the most part, pretty good.
  
  The action is pretty intense and you can do these grapple moves where you run up and either use 
 the Nazi as a human shield for a little bit or you beat the bajesus out of them in different ways. 
 However, Turning Point is a very buggy and glitchy game, so the icon to indicate you can grapple 
 the people sometimes does not show up until you are on the verge of death. You can run up and press 
 the B button numerous times until you actually do grab the person. You get a bunch of "modified" 
 WW2 weapons such as the "new" MP50, Gewher 45 (theres a new "Vampir" version that has thermal vision 
 for oyu to snipe with) , the M1 Garand, the version of the Thompson with the drum on the bottom 
 of the barrel, the "combat shotgun", a multi-barreled Panzershrek, and the potato masher hand grenades.
 
  
  Again, this game is really glitchy. For instance theres this stage you go into near the end of 
 the game... its a bridge. You walk out and theres enemies on EVERY side of you.. they can actually 
 hit you through the wholes in the bridge but you can't shoot them. Sometimes you'll go to aim down 
 your iron sights, only to find you can't shoot or get out of the aim mode for a couple of seconds 
 to a minute. Sometimes your grenades won't explode or sometimes an enemy can hit you from a mile 
 away with the shotgun.. a lot of time the game will freeze up, the frame rates will drop, and finally 
 the sound will cut out sometimes.
  
  The AI is pretty bad too. Sometimes you can run right into view and sit there for about 3-5 minutes 
 before they take cover and start shooting. Its pretty embarrassing for CodeMasters to have released 
 such a terrible AI system upon the world.
  
  The music is pretty good though. Its mainly an orchestrated score to help you feel heart wretched 
 or pumped up. Additionally, some power sets like the Chrysler building being destroyed will push 
 any New Yorker (like me) over the edge and want to finish the game. 
  
  The ending was somewhat believable. You board this Nazi Zeppelin that has a nuke on it, and you 
 must disarm it before it blows up (I think) New York. Anyway, you kill everyone on the aircraft 
 and reach the nuke. You take one look and notice you have 10 seconds left, and you attempt to stop 
 it. The whole time your commander is telling you good job and what not but your character does 
 not know how to stop a nuclear device. So, he sits down, shakes his head, and the nuke blows up 
 in the sky. Your a casualty of war, but you stopped the missle from actually being launched at 
 a target.
  
  Overall, Turning Point: Fall of Liberty could have been so much better if CodeMasters would have 
 taken more time to work the bugs out and make the gun power more balanced. On a scale of 1-10, 
 I give it a "rent it first" 5.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Finally, at last, i got through that annoying game. Though the campaign was rather short, it felt 
 like a lifetime. The good news is always first. The environmental and instant kill feature is cool. 
 you use the environment to kill ur enemy is mostly what it means. There were a few cool guns including 
 the different sniper rifles. This game has the best story a World War 2 game had so far. All those 
 boring World War 2 games had boring stories but this one was more interesting, not that it was 
 as good as Bioshock's. Now, here comes the bad news. It doesn't have amazing graphics, i'll tell 
 u that. In fact, it looked like it could be an XBOX game. The gameplay sucked. That's the main 
 reason. There were a ton of pauses and glitches and it got so freaking frustrating, not that the 
 game wasn't frustrating without that. The story did not explain as much as it should have explained 
 including the ending. The game is tough at times just because of the un-realistic gameplay. It 
 takes more than enough shots to kill one single guy. I used a lot of my ammo killing just one guy. 
 I mean, would it really take that much to kill one person? That's what i mean by un-realistic. 
 So gamers, if u played shooters like Bioshock, Halo, Call of Duty 4, Gears of War and those kind 
 of shooters and u play this one and u will think it's just a piece of world war 2 crap. So, i am 
 not recommending this game to u gamers! But if u are looking for something and u can't find any 
 good game, then take this one. That should be the only reason u would get this game. Oh, i forgot 
 the tell u the story of the game. Well, a construction worker named Carson is working and constructing 
 an unfinished building in New York when Nazis start to invade, blowing up the statue of liberty. 
 Carson, luckily, gets off of the unfinished building alive. He, then, decides to help defend the 
 city and becomes a soldier, which i don't know how all of a sudden he has all those awesome skills 
 when he's just a construction worker. Anyway, the Nazis put up the Nazi flag on the new statue 
 of liberty and now we got ourselves a new president as well and a bad one too. Now, we need to 
 overtake the president, stop the nazis from unleashing a secret weapon, and most importantly, saving 
 our country. That is mostly the whole story. Again, if ur looking for some kind of new shooter, 
 get Call of Duty 4 or if u haven't played Bioshock yet, go and get that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty was an interesting concept from the beginning. I normally don't 
 base game purchases on concepts, but I'm a history buff, and I knew it was going to be a stinker, 
 but I figured the story would be okay. The game was all based around the fact that Churchill was 
 killed in a car accident while visiting New York city. So without a good strategist in Europe, 
 all of the world fell except America. 
  
  Simply starting the game I could tell it wasn't even going to be well executed story wise. You 
 start as this construction worker, who is only known by Carson in the game, but I believe thats 
 his last name. While working on a building Nazi attack planes come in and start shooting. Thats 
 the intro. Yes, thats it, no character building no nothings. You run through and start playing 
 the game, and realize that there is no way the game was finished. 
  
  Right from the start you will notice enemy soldiers instead of getting up and running will sometimes 
 remain in the kneeling position and move across the screen like they ought to be on their feet. 
 Enemy soldiers will often sit like ducks, while you run in and blast them. Once past the introduction 
 level, if you can even call it that, you get recruited to join the resistance. They never actually 
 explain the story line in game, so without the written time line you are probably screwed if you 
 bought it for the story. 
  
  You go through levels which are nearly linear, but will feature broken obstacles along the way. 
 I'm not sure why the obstacles were so difficult to execute, but this was often the deadliest point 
 in the game. You may have to climb up a box, or across a pipe, but it will often take multiple 
 times just to get on the thing, then climbing across you are defenseless, so if you actually find 
 an enemy with some sort of difficulty, you're probably dead. 
  
  The sound in the game is really just horrendous. You can hear the popping of the mic from time 
 to time, the voice acting really wasn't anything to brag about to begin with, but the equipment 
 they used just made it worse. 
  
  The game does have its moments. The few environmental kills in the game are gruesome and comedic 
 from time to time, its a shame there weren't more of them. This game really had some creative ways 
 of killing Nazi's, drowning them in a toilet, or my personal favorite kicking the jack from underneath 
 a car crushing his neck. Storming the white house was cool too. 
  
  Underneath the poor gameplay was a pretty good concept, and an interesting what if story line. 
 Unfortunately this is one that is best left on the shelves, or a rental at most. What was interesting 
 is the pre-release content was much more interesting and if you missed out on it, but bought the 
 game I really feel sorry for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  You will play the opening scene and then you will ask yourself? Why? 
  
  Absolutely everything in this game falls short of anyone's expectations. Besides the relatively 
 interesting premise presented in about the first 5 seconds, everything is either boring, stupid, 
 pointless, or just flat out bad. The opening scene will demonstrate everything bad about this game 
 pretty quickly. 
  
  The graphics are horrendous. On many occasions it seems like there was supposed to be some darkness 
 or shadow effects, I couldnt tell but it was sometimes nearly impossible to see anybody when you 
 were suppose to. The character models are all bad. Especially those of the nazis, who often wore 
 bright orange ski goggles. They probably saw some snow no one else did? When you killed these stupid 
 looking enemies the same death would occur every single time. This makes it hard to tell if there 
 were death animations or if there was supposed to be ragdoll effects. Either way these animations 
 were a failure. The enemies would fall backwards while their knees buckled forwards, their arms 
 would extend from their sides at a 45 degree angle and they would die... 
  
  There is also nothing interesting about the gameplay, though there is a grappling mechanic that 
 is actually fun, for the first level. You can sprint up to your enemies and grab them then from 
 there you can either perform an instant kill, turn them into a human shield and extremely rarely 
 an environmental kill (you can count the number of these on two hands) . But other than this your 
 stuck shooting your toyish sounding, awkward feeling guns. None of them feel powerful, not even 
 your explosives and none feel accurate.
  
  But probably the two stupidest most frustrating parts of the game are how the storyline progresses 
 and the fact that the last few levels were beyond frustrating. The spaces inbetween checkpoints 
 were far too large, and even on normal you could die in less than 2 seconds towards the end of 
 the game. I remember one stupid part where you were on a bridge trying to board the Zepplin blimp 
 but guys would seemingly spawn just of range of your vision. Then would when you finally make it 
 past the bridges halfway point there would be zero cover and guys would come from infront of you 
 as well as two random spawners behind you. Basically an automatic death unless you can manage to 
 get a human shield somewhere. The blimp level... dont even ask. The stupidest thing in the game 
 is the lack of any real storyprogression. I mean there are crappy cut scenes here and there but 
 sometimes youll just be somewhere without knowing how you got there. You also play a contruction 
 worker..... taking down hundres of trained nazi soliders. Yes lets put the fate of America in the 
 hands of a contruction worker.
  
  This game is bad on all levels, and I didnt even mention the horrid music and probably the worst 
 online multiplayer I have ever seen Just if you can avoid it, which you should be able to do, please 
 do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyeyescarr
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  WOW i havent seen a game like this in awhile i thought it was gonna be great but the graphics suck 
 the gameplay is early 90s style and the story is so broken its not even funny. to make it all worse 
 the glitches in this game are insane. I was at one piont in the game the other night were i was 
 about to hit a check piont but somehow got stuck in the doorway. i have no clue how this happened 
 but i wasted so much time getting to that piont then i didnt even die i just got stuck? shoot come 
 on know seriously why even release a game like this people? this may be the first ever xbox 360 
 game i trade in thats even if the store will take it back. the story is so cut up to half the time 
 i dont even now whats going on i mean you get the general idea but they could have gone so much 
 more indepth with it and made it a heck of alot more interesting. so for all the negitives i find 
 it hard to find a positive my advise DONT WASTE YOUR TIME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_Gamer123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Codemasters and Spark Unlimited who brought us Call of Duty Finest Hour, but honestly after Finest 
 Hour who'd want to play this? WW2 game fans and people who enjoy a good alternate history game. 
 After a lacklustre demo, Codemasters has announced that these issues have been fixed. How'd the 
 game did game do? Did Codemasters deliver as promised or is it just a bunch of empty promises; 
 I think it's a load of...
  
  Game-play: 4 out of 10
  Let's start out with and alternate history lesson now shall we? In 1931, Winston Churchill is killed 
 by a taxi. That actually happened in real life although Winston Churchill survived the fatal hit. 
 Now back to the lesson: Then in 1940 the Third Reich caused the British to surrender by a successful 
 Operation Sea Lion which was postponed in real life. The Americans chose not to intervene in the 
 situation, and the Germans conquer Europe and rename it the Greater German Reich, also allowing 
 allied Japan to share the glory. An unexpected attack of Operation Humpback on the United States 
 by the Greater German Reich to take New York was then launched, taking America at all fronts.
 
  
  German technology rose to Super Zeppelins, Super Tanks, and Super almost everything. Scary how 
 much German technology could have raised if the Allies didn't stop them. If you're a big fan of 
 giant zeppelins flying over Manhattan, this could just as well be the game for you. But wait, what's 
 the reason behind my outrageously low score? This is one of the blandest shooters I've ever played, 
 or any other critic has ever played. I mean come on! Most levels don't make sense because you are 
 meeting the freaking National Guard! Where the hell is the American Army? Many people have raved 
 that America wouldn't have enough time to bolster their forces but they would be stupid not to 
 seeing that Germany conquered all of Europe! You play as Dan Carson a Construction worker who takes 
 up arms to defend the America from the... wait what? A construction worker, surely there could be 
 a different person that would defend America. Anyways you try to survive the attack waves of the 
 Germans and then take the fight back to London.
  
  Finally to the actual game-play, the shooting doesn't feel very fresh, the guns, and I hate to 
 say it but it sucks! Aiming is hard, A. I is downright useless; levels are boring and the story 
 telling falls pretty flat despite the interesting premise and basically this game is just so boring! 
 Do you think that the multi-player feature would revive such a title like this?? Hell no! 4 maps 
 with an eight player limit are just too little for today's standards. I don't even know how this 
 game got priced at full retail because this is just a poor excuse!
  
  Hey Codemasters, put some more content into your game before you release it because this is just 
 a bad excuse of a game. The only thing this game has going for it is the ridiculously good premise 
 but the game-play is just unbelievably bad! Don't buy this game, rent it if you want to see how 
 this game did.
  
  Graphics: 4 out of 10
  The graphics look blocky, especially the super zeppelins, because this game looks so ridiculously 
 bad because it looks like it could have been the first 3-D game on the PS One! Buildings look bad, 
 character models are bland especially the Nazis. Gun models are bad too and explosions are crap. 
 Gun animations could have used A LOT of work especially since you're shooting and that bad animation 
 is all you have to look at.
  Frame-rate issues are frequent because that really slows down game-play to a bad rate of play, 
 and the game just doesn't look good in any respects. Codemasters next game better not look this 
 craptastic!
  
  Sound: 6 out of 10
  They got a great orchestral soundtrack in the game and the sound plus premise is probably the only 
 reasons to ever play this game. Then again, the soundtrack isn't enough to recover the whole sound 
 category as the gun audio is horrible, the voice acting is total crap again and the background 
 music is so generic, it's like they found a default audio file and loaded it onto their game without 
 thinking about it or not. 
  Value: 4 out of 10
  
  Do I even have to explain myself here? Would you honestly want to play this game again after the 
 first play through? I mean it is a good cure for insomnia when you've been playing addictive games 
 that are better because it's all sleeping right here folks! The campaign has virtually nothing 
 to come back to, and the multi-player is a snooze-fest over 4 maps so just dump this game when 
 you're done.
  Tilt: 5 out of 10 
  
  This game had a whole lot of potential, the premise was strong and the possibility for a great 
 game was totally possible, but whose fault was it really? Codemasters maybe, Spark Unlimited is 
 another possible culprit, but after the demo I really lost faith in this game because it fell into 
 a hole that it could not recover from, thus getting a crappy: 4.5 out of 10
  
  True Score: 4.5 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkleck
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  
  
  -This game is horrible plain and simple. First off the recoil of the gun is horrible. I start out 
 pointing forward shooting an enemy, next thing I know my gun is pointed at a 35 degree angle and 
 I could have killed ten pigeons. 
  - How is the zoom in you asked? I am trying to aim, but even when I get the dude in my crosshairs, 
 I swear I missed him by nearly 5 feet and then I die mysteriously.
  -It takes nearly 5 shots to take down some enemies regardless of where you shoot them. If you are 
 lucky enough to get close to them, you might be able to take them down with 2 shots, but that few 
 and far. far between. 
  -Why does my game load? The last time I played a game that loaded in the middle of game play was 
 GTA, Vice City when switching between islands. That was on my PS2, a few YEARS ago. 
  -The difficulty of the game isn't really hard, but it becomes hard when you have to play through 
 all these little things that mold into a single bad experience that in turns make the game horrible 
 and difficult to play through.
  -One more thinghow can a normal construction worker survive with no military training in one of 
 the biggest invasions of all time? Riddle me that. It makes me want to run over to Iraq on my spare 
 time and shoot 'er up! I'll win
  
  
  One thing I do absolutely love is the idea though. To be able to take the idea of Nazis invading 
 America which the advanced technology that they would have discovered IF things did not happen 
 in history that did, that is amazing for me, a history buff anyhow. 
  People say the music is good, I really didn't hear too much of it I guess, I was too busy throwing 
 my controller around and looking silly and slightly retarded I suppose.
  -The environmental kills are fun though. Once in a while you can get a special kill and that's 
 a good laugh. 
  
  My final thoughts:
  
  I feel bad for people who paid 60.00 plus tax for this game. It's not worth the $60.00 at all. 
 In fact, it's not worth $30. It's a broken game that I wish would have had more time to develop. 
 This game makes me think that no game like this will be developed ever again, much less a game 
 that might be good with the same kind of alternative history. SadI loved the idea. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunkingjacob
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  If this game wasnt so glitchy, it would've gotten a 5. The story is okay, but its not great or 
 even good. The game doesnt really get into how it all happens, they just tell you in text at the 
 very beginning, The grapple feature is really cool, it just doesnt work. When you get too close 
 to an enemy, the cursor goes away, but when you're 10 feet away, the cursor often appears. And 
 whats with B being the action button? When does that ever happen. Another big problem is the bomb 
 wiring mini-game. You hold down the corresponding button to the color of the wire, and then circle 
 LS until the wire is twisted tight around the contact. This mini game sucks, its impossible to 
 fail at, and its entirely pointless. This game is a freakin waste of time, if you dont have anything 
 to rent, give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcgamers
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  They could have made a great game out of a great story, complete with a challenging atmosphere 
 and robust gameplay features under its belt, but instead they failed almost everything. It had 
 a shock value in the beginning scene, but then confused the player with what to do and where to 
 go next; there is complex scenes but they make for some confusing and often stupid objectives.
 
  
  The whole Nazi invasion was a big nail biter, and the game had some symbolic scenes like bombing 
 the Statue of Liberty and fighting next to the Chrysler building's point, fallen on the streets 
 of New York.
  
  The game has nice weapons that are somewhat realistic (although the weapon itself gets in the way 
 of the cross hairs, very annoying) and has other aspects that you would typically have from a boring 
 FPS clone with no uniqueness at all. When we want a new game, we want just that -- NEW.
  
  Don't buy this game, don't listen to the commercials, don't trust historical games as much as you 
 ever would have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneonta3777
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  While it was entertaining, a little more time in the shop would've made this a must-play, as it 
 feels only about 3/4 done.
  Many of the reviews on this site call out the slow frame rate and disgusting AI. The frame rate 
 is about 1/2 as bad as most say, but it was very hard not to notice the stupidity of your foes. 
 The pure lack of awareness of the Germans is without a doubt the biggest drawback of the game.
 
  The story of Turning Point is interesting alternate history, and is worth your time. Another huge 
 plus is just seeing the 3rd Reich's epic new fighting machines in action, and the landmarks of 
 New York, London, and Washington D. C.
  If you're a fan of history, like myself, then you'll enjoy this game.
  If you're looking for 
 some new and ground breaking game, look elsewhere.
  Be sure, that the ratings given on this site judge this game a tad too highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim8X
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Finally got a chance to rent this game from the local Blockbuster this week. Just finished playing 
 the game on insane difficulty... and like everyone is saying, it's quite underwhelming. As a disclaimer, 
 yes, I've been biased against this game for some time, but for good reason. I knew that when I 
 received an angry private message on the GS forums from someone claiming to be Dean Martinetti 
 (username: dmartinetti) , the game's dev team lead, there was no hope that this demo was ever going 
 to get any better.
  
  First, I think it's worth bringing up this post from the developer team from January:
  
  [QUOTE="Official 
 Developer 
  
  Among the changes they said they made to the demo:
  
  "Optimized targeting and movement: Optional 
 control settings have been refined to alleviate sluggishness in the slowest setting and the 'on 
 ice' feeling at the faster settings. Also, a user-defined soft lock has been added which means 
 that controls can be set so once an enemy is hit with a bullet the crosshair will 'stick' to the 
 target.
  
  Refined AI behavior: The dynamic intelligence and pathfinding for enemies has also been enhanced. 
 The 'hot point' based system should add to Turning Point's replay experience.
  
  Ammo levels and grappling optimized: Up until final submissions, the team has been listening to 
 playtest feedback and doing everything possible to create a 'civilian at war' feeling. The end 
 result is an experience more visceral than the demo, relying less on repeated ammo refills, and 
 more on the grappling and the hand-to-hand combat.
  
  Final Mip-mapping and texture levels: The art team has also been able to further optimize lighting, 
 textures, and effects throughout the title." [/QUOTE]
  
  After a playthrough, it seems that none of these issues were really addressed at all. Numerous 
 problems plague this game, and I've been wondering this since day one - Why are they releasing 
 a game that very clearly has many issues and problems?
  
  Did they not see that the game had these problems? Or were they simply too rushed by the publisher/outside 
 forces to make a good product?
  
  Anyway, most of the industry's reviews are spot on. While the concept of the game is intriguing, 
 it's never fleshed out. The brief cutscenes add some flavor to this story, but everything in the 
 story is two-dimensional. Forget rational explanation! Why are the Nazis invading America to begin 
 with? IT DOESN'T MATTER - THEY'RE NAZIS, THAT'S WHAT THEY DO! Further, Spark did a lot of work 
 to flesh out what happened in the alternate 1940s on a web site. They put together some interesting 
 "fake" newspaper articles describing how the Third Reich conquered Russia, Britain, etc. So where 
 was this cool backstory in the actual game? (click here: http://www. codemasters. co. uk/turningpoint/newspaper/index. php? territory=EnglishUK) 
 By the way, where are the Russians in this game?
  
  Spark took the most banal of alternate history scenarios as well. Of all the points in WW2 where 
 the world hung in the balance, they simply said LOL CHURCHILL DIED, BRITAIN LOSES. I love how the 
 West takes all the credit for winning World War 2. Russia seems to be consistently left out of 
 the picture, and it seems quite unfair, given the fact that 80% of WW2 casualties were Russian. 
 In most alternate history literature where the Nazis win, there always seems to be a strong Russian 
 partisan movement operating out of a Russian rump state with its capital in Omsk. But there is 
 no sight of a Russian in this game. It's, as usual, up to the Anglo-Americans to take care of business. 
 In any case, there's simply no sense of what the world is like in alternate 1953. You don't get 
 a good picture or idea. Part of the allure of this alternate history scenario is that excitable 
 "what-if" question. What if the Nazis occupied Britain? What would it be like? I got no sense whatsoever 
 of a Nazi-dominated world. It needed way more color.
  
  Much has been said of the grappling system, but it's an incredibly stupid and uninspired mechanic 
 for several reasons. First, it's completely busted. I found that all an enemy needs to do to avoid 
 a grapple is to crouch. If I walked up to an enemy and he was on his knees shooting, no grapple 
 icon would appear, and I would repeatedly get shot. Second, it takes no skill to execute. One button 
 press, then another. If I wasn't playing on Insane, I would have easily been able to walk up to 
 almost every enemy and beat them down. Resident Evil 4 has an ingenious melee system, where it 
 actually required some shooting skill to execute. Indeed, in RE4, it took a gunshot to a specific 
 part of the body to disable an enemy, then a melee attack was used to finish him/her off.
  
  And there's obviously the issues with frame rates, graphics clipping, etc. I noticed that there's 
 a TON of pop-in effects especially when you reload a save game. My god, I'd go far in a level then 
 get sent back to the start and find that none of the textures were completely rendered.
  
  It's worth a rent, especially if you're into the subject matter (I've got a bookshelf full of alternate 
 history books) . I didn't mind paying $8.50 at Blockbuster for the game to try it out. But it's 
 certainly not worth the $60 console price, and from what I've heard the PC version is horribly 
 broken, so a $40 game that doesn't even work is probably not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phtartist9
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Turning Point : Fall of Liberty Is predictable but it has some good points. I like the tally at 
 the end of each level as to bullets used, enemies killed, time spent etc. The weapons are cool, 
 such as the two types of sniper rifles, one with infared to see enemy line of fire. The rifles 
 are one shot killers.
  Always check ammo of guns you pick up. There are a good variety of scenes also. The let down for 
 me was that the game is a bit too glitchy. My game froze in one spot, dead enemies shiver, and 
 at times my character walks through solid objects. When he climbed a ladder and was near the top, 
 the game had him walk through the ladder and suddenly he was on the roof.
  
  The cinema and art work are not what I would call realistic but they are good.
  This game only 
 got good when the lead character goes to rescue the general, or just before. There are plenty of 
 checkpoints which save your game, so try it out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The music is nice.
  
  The graphics look like old generation PC graphics.
  
  The gunplay feels the way first person shooters used to feel on consoles, ie HORRIBLE.
  
  The 
 game cant decide whether it wants to be first person, or 3rd person.
  
  The enemies take too many shots to kill.
  
  I feel sorry for people who have to review garbage 
 like this professionally, because this game is just that: TRASH.
  
  If this game doesn't kill off the demand in the WW2 First Person Shooter market, nothing will.
 
  
  I will now list the positive aspects of this game, I've already mentioned that the music is good. 
 There are nice scripted moments, but it all gets ruined by the actual gameplay.
  
  Avoid it like the plague.
  
  The worst thing about this game is that it doesn't deserve the 
 amount of time it takes to read this "review", and that I have to pad this thing out just so it 
 meets the minimum requirements for posting, and that's saying something. But at the end of the 
 day, trust every reader opinion on this site except anyone who is singing the praises of this game, 
 because those people are lying to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexRedEd
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought that it would be interesting to see what kind of plot and 
 what it would be like if the nazis atacked the U. S. but because of absolutely no character development 
 and very very little story line I was left very dissapointed. The envirnmental kills are probly 
 the only good thing I can say about this game but even those you cant get to use often. The frame 
 rate is horrible the stupid Al just makes you feel like doing something else and all and all its 
 just a very shallow game that has alot of bugs and leaves you just feeling board. I think about 
 49 out of 50 people will NOT enjoy this game. I hope that someone else trys to make a game with 
 this idea and does a much much better job at doing it. Its a shame to see such a great idea turn 
 into such a crappy game. to bad.................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  I will preface this review by admitting i have been less than kind to bad games in the past, going 
 so far in a case or two to have resorted to making disparaging comments to the vices of developers, 
 insinuating that possibly they had some problems with alchoholic beverages and a penchant for over 
 consumption resulting in the sub-standard development of the game in question. i will not be doing 
 so for Turning Point.
  
  In the vein of and interest for balanced review let us examine the positive aspects that turning 
 point has to offer first...
  1- they did try to fix the problems after the bad reception to their substandard demo release.
 
  2- it's a very high end conceptual design and ambitious in it's attempt.
  3- and technically it's not world war 2, so it avoids immediate ww2fps hatred.
  4- the music 
 is epic... a fantastic sweeping score befitting a much much much better game. and that's about it 
 for the good.
  
  now the tough part... gotta be nice about the bad....
  ok the largest issue turning point has is the demo. everyone knows developers know when the game 
 they're making is good or bad. and bad games come out, because the dev team either could not be 
 bothered to fix the issues because they didn't care, or they were hampered by the powers that be 
 forcing them to release unfinished games to make dates for marketing and fiscal quarters. the difference 
 between those games and turning point is that here T. P. as we may call it... hmm curious... went 
 public with an early demo, which was panned and it became a public relations issue when it became 
 a big story in the game media. oops. turning point should have been delayed and fixed. sorry guys 
 the spotlight was on you, and ya dropped the ball anyway. no one to blame for that but yourselves.
 
  
  that out of the way, what's wrong with the game?
  1- fps to 3rd person transition for brawl/grapple moves is dizzying to say the least.
  2-hope 
 you like aim assist, cause you can't hit anything on your own. gross collision detection and noticeable 
 weapons inaccuracy. 
  3-a. i. or lack thereof. enemy and ally a. i. is often times incomprehensibly bad. a. i. crosses firing 
 lines resulting in excessive fratricide.
  4- fortunately with nazis killing their own it makes the wholly uneven difficulty curve a bit more 
 manageable.
  5- bad eye candy... this is unfortunate. it's the ut3 engine and the graphics look like 360 launch 
 caliber... really? cmon guys.
  
  this game was such a great idea, and had soo much potential. i'm dissapointed, and i feel bad for 
 what T. P. could have been. rent this only folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  When I first heard and saw this game I was amazed. But as I soon found out more and more about 
 it, I got slowly uninterested in it. After playing the demo, and a bit of the actual game itself, 
 I conclude that the game is utter crap. First of all, everything looks like crap, level design 
 is terrible. The graphics were also not what they promised to be. AI is crap, collision models 
 are crap, you get bullets clipped onto objects' collision model, which is normally outside of the 
 physical thing itself. There really isn't a story, not much dialogue to explain the the hell is 
 going on and why space Nazis are dropping from the skies. Personally I think they should have expanded 
 the story a bit, instead of playing some random civilian, play a resistance member AFTER the Nazis 
 already occupied, then at least there are much more situations to play out. But the WW2 scene has 
 already been milked dry so yeah. 
  
  So my recommendation is not to buy this piece of crap. This is as worst as Hour of Victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcfr822
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  To think i thought that this game would be as fun as it actually is... is a grave overstatement. 
 It looked amazing from what i saw but when i rented it, i thought it was sooooo boring. Just the 
 beggining when the nazis invade your just standing around. i personally think that you should be 
 an american soldier or something so that you could have more pull at the begginning. The Multiplayer 
 was mediocre, and i think that the graphics are mediocre as well. if you are considering buying 
 this game, i suggest reconsidering and renting it so that you can save money and time. If you like... 
 well then dandy, buy it. I think that there is not much to it, just going around killing nazis, 
 what a snooze. If you want something fun and fast paced try Call of Duty 4 http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/action/callofduty4modernwarfare/index. html? tag=login; dropdown
 
  copy and paste the url above, it leads to an enlightened life in gaming. If you are going to do 
 something worth while, its not this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassabi21
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  read above. Do not buy this game. Rent it, if you are desperate for achievement points (the campaign 
 ones are easy to get, although some multiplayer ones were not awarded to myself upon completing 
 the tasks) . The grapple option is kinda cool, but about the only thing in the game thats fresh. 
 Wheres the experimental weaponry they talked about, for example? The game had promise, but fell 
 flat with terrible delivery. On the hard difficulty (not the highest level of difficulty mind you) , 
 it was astonishingly difficult in places where checkpoints were few and far between, taking way 
 to much time to clear a hallway, to finally find a checkpoint in the most useless places. This 
 game looked kinda cool, but codemasters sticks to their formula of all promise no follow through. 
 This game is pretty bad. End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the concept for Turning Point I thought it sounded awesome. Before I went out 
 to buy it I looked at some reviews on Game Spot. Many of the reviews for this game are bad.
  Being a history buff I wanted to check the game out for myself. Now I admit the game is not ground 
 breaking, the graphics don't blow you away, there aren't many cut scenes, and there is very little 
 voice acting to fuel the storyline.
  With all that being said, I still believe it is a fun game and I don't regret buying it. No, it 
 won't win any awards but fighting in the streets of New York and Washington D. C. is pretty cool. 
 Shoot, grappling, and using Nazi enemies as human shields is cool too. 
  You get to shoot various rifles, pistols, machine guns, rocket launchers, snipers with infrared 
 scopes. You can grab Nazi's and break their necks, pistol whip them, or just throw them off a skyscraper. 
 If you like first person shooters and think that fictional alternative history is interesting then 
 this is a game you should definitely pick up.
  If you are looking for an award winning, graphically stunning, and ground breaking new game, then 
 don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU81
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty torn on this game. For one, I am a history buff so I love the alternate history aspect 
 of it. Historical FPS games are some of my favorite. I loved the WWII Call of Duty games and was 
 really looking forward to Turning Point. 
  
  The story was just what I was expecting and hoping for. Pretty well put together, 3 area trip that 
 largely paysoff as far as the story is concerned. Unfortunately the controls and AI take everything 
 away from what the story achieves.
  
  Its extremely frustrating that sometimes I can stand completely still in the middle of a room and 
 the Nazi AI wont hit me at all. Yet sometimes I can round a corner and one shot from an MP50 will 
 kill me instantly and force me all the way back to the last checkpoint. The games shortcomings, 
 and there are many, make this a very frustrating game. Constant little nitpicky things will make 
 you want to rip your hair out.
  
  I'm not going to go into much more detail with what is wrong with the game. From what I've been 
 reading, I think thats pretty well documented. I do want to say that I atleast enjoyed the game 
 for its story. I'm pretty willing to look past a decent amount of problems as long as the story 
 is good. 
  
  Turning Point has a great story. If you're willing to look past some control and AI issues then 
 you should give it a try. Otherwise, save the headache and skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD-
  The Weapons. Good variety to the weapons, good range, and firepower. 7/10
  
  The Sounds. Very good, all the guns sound realistic. Good dialogue, both from the Americans and 
 Germans. 7/10
  
  The Locations. Good variety to them too. From New York, to Washinton, to London. 7/10
  
  
 
  THE BAD-
  The Difficulty. Difficulty is wacky, you can suck up dozens of bullets at some times, and at others, 
 you get shot 2 times, then you're dead. 4/10
  
  
  IN BETWEEN-
  The A. I. There are many problems in this area. The A. I will decide to run into walls, or just act 
 plain stupied. But, sometimes the A. I is pretty good. 5/10
  
  The Graphics. The graphics throught-out most of the game are so-so, sometimes they are decent, 
 or even good! But most of the time, they are unimpressive. 6/10
  
  Clipping. Quite a few times through-out the game the soldiers will get stuck half-way through a 
 door, or chair. It's actually quite funny! 4/10
  
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS- Definetly worth a 5-buck rental at Blockbuster, if you are bored with your other 
 games, give this one a try! 6.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philman61
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Just got through this great new game. If you like shooters, this one is sure to please. I wanted 
 to address some things that I read in some other reviews before I played the game. First of all, 
 the game takes place in 1953. There are no lasers, robots, high-tech weaponry, etc. It's an alternative 
 history game, NOT a sci-fi game, so understand that before playing. I thought that the weapons 
 were very realistic for the time frame the game is set in. There are two pistols, a bevy of rifles 
 and machine guns, a couple of heavy machine guns, the requisite combat shotgun and of course, a 
 rocket launcher. The weapons fit very well in the time frame of the game.
  
  Another issue that I had read about was the "horrible framerate" of the game. There was one section 
 approximately half way through the game where the framerate did drag for about 15-20 seconds and 
 that was it. Other than that it ran very smoothly. The game has a very 1950's look to it but the 
 graphics were good and pretty representative of what a battle in New York might have looked like 
 in that time frame.
  
  There are some issues with the enemy AI. Sometimes it was quite hilarious to watch what they did. 
 I thought that the AI could have been improved somewhat but believe me when I say I've played much 
 worse. The other drawback is the checkpoints, which can seem few and far between. It was a little 
 frustrating at times to play almost near the end of a section and die and then have to do it all 
 over again.
  
  Overall, I've rated the game an 8. If you like WWII games, you will like this one as well, I'm 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAM331
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is the biggest POS I have played in a very long time!! First off the whole graphical 
 presentation (and i use the term "presentation" extremely loosely) is a absolute scam. These graphics 
 dont even come on par with original xbox let alone next gen. Gameplay: the gameplay for this trash 
 bucket excuse for a game is so slow and lethargic that it makes for a good sleeping pill substitute 
 instead of a game. Sound: The sound FX and the voice acting isnt much better either. At some points 
 of the game the FX is so bloody annoying that you want to through your sound system out into the 
 middle of the street and watch with glee as trucks and cars plow right over it!! Basically what 
 I am saying in a nutshell is that this game is not even worth the plastic disc it is made on, let 
 alone $60!! Even if they were giving these things out for free it still would refuse to take it. 
 Yea, its that bad!! Well there's my rant for the day. I hope that you found it helpful and don't 
 make the same mistake I did and buy this garbage!!
  
  BAM331 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Well I notice alot of reviews seem to bash this for reasons that are pretty silly if you ask me. 
 This isn't a game with a million dollar budget, it isn't done by a fancy company. But when it comes 
 down to it. Its good old fashioned FPS fun!
  
  Lets get out of the way what people hate about it and why thats stuffs not true:
  
  -The graphics 
 people say are horrid. They get the job done. The game does use Unreal Engine 3 (of course what 
 game doesn't?) . Yes some of it was bland at times or dark... etc but who cares. Graphics don't mean 
 everything.
  
  -Some people complained the WW2 theme is old. Well technically this isn't WW2. This is a whole 
 diffrent scenario somewhat. This is a little bit in the future and takes place in the USA. 
  
  -The game is glitchy. I really only noticed a few glitches but nothing that stopped my game 
 except for that one time when ti forget to bring up what to do. But any other glitches I may have 
 noticed once again don't matter if its still a fun game and a good concept. 
  
  -There are better games to play. And? There are always better games to play. This is NOT suppose 
 to be some GOTY game. Its meant to be a small time (somewhat) fun game. If you can't see these 
 games as that then please don't call yourself a gamer.
  
  Any complaints past here I won't bother with.
  
  On to the rest of the review!:
  
  -The 
 story is basically "What if Winston Churchill died instead of lived when he was hit by that car?" 
 They explain it better but the idea is Nazis aren't stopped and end up taking over places like 
 the UK and what not. And in the 50's they do a sneak attack on the US in some key locations. You 
 are a construction worker in NY who gets stuck in it all and basically become a fighter who rebels 
 against the attacks. From there you have to play it to find out the rest. Despite what people said 
 the story had some pretty nice ideas and twists. 
  
  -Graphically since the game uses U3 engine it falls somewhere between a cheap budget title looking 
 and really nice looking. At times you'll feel like its a quality game and at others you'll wonder 
 why they chose what they did like the rather bland effects. But overall its still a really nice 
 game considering its by Codemasters, a NOT-so-major company.
  
  The did a excellent job portraying nazis if they had advanced a few years more with their technology 
 and weapons... etc. It almost makes you creeped out and think "What if?".
  
  -The music wasn't really horrible but it wasn't anything amazing either. But I still liked it enough 
 that I never turned it off. As for the sound it was ok. After awhile the annoying gun sounds get 
 on your nerves. I think the every gun has the same ricochet sound. 
  
  -The gameplay is actually not simple since you think this game looks like a budget title or something. 
 You can grapple enemies (press a button to grab them) then choose to instant kill them with a cool 
 animation (various) or use them as a human shield. You can do other things to like climb along 
 edges, use a flashlight and plant bombs that need to be wired. I was actually impressed. 
  
  Other then that its like anything else. You run around doing goals and shooting guys! There 
 is no coop or 2 players but you can play online which once again while alot of people dislike it 
 I think its actually very fun. Maps are limited and sometimes you wonder about the hit zones on 
 the body but other then that its fun. Single player took me all day to beat on Normal, I'll explain 
 why later.
  
  The one thing I like about this game besides its great story is for once I actually like achievements. 
 I got 750 for just having fun in single player. Throw a guy off a roof, smash a guy into a tv. 
 Blow 5 guys up with 1 nade. You feel so good seeing it unlocking new achievements all the time. 
 Sadly though I don't see many people playing through again for the Hard and Insane achievement.
 
  
  
  Now. What are the down sides to this game? Well the only real down sides I feel are:
  
  -The 
 checkpoint/save system is like Turoks. You can get far in a level and die and then have to do it 
 all over. Which might seem fun but after a few tries it gets old. 
  
  -The game is pretty easy but after the bridge (I will say nothing more then that) the game suddenly 
 becomes a pain in the butt! Everyones AI turns from smart to terminator mode. They all rush you 
 and seem to be elite shooters. And since you do pretty easy you will be repeating the same section 
 alot!
  
  -To add to that guys appear as you come close. Not in front of you but if your walking down a corridor 
 and theres a door in front of you they will spawn behind the wall. So suddenly they will spawn 
 and rush you and you will die which means you have to restart the level depending on how far you 
 are. This isn't really a problem until later in game when the AI turns brutal.
  
  -Another problem that doesn't help the above situations is THIS GAME IS DARK. Literally. I have 
 my TV turned up as it is but its really hard to see enemies in single player and often times you'll 
 die because you can't see who's shooting you from where!
  
  -Yet another problem is besides it saying "Do this", thats all your really left with. So you tend 
 to get lost researching the same are 10,000 times because you didn't know your suppose to hit a 
 switch or do something. Theres no real hud to speak up or directions.
  
  -Lastly this isn't really a game problem but its more of a complaint. If you want the codes that 
 you can unlock you have to Codemasters special cheat line and its $2.99 a minute! Whats that about? 
 You can beat the game of course and unlock the cheats but still. 
  
  Aside from these problems I mention which aren't totally major the game is still fun considering 
 its small budget size and who its made by. Rent it for the SP and try out the MP too. At the very 
 least you'll get some extra achievement points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknotmdh
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the worst FPS I have ever played. I give this game a 2 out of 10 only because of 
 the soundtrack and somewhat interesting story. It was painful, to play through this game and I 
 can't believe I wasted my money and time on this horrible unfinished game. The graphics are pathetic 
 for a Next-Gen game. It is very glitchy and leaves you wondering if the developers even bothered 
 to play the game after they created it. The save system is terrible and frustrating and the controls 
 make everything worse. Last of all the AI in this game makes you feel like you are fighting a large 
 force of retarded babies with automatic weapons. God someone shoot me. I was really hopeing for 
 somthing better to come from the creators of one of the Call of Duty expansions and some other 
 good games but they really messed this one up. If you have read my review and still wanna give 
 this game a shot for some strange reason make sure you rent it because it surely is not worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriddle89
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  OK, to start this off, I was excited for this game for months b4 it came out, and boy did it not 
 live up to it. I rented the game so I didn't have any manual...
  
  Graphics: um poor, if you were to look at something up close, it looks Last-Gen almost, um everything 
 scaled out looks alright, pretty standard until you get close to it. Weapons, character models, 
 buildings, everything seems not completely detailed.... almost as if the game wasn't finished...?
 
  
  Sound: Nothing completely out of the ordinary good or bad, but some of the weapons sound like your 
 firing them while some like the shotgun sound, just out of place, almost as if you are shooting 
 a .22 caliber rifle instead of a Shotty...
  
  Controls: Bad, Since sensitivity is only in three settings, and ironically each setting sucks, 
 since the lowest one makes you feel like your an 80 year old man while the highest has horrible 
 aiming....
  
  Story: Alternate World War 2, great twist, awesome potential, which is why I am so critical about 
 this game, don't take it as trolling but tough love, the dev team had so much to work with but...... anyways...... In 
 the beginning, I am sure all of you have seen it, but Statue of Liberty gets bombed, then the screen 
 goes black and comes back and you are in character.... You are standing on a skyscraper-in-progress, 
 assuming you are a construction guy, a regular joe, what your name is... who knows... Had I not been 
 researching the game, I would've had no idea what the character's name was. Obviously Nazis invaded 
 and you fight back. I am assuming that in the 50's, construction workers were given a basics course 
 in Warfare tactics since you are able to overpower enemy soldiers and somehow beat back all opposition 
 by yourself, yes by yourself, since the dev team felt that you have to feel alone, in order to 
 survive, immerse you.... what crap since something like this would bring most together, united, 
 but hey what can you do? But yup you are accompanied by National Guardsman and some police who 
 all eventually die because they just aren't up to par with your Construction Worker skills.....
 
  
  Overall: 3/10 Since the game is playable, I am doing so just to find out what happens. I am sorry 
 if this seems borderline rant but I had good expectations for this, not necessarily high ones, 
 but enough. I had expected the game to be almost like Freedom Fighters, but boy was I wrong. Rental 
 if you really want to.... But make sure it is the cheapest game rental you can find... 
  
  Sorry for the novel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Neat grapple system, shimming across ledges is new, a few new guns, different story than 
 usual
  
  The Bad: Glitchy, bogged down framerate, unbalanced difficulty, as straight forward as WWII shooters 
 get, lame multiplayer, extremely short
  
  I thought Turning Point was going to rethink WWII shooters after playing the demo but I was wrong. 
 Instead we got a headache induced, glitchy, uneven, and unbalanced mess. The game's graphics are 
 hardly next-gen with constant texture pop-up, framerate dropping in the single digits, and jerky 
 animations. The game's difficulty is widely unbalanced (even on easy) and the achievements are 
 hardly a chore. Instead of being a one-man-army in the military you are a one-man-army civilian 
 who gets caught up in WWII, but the game has a twist. Making up characters and creating an original 
 story (well trying) it makes things more interesting. All your WWII weapons are here plus some 
 we've never seen like the MP50. The game has a grapple system where you can use the Nazis as human 
 shields, kill them instantly, or use environmental kills. While this is fun and new it doesn't 
 really change the game play (melee kills were just fine before) . You can shimmy across poles (maybe 
 a handful of times through the WHOLE game) and this also isn't very exciting. Bottom line is TP: FoL 
 is a WWII shooter that was released during it's testing stages. Everyone should pass on this game 
 (even WWII, or CoD buffs) because it's not worth the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaySin8706
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Sure, from the premise, this seems like a good game. Nazis invading mainland America in an alternate 
 time line in the 1950's. This game should have been at least average, because in my opinion you 
 can not go wrong by having to slaughter endless hordes of Nazis (I mean come on, Nazis are just 
 like zombies in gaming when it comes to classic enemies that never get old as foes.) Somewhere 
 in between the premise of the game and how it is actually presented it where it all goes to crap. 
 After playing some of the great shooters that have come out in the last year, this just feels like 
 a mediocre attempt to cash in on the first person shooter genre of games. I found the controls 
 to be terrible and at times completely unresponsive. There where times I pressed the reload button 
 and it had absolutely no effect at all. Other times when the game prompted you to interact with 
 the environment such as climbing ladders and push a switch to activate an elevator the icon to 
 do so did not even appear on screen. Throughout my experience with the game the frame rate was 
 terrible and slowdown seemed to happen all to frequently when there was a lot of action taking 
 place on screen. Compared to some of the heavy hitters in the shooter genre lately, the graphics 
 were nothing to write home about either. To make things even worse the game completely crashed 
 on a handful of occasions giving fright for my 360's safety and concerns of the dreaded red ring 
 of death. Thankfully it was just the poor quality of the game. All in all I feel pity for anyone 
 who wasted their hard earned money on this third rate excuse of a shooter. Do not even waste your 
 time renting this game even if you are just curious or extremely bored, your time can be spent 
 doing much more productive things. It probably does not help that I played this game after a heavy 
 Call of Duty 4, Orange Box, and Halo 3 binge, But you can tell how high the standard was set for 
 shooters after playing games of that par then popping a game like this into your console. The campaign 
 was so bad I did not even waste any time checking out the multiplayer so I cannot comment on that 
 portion of the game. I am just happy the only spent $6 renting this game for 5 nights instead of 
 $60 to purchase it. It was so bad that I returned it after only 2 to days and hopefully can try 
 and erase the experience from my memory. All in all I think a premise like this game was great, 
 but the execution of it is just another flop in the market 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  First thing to note is that multiplayer is broken. No one can get onto any servers but that isn't 
 a big deal because the multiplayer seems to be sparse to begin with.
  
  I do not understand all the hate that this game is getting. The story is above average with the 
 Nazis invading America. The beginning is a little like Half-Life in that disaster happens and you 
 do not have a weapon. The cool thing is that you realize America is being attacked and the attack 
 is comming form nazis parachuting out of zepplins. It is a great beginning.
  
  Guns feel different but it is hard to aim. The melee feature is great in the you can use the invaders 
 os human shields or you can trigger an instant kill.
  
  The graphics are only so-so but the story is intruiging.
  
  I would recommend definately renting 
 this game and possibly buying the game because the higher difficulties are pretty challenging.
 
  
  I think this game is worse then FEAR but better the Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garydavis_61
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  WTF? Thats about it! Absolutely the worst game I've played to date on the XBOX 360. The only positive 
 thing I have to say is, I'm glad I rented this worthless piece of excrement rather than buying 
 it. It sound like a cool idea with a different storyline, BEWARE!!! DON'T BE FOOLED. The gameplay 
 is so horrible I shut it off after the first level. Anyone remember the game "PONG" back in like 
 '75? That game had better graphics and was more entertaining. Really though it has similar characteristics 
 of a PS1 or Super Nintendo game. There were so many gliches even in the first level. What were 
 they thinking when they released this game? Whoever designed this game should be #@$%@&^ fired! 
 If any of the designers are reading this... You guys failed miserably and should consider another 
 line of work. I'm returning this garbage immediately! No need to waste any more of my time! I wish 
 I had payed more attention and checked out the reviews prior to wasting my life on this trash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper6552
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The game graphics resemble that of some of the old XBOX shooter and I have to say that even Halo 
 had better graphics. In the opening, where you would expect the game to show flash and to show what 
 the graphics engine could do you get nothing different from what the gameplay looks like. Other 
 then that the gameplay within the first two missions was terrible, they add in this whole you can 
 come up on someone and grapple them, well grapple is great unless there is no stealth at all in 
 the game it would be nice to where the game allows some sneaking factor so that you can "surprise 
 Grapple" your enemies. For a game that comes from the creators of Call of Duty, after seeing Call 
 of Duty 4 I have to say they rushed this game a little, and the gameplay falls short of desire. 
 All in all I would say this game could have used a few more months of work. I think that I may 
 be being a little over critical in critiqueing this game after playing COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  
  
  Graphically it's a disaster. I would say this looks like an Xbox game. Colors are drab and everything 
 seems to blend together. If this game took place in the trenches of Europe, I can understand muted 
 colors, but in Big City, America, it's unacceptable. Overall, the games looks washed out and character 
 models are ugly. There are plenty of poor animations and graphical glitches as well. Lighting is 
 sub-par, but matches the overall poor quality of the rest of the visuals. 
  This game sorely lacks graphical polish.
  I was attracted to this game for its interesting story, 
 which it has, but not much else. The main story elements of the Nazis invading the U. S. are a great 
 idea and the story is fleshed out fairly well. 
  Enemy AI is completely horrible. Difficulty is all over the place and some spots become extremely 
 frustrating, especially when you notice how sporadic the checkpoints are.
  Friendly AI is also a mess. Friendly troops are constantly running in front you you while you're 
 trying to fire, but you cannot wound them, which is good I suppose. It takes away from realism, 
 but that's harldy a concern here. 
  Overall, this game is completely broken, ugly and just not fun. For as long as it was in development, 
 I expected a better game.
  Avoid. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The idea of this game is very cool, fictional world where the Germans attack the US of A, and you 
 out to seek revenge, if you ever played Freedom Fighters, then you get the idea, but don't put 
 the game on the same level. This is a really, really bad game.
  The game starts off cool enough, you are a working on one of the many skyscrapers being built during 
 30's and 40's and all of a sudden all hell breaks loose and you have to try to protect yourself 
 and get to where all the remaining surveyors of the battle are located. 
  The problem is the mechanics, the graphics, the sound, the game play, are so badly dated, and sloppy, 
 you find yourself playing a game that seems to have been created during the 30's and 40's. This 
 is a really bad game with a great idea.
  This game is so bad I wouldn't even bother renting this one if I was you. Just pass on it, and 
 go find Freedom Fighters for the PC, now that was a great sleeper game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Turning point is lost some where between Call of Duty and Bioshock. Many things could have saved 
 this game but the apparent lack of polish cripples this shooter from being more then a neat idea. 
 Note: I have recently become aware that Turning Point is almost identical to the 3rd person shooter 
 Freedom Fighters. The main difference being that Freedom Fighters for the last generation of consoles 
 was actually good. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty basic. Walk forward and shoot Nazi's. You can grab enemies to use as human 
 shields but the games problematic hit and miss interaction buggers this as well. Often you will 
 have to walk back and forth over ammo to finally pick it up and too often when trying to grab a 
 Nazi the icon to do so just isn't there. Before you can react it's too late. The game also lacks 
 a normal melee attack which would have expanded the combat considerably. Turning Point does add 
 some climbing and shimmying along pipes which adds a little depth, but still falls short of any 
 other of the gazzilion first person shooters out there. Questionable check points continue this 
 games problems, and at this point there is NO REASON FOR GAME DEVELOPERS TO NOT GET THIS FEATURE 
 RIGHT. It takes little time and little money and in a game with so little polish this should have 
 been a major priority.
  
  Graphically Turning point is........ not good. It says it's running on Unreal Technology, my question 
 is are they talking about Unreal 3? Most textures are muddy at best and the character faces look 
 like they were pulled straight from a PS 2 that had been dropped. I can't see the need to spend 
 money on licensing the Unreal engine for a game that is light years behind some of the 360's launch 
 games. If you have ever played Gears of War and seen the pop up where the game loads with out it's 
 HD textures, then you have a fairly good idea of what TP: FL looks like all the time. On a standard 
 definition T. V. the game suffers less but at 1080 it looks like a monkeys pooper. Now I did think 
 that maybe they downgraded the graphics for a smoother gameplay experience...... not so much. The 
 game suffers from all of the amazing next gen bugginess that we have come to hate. 
  
  Now for the story. The idea is that Winston Churchhill died prior to WW2 and the Nazi's took over 
 Europe and has now attacked the U. S. quickly taking control. So far so good. Problem is, thats 
 as deep as the rabbit hole goes. You now do ,this and that, as blandly as possible while never 
 really caring about or knowing a single character. All you know is that you are a construction 
 worker who meets up with a handful of army dudes who are going to single handedly take out the 
 entire German army. Let's pretend this would be possible. Who would be the soldier trusted with 
 the most dangerous, impossible, and important missions. The General? No he's to busy...... doing 
 something..... else. A soldier? I guess not..... they maybe all had to take a poop. The construction 
 worker of course! Not only that ,but most of the time he is sent all by his damn self! I do realize 
 that this is a game and that most game writers couldn't write their way out of a wet nut sack, 
 but it is not that hard. How about he WAS a soldier and is now a construction worker. Also, what 
 if he has a girl friend who was captured by the Nazi's. That would inject much needed drama into 
 it's painfully bland "SAVE AMERICA" story. How bout his name is John. How bout you give me some 
 reason to give a crap about a single character in this entire game! 
  
  Overall Turning Point is a great $20 game that costs $60. It's not broken and when you start playing 
 you will most likely play through the whole thing, but with Call of Duty 4, and hundreds of other 
 First person shooters Turning Point is Pointless. HAHAHAHAHAH, oh my.
  
  Value: $20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  After having played the demo, I didn't expect much from this game. Now that I've played the final 
 game, my suspicions, unfortunately, turned out to be true.
  
  First, the controls completely suck: you have EXTREMELY slow, VERY slow, and super jumpy options. 
 There's no middle, no normal. With both slow options it might take you almost half-a-minute to 
 just turn around. With Fast it's nearly impossible to aim and to dodge enemy fire, while shooting, 
 and that's what you will have to be doing all the time, due to the circumstances you will continue 
 finding yourself in.
  
  The game saving system is checkpoint based, and checkpoints are scarce: you will find yourself 
 thrown back like 15-20 minutes of gameplay, if you get killed at some point.
  
  Graphics are pretty mediocre, texture popping all over the place, and sometimes it might take _a 
 few minutes_ for the texture to actually load up. Every once in a while the game play will stop 
 with the word "Loading" on the screen, right in a middle of battle.
  
  Character animation is also very simple and definitely not the "new gen" qauality.
  
  The plot 
 is kind of interesting, but the implementation is severely lacking. You just don't feel that developers 
 loved the game, loved what they were doing.
  
  All in all, the Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is just another mediocre FPS on rails, with no replay 
 value, and quite frankly, the exceedingly poor controls make the game nearly impossible to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Turning Point was a highly anticipated game -- a story-driven, historical fiction, FPS done by 
 the Call of Duty team. So the fact that what we got was a "pretty good game" instead of a "great 
 game" has caused the reviews to sink the game before it ever saw the light of day. To be honest, 
 the game is far from perfect, but it's also not nearly the crudfest some make it out to be.
  
  The good:
  1. Great game environment -- The story is pure WWII historical fiction, and is 
 well done. It's not as deep as other story-driven FPS (e. g. Half Life 2, the lord and master of 
 story based FPS) , but is fun to play through.
  2. Fun, straight-forward WWII era FPS shoot-fest. If you like Call of Duty 2 and 3, then this game 
 is a good choice for you.
  
  The "meh":
  1. Spotty level design -- Games like Half-Life 2 direct you in a very linear way without you realizing 
 it. They use the natural flow of the environment to guide you without you necessarily realizing 
 you're playing a very linear game. Turning Point is also linear, but sometimes lacks any good clues 
 as to what you're doing, and sometimes requires backtracking where you get a little lost and wandering 
 through areas with no action.
  2. Meh graphics -- The visuals look "nice", but aren't on par with other newer games. It looks 
 straight out of Call of Duty 2 era. The textures fail on occasion, you get some "tearing" and some 
 serious stuttering of the framerate when there's a lot of action on screen.
  3. Music -- The music alternates between wonderful (cut scenes, major score pieces) and monotonous 
 (incidental game music during missions is nearly useless and repetitive, and doesn't reflect what's 
 going on at all) .
  
  The bad:
  1. Very little game variety -- The missions are straight out of Call of Duty: take out the machine 
 gun nest, take out the tank, hold the line. That's about it. You never get any real sense of character 
 development in the story. The game could've used a "buddy" for your character to draw you into 
 the story emotionally a bit more.
  2. Sluggish, imprecise controls -- Aiming guns quickly is very difficult, as the gun sight tends 
 to accelerate unexpectedly when you're fine-tuning in on a bad guy. Your character moves very sluggishly, 
 and he is nearly unable to back up because of what seems like poor collision detection from behind.
 
  
  Overall, this would've been a very good $40 title. This really doesn't look, play or feel like 
 a "blockbuster" title as it has been promoted. Still, the game is worth a go for those that like 
 Call of Duty style FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  The Good: Interesting Story, Visuals Aren't Bad, NYC Invasion is Kinda Cool, Somewhat Easy Achievements, 
 Grapple Kills are Cool when they work, Sound is Pretty Well Done.
  
  The Bad: Horrible A. I. Horrible Accuracy, Limited Multiplayer, Framerate drops a Little, Controls 
 are Slugish, Mediocore Voice Acting, A Horde of Technical Flaws.
  
  A game where Nazi Germany conquers the World and invades America sounds like a great premise for 
 a game, right? Well, it is, but Codemasters completely screws it up! I know this is a budget title, 
 but come on now, the game has so many flaws it feels like the budget was lower than normal. 
  
  The story where Winston Churchil dies instead of living, Britain surrenders to Germany, and 
 the Third Reich invades America in the 1953 sounds like a awesome idea for a game. And switching 
 the perspective from a Soldier to a Civilian is a change of pace. But instead of switching between 
 a couple of different ones, they leave you with only one to play as. I mean, i know "One Man Can 
 Make a Difference", but come on. Dan Carson is no Rambo, nor is he Superman. One Big story flaw 
 right here. 
  
  Now when it comes to graphics, you would think that with the Unreal Engine (the same engine that 
 produced the superb Gears of War) the game would look great, but like Hour of Victory, it barely 
 comes off as decent. The graphics do look like 1950's America and give off a decent feel, but not 
 as Excellent as Bioshock. In fact, most of the time they're very muddy in look. It's depressing 
 when a game that has potential looks bad on a great engine. 
  
  Now the gameplay: The controls are very sluggish at best. You move fowards pretty well, but when 
 you try to manuever away from a grenade for the first time, you discover you can't backup very 
 much. It's like you're dragging your feet and moving slowly in reverse. It's horrible. Then there 
 comes the Accuracy, which is horribly off. Shooting from the Iron Sights is not lined up and you 
 can miss your targets from a few milimeters off when you're directly aiming at them. And then Hit 
 Detection can be bad sometimes. Switching from First Person to Third just to go down a ladder or 
 climb atop of something is ridiculous and nauseating. And the A. I. is not that smart. Not to mention 
 you can run out of ammo in some areas when you need it the most. 
  
  The grapple kills are cool, but the human shield aspect of it is screwed up. I took a German and 
 used him as a shield but when my pistol ran out of ammo and i had to reload, i couldn't. And you 
 can't exit this mode until the enemy is dead. How worthless can this get? Oh and the grenades; 
 when you go to throw one, the indicator that shows up to let you know that a enemy has thrown a 
 grenade pops up and can screw up your aim. 
  
  Multiplayer only has two modes: Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, but both are pretty worthless. 
 
  
  All in all, it's not a bad game, in fact it's decent. But it's not worth the price currently asked 
 for it. Maybe a rental. But let me just say, i Know that there is characters out there that are 
 kinda like a One Man Army, but can you tell me where one man won a major war? Once again, Codemasters 
 screwed a great game premise into the ground with bad flaws and mediocore gameplay. Don't take 
 their word for it, this game is not as good as they claim it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar0c
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who would claim that this is a good game is not your friend. This game is absolute rubbish. 
 It belongs on the original xbox and even then, there are better shooters than Fall of Liberty. 
 The entire package is broken: the graphics, sound, models, AI, etc. I can't believe that someone 
 made this, and said to themselves "Yeah, thats EXACTLY what I set out to do! I am so pleased with 
 myself. The gamers won't care what the game looks or plays like as long as they get to shoot Nazis! 
 I'm so clever.". Companies need to know that this kind of tripe is not tolerated. I thought this 
 game showed promise when I saw the first trailers a while ago, however I guess you can't always 
 get what you want. I rented this game and I still feel ripped off. Don't be fooled, don't let anyone 
 tell you differently, you shouldn't waste your time.
  For shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TALazarus
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  you would think that by now game designers would know how to create a good FPS. I mean, come on 
 this is a genre that has been done and done again yet Codemasters, who by the way have never been 
 able to get this right before couldn't be bothered to even try on this one. So shame on me for 
 thinking they could. 
  
  The Game is full of problems not limited to crashes, graphical and the unusual issue of not being 
 able to pick weapons up form time to time. The visuals are great for 2003 while the gameplay reminds 
 me of the first MOH. 
  
  While the story is original, it doesn't seem to play out with any emotion or direct character development. 
 I mean you turn your XBOX on and boom your killing Nazi's, but I have no idea who I am or why Germany 
 has invaded. A little intro would have been nice but I guess the development budget was used up 
 on all the TV ad hype. 
  
  Bottom line don't waste more that a rental fee on this one and shame on Codemasters more once again 
 making themselves look like jackasses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xH8MACHINEx
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I've been keeping my eyes on this game for a while now, the trailers were quite awesome aswell 
 as the story plot but everything went downhill on release.
  
  First off, the game begins right into bombings and attacks from the Germans, there was no intro 
 cut scene as i thought it will be like the trailer that was release when a Nazi drop on a guy Cab. 
 So for those who didnt see any trailers , they end up wondering what the hell happened.
  
  It took me like 4 hours to beat the single player so thats beyond short. The graphics are bad and 
 to be sure i wasnt too picky, i loaded Black on the old Xbox and with my selector i could switch 
 from Xbox to X360 and you know what?? Black have 3 times better graphics than this "Next Gen" game. 
 Sound effects are bad and cheesy. The fire rate on the Garrand and Gewehr 47 is really slow that 
 makes us think if those who developed that game actually played another WWII game where those weapon 
 are in the game. The ending is like how the game started, you got a big boom then it jump right 
 to the ending credits without any conclusion or how that war ended.
  
  So overall, thats definitely a renting on a rainy when you have nothing else to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedevil64
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I was attracted to this game for its interesting story, which it has, but not much else. The main 
 story elements of the Nazis invading the U. S. are a great idea and the story is fleshed out fairly 
 well. 
  Aiming is painfully inaccurate and too jumpy on medium or too slow on the lowest setting. Movement 
 is very clumsy and feels like you're walking through mud. The sprint function works well, but you 
 easily get hung up on the enviroment everywhere. Jumping is very inaccurate and is necessary in 
 some spots to continue on, which can be troublesome. Climbing and hand over hand functions are 
 nice, but the animations are pretty bad and often you look like you're climbing in mid air, feet 
 away from the intended obstacle.
  Graphically it's a disaster. I would say this looks like an early Xbox game. Colors are drab and 
 boring and everything seems to blend together. If this game took place in the trenches of Europe, 
 I can understand muted colors, but in Big City, America, it's unacceptable. Overall, the games 
 looks washed out and character models are ugly. There are plenty of poor animations and graphical 
 glitches as well. Lighting is sub-par, but matches the overall poor quality of the rest of the 
 visuals. This game sorely lacks graphical polish.
  The sound is inaccurate as well and with no compass or HUD, it's tough to tell where that last 
 bullet was fired from unless it hits you. Explosions and weapon fire sound dull and tinny. You're 
 no better off playing in full 5.1 than you are through your TV's speakers.
  Enemy AI is completely horrible. Enemies will "Hide" in plain site, crouching down several feet 
 from cover in a hiding stance. They will wander back and forth over the same few feet firing, which 
 is that much worse with the terrible aiming precision. You pretty much have to aim at one spot 
 and wait for a moving enemy to cross your bullet's path while being shot at yourself. You will 
 find yourself in several places where 2 or 3 enemy grenades are thrown at you and you cannot escape 
 and end up getting killed. This would be fine (yet still cheap) on a Hard setting, but this was 
 on the Normal mode. Difficulty is all over the place and some spots become extremely frustrating, 
 especially when you notice how sporadic the checkpoints are.
  Friendly AI is also a mess. In one scene, you're camped out in a small apartment, picking off soldiers 
 from a short distance when a tank appears. One of your comrades actually slides across the room 
 in a crouching position while the other proceeds to stand right where the tank is aiming, thus 
 getting killed from the blast. Friendly troops are constantly running in front you you while you're 
 trying to fire, but you cannot wound them, which is good I suppose. It takes away from realism, 
 but that's harldy a concern here. 
  Overall, this game is completely broken, ugly and just not fun. For as long as it was in development, 
 I expected a better game.
  Avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloFanSam034
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  After arriving at my local GameStop to pick up TP: FoL and returning home, I began the campaign 
 with full expectations of the first level. But after hitting level 2 and forward I was impressed 
 at how they wrote the flow of history. A puppet president is sworn in, the Resistance is holding 
 strong with the National Guard and construction worker Dan Carson is caught in the middle of it 
 all.
  
  Now, the graphics were great, the controls were a little slow but tolerable, and the health system....... lets 
 focus on that. I played the game on the Normal difficulty, but what is normal about a Stielhandgranate 
 (stick hand-grenade in German) exploding three feet from you and living to tell the tale? It isn't 
 normal, right? And I found it easy to assassinate the President with five shots to the gut after 
 finding that a single bullet to his cranium doesn't kill him. Meanwhile he plugs you with three 
 to four shots, resulting in death, while you are sitting there firing round after round into his 
 skull, wondering why he isn't dead yet.
  
  Realism aside, the game lived up to most of my expectations and is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbu97
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I don't usually write reviews, but this game disappointed me greatly. I can't believe how short 
 it was. Five and a half hours to beat it on hard. I really wondered about the weaponry. Why are 
 the sights on the G-47 so small? Where's the assault rifles? It seemed there were only a couple 
 sub-machine guns, a few rifles and about 3 sniper rifles. I guess my biggest issue was the controls. 
 Aiming was very twitchy, and when you're crouched you can't just stand and sprint without hitting 
 the button to stand. The grapple system was occasionally amusing, but I died at least a dozen times 
 because I didn't get the exact distance and angle to do it. I would've rather been given a mechanism 
 to butt-stroke instead. The checkpoints seemed to be placed way too far apart, I got aggravated 
 making it a ways and then having to restart way back. Your character seems to move and maneuver 
 like a brick. The graphics weren't bad, but the gameplay dissapointed. The sound was ok for the 
 most part, but I had loud popping in my surround sound speakers when blimps fired their MG's at 
 me and others. The popping was VERY loud and I had to mute the game. I wouldn't recommend it for 
 people, but that's my opinion and yours might differ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catdadanddog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Turning point: Fall of Liberty has an interesting premise-the Nazis invade America and as a construction 
 worker it is your job to set things right.
  The Game has some cool moments but the overall feel is that it was made 10 years ago. And plays 
 like something from 10 years ago. To climb a ladder, you have to wait for an icon to pop up. Sometimes 
 you have to find blinking pipes to grab ahold of and slowly shimmy to another area but sometimes 
 you can't get the character to do it. So back up get the pipe to blink again and try it a second 
 or third time until he jumps up to it. That can be annoying.
  The AI is goofy. Sometimes they run right at you and try to melee. Others, they stand in the open, 
 fire off a couple shots and then turn around and stand still. But most of your targets are on the 
 roof tops and that makes it feel like a 1980s arcade game.
  The game has a mixed bag of graphics. Some areas and npcs look dull but another area may look outstanding 
 and the character models look steller. The barrels of the weapons look like small pencils instead 
 of rifle barrels. The one gun that looks like it should is the combat shotgun and don't let me 
 forget about the .45 cal lever action hunting rifle-that is perhaps the coolest weapon in the game 
 because of the cocking animation and the best looking sight when you aim in. The sights on the 
 combat rifles look odd when aiming in.
  Some of the best moments of the game are the close quarters battles that allow you to do the animated 
 melee attacks. When the melee icon pops up, hit the action button and then press up on the D-pad 
 to watch a random melee kill animation. Or you can press down on the D-pad after hitting the action 
 button to take the Nazi's pistol and use him as a human shield. There is not a standard melee assigned 
 to any controller button like you would find in most FPS. You have to wait until the melee icon 
 pops up in order to melee. 
  turning point is a simple game. you can't search fallen soldiers, open boxes, etc. Each mission 
 is pretty much going from point A to point B but a few stand out with great action thrills. The 
 AI can be goofy at times but other times they work fine.
  As simple as turning point is, I wonder why there are "now loading" areas. Sprint into an ally 
 and "now loading" flashes on the screen and you freeze. The game could have used some more work 
 but it is enjoyable. The story, if you pay attention, is funny and interesting. Game play and graphics 
 go from dull to great and then back to dull. The game is enjoyable but FPS fans have seen better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLDIER_ZERO
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Turning Point Fall of Liberty for the Xbox 360 details the what ifs of World War 2. What if Winston 
 Churchill died that day he got hit by a taxi? What if Nazi Germany invaded the Eastern Seaboard 
 of the US? It's 1953 and Nazi Germany has indeed invaded New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington 
 D. C. 
  You play the role of a New Yorker named Carson that just happened to survive a bombing on an unfinished 
 skyscraper and you fight through Nazi Germany forces to take back your country.
  The controls are of your typical FPS, though they feel somewhat unresponsive at time. Looking around 
 tends to switch from fast to slow depending on the game's mood. Trying to grab a latter can be 
 a little annoying when it doesn't want to show the icon to get up it.
  The graphics are unpolished, they could've done much better considering how some other FPS games 
 look. They have a grainy look to them.
  The multiplayer seems promising and the Achievement for getting 2500 kills in ranked games looks 
 like it'll be a lot of fun to get.
  All in all, Turning Point is a decent game with some flaws that mar the otherwise fun parts of 
 the game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
