-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turok
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/turok/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to battle dinosaurs.
 Great voice cast.
 Killing a T-rex with a knife.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Set-piece battles go on for far too long.
 Few checkpoint saves add to frustration.
 Human opponents aren't dinosaurs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 2,772 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Touchstone
Developer: Propaganda Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Feb 5, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like the mindless Hollywood blockbusters that it emulates, Turok features plenty of dinosaur-hunting 
 action and not too much else. 

  Considering that it's published by Touchstone, an interactive arm of Disney, it's not surprising 
 that Turok comes across like it was based on a screenplay. This new Turok game is the first in 
 the franchise in six years, and it feels like a reboot in many ways. Gone are the time-traveling 
 aspects of the previous games, and in its stead is a sci-fi story that involves a ship crashing 
 on an alien world inhabited by dinosaurs. The ensuing action and story unfold very much like a 
 standard Hollywood summer blockbuster, complete with familiar and expected plot twists, cheesy 
 dialogue, and plenty of mindless action.  

           Turok features the return of everyone's favorite dinosaur hunter, but this time he's also 
 a space marine.      

  You play as Joseph Turok, a Native American warrior who is part of a mission to hunt down a rogue 
 military company of which he used to be a member. That fact doesn't exactly endear him to his fellow 
 squadmates, who are voiced by actors such as Ron Perlman, William Fitchner, and Donnie Wahlberg. 
 There's even a hilarious bit of dialogue when one soldier accuses Turok of being responsible for 
 his brother's death; it's a line so clich that you feel like you've heard it before in countless 
 movies. In keeping with this, Turok liberally borrows from many other sources, and the plot feels 
 like a mishmash of Unreal,  Jurassic Park ,  The Dirty Dozen , and more. Even the visual design 
 of the characters and vehicles feels taken from Gears of War.  

  Regardless, the heart of the game is battling dinosaurs as well as giant scorpions, flies, and 
 lizards. It turns out that the planet is a strange laboratory where evolution has been put on overdrive, 
 though whoever is responsible for this is a mystery; the game leaves that for possible sequels 
 to answer. If you're a big fan of dinosaurs, there's plenty of dino action to admire from different 
 varieties of lightning-quick raptors, docile vegesauruses, and, of course, the mighty Tyrannosaurus 
 rex.  

  At your disposal are your standard firearms, such as a pulse rifle, a shotgun, a rocket launcher, 
 and more. You can carry only two weapons at a time, and you can also dual-wield many weapons. Nevertheless, 
 the best weapon is your trusty knife. The game has many cinematic action sequences in which you're 
 tasked with mashing a certain button or jamming a trigger rapidly to execute a kill move, from 
 picking up a smaller dino and breaking its back across your thigh, to jumping atop it and jamming 
 your knife into its cranium, and more. It's so well done that it's a bit unsettling just how exhilarating 
 knife kills are to execute.  

           Knife kills never get old, and it's more satisfying than many of the weapons in the game. 

  Turok is a game that has some great moments, including the first time you encounter the raptors 
 in high grass. You can't see them until they're practically on top of you, but by then it's too 
 late. However, it's also a game that has issues. The human opponents are fairly conventional, and 
 they get in the way of killing more dinosaurs. Another annoying issue is that the game doesn't 
 know how to quit when it's ahead, especially when it comes to the many set-piece battles. Imagine 
 battling a horde of giant scorpions or raptors, only to turn around and see another wave rush you. 
 And as soon as you finish that wave, more often than not, a third wave will appear. The first wave 
 was exhilarating, but by the third wave some frustration sets in. That reinforces the feeling that 
 the designers are just padding the length of the game. It doesn't help that the checkpoint saves 
 are few and far between, which means that if you screw up in the final wave, you usually have to 
 restart at the beginning of the entire sequence.  

  There's also not a lot to the game in terms of story. Ship crashes on planet. Go find survivors. 
 Go find radio. Then go find another ship to escape the planet. The end. As such, the game doesn't 
 really have a chance to explore different settings, and the jungle environs are broken up only 
 by some run-down interior levels. The visuals, powered by the Unreal Engine, seem middle-of-the-road, 
 given that they're not quite as sharp or as crisp as in other Unreal-powered games. For instance, 
 the textures seem a bit muddled. Granted, there are some great animations, particularly when dinosaurs 
 lie twitching to death on the ground. The PlayStation 3 version looks as if it has better lightning 
 and shading, though the Xbox 360 game suffers a bit less from aliasing. However, the two games 
 are very close to one another.  

           Co-op and multiplayer are interesting, assuming you can find others online.      

 
  The single-player portion of Turok will run a solid eight to 10 hours. It feels a bit longer than 
 most contemporary shooters, though you'll probably struggle getting through a number of sequences, 
 which explains the length. Then there's the online gameplay. The multiplayer modes can be fun because 
 there are variations of the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. What adds 
 spice, though, is the ability to unleash dinosaurs into the middle of a battle. These are effectively 
 rogue elements that will attack anyone, regardless of what team they're on. You might be in the 
 middle of a desperate knife fight with another player (you can execute the third-person camera 
 killing moves if you're fast enough) when a raptor suddenly bursts out of a nearby bush. It's even 
 possible to see someone leap atop a dino and slit its throat. There's also a handful of co-op missions 
 that let you tackle some side adventures not seen in the single-player game. There's support for 
 up to four players in co-op, and the action is a lot more intense than in regular single-player 
 because the number of enemies and dinosaurs have been ramped up considerably. The downside is that 
 it's difficult to find an available game at times online, even in the evenings.  

  In the end, like many Hollywood blockbusters, Turok doesn't leave much of an impression when you're 
 done with it. It's a game about battling dinosaurs, and though it does a good job at that, there's 
 not much more to it. The nondinosaur sequences are fairly conventional for the genre, and it all 
 makes for a solid but not great game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (231 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: turokdude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is so awesome.... it has great grafixs..... it has glitches of course but every game has 
 glitches. this game is one of my favorite games out there right now..... its kind of hard.... it 
 is really hard when you have to kill the t-rex at the end of the game. but you just have to do 
 the ending the right way to beat it.... of course you can kill the t-rex your own way.... but it 
 depends on which is easier... yours or the one that propaganda games came up with....... both seem 
 easiy but it still takes alot of thinking..... this game doesnt have cheats that i know of but i 
 still love it a whole lot. this game has lots of action.... and for people who dont like blood that 
 much this game is ok.... its not too bloody but at the end of the game it does get really bloody...... this 
 game does have cus words but who cares.... every game has cus words.... well not every game but most...... just 
 ignore the people who gave this game a bad review.... they just dont have any sense at all..... all 
 they do is complain..... this game is a masterpiece..... if you dont love it its because you dont 
 have good taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Remember Turok Dinosour Hunter? It was a superb N64 action hit, and it kept the title all the way 
 to 2004 with Turok Evolution. Coming from a childhood Turok fan, I have played and currently own 
 every turok game made exept for Turok 3. In fact, I grew up with Turok litterly all my life, and 
 although some where better than others, they were all fun. After the most underrated compnay, Acclaim 
 went out of biz, Propaganda Games has come to curse the serious with an unfinished game. Propaganda 
 Games is obviously known for to stop making games, if you can well remember.
  
  
  Turok starts the game with our so-called hero, Jospeh Turok. But before I go on, lets just stop 
 there.
  
  
  Who is Jospeh Turok? Isn't he supposed to be Jospeh Fireseed? The fact that Propaganda couldn't 
 even get the character's name correct is already questionable. Turok scews away that seemingly 
 immortal fireseed indian with a lame, mohawked space marine who's sqaud is totally biased towards 
 him. His orders are to take down a war criminal named Kane (Random-picked name) on some sort of 
 planet that ditches away the Lost Land. However, before Turok can get off the spaceship he's on 
 and get to the planet, a mysterious missle magically pops out of the air and strikes the ship. 
 The ship blows up and lands our so-called "Turok" man on the planet, although the ship was clearly 
 millions of milles off the earth. The planet he lands on is populated with dinosours and even certain 
 prehistoric bugs and anchids. His orders of taking down that war criminal are declined as his sqaurd 
 try their best attempt to get off the planet and back to safety. That is probably the dumbest story, 
 not only on paper, but also in the horrible presentation every presented in the presented history 
 of presentation.
  
  
  
  Of course, the story was never a strong point of Turok. Killings millions of dinosours and aliens 
 with laser guns and rockets was! Sadly, this Turok doesn't offer any of that. This Turok might 
 as well be a First person Gears of Wars rip-off in a jungle enviorment. The enemies are merely 
 grey troops that look exactly like the ones you see in Gears of War. Sure, you get a few dinosours 
 and giant scorpions, but the tends to make you lure these carnivores to the opposing soliders. 
 Even the health system has been screwed with the Gears of War recovery form. That is to say, medpacks 
 or exploration have no purpose in the game either. One of Turok's main concept throughout the generations 
 was to explore the world. By viewing the editor's art, you would be rewarded with secret pickups 
 and weapons behind cliffs and in underwater caves. Here, you do no such thing. The jungle is only 
 for the backround; all you do is just keep walking forward, no exploring, no looking for secret 
 caves or pickups, nothing. Kill a solider, and you don't get medpacks, mortal wounds, sometimes 
 not even ammo. The soliders don't even half blood on them, even when you plunge your knife into 
 their chest.
  
  
  
  
  
  Yes, the knife is one of the boring weapons in Turok. Since our so-call "Turok" man is a special 
 ops, creeping undetected behind an enemy solider initates an on-screen button command -- if you hit 
 this button, you trigger a fairly violent death move with your trusty knife in a third person perspective. 
 After the move, the knife is devoid of any blood on it whatsoever, but its easily the most fun 
 weapon to use in the game's arsenal. Among the other guns are SMGs, Pistols, and soviet-based firepower. 
 Although these weapons are fun for a modern game, they also enscrew the charm of the series. Turok 
 should have Nukes, Atomic Atomizers, Plasma bores, and stuff; not russian soviet guns from the 
 1960s. If you can recall the good 'ol N64 days of blasting dinosours with plasma cannons and cerebal 
 bores, Turok's uninspired weapons will feel like they were crammed right at the end simply to gain 
 respect.
  
  
  The next plate of food Turok serves you is its aweful graphics. Take away all the color, make the 
 game practically black and white, and give all the walls and floors the exact texture like halo. 
 Can you guess what it is? It can't be!... its.... The horrible Unreal Engine. The reason why Propaganda 
 loves to ruin games via this horrible, washed out engine is a complete mystery. The game's textures 
 are all bland and poorly cut, and sometimes, even after the everlong loading screens, half of the 
 levels textures aren't even fully loaded up. Although the series was definetly not goregeous, it 
 still had a colorful theme that was clear and bright to the eyes. This Turok makes you feel like 
 your roaming through an interractive black and white jungle horror movie.
  
  The sound is more forgettable than a person merely breathing. The automatic firing stream of automatic 
 weapons hiccup horrendously, and voice acting is probably one of the only strong points. Music 
 is also a strong point, but it doesn't beat the old school sounds of the orginal. Needless to say, 
 the developers probably muted the original while playing through it, otherwise they would remember 
 the guitar stabs and monkey chatters that were still intact.
  
  
  You want the bottom line? Propaganda has ruined it all. They have taken games, use their aweful 
 graphics to ruin them, and without playing the actual game, decide to try to revive them. I could 
 remember the good old days of the oringal N64 turok, using glitches to trap the dinosours in spots, 
 and then tipping over trees on them and smashing them. I also have the Turok for the oringinal 
 xbox, and that was also fun and colorful. But with this game, you jump on a few feet, run like 
 an old man, no glitches, no knocking over trees, no nuking T-rex, nothing. Why could they at least 
 make traps or survival tatics; maybe if they wanted to make a new modern day Turok game, they could've 
 made it almost like Far Cry, where you actually felt like trying to survive in the jungle. However, 
 this is none of that.
  
  
  Propaganda hasn't changed at all. They're still the pushover coffee biz across the street that 
 just can't resist the urge to stop ruining great title. Just like what would happen if Half-Life 
 2's headcrabs were replaced with sea turtles, or Doom's demons replaced with Iraq terrorists, the 
 new generation of Turok just doesn't fit right. It was a sleezy attempt and a sleezy idea to begin 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Turok? Ever since Turok 2 I've kept some hope that someday that the Turok 
 franchise would recapture the brilliance it one had.... Turok is the best one yet, but still not 
 close.. 
  I really enjoyed the graphics of this game, the story wasn't too bad, and pretty straight forward. 
 The guns were good, but seriously the only gun of any real use was the pulse rifle. The knife kills 
 are stellar, and the best way to handle Dino's......
  The down side to Turok is misplaced check points, some parts are ridiculously difficult, The level 
 design is too linear, and you'll never see anything that makes you ewwww and awwwww....... a real 
 let down in the level design department. Seriously though, I can not stress enough how uninspiring 
 level design is in this game.
  Early on guns seem to have an "off" aiming system, it seems a little hard to hit things with decent 
 accuracy, bullet grouping feels none existent..... one reason I didn't care for the chain gun, is 
 by the time the gun started shooting, and by the time you hit something... because the bullets are 
 so inaccurate, you were Dino food. 
  I found the game really frustrating at first, and hard to play at long lengths, I had to keep putting 
 it down. I eventually learned to adapt to Turoks frustrating, difficult, game style.... best way 
 to kill Dino's in groups is the knife. Always keep your back to the wall and attack from a wide 
 perimeter..... it's the best way to keep from getting flanked by soldiers...... go up the middle 
 and your dead. After learning that I seemed to progress with ease.
  Another down fall of Turoks, is that the game suggest that it wants you to play the game with some 
 Stealth, but it never gives the opportunity to. Only a couple times during the game does it allow 
 for a situation to use stealth, but then the situation quickly becomes a huge fire fight with you 
 exposed in the open. Seriously, the guy has a bow and a knife, what a great chance to add some 
 different styles of game play to each level......... real let down that they didn't take advantage 
 of his capabilities like earlier Turok games did.
  Every area you enter ends up being an ambush situation, where you're busy fighting Dino's and enemy 
 soldiers alike at the same time. It got tiring, and really took away a lot of variety in the combat 
 situations..... you really get tired of the constant enemy ambushes all the time. Eventually levels 
 seem to blur together without any real theme, or much of an objective.
  
  I just can't understand why they've never been able to continue the franchise in the same Style 
 that Turok 64 and Turok 2 had... those were great enough to keep me hoping, that someday.......... someday. 
 The three games that got me hooked on FPS were Golden Eye, Turok 2, and Medal of Honor (ps 1) ....... since 
 then there hasn't been another great Golden Eye game, Turok has sucked, and Medal of Honor went 
 to crap.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  the truth of turok is that we all expected a worth game coming up due to the old turoks which became 
 a classic. but unfortunately the amazing knife experience wasn't enough at all to suit our demands. 
 the game has it all, dinosaurs, heavy weapons, a bow and a knife, amazing scenery, blood, terrorists, 
 another planet and a too repetitive gameplay along with a game that is always the same thing. it 
 doesn't change in the whole game. always the the same objective. the only thing that kept me playing 
 was the bow and the knife. and actually that's it. those weapons are the game itself. the dinosaurs 
 of course were amazing but again it was the same old thing. as a gamer I expected something else. 
 i don't even recommend to rent it because it is just an average shooter. if you like shooters you 
 will defintely like it, if not.... just ignore it. Maybe turok tried to reborn an old classic but 
 they just created one of those games that will be full of dust at the top of your shelf. once you 
 finish the game, believe me you won't look forward to play it again it doesn't matter how much 
 difficulties it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a very enjoyable shooter, contrary to most reviews. I absolutely loved this game and its 
 concepts. Here are the categories that I will use to rate this game.
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay rocks! At the beggining it may seem to be a run of the mill shooter but 
 it gets better. After you fight a few dinos you will find the best weapon in the game: the combat 
 knife. When sneaking towards an enemy you will see a prompt to press Right Trigger. You will perform 
 a brutal execution that goes down as one of the coolest kills of gaming. In this game you can use 
 stealth (bow&arrows, Knives) , or you can make a full out assault. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good. The Unreal Engine perfectly suits this game. The jungle 
 looks great and lifelike. Character models are good but sometimes they look a little too shiny 
 for some reason. Great Overall!
  
  Sound: The sound is average. The jungles sound lifelike and dinos sound exactly as I would imagine, 
 but if your turned around from where the sound is coming from you sometimes won't hear it and that 
 made me miss some of the dialogue.
  
  Story: An epic story that kept me playing to find out more. I'll keep it breif, but here's what 
 it is basically about. You are Joseph Turok, an ex-member of an elite Spec-ops unit know as Wolf 
 Pack. You are now part of Whiskey Company, a military unit that is part of some army that's never 
 explained. You're mission is to find and arrest Roland Kane, the former leader of Wolf Pack who 
 did some war crimes. While your ship is flying through the atmosphere, Kane's paramilitary force 
 hired by the Mindel Gruman Corporation, shoots down your ship. You crash land in the jungle with 
 few other survivors and must fight for survival.
  
  
  For these reasons I'm giving this game an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The Turok series has been around for a long time now, though there has been a lot of time between 
 sequels. Each new game had something new and became classics in there own right, so it was easy 
 to expect good things from the newest edition. Unfortunately, the game is less than impressive 
 on many fronts and ends up being forgettable.
  
  The game gets off to a good start with intense scripted sequences that introduce some of the major 
 dinosaurs you will be facing. It's once these introductions are finished that the game's problems 
 begin to show. All the indoor levels are repetitive and boring. The outdoor levels look great, 
 but most lead you along narrow paths that make it hard to accept that you are in a vast jungle. 
 Enemy intelligence seems completely random. Sometimes you can come up right behind a guy, shoot 
 his friend next to him, and he won't even react as long as he isn't facing directly at you. Other 
 times, as soon as you peek around a corner, an enemy from across the map will whirl around and 
 start shooting at you. Once an enemy sees you, forget about running away. They will know your exact 
 location no matter where you go and open fire as soon as you stick your nose out. Sneaking up on 
 enemies for a quiet knife kill can be quite a rush, but even this is marred by bad game design. 
 Every enemy has a chance to counter your stealth attack which can mean a near instant death against 
 some of the larger foes. Also, when killing an enemy with your knife, the game goes into a scripted 
 animation that you can't speed up or skip. This left me open to attack from another enemy that 
 sometimes I didn't even know I was there. This could have been easy to forgive if it weren't for 
 the terrible checkpoint system. On several occasions, I found myself having to replay the same 
 twenty minute easy section of a level only to get killed by an ambush that I couldn't have seen 
 coming.
  
  What the game does do well is try to make you rely on more than sight to stay alive. Every enemy 
 makes different noises that give away their position and their size before you ever get a look 
 at them. In the beginning, I found myself whirling around at every noise and expecting to see a 
 raptor bearing down on me. After some time, I got used to the jungle and could ignore the skittering 
 of the harmless, smaller dinos and knew when to expect one of the big boys. While this approach 
 did immerse me in the experience, it also had it's disadvantages. Without a full on 5.1 surround 
 sound system, it can be hard to tell exactly where the attack is going to come from, especially 
 if it is from behind.
  
  A good first person shooter needs to take one of two approaches to it's gameplay. The first would 
 be to make the weapons less than perfectly accurate and a bit uncontrollable in order to go for 
 a bit of realism. If the weapons are handled this way, then the levels need to be controllable 
 by the player. No constant ambushes and plenty of places to hide or take cover. The second way 
 would be the opposite of this; give the player full control of the weapons so they can pull off 
 amazing headshots or kill several enemies in a row while making the levels unpredictable and out 
 of control. Turok doesn't do either of these. The guns are hard to use and you will constantly 
 be ambushed by unseen enemies. These leads to many cheap deaths and when I finally did complete 
 a section, it felt more like luck than skill.
  
  The story could be enough to save the game for some people. It stayed interesting throughout and 
 had everything to keep pushing the game forward: a good environment, bad guys you aren't sure is 
 bad, good guys you aren't sure are good, and a great cast of likable tough guys. The voice acting 
 is top notch with recognizable voices like Ron Pearlman ("Hellboy" and "Blade II") , Donnie Walhberg 
 ("Band of Brothers" and "Saw II-IV") , William Fichtner ("The Longest Yard" and "Equilibrium") , 
 and many more. The story and presentation alone was enough to keep me wanting to make it to the 
 end.
  
  The graphics look great, but it is the level design that hurts the way the game looks. Looking 
 around the jungle looks amazing. There is a light fog everywhere that adds to the wilderness feel 
 of the game and makes it more believable. On the other hand, the indoor areas are all dark, drab, 
 and boring. While there are many scenes that make you want to stop and take it in, the game almost 
 punishes you for doing so. On one occasion, I walked up to a cliff to look at the view, only to 
 be attacked from behind by a hidden raptor and flung off the cliff which lead to me playing the 
 last fifteen minutes over. From that point on, I learned not to ever try to enjoy the graphics 
 again.
  
  In the end, Turok is little more than another generic shooter. The good ideas and fun segments 
 are severely diminished by the game's faults. If a good story is enough to push you through a game, 
 then this may be worth a look. If not, the action cannot carry the game all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Yeah won't add much more but get it only used so you don't pay more. It's the only 360 game with 
 dinos so I liked it only from this angle. Plus I can go through most of the game with the combat 
 knife which is pretty cool. Controls are very well laid out which is a big peave for me. I object 
 to gamespot quite often but depending on who's reviewing sometimes they are right on. Read their 
 review, they pretty much sum it up well. Sounds like the multplayer might be cool so, looking forward 
 to that.
  
  Well I need a 100 minimum for the review, I guess I could say the graphics of the dinos are fine 
 from far away, up close it looks a little cartoony. Fighting humans can be fun, hiding behind a 
 rock and running out to stab everyone.
  
  I just picked up the bow so this looks very cool. Hope you enjoy this as much as I do. This was 
 quite a surprise as I had tried this before and didn't really give it a chance. I recommend doing 
 so, Turok is a pretty easy, fun ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Really, This game was worth getting. I'd gladly have paid 20-30 dollars for it.
  
  What it's not:
  A revolutionary and innovative game on par with COD4 and HALO 3.
  
  What 
 it is:
  A solid and well presented FPS that does most things right, and shines things up with a bit of 
 very satisfying dinosaur killing. The story is even a little better than I expected. (I was expecting 
 something maybe like... uh, Halo.)
  
  The only things I've noticed about Turok that I don't like are some moments of weak AI, and that 
 while it uses the Unreal 3 engine, it's graphics seem muddy. They're still pretty!
  
  On the positive side, I like the level designs, and the dinosaurs offer a very unpredictable new 
 group of enemies. They can be pretty darn hard to hit sometimes! The difficulty is something I 
 appreciate.
  
  In the end, I can only say that this one was worth picking up. Without a doubt. I'm having fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonykhoury
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  wow this game really brought me to tears. im gonna make this game short and sweet. for all you who 
 have it and enjoy it god bless you for your sense of ill play anything because i don't care just 
 so im occupied because when i don't play i talk to my dad, and when i talk to my dad he drinks, 
 and when he drinks he hits me. but for you who don't have it and want to get it. DON'T. so boring, 
 so difficult, and unless your a fan of the land before time i reccomend halo 3 if you like fighting 
 monsters on other planets. yes ok i know, i have been brutal, ill tell you what, this game is alright, 
 but the older ones were better,. but this one is soooo different because in this game your supposovly 
 a space marine bad boy and it goes away from the feeling of the other games, you know? anyways 
 please dont hate but if u must then go right ahead. thanks for using the time to read this. thanks
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Turok yes Turok, for all you retro gamers out there you remember the dino's the guns and time dimentional 
 travel. Well this old game got a well deserved pick me up and make over. Turok was pushed into 
 the next-gen world. Better graphics and environments fill the screen with color. The story on the 
 other hand is not one that fans of the game can fully relate to, for insted of all that dimensional 
 stuff Turok took a nice si-fi rout. you are Turok a new meber of the wisky companie your mission 
 is to fined vain a member of an old milatery group called Wolf pack were Turok formanly was stationed. 
 you imbark to the planet Vain should be on and well you crash land go figure. As you move clsoer 
 to vain Turok starts to get flash backs from his past that revile the story.
  Story mode is ok and fun, but playing it in co-op is just plain a nusance with the split screen 
 and the to diffrent map views you can easly get confused or disoranted. Now it's not so bad that 
 you souldn't try it but keep thoughs facts in mined. The story mode is simple to run through jungal 
 factorys and a entier eco-system killing humans and Dinosors. The closer to your goal the more 
 enemys. What realy made a ray of light though was the on-line play ya I know it's not hoast but 
 fineds match's like Halo and also the same game variont's like CFT and death match. The real fun 
 though is that maps are layed out nicely and are very interactive with consals and terminals you 
 can activate to change the game around. Also Turok on-line has somthing other on-line FPS maps 
 don''t have AI dinos and realy big bugs roam each map making it more chlanging but fun at the same 
 time nothing says fun like trying to snipe on second and beeing mouled by a volosal-raptor the 
 next. Out of it all it is just a fun game to play with firends you will be having fun and exiting 
 mulity player matches that will go on for houers, so if you are looking for some fun or just want 
 a multyplayer FPS that is not Halo or call of duty than I strongly sugest Turok.
  
  
  PS. sorry for any spelling erors not my strong sute, but revies and games are and sorry again for 
 the spelling errors. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pollowaz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  weeelll
  its me again this game i so hard well im said and its a more oless multiplayer tons of lag that 
 would suicide you in real life (waste of time multiplayer) but the archivements are hard but is 
 a chance to unlock
  and the ragdoll i so weird because you shoot to
  a MC and he dies and his arms and legs are everywere!
  the dino? s are cool sounds cool but the 
 dino mauling its a chance to survive
  because u are its a situation when you are at less to die and are velociraptor the catch you and 
 you enter autommatic to dino mauling and its cool but if you so dummy and dont press the button 
 you die lol......
  well now the levels (i have this game and its good) .... the levels are frustrating because the 
 MC AND DINO'S ARE ATAKKING U! AND ITS FU**** HARD TO SAVE YOU A PULSE RIFLE YOU ARE SAVED BUT THE 
 IA ITS REALLY HARD IF U ARE NOOB....
  the boos battles are so normal and easy but if you get to close to the boss the will it u whit 
 a face of the boss saying "yummy!"
  well good game you must buy it if you have a challange!
  
  8/10 good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiagopati
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Turok was my first FPS experience on the X360 and I found it an excellent game in every way, exception 
 made only, perhaps, to the fact of some sequences being extremely difficult to get through and 
 to the consequent repetition of those scenarios. 
  Graphically speaking, this game is immersive and the sensation of depth and presence on those jungle 
 landscapes is definitely there at all times. With it comes the sound, also immersive and realistic 
 as asked for in such a game - footsteps and walking through the vegetation are amazingly suspenseful 
 and effective in every way. In what comes to audio/visual rating this is an almost 100% game I'm 
 sure... Those slowdowns here and there fit almost unrecognized in the previous "almost".
  The storyline is as solid as possible but I believe the developer's idea isn't that we should notice 
 it, instead of the (quite) perfect terror/suspense war scenario the game has. 
  A must play game for all those "chellenge lovers" and FPS addicts out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is pretty dissapointing. I wasnt really expecting a masterpiece or anything but I 
 didnt expect it to be a bad generic shooter I saw the cut scenes and everything and they lured 
 me in but then it just sucked really bad. I never liked the turok series but I thought this one 
 would be diffrent it had that gritty over the top feel but I was ripped off why play this when 
 you could play call of duty 4. First of all the characters all look pretty stupid especially the 
 main character he just has miss shapen head or something. Also whats with the strange silver aura 
 around every charater during the sometimes very boring cut scenes. The story not entirly bad but 
 could use alot of work some of its just lame and hard to believe. The game plays heavy on cut scene 
 kills which I liked at first but after about 100 times of the same execution it gets annoying. 
 It just slows things down. There are some pretty dynamic parts in the game like the T-rex but that 
 doesnt make up for the weak AI and just to put it out there why would you use a bow and arrow when 
 you could use duel machine guns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The Turok series had many fun games on the N64, and Turok: Evolution was a major dissapointment. 
 This game looked to me like the savior of the series, but it really isn't. The graphics are good, 
 and the creatures and environments are nicely detailed. The plot is same as many other action games: 
 a group of people crash on a spaceship and have to find their way off of the planet. The gameplay 
 is rather bland. You typically shoot enemies, which is boring, but the best part of the game is 
 hunting dinosaurs. There are many cool, yet graphic, sequences in which you can kill dinosaurs. 
 This is fun at first, but you'll kill so many that you'll try to avoid dinosaurs because it is 
 very repetetive. There are also some fun boss fights, but besides this, the combat system lacks 
 variety and becomes a bore. The multiplayer is not very fun, with very simple maps and, once again, 
 dull combat. Turok just isn't the same as it used to be. This game has some fun moments, but I 
 don't reccomend buying it, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot-Jesus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Turok really is one of those game you can only play for so long without asking yourself the question, 
 "Why the hell am I bothering?"
  The simple fact is that it is in no way a great game. And for some, including myself, only just 
 crosses the line of passability.
  The game is set on a distant prehistoric world, but unfortunately, the main character Turok, and 
 his 'Whiskey Company' didn't intend on settling down there. As you progress through the game, new 
 and old enemies arise and before you know it... well that's the thing.
  Turok's story really is just confusing. Instead of just simply being on a planet that was forever 
 populated by dinosaurs, it turns out that the main enemy has been 'experimenting' and has caused 
 some sort of evolutionary overdrive to happen, for whatever reason. But the game never really makes 
 and particular effort to try and explain the story in a deep way. It's also incredibly uninspired. 
 I really expected better.
  The world itself though is in my opinion, beautiful. The lush and vivid jungle enviroments really 
 are visually astounding. The game is mostly composed of these kind of open jungle settings but 
 also occasionally the game takes us to underground caves and into the odd factory. These however, 
 aren't as great. They really suck away the excitment that the jungle creates and replaces it with 
 a sense of claustrophobia and frustration. They generally consist of tired and recycles area's 
 and passage ways that are repeated through out the level. It is a relief when you get back out 
 into the wonderful jungle.
  The gameplay and pace that Turok offers is quite mediocre and more often than not is very frustrating. 
 The constant annoyence of random and frequent dinosaur attacks get very tiring very quickly, and 
 the equally annoying human enemies are nothing more than moving ammo caches to me. When you actually 
 do come to a planned out battle sequence, the gameplay is far too duck-and-covery. The enemies 
 often are plentiful but the cover is not. Numerous times you will have to repeat the sequence over 
 and over until you have the placement of cover and enemies memorized, and that gets very demoralizing. 
 Instead of feeling like you actually want to get back into the game and beat the area when you 
 die, you usually find yourself wondering if it's worth the hassle. Also, the weapons that the game 
 others are just... crap. Really, there are some nice ideas like the sticky gun and the flamethrower, 
 but the games arsenal is small, and very average. Another problem in combat is the camera and controls. 
 When you use your knife to kill someone, an action sequence in third person shows you killing the 
 enemies, but your are still vunerable to gun fire from the human enemies, and when you finish the 
 move, the camera is usually pointing the complete opposite direction of the enemies, so you have 
 your back to them.
  When the dinosaurs attack you in packs, it is SERIOUSLY annoying getting knocked back on your ass 
 when 3 or 4 raptors are basically tea-bagging you to death.
  The game often tries to offer the option of stealth as opposed to the 'Gun Hoe' approach. But the 
 stealth really is poorly done. The game packs too many enemies too close together for any really 
 assassinations to take place. And for some reason, when one enemy in the area knows where you are, 
 all the other enemies, even ones miles away from you become aware of your presence.
  Multiplayer in Turok is suprisingly quite good. But unfortunately there aren't very many people 
 that play it, so finding a decent match is actually quite a hassle. The map's are mostly quite 
 well designed and the added presence of computer controlled dinosaurs spice up the action. The 
 game does support 4-player online co-op, but there are only 4 maps and it more are less just one 
 battle after another.
  
  To sum up:
  
  The Good: Brilliant and lush enviroments, great voice cast. Good stern multiplayer mode.
  
 
  The Ugly: Very standard gameplay, terrible story, bad AI, contant annoyences soon take their tole.
 
  
  Turok is a game that really had very good potential when you think of it. But unfortunately the 
 developers messed it up badly. Maybe if the possible sequel was placed into the hands of a more 
 acclaimed developer than the true Turok would be able to show the world what a good came it could 
 be. Well just have to wait and see. 
  
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Probably not. Turok is at best a run of the mill shooter that borrows things from games that have 
 already done it and more effectively. 
  
  Back in it's hayday Turok was known for being cutting edge, it's great graphics, over the top weapons 
 (the cerebral bore) , tight game play, long often very difficult levels, and characters that weren't 
 completely lame. The Turok Evolution game along and made us all cry. Turok has been re-booted once 
 again, and while it's a step forward for the franchise as a whole, it's not the cutting edge FPS 
 that it once was back in the N64 days. 
  
  Once again you are a "space marine" (Halo anyone) that has to investigate a planet and soon you 
 are fighting for you life. The only thing that sets the bad guys apart in this game is the dinosaurs. 
 They are kind of nuetral in this game. Although the idea of dinosaurs in the game is cool, it's 
 really the only bright spot of the game. 
  
  The graphics, from a far, look great, as you get closer to them you notice frame rate issues, jaggies, 
 texture mapping, and stiff animation. All the characters are stripped right from Halo, Gears of 
 War, Unreal, and Doom. So there is nothing that is too grand here. The voice acting is ok, mostly 
 because "Hellboy" is present to provide some good quoteable quotes (something the actor is known 
 for) . But that's about it, most of the characters sound like impressions of their race. 
  
  The controls are pretty tight, giving you issues here and there. Although I had a couple of disagreements 
 with the way they were set up. On the whole Turok is pretty easy to pick up and play. They borrowed 
 alot of ideas from Halo, a good game to copy from, but really brought nothing new to the table. 
 Most of the game play focuses on missions, none of which seem epic, and all of which are repeditive 
 if you've ever played a FPS before. The music and sound effects are pretty good. Which is nice 
 because it keeps you in the game. 
  
  Basically Turok is a rehash of many of the FPS that are already out and brings nothing new to the 
 table. Granted it's a good step forward to the series and I hope that they will bring it back to 
 it's glory days. But minus the cerebral bore and you got another Halo wanna be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  so turok is back, sadly after playing this game sometimes i wish he wasnt. you get shipped off 
 to some island packed with different dinosaurs and people that look like swat team officers. its 
 pretty lame. the story had its ups and down and really wasnt all that bad at the start of the game 
 since i mean, killing dinosaurs are always fun.. it was really just about the only cool/fun thing 
 throughout the game. when having to kill any of the other humans it was completely retarded, you 
 could shoot or stab them, and there wouldnt be ANY blood.. just sparks as if they are wearing metal 
 armor. so stupid, and very lame. 
  
  some points in the game are pretty damn difficult, as i have never beat the game because im convinced 
 the final mission is impossible, i just cant figure it out and probably never will. but then again 
 it is a t-rex your fighting, which would kill anyone in a heartbeat.
  
  let me move on to the online multiplayer modes.. wow, so pathetic and stupid. but also at the same 
 time it was pretty humourus playing it with a friend of mine. also the online co-op maps were really 
 hard too, me and my friend couldnt get anywhere without being shot or eaten by a velicoraptor. 
 
  
  sadly i did have decently high hopes for the game as i thought it could have been really fun, but 
 it wasnt, so i would go out on a limb and say if you want rent it since thats about all its worth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros: + Amazing visuals, + Killing dinosaurs is awesome, + Lush forest's, + T-rex Battles are epic.
 
  
  Cons: - Stupid A. I., - No aim assist, - Human enemies not as fun, - Short single player, - Very 
 few checkpoints, - Knife Mechanics aren't well tuned.
  
  After many months of fine-tuning and days in stores, the new revamped "Turok" is ready to be played. 
 But how does it hold up to today's shooters? Or better yet, how does it hold up to the pass installments?
 
  
  We'll to say this is the best would be a lie, but it is a good game even though it has trouble 
 devising itself from every other shooter on the market. It seems to have trouble showing how it's 
 a completely different game; it doesn't follow the original Turok with the main protagonist being 
 a Native American warrior named "Turok" going back in time to fight prehistoric dinosaurs in an 
 ultimate class of destruction where it eventually evolved so much from its original design until 
 it became the horrible "Turok Evolution" which caused fans around the world to cry because it was 
 that bad. But the new Turok has somewhat kept it the same but added some new ideas to the series, 
 which have been done a thousand times before, but makes it seem newer because its using dinosaurs.
 
  
  This time it about a group of mercenaries called "whiskey" that set out to find and capture a dangerous 
 group of people called "Wolf". The main character this time is no longer our memorable native Turok, 
 Son of Stone with a more updated released prisoner now mercenary Native American named "Joseph 
 Turok". The surroundings of the new Turok seem to somewhat fallow the origin of the originals but 
 adds more off a futuristic twist too it to keep it both interesting and somewhat fresh to the series. 
 This of coarse takes out some of the originality that it once had and makes it very similar to 
 most sci-fi that's out there (ex Alien, halo, quake, etc) . But this is not entirely bad because 
 it dose make the games single-player story hook you in and drag you along like a hillbilly strapped 
 to a mad bull.
  
  The gameplay is also something that has changed a lot from its original bases, no longer being 
 a first person pain in the ass making jumping a constant backbreaking competition. But now it's 
 switched to a more halo-like control scheme where you no longer have to worry about the matters 
 of actually staying alive from jumping. But that doesn't make it any better, it seems like they 
 changed the frustrating jumping mechanics for a more loose movement. This meaning of coarse trying 
 to slightly turn to the enemy to the right or left is not really an option, this then causes you 
 to too turn to much from them. This isn't good especially when you have retarded reptilian dinosaurs 
 with dinner knives for hands thirsting for human meat right behind you. This then brings me to 
 the knife combat in Turok. It seems that no matter how much you time the trigger to go into a exciting 
 seen where Turok will stab the dinosaur of you choice in wonderful mutilating ways doesn't seem 
 to work so well, instead ending up as a small poke which leads to your utmost demise. This is really 
 annoying because of the few **** checkpoints in the game making the game more repetitive then it 
 all ready is.
  
  Now with that entire aside and said, graphically the games is great. The forests are beautiful 
 with large amounts of foliage and prehistoric atmosphere that could not be done without the Unreal 
 3 engine. And with that being said they also happen to be the only people who got Epics graphic 
 style right, except with you knowcolour. What I really enjoy about this is the damage modeling, 
 where when you hit an enemy it causes blood to show from that area and so forth. You may also know 
 this from Bioshock, which also used it as we'll as many other games. So over all this game looks 
 great, but what isn't these days. Just because you have the graphical power behind the game doesn't 
 make it better in any way.
  
  Multi-player is where it sort of gets some points. Although its not up to what the original Turok 
 was like it still shows some of its fundamentals that make it great such as having random raptor 
 bots roaming the arenas in search for any players to attack. That may also be a downfall to the 
 true fans of the series with the lack of being able to play as the raptors themselves and just 
 as the human character. But since its not being developed by its original developers we could lighten 
 up on them for now.
  
  Now that we touched on the visible aspects of the game lets move on to the actual sound, and lets 
 just say it's very superb. Of coarse the reason for that being from the talented Ron "****" Perlman, 
 which happens to be the best damn actor ever! Moving on. So ya that sound quality is good (mostly 
 because of Ron) but not the greatest, the other actors could have used some work in developing 
 their characters but over all its good.
  
  So here we have it a recently developed retelling of Turok, which happens to be a pretty well developed 
 game. But it does suffer from some major issues of devising itself from other shooters out there. 
 But that doesn't mean you shouldn't try the game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarsrock4eva
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I am not a huge fan of FPS games... okay soo I like some "cough" COD4 "cough" but overall 
 I think we see far too many nowadays. Even more so on the Xbox 360 than the PS3 in my opinion.
 
  Turok is mainly a FPS but it ain't no COD4/HALO 3. I played the game through three times on each 
 difficulty and it seemed to be good when I first started playing. However, as I went on it became 
 more of a chore for me to complete this game. The dino's in the game could have been good but they 
 made the game too difficult at some stages. On one level I had fallen into a hole under a mountain 
 and had to find my comrade and get out through the tunnels of the mountain. The hard part was when 
 I came across ten big dino's and i had limited ammo, okay you have your knife and a couple of flares 
 but when you have five of the buggers on you at once it ain't easy. Overall the gameplay was the 
 same old story and I had played games like it many a time.
  Graphically the game is pretty good, nothing special but pretty solid. I might get stick for this 
 but i think the characters were modelled on the gears of war characters. They had the same look 
 about them.
  I played Turok online... and it was utterly rubbish. I spent ages waiting for a game to enter and 
 it turned out rubbish. If you play it online then you will know what I mean.
  My overall view is that Turok is a game that tried to be as good as the likes of COD4 and Halo 
 3 but clearly never stood a chance. It tryed to add a twist to the game "oh look i'm not just shooting 
 people i'm shooting dinosaurs". I would say to anyone mad enough to consider buying this game to 
 borrow/rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  the graphics were great, the texture of scales on the dinosaurs was cool and looked actually like 
 real scales. The storyline is fun. there are checkpoints often so you dont have to redo very much.
 
  
  Using the knife is more fun than actually shooting the enemies and I eventually ended up taking 
 on raptor and those tree climbing dinosaurs on with it. The bow and arrow is fun to use too, going 
 appache on someones ass is always fun, especially when you nail someone to a tree or wall and watch 
 thier body hang limp from the arrow holding it up, plus you can use secondary weapon actions and 
 the eplosive arrows are a good defense against anything you come across, be that huge bugs, dinosaurs 
 humans or the t-rex.
  the only think i have a problem with is when you stabb a human enemy and sparks come from him............ sparks? 
 do they not bleed? are they battery charged?
  
  who knows.
  
  this is a great game to have and you may come back to it after you beat it a few times, i did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  When I bought Turok, I had some high expectations from this game -- tons of intense dinosaur action, 
 good multiplayer, great graphics and an immersive story. Unfortunately, Turok doesn't live up to 
 most of those expectations. 
  
  STORY: You play as Joseph Turok, a native american dinosaur hunter who formerly worked for the 
 Wolf Pack, or something like that. Now he works for the Space Marines, instructed to go down to 
 an unknown planet to capture his former mentor. The space ship they're in somehow gets shot down 
 onto the planet and Turok and another ally must survive and look for the crashed ship on the planet. 
 The story doesn't really pick up much from there, and you'll probably stop caring as to why he's 
 on this planet. Score - 7
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are good, but not great. The environments are nicely detailed, whether it 
 be from the trees or grass to the dinosaurs. However the character models aren't exactly great, 
 and the environments while fighting the humans look dull and uninspired. When you go into caves, 
 a lot of the textures seem painted on in a weird way. Turok's graphics can sometimes look really 
 cool, but it isn't exactly the next generation experience you'd probably hope for. Score - 7.5
 
  
  SOUND: The voice acting is generally good, but it's the effects that really stand out. The dinosaur 
 roaring to raptors scurrying in the grass, to Turok's knife slicing into a dinosaur -- it's all great. 
 Score - 8.5
  
  GAMEPLAY: Turok both feels and plays like that of any other first person shooter. There are a variety 
 of different guns to use, and all of them feel really cool since they're in the future. Some of 
 them look like they've been used in Half-Life 2, but nonetheless they're still fun to use. However, 
 it takes too long to kill one person, mainly because of the awful aiming mechanics. You can fire 
 from the hip, which works alright, but your aiming will be wild since your enemies move around 
 very quickly. Aiming down the sights is surprisingly worse. Instead of, say, Call of Duty 4, Turok's 
 down the sights mechanics are similar to Gears of War, except in first person. It's very hard to 
 get a headshot and the camera moves far too slowly. The checkpoint system isn't that great either. 
 Let's say you fight a swarm of scorpions; you kill that wave, another comes; you kill that wave, 
 another comes; you die on that wave, you have to start from the first wave of scorpions. Overall, 
 Turok's gameplay mechanics work alright, but they feel a bit too clunky. Score - 6.5
  
  ENJOYMENT: The single player campaign will take you anywhere from 8-10 hours to beat, and there's 
 not much point in coming back for seconds. The game also has multiplayer. You've got your standard 
 team deathmatch, free-for-all, capture the flag, etc. But you also have some neat co-op missions 
 with up to 4 players. I think that adds some extra playing time to the game. Score - 7.5
  
  OVERALL: Turok is a fairly good game, but the gameplay mechanics, storyline and graphics could 
 all be improved upon. I would recommend this to any fan of Turok or if your a fan of first person 
 shooters, go rent this game. For anyone else, rent it or skip it all together. Turok feels like 
 you can quit of it at any time and you'll feel like you won't be missing out on much.
  
  FINAL SCORE - 7.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Turok is one of the most in your face shooters I have ever played. I mean, the enemies are simply 
 relentless... even the human ones. They just keep coming, and you have to be equally aggressive 
 if you expect to survive. The best strategy I've implemented is to take out as many as possible 
 silently and then come out with guns blazing. Speaking of guns blazing, I mean exactly that. The 
 weapons all feel very powerful and are very fun to shoot. The rocket launcher in particular is 
 exeptionally powerful. It's probably the coolest and most useful launcher I've seen in a game. 
 It has a slide out glass targeting screen with a lock on feature, and when you lock on to an opponent, 
 they're screwed! The rocket soars high into the air and comes down on them from above S. C. U. D. 
 missile style, and the explosion is immense. However, one of the most unique gameplay elements 
 in Turok are the knife kills. They make up the bulk of the stealth portion of the game, although 
 they are also extremely useful in close quarters encounters when you need to make a quick kill. 
 When you successfully execute a knife kill, the camera jumps back into a 3rd person view that shows 
 Turok brutally and swiftly eliminate his foe. It feels very cold, deliberate, and visceral, and 
 it is very well done indeed. The environmental effects are great, and the physics are awesome. 
 You can literally "dirt roll" a raptor if you catch it at a run with the sniper rifle. The graphics 
 are beautiful and have a very organic feel to them, which is true to the game's setting. The multiplayer 
 modes are extremely fun, and would be more so if more people would start playing online. The fact 
 that there are rarely enough people online to have a full room is a testament to how badly the 
 critics have underrated this game. It's irritating to have such good multiplayer on a game and 
 it be hard to find a match because most people don't even give it a chance after reading the reviews. 
 Anyway, moving on. The campaign is equally impressive, with a great story and huge boss battles. 
 Bottom line Turok is an amazing game all around and I highly recommend it to shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rutulno1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Every now and again one of those games emerge into the market. Those games which have an average 
 hype into the market, but then is forgotten after some time. Turok has taken this very path, it 
 has been almost forgotten, and sometimes while playing the game, i can see why.
  
  You play as a rough and tough guy named Turok. He has just been recruited into a squad with other 
 people that look as tough as him, though nobody likes him very much at a glance. They don't like 
 him because Turok used to be on another squad and he betrayed them, so nobody trusts him yet. But 
 before anything else happens the space ship that you are in reaches its destination. However, before 
 even entering the planet's atmosphere, you are hit by a missile or something. You then wake up 
 still in the wreckage of the ship, you have one man by your side. The first mission teaches you 
 all the controls of the game while you find a way out of this wreckage, the other man leads the 
 way; though he soon dies and you are left alone... for a bit.
  
  As soon as you are playing as Turok in the first person perspective, you should notice the average 
 effort put into this game while making the graphics. The wreckage is displayed really nicely with 
 all the crumpled metal parts and the sparks of electricity emerging every few seconds. It can also 
 get scary because the graphics allow you to see a small movement of a large piece of metal before 
 it falls a few millimeters away from you. Then as the game wears on, the graphics are mostly presented 
 with the dinosaurs. There are many species of dinosaurs in the game and all of them look very real, 
 you can even notice a small amount of reflection of the sun on the dinosaur's body; or even on 
 the knife that you are just about to use to murder the dinosaur. My favorite part of the game is 
 stabbing the dinosaur; whether the dinosaur is the size of your leg or ten times bigger than you. 
 Stabbing the dinosaur is done differently for each kind of dinosaur, and they are all done ruthlessly 
 and very swiftly. Though they are all done in a different manner, all of them have the same result 
 - a fountain of blood before instant death. Even though the fountain of blood looks a bit unrealistic, 
 the satisfaction you get from doing that is amazing. Also, many times there are quite a few dinosaurs 
 together so stabbing them one after the other can be really fun, though it can also get a little 
 repetitive because the dinosaurs that attack in packs are all the same dinosaurs and so the way 
 Turok stabs them is always the same. Another disappointment with this is that in some parts of 
 the game, the dinosaurs come in too large packs and it is very easy for them to kill you before 
 you get a chance to kill them.
  
  There are not only dinosaurs in the game, there are more bad guys in the game than dinosaurs - 
 sometimes I wish that it was the other way around and sometimes I don't. The bad guys are all wearing 
 a strong black outfit which makes them harder to kill. This can get really annoying when you are 
 facing a lot of bad guys together, and that is one of the many reasons the game did not get a higher 
 score. Though the graphics presented through the bad guys are pretty cool, one reason is because 
 you can see their red eyes staring at you, telling you to move before the bullets hit you. Here's 
 another reason why the game didn't get the points it could have gotten: the bad guys always want 
 you dead, even when you are with a group. By this I mean, if there is a bad guy with an RPG, he 
 will always aim at you, and it gets kind of annoying because by the time you get up from the hit, 
 another RPG bullet has already reached you, he doesn't care about the other people on your side. 
 The graphics of the guns are also pretty cool, there are many different kinds of guns in the game; 
 starting from an ordinary pistol to a RPG, and all of them work very nicely and have their own 
 amount of impact on the unlucky opponent. My favorite gun would have to be the energy type of gun 
 that shoots you blue rays, though it can get a little annoying because it overheats too fast. Though 
 the aspect that made the guns as cool as they should be are the sound effects.
  
  Throughout the game, the background music is always exciting and heart pumping. The sounds of the 
 gun shots are very realistic. But the thing I loved best about the sound effects were the roars 
 of the dinosaurs. I have no idea where the makers got the sounds from, but all I know is that they 
 got it right. The sound of the T-Rex's roar is the most frightening of all because when it roars, 
 you can hear it clearly over the sounds of the gunfire everywhere. Another sound effect that I 
 loved is when you stab the dinosaurs, you can hear the blade ripping through the flesh of the dinosaur 
 and then the sound of the dinosaur screaming in pain. Both these sound together sent a shiver up 
 my spine, it was that realistic.
  
  One of the real letdowns in the game is the amount of checkpoints in a level. There aren't many. 
 This can get really annoying because you might have just finished a very tough battle against the 
 bad guys and then suddenly a dinosaur pops out and kills you. Even if you survive the attack from 
 the dinosaur, another battle with the bad guys in bound to kill you, and then you will have to 
 do the first battle all over again... happens a lot during the campaign. And it is at these frustrating 
 points in the game that you feel like quitting and destroying the game.
  
  Though there aren't many cut scenes during the game, they can get annoying. This is because you 
 watch the cut scene (and some can get pretty long and dull) , and then you fight. If you die during 
 the fight over and over again, you will have to watch the cut scene over and over again because 
 the checkpoint was just before the cut scene. And trust me, some cut scenes can get pretty dull, 
 and you cannot skip them.
  
  Finally, I just want to express how much I enjoyed the game at the start, because the first few 
 levels were set to the right difficulty. But then, as I went further into the game, some levels 
 are really impossible and frustrating because they were extremely difficult. Otherwise, a fun game 
 to play to stab your way through.
  
  Graphics = 7.5/10
  Storyline = 7/10
  Sound effects = 9/10
  Difficulty of getting achievements = 4/5 (Very Hard) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The Intro
  
  I was a huge fan of Turok back in the N64 days, good or bad. That said, I was much younger back 
 then, so the harsh difficulty meant I enjoyed mostly due to the game's ridiculous cheats. That 
 said, pile after pile of garbage has given cause to a total series reboot developed right here 
 in my hometown of Vancouver. So let's see how it does.
  
  
  The Good
  
  Let's get this out of the way: knife kills are awesome in this game. In fact, they're so awesome, 
 that experiencing them in the demo was enough for me to purchase this game. They are incredibly 
 satisfying and are incredibly powerful against dinos. Turok does a great job in doing something 
 different in knife mechanics, going for triggered cut-scene insta-kills over the semi-useless slashing 
 in most games. Great job here.
  
  The voice acting is top-notch, as one look at the cast list will show you (Ron Pearlman, Timothy 
 Olyphant, Donnie Wahlberg, and Powers Boothe? Yes please!) . The story, though not great, is serviceable, 
 as are the inter-character dynamics. The little flashback cutscenes with Turok's time in the wolf 
 pack are also well done.
  
  Overall, the game doesn't do THAT much new. It's basically a solid first person shooter that basically 
 is, for better or for worse, a good example of "the typical FPS." The graphics are decent, as are 
 the guns and the gameplay.
  
  Dinosaurs basically spice things up a bit. It seems as though the design philosophy was "make a 
 standard fps and dump in dinos." It works too, for the most part. This is especially true with 
 the multiplayer, which would be bog standard to the point of boredom were it not for the inclusion 
 of the dinosaurs.
  
  The Bad
  
  Word of warning: you spend more time fighting humans then anything else. This really places Turok 
 back at "bog standard fps" territory.
  
  This also showcases one of Turok's two greatest flaws, that being the HORRIBLE AI. Enemies frequently 
 run back and forth like headless chickens as they suffer targetting problems. They also just as 
 frequently hide in cover.... only they're just leaning against a wall and are entirely exposed to 
 your cover. Turok also has a nasty glitch where the enemy always seems to spot and target you to 
 a pre-natural level. Say you run in with your 4 squad mates in single player. Say your squad mates 
 are all 3 feet away from the enemy and you are a good 20-30 feet away, not firing. Whelp, the enemy 
 will all too often (almost every time in facT) utterly ignore your squad and immediately begin 
 firing on you. Lame.
  
  Speaking of the squad.... when rolling with them, it all often felt too chaotic and too restricted. 
 The complete lack of squad commands made things annoying, often forcing you to go in first for 
 no reason at all or, at best, leaving your squad mates' fire utterly useless.
  That said, they're shots are utterly useless. For some reason, I SWEAR that your squad has a difficult 
 time killing baddies. They'll hit them sure, but it takes forever for them to land the "killing 
 shot." Go figure.
  
  Ah yes, those two flaws I mentioned. Flaw number 2 is the much maligned checkpoint system, which 
 seems to be totally random. At times, you'll have two checkpoints minutes apart with nothing other 
 than a cutscene separating them. At other times, you'll have to wade through firefight after firefight 
 without one. It's absolutely infuriating. The "elevator of doom" in the second level is a prime 
 example. The checkpoint system is utterly broken and feels as though no thought went into point 
 placement.
  
  To make dying even more a frustrating experience, cut-scenes are all entirely non-skippable. Ugh.
 
  
  On another note, I found the weapon and character designs to be utterly bland and uninspired. When 
 characters still don't feel utterly unique with such an A-list voice cast... you know something's 
 gone wrong. The guns are also textbook FPS stuff as well... barring bow and knife. Aside from Turok, 
 characters have few distinguishing features and do not stand out in their own game... let alone 
 in comparison to other games. The weaponry is also somewhat typical.
  
  Knife kills are also touchy. Often hitting the button when prompted simply won't go. Go figure.
 
  
  Turrets are also bordering on useless in the game. They end up leaving you immobile and out in 
 the open, giving you a death sentence. The prime reason for this is that Propagandi decided to 
 break the norm and have turrets reload, and boy does it take forever. Yes, turrets should realistically 
 reload but Turok shows why most games ditch that one rule of realism... pouring out consistent firepower 
 is an issue of game balance, to balance out your being immobile and open. Hence, in Turok, turrets 
 are death traps.... all the more so when trying to hit little flying bugs that camouflage with the 
 sky they're flying against.
  
  On a narrative level, the story often feels like it's loses focus. Turok's motive for hunting Kane 
 feels far away and undeveloped and at the end, you wish the motive was stronger and better characterized. 
 Also, you'll often find yourself trying to make sense of it all, asking yourself "wait, i'm going 
 over to that base why? How did I end up here again? etc" That's not good.
  
  Lastly, many of the game's most interesting options end up totally impracticeable in context. Using 
 the flare to control dinos or have them attack enemies at flare sounds really cool, and could've 
 been, if it wasn't so darn difficult to implement. In the end, knifing the dinos and shooting the 
 baddies with your boring pulse/assault rifle is just 50x easier and more efficient then using the 
 flare, which is a shame. There's just no incentive to take the cooler option and in fact, it's 
 really difficult to pull off.
  
  The Conclusion
  
  In the end, Turok is more or less an absolutely bog standard FPS with cool dinosaur battles, awesome 
 knife kills, bad AI, and a bad save system, all to add a bit of flavor. It had potential, but there 
 are just too many flaws and too many broad areas of blandness. At least it's a good length for 
 games these days and the chapters are well paced. Give it a rent or buy it at a discount, but don't 
 pay full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paskari
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is so frustrating, that one can not explain how terrible it is. Whatever this game may 
 have had going for it, is completely overshadowed by the poor gameplay mechanics.
  
  For starters, it's next to impossible to land a headshot, even with the sensitivity turned down. 
 You just end up firing your gun like a lunatic, spraying and praying. This is further compounded 
 by Turok's incredibly weak immune system. Apparently, 5 bullets will do him in. So if you fire 
 at someone and miss, chances are, he's gonna kill you. If there are more than two people on the 
 screen, they will kill you. If you reload in the middle of fight, bye-bye. Another thing is that 
 once you get shot, your aim goes from the usual 25% accuracy to maybe 0.1% accuracy. It just kind 
 of wobbles around and you don't know what you're hitting anymore.
  
  The health regeneration is another issue. It's like Propaganda games looked at every other console 
 shooter, and cherry picked all the bad elements. Health depletes very quickly, AND regenerates 
 very slowly. Furthermore, after sustaining a heavy amount of damage (although 'heavy' might be 
 too aggressive, we're talking on the scale of 4 bullets here) you become farsighted, and everything 
 looks like a blur, and this blurry state persists for what seems like an eternity. Bottom line, 
 if you don't shoot and kill, someone will either kill you, or render you blind and then come and 
 kill you.
  
  For whatever reason, the guns do almost no damage to dinosaurs, but the knife provides an instant 
 kill. So all you end up doing is running around the jungle with your knife. And this completely 
 takes the suspense aspect out of the game, since you de facto take on the role of the predator, 
 hunting the prey. But this one stab kill is a little poorly implemented. So dinos tend to attack 
 in packs (further takes away the suspense, since after the first strike, it's just a slaughter) , 
 and after you knife one, you want to knife another, but now you're looking down at the dinosaur, 
 which doesn't help, so you do this slow turning maneuver, trying to find the next dinosaur, but 
 of course, they end up finding you first. In the worst case it degrades into a case of gang rap 
 as the dinos attack you and disorient you
  
  Then there's almost little to no help in the game. You press the L3 button and it says "Retrieve 
 the comm unit"... You're in a frikin jungle, where everything looks the same, you spun around 8 
 times trying to kill dinos, at least give me a frame of reference. Or take this part where you're 
 chasing after the Trex, you hear him, but you don't see him, so you have no idea where to go. At 
 least she me his tail or something
  
  There's also the issue of large environments, with enemies coming from all sides, and you just 
 don't know what to do, short of panic. So in this one particularly frustrating level, you're on 
 an elevating platform, and as you approach every level, the enemy shoots at you... from every direction. 
 Do these people have any idea how hard it is for me to turn 180 degrees using the analog stick? 
 Stick to one coridor for crying out loud.
  
  The AI in this is a lot like the AI was in Far Cry. In that it is far too difficult. The AI does 
 things that defy the laws of physics: one guy is running left and right and shooting at you with 
 pin point accuracy, the other one is a football field away, yet he manages to shoot me with his 
 shotgun, and I swear to god, every one of their bullets land! I'm averaging 25% with this awful 
 aiming system, and the AI is blissfully mowing me down.
  
  BTW, story is so-so, guns are 'meh', and the checkpoints are not the most convenient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I will start out with saying I played Turok on N64 for a brief moment years back and loved that, 
 I thought this would be a sweet game to try and play, and it was to a certain degree.
  
  The graphics on this game ROCK! The characters are well detailed and the machinery is awesome. 
 The dinosaurs look great adn are very life-like and killing them is awesome! Often while you may 
 like shooting from afar to be safe, stabbing a dinosaur through the head watching their blood spill 
 out while they scream in aggony or breaking a baby dinosaurs neck or slashing the throad of another 
 is probably the sweetest feature this game has to offer and should not be missed! But for the most 
 part once youve done one finishing move they get old after a while so shooting them can just get 
 it over with quickly.
  
  Fighting the stupid human drones gets annoying as hell and they seem to spring out of nowhere and 
 kill you pretty fast. If they were eliminated from the game it would be much more enjoyable to 
 only have to face dinosaurs.
  
  The checkpoints on this game are TERRIBLE! There are times where you will play forever and get 
 very far and then a surprise death will cause you to have to replay the same sequence over and 
 over and over again! That got very annoying and frustrating to me. Also, some of the boss battles 
 were just ridiculous to have to play through, like the battle with the sea snake, which took me 
 an hour and about 25 tries to try and beat, that too also got annoying after a while and my thumb 
 was killing me afterwards.
  
  Overall, the graphics, sound effects, weapons, finishing moves on the dinosaurs all made this a 
 great game. However the terrible checkpoint placements and the tough boss battles and the human 
 foes you have to fight brought the game down a bit. The game is overall enjoyable and I would recommend 
 it to anyone if you can manage to get over the checkpoint portion and stay well hidden during the 
 long gunfighting battle sections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19560909
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  First of I'd like to say that this game is seriously underappreciated... Right now that is out 
 of the way i'll start the review.
  
  Story: There is not much to say really when it comes to the story. You are Turok, a native american 
 space marine who is traveling with Whiskey company to an alien world in search of a war criminal 
 and his rogue company of soldiers of which Turok used to be a part of. this puts Turok on bad terms 
 with many if not all of the crew for obvious reasons. After that their really is not much else 
 storywise apart from being shot down and trying to kill the war criminal and just trying to stay 
 alive.
  
  GAMEPLAY: You will learn as you play that Turok is very handy with a knife and a bow, two weapons 
 which sets the game apart from others. The knife is the most lethal weapon in the game but really 
 can be used as a silent killer or as a last resort, you can just rush the enemy with your knife 
 but you won't last long with more than say three enemy soldiers or dinos to deal with. When you 
 approach an enemy with your knife drawn an icon pops up and Turoks knife raises indicating that 
 he is ready to strike. and when he does he pulls off a great little 3rd person cinematic in which 
 involves Turok slaying a beastie of soldier with brutal efficiency. The problem with the knife 
 kills is that they can be quite hard to pull off on creatures that move quickly which leaves you 
 exposed. The bow is one of my favourate weapons of the game, it is silent and can be a one shot 
 kill for soldiers and dinosaurs if the shot is well placed leaving you with a feeling of sadistic 
 satisfaction as you stand over the corpse of a soldier who has an arrow through the face or perhaps 
 a soldier who is impaled on a tree. Later the bow gains Tek Arrows which brings an explosive solution 
 to any problem! You can also hide in the grass and pick off enemies without giving your position 
 away (for those who scoff at this i say you can because i played a good portion of the game this 
 way) . The other weapons of the game are bog standard and some are boring (no exotic traditional 
 Turok weapons, sorry) . Some have useful alt fire mods such as the minigun that can deploy as a 
 turret or the shotgun that has a flare launcher which can attract the attention of nearby dinos 
 towards enemies and more importantly, away from you. One problem I do have is that if you are hit 
 by an explosion you end up facing in the direction of the blast and yo can lose your bearing easily 
 if the explasion was behind you. 
  
  As you progress through the game you will come across moments where Turok is pounded to the ground 
 and starts to be mauled by a beastie, when this happens icons flash up indicating which trigger 
 or stick you must use in order to fend it off. These moments are easy to deal with but Turok constantly 
 takes damage as he fights so you may have to be quick when this occurs, Turok can also be mauled 
 at random by a pouncing gribly so you need to be on your toes. These moments don't happen very 
 often and the fixed maulings are well placed out and can come at any time and not at the most obvious 
 moments, it really keeps you on your toes.
  
  The game is nicely split up with some buildings with are a stark contrast compared to the exotic 
 exterior. unfortunatly the inside areas can be rather dull and you do find yourself wishing you 
 could be outside fighting dinos.
  The soldiers in the game are quite dull and look like the Helgast out of Killzone (without the 
 red eyes) and sound like the Combine out of halflife 2 (the voices can be fairly similar at times) .
 
  
  The enemy AI is quite smart and will try and out flank you, throw grenades when you are in cover, 
 seek cover themselves and snipers never really stay in one place for long. The dinos will out flank 
 you and ambush you if they get a chance and perform hit and run attacks, (one type of dinosaur 
 is a menice for this) . One gripe i do have with the AI is that the herbivores don't have any drive 
 for survival and will happily stand still and be mauled by a pack of Raptors which feels rather 
 silly considering how easy it would have been to implement into the game. 
  
  The game itself is not very long perhaps taking as little as 7 hours to complete on your first 
 go which is a bit of a disappointment, it could have been a lot longer but then i think of it as 
 quality over quantity. The checkpoints in the game are few and far between and if you mess a bit 
 up you may have to start five minutes back but this usually doesn't happen so you can't really 
 complain. There are four boss fights during the game and they are just right difficulty wise and 
 can be done on two or three attempts.
  
  GRAPHICS. The graphics and effects in the game are impressive altough not the best, the characters 
 are well designed and rendered, so too are the monsters with a good variety of skins and colours. 
 The animation of the Dinos are superb and you do feel a sense of dread when you are being ran down 
 by a Allosaurus or a Tyrannosaurus. The environment looks fantastic and really does feel like a 
 completely hostile planet where anything can jump out at you. The outside areas are varied and 
 each looks great, from the tunnels and fallen trees to the ash wastes and lava fields you really 
 do feel that you have stepped back in time to the age of the Dinosaurs. The buildings are pocketed 
 throughout the game and look a bit like the stuctures from Jurassic Park in many ways but the range 
 of detail is rather lacking in many ways.
  The sound in the game is really good, the voice acting is great and the ambient noises from the 
 environment are superb.
  
  CONTROLS: The controls in Turok are good but the layout cannot be changed at all only the up down 
 look and that is it. For a FPS the buttens seem to be muddled and took a while to get used to (Y 
 is crouch for some reason) . However I found the sensitivaty to be just right and i can honestly 
 say i don't know why people complain about it.
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer revolves around the standard games which you have in all FPS, Deathmatch, 
 CTF, Team Deathmatch, etc are all there and can support up to 16 players a match. This seems really 
 bog standard but it comes with a lethal twist, the maps have a third team... The Dinos. The dinosaurs 
 are AI controled and will attack anyone without prejudice, this is great for those who hate players 
 that camp out with sniper rifles and pick people off (Gears of War anyone?) since players that 
 do camp will find a gribly trying to disembowel him in a short space of time. This added effect 
 makes games fast paced and bloody and it is entertaining watching two players having a knife duel 
 only to be pounced on and duely lacerated by a Dinosaur. The game also supports Co-op online where 
 the games enemies have been ramped up in numbers and difficulty and some added areas have been 
 included for those who play co-op.
  
  CONCLUSION: Overall the game is well made with some great graphics, audio and some memorable moments, 
 with a good multi-player and fairly long, if lack-luster (plot wise) story mode, it makes for a 
 great game overall and is a very underappreciated title. I know it might not be for everyone but 
 if you see the game going cheap second hand it might be worth picking it up. 
  
  SCORE - 8'5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Like man of you i've purchased this game since before it was actually supposed to be released....
 
  And i actually think im going to have 2 separate reviews for this game. One for the Campaign, 
 and one for Multiplayer.
  
  
  Campaign:
  ~Well, as far as the campaign goes i thought it was nothing like the original Turok at all. Im 
 not saying its bad or anything, but i think it would at least be better if they stuck to their 
 roots. The whole Futuristic Planet with a Crazy Leader on the Enemy Side is kind of lame.
  
  SPOILER!
  ~Inhuman mode is indeed Inhuman, i think they actually made this mode a bit TOO 
 hard, especially when it comes to the Elevator and the Momma Scarface fight at the end
  
  ~The fact that there were only 3 breeds of interactive animals/dinos added a lower blow to the 
 game, making it quite boring after performing the stealth kills a few times. (about 5/6)
  
  Multiplayer:
  ~This game has got to be the home of probably the WORST lag i have ever witnessed, 
 if you own or rent the game, you will find out why.
  
  ~The maps on this game are pretty good for the game, but the problem is, you cant turn on Dinos 
 inside the map, or even pick which ones you want in the map
  
  ~The coop mode maintains 3 levels opposed to the official Campaigns amount, sure this is "ok" but 
 not what anyone expected
  
  ~Its nearly impossible to score over 50% accuracy due to the Aim Sensitivity being high no matter 
 HOW low you make it
  
  Due to all its glitches and the fact that it isn't quite a "Turok" adventure title.... it didnt 
 score so high with me..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  This game was just great. Dispite all of the retries I had to do to be the game. It was well with 
 the sixty bucks and hell of a wait. If you love ramaging dinosaurs as much as I do then feel right 
 at home. Turok was the great game character ever thought of. He as been around for many years, 
 and I hope that this game will go into the future with a BANG! To me this was the bes in the series. 
 To me this game would would not get a rating it deserved. An to my surprise it didn't. I give it 
 a 8.0 because the game was very smooth. You know one of the games that is like Kingdom Hearts 2. 
 Or even the Iron Man game base on the movie. those game are fun but sometime can make people angry. 
 Say you were just trying to button mash your way through a crap load of raptors, if you tap the 
 button to quick you will end up with a dinosaur knocking you down over and over again. But if you 
 time your button tapping just right, you can end up running over jumping on a raptors back, grab 
 this head pull it head up to show its neck, you can slice it the neck of raptor to it dies. To 
 me that and the fact that there were only a selected few dinosaurs in the game. I mean that a dinosaur 
 with three horns, or a dinosaur a no horns but with a circle head that they can use as a ram, or 
 even a dinosaur with triangle plates on his back and a tail with spikes on it, or even different 
 kinds of dinosaurs instead of a t-rex, a raptor, baby t-rex's, or even baby raptors! Touchstone 
 should have threw in a munch more dinosaurs in the game. I hope that person from the Touchstone 
 gaming company will read this an say "dam we should take advise from him" or "hey that guy is right" 
 or even "Why didn't we think of that". All over that now it, this game seems to me that you will 
 be fighting the same dinosaurs, bugs, guys etc. An what is up with that the last bad guy for game 
 that living up to the what it mean to be a dinosaur killer, the last boss (spoiler coming) was not 
 like what I expected. You run up try to kill him. But it is not what it seems. Turok runs at him 
 and tries to stab him. Then a bunch of button sequences pop up on you screen. An if you don't hit 
 the right button he will knock you off and then you will have to sit through the stupid cut scene. 
 I thought that it would be shoot lower his health or knock him down until you get over to finish 
 him, but I was let down. Overall the game seem to be little less than what I expected for a Turok 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanJodyz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  This Turok game truly braught back Turok with beautiful next gen-graphics that make the enviroment 
 seem almost real. This game truly showed of all of Turoks bad @$$ weapons, finishing moves, and 
 dinousours. Turok is a next generation game that allows you to choose your very own style of going 
 through the story mode. You can be a run and gun shooting everything and anything that moves. Or 
 you can hunt your pray being silent using your bow and your knife to take out enemies quietly and 
 slowly. The dinousours also in the game feel almost real hunting you down like prey they wait until 
 your not expecting it and then they strike you, quickly finding yourself presing the left or right 
 trigger to fight the rapter off of you. The Story is compelling and impressive leting us know Turok 
 but not to much letting him seem mysterious. The online also is very impressive the large dinousour 
 infected maps are lots of fun to kill people. The team ctf and deathmach are amazing Turok allows 
 you to hear the players you just killed final words as your stabing him with your knife. All around 
 this is a very good game and has brought Turok into the next generation console. See you online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_fan101
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Turok is pretty amazing, except no time travel aspect but they kept the Native American part. Except 
 now your a convict of the military who say's your too dangerous to put out in battle. You were 
 taken in by a Soldier named Kane, he brings you into Wolf Pack, a group of men (ELITE SOLDIERS) 
 that fight in a pack. Your weapons include a Knife and Bow and Arrow, you also swap out weapons 
 like a shotgun, smg, Pulse Rifle, Rocket Launcher, sniper, flame thrower, and a few more. But im 
 not going to give out to much of the game so rent it or buy it to figure out more of the story. 
 OH and a few helpful hints. Pulse Rifle works wonderful on scorpions. Your knife is your best bet 
 with dinos (reasonably sized of course) . A bow is your best bet if you don't have a sniper and 
 your trying to kill from a distance. Its worth it. OH NO T-REX, RAPTORS, SCORPION, and Flying Bugs 
 how can this day get any worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kipohippo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Okay, Im gonna break it down for you.
  
  Graphics- 6/10
  Gameplay- 7/10
  Story- $%^# ! Overall, Turok is a last en game plsying on a this gen system. I rented this esterday 
 and i already regret it! I wouldnt even touch this game. I only played through chapter one. If 
 you r lookibng for a good monster killing game get blacksite instead. If your looking for a good 
 scary game get condemned 2: Bloodshot. If youre looking for some gore get gow. or wait for gow2. 
 Dont get this. Please. Dont. It's one of the worst games around. With games like cod4 and halo 
 3, it's a 15$ game. If you already own this game, dont worry, just follow theese steps.
  
  1. grab lighter.
  2. Set turok on fire
  3. Piss on turok.
  
  DONT BUY THIS GAME! DONT RENT 
 IT! DONT LOOK AT IT! AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! AHHHHHHHHHH AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH AHHHHHHHHHHHHH AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH 
 AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH ARAGHHHHHAHHH! THIS IS FILLER! THE STUPID GAMESPOT WONT LET ME HAVE 760 WORDS SO,......... AAAAAHH! 
 Thank you, that is all.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  
  The Game play of this game was done very well. With very nice execution style moves with the knife 
 i got into it very quick. The Aiming feature has yet to be desired however. I found the cross hairs 
 a little too sensitive and the amount of time between checkpoints too long. 
  
  Nothing like spending 10minutes blasting through soldiers then all of a sudden when your about 
 to hit the end you get jumped by 3 soldiers out of nowhere and you have to start 10 minutes back 
 and do everything all over again. i didn't even clear at least 75% of the game however. 
  
  This game did have one feature i thought was awesome and it was the Lethality of the "Knife" quickly 
 hitting the right trigger button at the right time would do an instant execute on any soldier and 
 almost any dinosaur (up to the raptor) . Great game to rent, but most definitely not a keeper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is out of this world. When im playing it makes me feel like im turok and im on another 
 planet ................ Its like im actually on another planet. THe graphics on this game is unbelivable, 
 there so good. Now turok comes from way back from on the Nitendo 64 and the games didnt have the 
 best graphics but everything else was fine. The story line in the new turok is awesome, and now 
 theres more danger in this game than ever fom Dinosaurse from the wolf pack team. There is alot 
 of stuff you have to worry about , but your knife and your trusty bow you might have a chance. 
 Now i have the game but i havent spent too much time playing it because im stuck on a part but 
 anyways if the campain is as good as it is im pretty sure the online play should be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  At first when I got the game it got me very exited to play it. Very good in the first mission but 
 then started getting very boring in the next few levles. But dont get me wrong I love Turok and 
 the other games of him in it exept this one. The others had a great storyline in it and I think 
 Turok 2 was the best of its kind. Because it had dinosures but not any old dinosure the mutated 
 kinds and the bosses were cool too. I like The live mode its cool and it has a good game play im 
 just wish that the storyline was good. Im not saying its a bad game it just could have been better, 
 but the graphics are very well made, the acting is good and the game has enough blood to make a 
 little boy close his eyes and cry. The sound of the gun going off is great, but another thing in 
 the game is that the person you play is Turok but it doesnt look like Turok. And thats all I gotta 
 say about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shurikenfreak
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off, the game won't make the true fans that happy overall; the game shares little to 
 no story or setting at all with the original Turok games. This one is set in the future, where 
 Joseph Turok is a space marine on a terraforming planet infested with dinosaurs. He is looking 
 for Kane, basically his ex-mentor who is working on bio-weapons that he probably isn't going to 
 sell to the best of people. On the planet are two enemies, the dinosaur inhabitants, and soldiers 
 on Kane's side. An interesting feature about this is that sometimes you will see enemy troops fighting 
 dinosaurs, where you can either help one of them or just watch one kill the other. Also, it feels 
 very nice to be able to lure dinosaurs toward your enemies using flares. What's even cooler is 
 the fact that you can make dinosaurs fight dinosaurs!
  
  Ok, now if this is not the first review of Turok you have read, then you have probably heard of 
 difficulties with the sensitivity and such, which is a bunch of lies, I didn't have to adjust the 
 sensetivity at all, it was fine the way it was! Also, you probably heard that the gun selection 
 wasn't that amazing, which is true, seeing as that you are given the basic guns that you see in 
 most FPS games. However, what is interesting is that you can use the guns' alternate fire, meaning 
 most guns can damage opponents in multiple ways. What is also cool is that you are given a bow 
 and knife that stay with you for the entire game, not being able to be traded for guns. The knife 
 kills are fun, and the explosive arrows are a nice touch.
  
  The graphics in the game have been complained about before, but I can't see why. Sure, they aren't 
 the greatest you have ever seen, but they aren't horrible either. The game's enviroment is nice, 
 and different from most FPS ones.
  
  The boss fights are okay, but only the last one and the serpent one are tough, though their learning 
 curve doesn't take that long. The game itself is a little short; if there were two or three more 
 levels, then the game would be great.
  
  Multiplayer is not that different from other FPS ones. However, it is cool that you can have nuetral 
 dinosaurs and insects running around killing both teams.
  
  Pros:
  1.) Cool setting.
  2.) Fun knife kills.
  3.) Good selection of weapons with alternate fires.
  4.) The game can 
 get you very excited at times.
  
  Cons:
  1.) The game is a little on the short side.
  2.) Multiplayer could have been made a little better.
  3.) Plot isn't unique and strays off of 
 what could have been made better.
  4.) Has nothing to do with the original games besides the dinosaurs, knife and bow really, no strange 
 weapons or anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me then when you heard that a new Turok was coming out you If you're like me then 
 when you heard that a new Turok was coming out you probably squealed with joy and ran to the nearest 
 game store to reserve it. What you probably didn't know is that with the fall of Acclaim (the original 
 maker of the game) the rights were sold, that you might have known the part you probably don't 
 know is that Disney bought it. It says Touchstone but that's just Disney. Where can I even start 
 on where the disappointment begins?
  Graphics  At first Turok gives the impression of amazing and up to date graphics, but as you play 
 further in you'll come to notice more often that textures begin losing their detail. I don't think 
 this is an engine problem though as much as a lazy texture artist problem. New textures like new 
 rock types or new terrain types are less detailed than earlier beginning ones. Still though the 
 game doesn't ever look horrid, but it is interesting to see that the game does obviously begin 
 to slope downwards in quality as the game progresses and sadly enough the slope only continues 
 down. Not ever shooting back up like with some titles.
  Controls and Mechanics  I figured I'd combine these two since they are virtually one in the same 
 because when I say controls I'm not just referring to the controller in your hands but also your 
 control over the world you're in or at least the character you're playing as. From start to finish 
 the game handles like every other shooter but with some very vexing and overall aggravating things. 
 Mainly is that you (Turok) has been trained as a special stealth operative with specialty training 
 in CQC (close quarters combat) and blades. The thing I have a problem with on this? The point is 
 stealth, yet sneaking never really takes place. In the beginning you have a scene where you need 
 to take out as many guards without being noticed as possible, this is nice but the fact is no matter 
 how good you are you'll probably only get 3 or 4 until the entire thing turns into a huge shoot 
 out. Combat it's self with guns is interesting but only for a short time, the low weapon count 
 and even worse weapon diversity quickly stick you with a repetition of weapons. Basically find 
 the weapon that you can find ammo for most often since all weapons operate near the same. To attempt 
 to spice things up you now have close combat attack, arm your knife and when you get close enough 
 to an enemy and at the right angle to them hit a button to instantly kill (most) enemies. At first 
 this is very impressive and great fun to watch but becomes quickly tired, mainly because the blood 
 effects are cheap and limited, cutting the throat of an enemy generally should have a nice juicy 
 blood splash but has little more than a trickle second you notice that knife wounds don't exist, 
 after slashing a raptor throat and watching a line of blood come from it you'll notice there is 
 no open skin or even a red line to indicate damage. While some would say this was just lazy I think 
 it is a combination of lazy and Disney trying to make things interesting for adults while not going 
 over the top, but that's why we love Turok. On top of lame knife combat and boring firearms you'll 
 be treated to some of the most annoying and overall bland boss fights you've ever seen. Two main 
 bosses take hold in this game, the fan favorite T-Rex and the man that taught you everything you 
 know. The T-Rex is fine for the first few boss fights but the final fight with him is a strict 
 pain. Mainly boss fights are annoying because the lack of a boss health bar, intelligent design 
 dictates you should always have a 'tell' sign when you damage an enemy. Whether they make a specific 
 sound, splatter blood, flash or have a health bar that goes down. Bosses in Turok though do not, 
 this leads to a complete lack of knowing how to even fight a boss let alone defeat. This is at 
 it's worst at end game when you must beat the T-Rex (for the third time) and back to back to that 
 defeat the main human baddy, not only is the T-Rex a pain to defeat but the end fight with the 
 human is a series of button mashing quick time events that every time you screw up it speeds up. 
 The general non-boss combat does leave a lot to be desired especially since in Turok you expect 
 to play a hunter, but you are just a general soldier especially since you go through the game with 
 a team. A team that by the way hates you and makes you ask your self why you're even there if everyone 
 has a problem with you.
  Sound  Again usually I don't bother with sound unless there is a good reason and Turok has one. 
 While sound quality isn't an issue the soundtrack is a major one. The original Turoks (especially 
 the amazing first one on N64) had a very very tribal Indian soundtrack, using many Native American 
 Indian instruments for the music. This added not only a very interesting and moving soundtrack 
 but also helped immerse the player into the hunter like atmosphere. Of course after Pocahontas 
 Disney is terrified of the Indian nation afraid of being sued yet again, so may have avoided the 
 entire thing for legal purposes but probably are just idiots and didn't think about it. Of course 
 it makes little difference since the game doesn't follow the man vs. nature style of original Turok 
 titles.
  Multiplayer - There isn't much to say about the multiplayer, it suffers from all of the same problems 
 that single player does. Un-inspired gameplay with a overall lack of interest in design, it feels 
 almost like a after thought that a part of the original design.
  The Overall  Seriously, WTF? Whether you are a FPS fan or a huge Turok fan like myself just avoid 
 this one at all costs. The original Turok had a very good story of a mystical Indian tribe under 
 attack by dino's and aliens. That was awesome! Plus to top it off the game was almost al in the 
 forest and what wasn't was a village setting. As well Turok used to boast a good exploration system 
 as you had a world to explore; also included to this world was puzzle solving and key finding. 
 To finish the deal was the soundtrack and style game play, using mostly arrows, pistols and shotguns 
 all other weapons had rather limited ammo. This caused a last resort scenario in which the player 
 only broke out the big guns for big conflicts. While the bow is useful in Turok and probably will 
 end up being your main weapon, it doesn't feel hunter like, it just feels forced. The entire hunter 
 feeling is also now completely gone, the old style felt like you WERE a hunter. Some how the originals 
 had a primal feeling, an animalistic feeling that truly was amazing. You truly felt like you were 
 striking fear into your enemies and in titles like Seeds of evil you actually could with a good 
 arrow shot into an enemy his nearby friends would run in fear if they couldn't see you. The new 
 Turok title does nothing to bring back the old Turok we love and only hurts its dying name further. 
 The last Turok I played (seeds of evil) you had the ability to make enemies heads explode in a 
 massive splash of blood and grey matter, now there is barely enough blood to make you feel like 
 you're even getting your feet damp. The fact is this, Turok is supposed to make you feel like a 
 hunter; you solve puzzles and hunt your enemy in the jungle like terrain. To make one feel like 
 a hunter you give them hunter weapons and pour in the blood by tanker truck loads. A hunter's kill 
 is messy and not for the squeamish, yet the new Turok feels like its holding back a whole lot. 
 Mainly quality but overall it feels like a lot is missing from concept to actual content. If you 
 love the old N-64 Turok like I do, do yourself a favor and just find a way to get the old Turok 
 because this isn't only a horrible Turok it's even a horrible FPS. Fans of Turok, FPS or games 
 in general should just avoid this title. No buy, no rent, just go play something else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the Turok games left the N64 and even at the end of the N64's life the Turok games have 
 been getting worse. This one is no exception but the difference is, we had to wait years for this 
 one. Now, Turok is a space marine on his way to kill the leader of a group that you were once a 
 member of. It's sad how we've gone from dinosaur hunter to space marine but it could have been 
 worse and so could have the game.
  
  The combat in this game is your normal FPS with a bow, knife, and dinosaurs. Now with your knife 
 equipped you can run up to raptors and soldiers and slice their throat or stab their chest which 
 for a while can be fun. The gameplay is fairly easy tough because of your knife. Soldiers are best 
 taken out with guns but if you're fighting 3-5 raptors at once, taking them out with your knife 
 is no problem. Altough, finishing off a T-Rex with your knife never got old. One thing I did enjoy 
 that they added was being able to shoot a flare from your shotgun and if it hit a soldier and there 
 are dinosaurs around, then the dinosaurs will kill him for you. The problem with that is that the 
 aiming in this game is horrific. There is no auto aim whatsoever and sometimes bullets will go 
 through and enemy if you hit them on the outer lining of the arms, legs, head so it ruins the fun 
 sometimes.
  
  This game does tough have some pretty intense battles, or at least they are for the first 5 minutes 
 of each one. In most cases, the fights are way too long and get boring after awhile. The fact that 
 checkpoints are far apart doesn't help either.
  
  It also seems that the developers just tried to stretch this game out as much as they could and 
 it's still not even that long of a game. The long battles are a part of it as well as unneeded 
 things that happen in the story that just seem out of place and boring.
  
  So the single player isn't up to par but the multiplayer is a fun element. You have your basic 
 multiplayer modes, team deathmatch, capture the flag, etc. but they added a twist. There are neutral 
 dinosaurs and giant bugs that will attack anyone. Thus not only do you have to look out for other 
 players but for the dinosaurs as well. Sometimes if a player is not paying attention, it can give 
 away their location and sometimes save your life.
  
  So this is yet another mediocre game in a franchise that hasn't yet found that spark to reignite 
 the fire that they had with the N64. But, if you are looking for a game to hold you over for a 
 couple weeks then this can do the job. I give Turok a 5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Turok has been a series known dead because of it's horrible sequels, but does the new remake bring 
 life back to the series as we have hoped?
  
  Campaign (7.5/10) : The Campaign has a good enough story that has few complaints, except the lack 
 of Co-op. The game starts out with you getting out of your ship you've been assigned to, and blah 
 blah blah. That part doesn't matter. Once you get to the planet, this is where things take off. 
 You are equipped with a knife, and soon a simple gun. Right here is when we notice some goods and 
 bads. The goods: your knife is probably the most fun weapon to kill with. When used, it takes you 
 out of first-person view and puts you in third as you watch your character go into a crazy killing 
 move. But, if you choose to use a gun, it works just fine too. A shotgun is given to you eventually 
 in which the second attack is to shoot out a flare that the dinos are attracted to, which seems 
 to come in handy a lot as you go on. Also, you are given cool grass to hide in, or get hunted in. 
 The Bad: Unfortunately, the grass talked about earlier, isn't rendered very well. It looks like 
 a picture that rotates as you move by, much like ammo in Doom. Why is this here? NO ONE uses this 
 technique. Ever. Another thing wrong is that if you are going to make your health like Call of 
 Duty, where you can take so much damage before dying, and you make it easy for you to get hurt, 
 then you must have adequate cover. This is not the case in this game. There isn't enough cover, 
 so you end up having to run long distances trying to avoid being hurt instead of just ducking behind 
 a wall.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : Gameplay is like Halo (Two tradable weapons, your knife, and bow - yes making 
 4 in all) meets Call of Duty (damage taken, opposed to health bar) , and of course Turok. Playing 
 a game with dinosaurs continually roaming around is awesome. Though, I wish there was a giant area 
 where dinosaurs were roaming around, but sadly there was no such place. I also wish there where 
 more dinosaurs. There are a few, but not enough. Still, this game is fun.
  
  Multiplayer (4/10) : This mad me angry. First of all: no Co-op, but I can live with that. Then: 
 Awesome multiplayer maps with continually spawning dinosaurs, but only being able to play online 
 or system link!!! Really?! Why isn't there any LAN play in games anymore? I play online a lot, 
 but nothing beats having friends over and playing on one console. Plus the only Co-op is online 
 or through system link, but it's just a short level (one of 3 or 4) made solely for that purpose. 
 To make things worse, every time I've gone online with this game except for twice, my game has 
 ended up with a bad connection, killing most of everyone but two people's connection. Almost all 
 online achievements didn't help any. This could just be bad luck for me, but it made online play 
 very unenjoyable.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  
  It's not perfect, or even near it, but it's good enough to have me looking for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  this game rox i mean alltho it took me a wile to beat it because i was trying to beat timesift 
 (crapy game) but this game was just awsome the atmosphere was great and so were the guns the dino 
 fighting is cool but fighting humans is a little to hard and frustrating but you get used to it 
 the enviorements are amazing and beutiful kinda like the first level on halo 3 the story is a little 
 original but thats ok the online co-op is really cool same with multiplayer. however the only reason 
 i did not give this game a 8.5 is because the last level is allmost impossible to beat. the worst 
 however is the flying bugs that spit acid at you there is just so many of them that they just overwelm 
 you until you die!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and the final boss the t-rex is so fast and big that you can 
 barely move without getting killed!!!!!!!!!!!!!! other than that the game is awsome!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  
  
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I can't help but sigh anytime another first-person shooter appears on the Xbox 360, which is already 
 saturated with their releases. For each great and enjoyable FPS like Halo 3, Half-Life 2, or Bioshock, 
 there seems to be five others trying to be like them. I guess it's unstoppable to quell the FPS 
 flow, but here comes Turok, back from the dead. Originally part of the late Acclaim lineup, the 
 Turok series is now under development by Propaganda Games, an up-and-coming development house. 
 Turok originally began as a comic book and after a few average sequels, was thought to die out 
 with Acclaim. Fortunately, we get a new, re-stylized hero with a new story to boot. Is Turok's 
 appearance on the Xbox 360 the series' rebirth?
  
  Turok puts you in the role of Joseph Turok, a new recruit in the military team Whiskey Company, 
 who with his team crash land on a distant planet riddled with angry dinosaurs. Upon awakening, 
 Turok must find his team. The catch is that Turok's former commander Kane is out for leadership 
 on the planet and it's up to Turok to find his team, take out Kane, and get off the planet. The 
 story is typically a brand new story, with little connection to the original Turok games. Turok 
 learns many of his abilities through flashbacks of his work as Kane's subordinate. The story isn't 
 anything special; cutscenes are short and simple. You quickly realize that Turok's history isn't 
 the best and that some of his team is out to get him. It's fairly interesting for a while, but 
 the story doesn't pick up much at all.
  
  Controlling Turok can come down to your tolerance for its controls, which can run from being solid 
 to over-obscure. The first thing that I noticed was the look sensitivity, whose default is through 
 the roof. It also is a bit confusing that the crouch action is mapped to the Y button instead of 
 clicking the left thumbstick in. Fortunately, the rest of the game's controls work pretty well. 
 B is the main action button, which lets Turok interact with the environment in ways like opening 
 doors or climbing vines. The left bumper is for grenades, and the triggers can be used for raising 
 a better sight on enemies or dual-wielding, depending on the situation. Switching weapons with 
 the D-Pad can be a bit clunky when moving, but works pretty well. Although you may find the controls 
 a bit different from other FPS games, they are functional and work well in combat.
  
  Turok lets you carry up to four weapons, although two of those are always the knife and bow. Each 
 weapon also has two methods of firing, which can be changed using the right bumper. I'm not going 
 to deny it; killing with the knife in Turok is fun. There's a sense of violent elegance in sneaking 
 up behind an unsuspecting victim and getting an instant kill. It's a captivating feeling that manages 
 to last throughout the entire game. However, they play a lot like the Energy Sword did in Halo 
 2; it's fun to use, but in multiplayer, it can be extremely unbalanced. This leads to a majority 
 of multiplayer games being similar to Swords matches in Halo 2, as to who can get a quick-kill 
 first. The bow, on the other hand, is best used as a quick sniping weapon. You can choose between 
 the typical two modes of fire: regular and exploding arrows. The bow, though not as visceral and 
 useful as the knife, delivers a satisfying method of taking out enemies. The rest of the weapons, 
 however, are your simple FPS arsenal. You get your pistol, shotgun, along with grenades and such, 
 but none of them manage to go the extra mile. If you see it in Turok, you've probably seen it before 
 in another FPS. Fortunately, the weapons that Turok actually takes seriously (a. k. a. the knife 
 and bow) work extremely well and although they don't make up for Turok's simplicity in its arsenal, 
 are pretty fun to implement into taking out enemies.
  
  Speaking of enemies, there are basically two types: soldiers and dinosaurs, which makes for a really 
 big problem when it comes to avoiding repetition. Sure, slaying a velociraptor with your knife 
 (which you'll be doing a lot) is fun the first few times, but having to take out a whole pack of 
 them can run down the path of tedious. Fighting regular soldiers is even worse, considering that 
 they can range from either completely dumb (hiding behind a rock that you can easily peek behind) 
 or annoyingly bloodthirsty (attacking in packs, ironically, like velociraptors) . Although some 
 of the soldiers pack some nice weapons like sniper rifles or RPG's, many of them will use the typical 
 SMG or some simple weapon seen in some other first-person shooter. An interesting aspect of Turok's 
 two types of enemies is that they will actually attack each other. Even cooler is that you can 
 actually MAKE them attack each other, with well-timed shooting or good weapons particularly. It's 
 rewarding to see your handiwork of seeing a nearby raptor attack one of the cookie-cutter soldier 
 enemies, something that makes the enemy type idea work.
  
  Graphically, the game looks okay. There's a degree of clipping, but for an Xbox 360 game, it looks 
 respectively good. The outdoor environments are rich and lively; lighting effects shimmer through 
 the trees and reptilian enemies animate well. The indoor environments, however, are extremely generic. 
 The soldier enemies are simplistic and while they also animate well, look alike at times. The quick 
 kills with the knife are animated extremely well, with dinosaurs pouring with blood and Turok's 
 killing animations being smooth and natural. The sound is pretty much on the same level; it's good. 
 Not great, but good. The voice actors do a respectable job under each role. The sound effects are 
 engaging and well presented. Sadly, like the gameplay, the graphics and sound of Turok just seem 
 to nail the "okay" mark. Don't expect a groundbreaking presentation; just expect lots of blood.
 
  
  Pros
  + Nice environments
  + Is a completely passable FPS
  + Multiplayer is okay
  + Slaying dinosaurs is cool
  
  Cons
  - Gameplay is completely by-the-book
  - Storyline 
 is annoying and boring
  - Weapons and challenges are too simplistic
  - Slaying random soldiers is not cool
  
  Although Turok makes some pretty strong pushes towards 
 distinguishing itself in this crowded genre, what remains is a very average shooter whose only 
 real significance is the dinosaur killing. The story is annoying and the entire presentation feels 
 tired and completely irrelevant. The overall gameplay has its moments of being inventive and generally 
 over-the-top (mostly the dino killing) but the rest of the game has been done before many, many 
 times over. You'll hit switches, guard bases, and use a variety of by-the-book weapons that you've 
 seen in many other games similar to it, all while listening to a bad story and passable voice acting. 
 The environments are actually pretty good looking, though right when you begin complimenting the 
 jungle world created by Turok's developers, you'll eventually find yourself in the same dark, gray-walled 
 bases that can be seen in nearly every other first-person shooter seen before. So what can be said 
 about this new version of Turok? Well, it's not bad. Turok isn't a game that I expected a ton from, 
 and in retrospect, I can see why. It's far from horrible and it's completely functional, but there's 
 a degree of wasted potential in Turok's gameplay. FPS fans will find Turok to be passable, but 
 will most likely go back to playing some other much better shooters. Any skeptical gamer who wants 
 to see how Turok's return turned out will find it to be a good rental, but a shaky purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Want to shoot and kill dinosaur rather than run from it? Then you must play this game. Be Joseph 
 Turok, a marine stuck in a remote planet full of dinosaurs and group of terrorists.
  
  The story quite interesting, Turok was an assasin trained by special crime organizations (or something 
 like that) with horrible leader. Later he's out from that force and join the marine. Destiny takes 
 him back to his past and this time, he will finish his undone business with his former leader. 
 Too bad, to complete that objectives, thousand of dinosaurs, incooperative marine mates, and confusing 
 jungle lays between them.
  
  Perform by Unreal Engine, the graphics look beautiful. I like the design of the jungle (it as great 
 as the first mission of halo 3) . The dinosaurs look great too! the goddamn T-rex, fiercely velociraptor 
 and deadly somekind of lizard really kick the ass!
  
  The gameplay quite frustating, when you stuck with 3 or more dinosaurs around you, it's suck to 
 have those dinosaurs attack you at the same time from many directions! The evade mechanism using 
 A+left analog stick doesn't work very well againts those dinosaurs and they are really strong (Except 
 you have plasma gun or rocket) ! I like the design of the weaponery, the plasma gun is my favorite 
 gun, the problem is, it goes overheat after a long burst fire. I also like the realism of the game, 
 when Turok gets hit by a grenade, he will be throw away really hard! Even CoD 4 doesn't have this.
 
  
  So, Turok's journey is an interesting adventure. It is worth to play and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmoneyman1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has gotten a rotten score from gamespot for reasons I do not know. I have just finished 
 the game on hard and was very pleased with it. I feel that it was more fun than halo yet not quite 
 up to par with Call of Duty 4. Its not the greatest game that I have played, but its definitely 
 better than a 7. 
  
  You start off with a mission on a planet far from Earth. The planet is filled with bad guys (humans) 
 and lots and lots of dinosaurs. When first running around in the game, you begin with a knife. 
 You run up to a dino, the screen shows an option to push the right trigger and BAM! your stabbing 
 it to death. Blood is gushing everywhere and you are completely satisfied. Then you get your bow 
 and a machinegun. The controls are comfy, with the left trigger as your zoom in and right trigger 
 as your shoot. Feels a lot like Call of Duty. It makes you want to shoot everything in the head, 
 which is what you should be doing since the enemy has armor. You will play throughout this planet 
 from one side to another, killing everything in your path. You unit doesnt appreciate you much 
 because you used to be working for the enemy and abandoned them. About half way through you will 
 be tasked with killing you first t-rex. It comes at you out of nowhere and definitely looks great. 
 After killing it, you will feel a great sense of accomplishment. There are not only humans and 
 dinos in the game, but about half way through after killing the REX, you will be fighting giant 
 scorpions and a huge monster. In the end, after kiling everything on the planet and their mothers, 
 you will be happy about it. Long journey is over now and its time to play on a much harder difficulty. 
 Online play is fun as well, with other people and dinos all together. Its a lot of fun to take 
 your friend out while he is trying to kill a dino :) . 
  
  The game took me about 11 hours to beat, largely because I would get stuck on a part and have to 
 do it all over. But it's not in any way as bad as what gamespot says it is. Not even close. It 
 is also being told like a blockbuster movie, which enriches the experience very much!. Tthe gameplay 
 is as smooth as soft served icecream on a hot sunday afternoon without any lag or issues. I honestly 
 did not notice a single time where an enemy or friend was clipping through a rock or half way through 
 a wall. So its definitely good for a rental and even good as a purchase with all the fun of online 
 play. Strongly urge ya to check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_rush
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I recently played Turok, and after playing the previous ones I figured i would have more fun playing 
 an up-to-date version of the game, in actuality i had less fun. This game starts out pretty interesting, the 
 graphics are pretty good, the dinosaurs are awesome, and every character in the game apparently takes 
 steroids. I mainly used the knife because you get more interesting techniques than with the guns, kind 
 of boring to go through out the game without a little melee action. The game got boring as i got 
 to about the 3rd level, all i would do is kill raptors and be cautious of a T-Rex coming out of 
 nowhere. When the scorpions appear in the game it gets a little more challenging, but still the same 
 boring old stuff going on. When you actually get to fight the T-Rex it becomes fun and pretty hard 
 too, but thats the last level, so you got quite a bit to do before enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Turok is a different, sci-fi shooter. You're a total butt-kicking badass named turok, woh's pretty 
 much hated by all your teammates (they think Turok used to work for a crinimal) . What happens is 
 you pretty much get stuck on this planet infested by dinosaurs (naturally) , and a bunch of enemy 
 soldiers. God knows what these other guys are looking for, all you need to know is your character 
 is in a bad situation. These dinosaurs want meat, and there's too many of them to count. Luckily, 
 Turok can slice them up in a swing with his trusty knife. You'll soon come to find out the knife 
 will be your mainly used weapon, as it's very effective, and it's much more convenient than using 
 your sidearms. The combat system is really fun, and there's a variety of kill moves Turok performs, 
 all of them hitting the high gore factor, which I'm sure you all like =) . He can go from sticking 
 his knife into a dinosaur's skull then ripping it in half, to putting an enemy trooper in a headlock 
 and sticking a knife thru the helpless soldier's chest.
  Interms of storyline, there isn't much of one. It's pretty much just wipe out some enemies in a 
 zone, done. Next zone. Bam, bam, slice, slice, done. 
  
  Another great thing about Turok is the design of the dinosaurs. It's amazing, the developers really 
 nailed their detail. Not only are the graphics for these guys amazing, the developers also mastered 
 the dinosaurs' movement. 
  
  Now, for the annoyances in Turok. You'll come across a lot of things that can piss you off in Turok. 
 For one, the dino slaughtering DOES get boring. It's the same thing over and over. In the beginning 
 of the game, you'll see a lot of new kill moves, but later on they'll keep repeating themselves, 
 and eventually get old. The most annoying thing is the save system. You can only save at Checkpoints. 
 So, if you have to leave and you're in the middle of a mission, don't rely on the save system of 
 Turok, you'll be disappointed. There's also a lot of other tweaks that will get on your nerves 
 during your time in Turok
  
  Overall, Turok is a decent shooter with lots of action, so if you love the FPS genre, you should 
 try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  OK, let me start by saying that Turok could have been a lot better. the graphics are average, the 
 storyline is typical, your character does'nt have any unique powers, and the enemies that are'nt 
 dinosaures aren't much fun at all. Now let's get to the good part: dinosaures and weapons. Turok 
 has a good assortment of weapons, a decent number of which are fairly unique, and all of which 
 are affective (except for the pistol) . But the place where Turok realy stands out is, of course, 
 dinosaurs. there are few things more satisfying in video games that blowing a raptor away with 
 your machine gun or shooting a T-rex down with rockets and explosive arrows, the only problem with 
 the dino's is that they are unrealistically too hard to take down (ex. you can shoot a T-rex in 
 the face with five rockets and all it will do is stop for a second then resume charging you) . I 
 say they should have made the dinosaures easier to take down but given us more of them.
  
  Multiplayer is really, really, average. aside from having huge amounts of lag no matter who's the 
 server, the game types are all common. turok does'nt have any split screen, which is a huge missed 
 opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhfpunisher
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  
  First let me say that I did not agree with the Gamesspot review for the first time with this game. 
 They gave it a 7 which is ok but they harped on it quite a bit and it seemed unfounded to me. Anyway 
 on with the review... Turok is the first FPS that I purchased for the 360, it was a new release 
 at the time. I always thought this game looked interesting when I saw it come out for the Nintendo 
 64. It didn't disappoint even at $60. The game starts off with your spaceship getting shot down 
 on a nearby planet that is inhabited by a) dinosaurs and other creatures b) a large army of soldiers. 
 The game gets involved pretty quickly at this point as you and some of the other survivors have 
 to figure out where you are and what is going on with this planet. This is where Turok can set 
 itself apart from other FPS's. They put a combination of dinosaurs and armed soldiers in your way 
 which can take out each other as well if you play your cards right. The game is fairly hard IMO, 
 and they make it harder by making the checkpoints really long (this is the one part of the Gamespot 
 review I agreed with) . I didn't like that point of the game or that it takes several shots to put 
 down an enemy. Go from RSV or COD4 to Turok and you will see what I mean. They fall down and get 
 back up like the living dead!! (no zombies in this game btw : ( These are honestly the only downpoints 
 of the game. I think the story is ok, the voice acting is more than adequate, and the graphics 
 are some of the best I have seen on the 360 (especially for an FPS) . I think this game is worth 
 the purchase, I will replay it for sure on a harder level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Turok. A long running franchise, with many fans. This fans have been waiting 5 long hard years 
 for a Turok game, and they finally got one.
  So, with a reputation like that, you would expect good from this game and for the most part delivers. 
 Here's why.
  
  This Turok begins with Joseph Turok, a space marine, out to kill a wanted man. This takes a turn 
 for the worse when the ship gets shot down. The story isn't Turoks strong point, which is a bit 
 of a disappointment, as many fell in love with Turok because of its immersive story, but it is 
 fun. Plus, you eventually don't care, and just want to kill the guy. the gameplay is fun, but is 
 kinda dumb how you can go through swarms of raptors with a lowly knife. 
  
  The weapons variety isn't great, but the game's extremely fun, one of my favorite parts of the 
 game was burning insects with a super awesome flame thrower. The boss battles are tough, but they'll 
 eventually die from the awesome power of the native american Turok. I enjoyed it, and I hope you'll 
 at least give Turok a try. It wasn't revolutionary, but it was a great taste of things to come 
 in '08. Overall -- 9.3 (9)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 13, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Another painful review to start with, you guys must expect one to talk about the graphics, sound, 
 gameplay, etc. Here we go but I seriously just want to talk about gameplay because you can watch 
 videos everywhere to judge the graphics and sound. Only gameplay worth me to write about.
  
  Anyway, the graphics in Turok is poor by Xbox 360 standards. A lot of juggies (poor antialiasing 
 effect) appear and the texture lack great detail overall. The sound? **** I didn't notice anything 
 special. They should have added sound to the forest. It is weird to walk in a jungle that I can 
 hear my footsteps clearly. Where are the sounds of leaves, insects and inhabitants? The dialogue 
 doesn't matter. I only heard some men murmuring. I was like Anakin Skywalker, confused, saying 
 "What?" in the Jedi Council.
  
  There are tonnes of bad elements in Turok. Not all of you will concur with me but I am clear-minded. 
 Read and fry me later.
  
  First off, I need to complain about the pulse rifle. This weapon is your main weapon in the game 
 but it is only because of its decent firepower and very abundant ammo as every human enemy equips 
 this. What 's bad about this weapon is its overheating and ammo consumption rate. Although it has 
 a magazine of 100 bullets, it takes 20 bullets to down a solider, given that you control the shot. 
 Therefore this weapon has to reload every now and then. When you are fighting a company of troops 
 or a hungry raptor, you can find this very annoying to reload at the worst time. Secondly, this 
 weapon builds up heat... what the **** I apologize for this foul language but you may say it as 
 well in the game. Every time you hold down the trigger for too long, this crap overheats and this 
 triggers a movement like reloading, only this takes even longer. As a bonus, you can't switch weapons 
 when Turok is busy fixing this overheated **** By the words "too long", I tell you this crap overheats 
 shooting about 30 bullets. So you have a 100 magazine but this thing overheats so often that you 
 must lay down your fire killing each soldier. After killing 4-5 enemies, you reload. What a shame. 
 I tried to get this thing out of my inventory but in the end I keep it since all others are lame 
 as well. The sniper rifle, okay, leave it.
  
  Aliens vs Predator Requiem received heavy criticism on its lighting. Same thing goes to Turok. 
 In many levels, it is pitch black. You tell me, "Hey, dude. Doom 3 is dark too!" But a flashlight 
 was granted in Doom 3, right? Okay, except in "Hell". Imagine fighting several missions in darkness 
 without the flashlight. Forget about adjusting brightness. Turok does NOT give that option. So 
 at times I shouted angriy, "is this the future arsenal they call?"
  
  The dinosaurs are supposed to be dangerous. On that part, I feel alright. But for the human enemies 
 and flying bugs, my resentment cannot rest. They make these two enemies extremely tough. No thanks, 
 ladies and gentlemen, no thanks. It is outrageous. I am NOT a coward but the extreme rate of damage 
 should not belong to a swarm of regular enemies. The flies are worthless in Turok, a dinosaur themed 
 game. But they can kill us in two hits. That was equivalent to the Spider Tank boss! You feel the 
 pain attacked by a whole swarm of them in the generator room. One further bad thing is the save 
 system. I mean, they make a manual save option but it is not what's in your mind. It saves your 
 kill number for the achievements but does not save your progress. Not clear? It means you lose 
 everything including the number of enemies you kill towards the achievement unless you reach the 
 next checkpoint. If you manually save, you can secure the kill statistic but the progress won't 
 save. This sucks really really seriously. Before the Spider Tank battle, we have to take care of 
 a rocket launcher dude who proves to be a devil. A savepoint should have been given when he was 
 killed. Well, there wasn't. In the next fight, if the Spider Tank kicks your ass (it should take 
 2-3 times before you know its pattern and defeats him) , you have to fight that rocket guy again. 
 A savepoint should be placed after you place 3 bombs in the generator room but there isn't, AGAIN! 
 So the two-hit kills bugs get the chance to slaughter us AGAIN, AGAIN and AGAIN!
  
  I also forget the good of Turok. In fact, the team who handled the dino combat should be given 
 great credit. We seldom fight dinosaurs and they make it fun. The health of the dinosaurs are reasonably 
 strong and put up quite some challenges. The T-rex may to too hard but he really counts as a badass 
 boss! The sea monster is terrifying too. Although it reminds me of Tomb Raider Legend's giant sea 
 snake boss, it is classic. In fact, he is the only mutant in this game (Even the T-rex is an animal, 
 not monster) . So cool is he.
  
  A good thing about Turok is that its achievements are okay. It does not require 6 player present 
 for the most part so boosting is so much easier. Also, there is no 1000 online kill achievement 
 so you achievement gluttons would have less trouble with it when you get tired of the game. Only 
 the inhuman campaign completion achievement is ridiculous but it is forgivable because it is only 
 60G, a fairly low gamerscore for extreme difficulty.
  
  Based on my review, you can tell I have more fury than fun in Turok. I suggest a rental only. I 
 bought it and regretted it so much. It would worth 8 or more if the problems mentioned above are 
 fixed and more action is related to dinosaurs instead of humans and bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Turok was one game that I could just not wait to play. When I first got my hands on the game, I 
 was so excited. Turok was not a bad game, in fact it was a pretty good game. But Turok does suffer 
 from some thing that could of been better.
  
  The story behind Turok is that you are part of a squad called Whiskey company, and you are sent 
 to an alien planet to kill a man named Kane. Turok use to belong to Kane's wolf pack, as he called, 
 until he saw that Kane mainly just went around killing villagers. So you are on this planet were 
 Kane and his army of soldiers are trying to gather this info on how to bring back dinosaurs and 
 giant bugs. So you go around in these jungles and these labatories killing a bunch of different 
 kinds of enemies.
  
  The level design in Turok is good. It makes you feel like you are in a giant world, but the thing 
 is that you can not move around a lot. Like I said, it makes you feel, but you are really just 
 going down one linear path.
  
  The enemies in Turok are all right. The soldiers and the bugs are not that fun to fight. The dinosaurs 
 are probably the coolest enemies in this game. You can perform a bunch of cool knife kills on the 
 dinosaurs where you grab them, and jam your knife into their heads, and blood just out evey where. 
 Some times this game can be super easy, but at other times this game can get really hard, and it 
 is at random times through the game.
  
  But lets just say that the knife is actually the coolest weapon in this game. The guns in Turok 
 look cool, but there no different then trying to kill some one with just an ordinary rifle. You 
 shoot the enemy, even with a shoot, and you just unload round after round into them, and they do 
 not die. Not to mention, that that is part of the reason why the soldiers kill you. because they 
 are not that smart. I would not say that they are stupid, but they do some of the dumbest things. 
 Sometimes you will shoot one from a distance and the other soldiers will just run around in circles. 
 The best enemies are the dinosaurs.
  
  The graphics in Turok are really good. The environments look good, the character models look good, 
 and the gun models also look pretty good.
  
  The sound in Turok is also pretty good. The sound as you creep through the grass sound good. The 
 music sounds, and the voice acting sounds good.
  
  Turok also has a pretty good multi player. The multi player does take a lot of time to get use 
 to, but after you get the hang of the multi player, this game is a blast. The modes are pretty 
 much the same as all first person shooter. there are only a few maps, but now there is a map pack 
 out theer that offers like five new maps. With out the map pack there are seven maps. The maps 
 are cool because there are dinosaurs on them. So you can lead a dinosaur to kill another player, 
 by shooting a flare on them. Over all Turok's multi player is really good, but Call of Duty 4 is 
 still the king of multi player.
  
  Over all Turok os a great game that just suffers from a few things, but it has a pretty good single 
 player, and a really fun multi player, so at least give Turok a rentle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  Ok so turok, before this review begins i must tell people this Next-Gen turok is deffently not 
 anything like the great original on the N64 and pretty much all it has in common is dinosaurs.
 
  
  
  Story:
  
  The player takes the role of Joseph Turok. Previously, Turok was a member of the Wolfpack, a specialized 
 military detachment whose members were trained in black ops by General Roland Kane. After a falling 
 out with the group, Turok was reassigned back to the military and was eventually made the newest 
 member of Whiskey Company-a team that has been assembled to apprehend his former mentor and return 
 him to Earth. Formerly 'General' Kane, he had supposedly disappeared two years earlier only to 
 have surfaced once again on a world under the jurisdiction of the Mendel-Gruman (M-G) Corporation.
 
  
  At first, the crew shuns him thinking that he is an inexperienced fighter, untrustworthy, and a 
 liability. One particular member, Slade, has a grudge against Turok because his brother was killed 
 in the same battle from which Turok had reputedly fled from, earning him his dubious reputation. 
 Unbeknown to the team, Roland Kane is in command of a secret paramilitary force working for Mendel-Gruman.
 
  
  On approach to their target, the starship they are in is shot down from orbit and crash lands on 
 the terraformed surface where Turok quickly learns that the dinosaurs inhabiting its jungles were 
 created with accelerated evolution. Through several adventures, Turok and the surviving marines 
 eventually discover that Kane has created a Soldier bug-based biotoxin with deadly and immediate 
 effects that disperses harmlessly after use, making it an ideal first strike weapon. Whiskey Company 
 comes up with a plan to stop Kane and escape the planet but in the ensuing battle, most of the 
 crew are killed although the survivors manage to penetrate Kane's defenses and sabotage the base. 
 Only Slade, Shepherd, and Turok manage to make it to the spaceship and make ready to leave, but 
 Turok is left behind at his request to head back into the ruins and face Kane. After an ensuing 
 battle, Kane is defeated by Turok in a knife duel.
  
  Shortly after Kane's death, an attacking T-Rex charges into the scene which Turok is forced to 
 fight with weapons scattered across the landing area where the battle had taken place. Defeating 
 the T-Rex, Slade and Shepherd return to pick up Turok and leave the hostile world for Earth.
  
  To be pretty honest the story within this game is pretty generic, not in a game sense but from 
 a movie sense if you really think about it.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is similar to that of most first-person shooters, with a strong focus on survival 
 in dangerous natural environments. The human enemies, under the leadership of Kane, is the main 
 threat to the player, although dinosaurs may often be found wandering throughout the game. The 
 dinosaurs act as a neutral force and, if the player chooses, can be used as a tool to attack enemy 
 soldiers. This may be done by attracting roaming dinosaurs to a firefight (via: flares, gunshots, 
 etc.) to aid the player and help dispatch the enemy, with possible other ways depending on the 
 situation. The dinosaur A. I is not limited in attacking specific enemies, so other dinosaurs and 
 all humans, including the player's allies and enemies, may be attacked.
  
  The game does not utilize an aim-assist feature.
  
  Because Turok takes place mostly in jungle 
 environments with a focus on ambiance, the player may kill enemies with a bow or knife without 
 being heard or use dinosaurs to attract the attention of other enemies and slip by unnoticed. A 
 famed new feature into this game is the Silent Kill, which is done by drawing your knife, then 
 attacking a human or unaware dino from behind. The kill can be utilized against dinosaurs and humans 
 alike as a finishing blow, and can be executed from any side. The kills are incredibly gory, (such 
 as attacking a raptor from a certain angle, then stabbing it in the head, rippimng the knife out, 
 then kicking over the flailing beast.) The knife is also utilized as a self-defense weapon during 
 phases known as "mauls", where the player is attacked by a dino or bug, and must hammer on the 
 according buttons in order to counter-attack or fend off the attack. 
  
  Ok i had a HUGE problem with the fact that Turok didnt return with cerebral bore ( The greatest 
 weapon ever ) , and also, for the most part unless your the best at aiming this game can get extremly 
 fustrating at times.
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Online multiplayer support is also available. There is a (Team) Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Wargames, 
 and Assault Capture the Flag. Multiplayer supports up to 16 people, and 4 players for three co-op 
 missions. A feature in the multiplayer randomly spawning computer-controlled dinosaurs and insects 
 that appear in various locations in levels adds a new factor to the gameplay, and has not appeared 
 in first-person shooter games since Doom. While players must worry about the opposing enemies, 
 they must now also worry about the hostile dinosaurs that will be attempting to kill them. There 
 can be up to 4 A. I controlled dinosaurs or insects on any map at one time.
  
  Atleast the multiplayer within this game is pretty good as it keeps you on your toes a heck of 
 alot becuase not only are the enemy out to kill you, but so are randomly placed Dino's you will 
 try to munch on who ever you see.
  
  Just be warned people like to play with there knives in this field and it again, can be fustrating.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Overall fans of the original Turok will be satisfied to an extent and for the most part so will 
 newcomers to the series and the genre, However with not many people liking no aim assist what so 
 ever and the lack of weapon viriaty, this Turok is passable but no way great like the original.
 
  
  
  The Good:
  
  Graphically pretty decent
  Online adds viriaty
  Voice acting
  
  The Bad:
  
  fustrating online ( Knive kills )
  can be alittle hard at times
  
  The 
 Ugly:
  
  only about 5 weapons in the game
  unsatisfying ending for me
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlunch2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I do honestly wonder why more developers aren't making more dinosaur based video games. Turok shows 
 that the old lizards add a lot of substance to the shooter genre with it's (sometimes) amazing 
 thrills. You play in the game as a Native American man named Turok, who is a new recruit with the 
 space marines. You don't have long to argue with you're fellow marines before the ship you are 
 riding through space in crash lands on a long lost planet. Or at least it used to be. The dinsoaurs 
 inhabiting the planet are quite ferocious, and feel realistic to say the least. The detail that 
 has been put into each one is quite impressive, especially the T-rex. Each dino provides it's own 
 thrills throughout the game. Raptors leap out and pull your friends into tall shrubs, and a T-rex 
 trying to eat while you hide in a tree are just a few of the great moments you will experience 
 during the game. Now although the game has many great moments, there are a few problems you have 
 to get by to truly get the good joys out of this game. The controls can feel a bit awkward at times. 
 Aiming your weapon feels like it is going a bit too fast for my taste, and makes headshots a far 
 more difficult task. The level design could also use some work. The game often makes you want to 
 explore the beautiful world around you, but due to the linear type of levels, limits you. The voice 
 acting cast actually manages to do a pretty great performance with the game. If the scripting were 
 better written, the actors could have done the game a lot more justice. Turok is one of those games 
 that could just nearly give a good emotional response, but just doesn't make it. The graphics will 
 never fail to impress you though. The jungles and caves you traverse feel as realistic as ever, 
 and make you watch your step at every turn in some levels. Turok is above average, and makes an 
 honest effort to bring Turok to a blockbuster game status. At the rate it's going, it might just 
 one day succeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleasfleas
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is just boring and repetative how much fun can someone have by killing dinosaurs the 
 same way. The story is only good enough to help put you to sleep. There is better things to do 
 out there like having your teeth pulled out than spending mind numbing time with this game. I am 
 so dissapointed that I was dumb enough to spend the money and worse my time passing the game. Yes 
 I did actually passed the whole game to the end. I was hoping that somewhere through the game I 
 would of gotten my dollars worth I was wrong. The only reason you should get this game is if you 
 love dinosaurs and you careless about a good story and game play. The online multiplayer is alright 
 but there is way better online games out there like: ghost recon, Halo, Gears of war and Call of 
 Duty 4. You should definitely rent turok first if you do not mind spending 5 bucks but I would 
 rather use my 5 bucks on Chinese food.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game looked interesting so i rented it. So i played it and im like wow. its really cool. when 
 your ship crashes you go out and look for things and fight dinos and people from your former group. 
 the storyline of this game is great, but somtimes too stretched out. graphics are amazing, especially 
 when you knife dinos and blood squirts all over in a sweet cutscene. the parts where this game 
 seems to lag is its use of waepons. to change your weapons you use the d-pad, but the X360 d-pad 
 isnt very good. so i go to switch to my knife (d-pad down) and end up with my primary weapon (d-pad 
 right) because it isnt guided like the ps controllers are (if you get what i mean) . also the multiplayer 
 in this game sucks. its just not living up to the levels of Halo 3 and COD4. allthough there is 
 the spin of dinos thrown into the multiplayer games as a mini third faction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Kebeler_Elf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Turok is all around a pretty good game. dont listen to the other people that say its a bad game 
 because its not. if you like killing people or creatures this game has what you want. Turok is 
 a great main character because he is BAD ASS. he doesnt care what anyone thinks about him and will 
 kill what ever is in his way even his squad. the graphics are pretty good and the sound effects 
 are great you can hear the enemies from long distance. There are even like boss battles including 
 a T-Rex, and Sea Creature. Some parts in the game can get tricky and will be a pain in your butt. 
 The stealth killing is really awesome and killing dinos and other enemies with the knife is great 
 because he has diffrent kills with the knife than only 1. This game is addictive because it can 
 get so intense and turok is basically a one man army surviving on a island with dinos, insects, 
 and other creatures including other people. this is a underrated game and does have pretty good 
 muliplayer online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawdanjon
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Good for some bloody satisfaction, but nothing else. The weapon system is very annoying, and you 
 can't really aim anything but the bow. Also, there is no intelligence to the game. you run around 
 and get shot to death. Most of the game is way to easy, until you run into NEVER ending waves of 
 HUMAN ENIMIES. In these neverending parts, it is easy to die. No big, right? just reload the checkpoint. 
 WAIT! the checkpoint was an HOUR ago. Checkpoint system is definately a downer. Nobody wants to 
 fight humans, and there are definately not enough dinos. There are some very good graphics, but 
 the level designs seem redundant. Multiplayer is awful, and pointless. it is impossible to find 
 anyone, and weapons do no good. you either have a sniper or a knife. Co-op has got to be the worst 
 thing around. You and a few friends can run around short boring levels, once again fighting HUMANS 
 and not DINOS. I would definately not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaiah247
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I rented this for a week but only really played it for 2 or 3 days... I found the controls and 
 aiming system really sensitive and annoying. When you are zoomed in, the slightest movement will 
 send your scope far from your target. The guns sound terrible. Sometimes the grass makes it so 
 you can't even see what's attacking you or from where. The only good thing is that there are dinosaurs 
 and the knife kills are pretty cool. The online multiplayer system was strange, it was really hard 
 to get into a room and when I did The aiming system made it impossible to easily kill anyone. The 
 plot seemed to be ok but still didn't help the other huge flaws. The graphics are alright from 
 far away but the textures up close are pretty bad. If you play Halo 3, The Orange Box, COD4, or 
 any of the many great shooters out there this will annoy you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingjoey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  perfect 9.5. thats all i got to say. perfect. amazing. best in series. nice weapon variaty. good voices. good 
 effects. way underappreciated. best game i ever played. i had my mouth wide open after the first few 
 minutes. i was way surprised. i just got an xbox 360 andit was the first one i played and the best 
 so far. oh my god its finally a game i will never get tired of, sweet. there might be a few games 
 better. how did they pull this one off? what!!!!!!!!! dream come true soldiers with perfect ai (good 
 and bad) , dinosaurs, cool guns, cool story mode, cool graphics, and everything else! this is the only 
 game i need to stay happy! its a game for any one exept old people that get strokes really easy. 
 
  
  
  
  so over all
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about Turok when I fist saw the trailers, initial game play footage and the pre-order 
 box. I picked up my pre-order copy, got the shirt, and the pre-order demo. I raced home to play 
 the demo and. Instant disappointment! Well that's alright, the final game wont be like this I told 
 myself, they will fix the problems.
  
  Well now that the game is here and I finally forced myself to finish the game last night, after 
 what good things can I say? The Dinosaurs were very well done, probably the best in any game to 
 date. Fighting Dinosaurs is always a big hit and has some fun moments. It is a very pretty game 
 and it looks great? It has a fantastic cast of voice actors, including Ron Pearlman, Donnie Walberg, 
 Timothy Olyphant, and lesser known actor Chris Judge (from the TV show Stargate) .
  
  Now on to all the bad! Hmmmm. where to start?
  
  They warn you that enemies will try to flank 
 your position. What they mean is that dinosaurs will frequently be spawned from locations behind 
 you or have the dinosaurs run past you so fast you have almost no time to react.
  
  Also, enemies gain all the benefits of cover from under brush and grass but you don't. They can 
 see you clear as day from 100 yards away through thick brush and they are more accurate with pistols 
 that you are with a sniper rifle.
  
  You are encouraged to lure dinosaurs to kill your enemies. They way you do this is by using a single 
 weapon, the shot gun with its special attack mode which is a "Flare". But using a silent attack 
 such as your bow to hit the enemy will attract both enemy and nearby dinosaurs to your position 
 as if you were running through the jungle with police siren and flashing lights attached to your 
 head. 
  
  You travel to this planet is space ships, you fight with Plasma Rifles, Mini-Guns, Flame Throwers, 
 and Rocket Launchers, but in this ultra high tech future, the Knife is the most deadly weapon. 
 How can this be you ask? Well when you have the knife equipped, you move faster and when you get 
 in striking range of an enemy a HUGE icon appears over your view. If you pull the right trigger 
 at that moment the camera pulls out to a third person view to show you killing the target in a 
 "Canned" animation. Very cool for the first few times you do this, but then it gets very repetitious.
 
  
  This brings me to the disorienting use of 3rd person views. The camera pops out of the character 
 showing him performing some action in a pre-canned in game cinematic. This happens when ever you 
 use an object, open a door, climb a ladder, or perform a kill move using the all powerful knife. 
 Inevitably the character turns or moves when he is all done performing the canned animation from 
 the 3rd person view and then when the camera snaps back to the character, you are not facing the 
 direction you started the action in, frequently leading to walking off ledges or back in the direction 
 you were already facing.
  
  Another very disorienting experience is being hit by an explosion. Know I know what you are going 
 to say, "Being blown up should be disorienting"! And you are right, in reality this is very true, 
 and playing games like Battle Field has simulated this very well without making me pissed at the 
 game. Here is what happens in Turok. You get hit by an explosion you "always" fly away from the 
 blast area "facing" the blast! So as an example: If the blast hit behind you and you don't realize 
 this, and you just keep holding the control stick down, you end up running back the way you were 
 running from, all the while, the enemy is shooting you in the back. Yeahreal fun!
  
  The use of Grenades was frustrating. You would expect grenades to be versatile and useful weapons 
 in the hands of a skilled and well trained warrior like Turok, but in reality they are inaccurate 
 and short ranged with a very small blast radius.
  
  Boss battles are stupidly hard. And I am not talking about overly complicated actions that need 
 to be taken to defeat a boss, I am talking about very small margins of error that get you killed, 
 wait a fraction of a second to long and you get eaten and have to do it all over again! I think 
 the creators were relying on the players going online to figure out how to win. So if you find 
 yourself unable to beat a boss after a few tries, save yourself a headache and just go look.
  
  Now lets talk about the repetition of events! Repetition of canned animations! Repetition of 
 Standing on a ledge, knowing that this is the only way to go and the second you jump down the game 
 is going to save and you are going to have a very difficult battle on your hands. The repetition 
 of being paired off with one of your fellow marines only to see him die in a canned cinematic, 
 and then have your other fellow marines blame you for the characters death.
  
  In the end you are left with a great looking game, some good dinosaur battles, frustrating difficulty, 
 that all boils down to a mediocre shooter with a poor overall experience.
  
  I was going to give this game a 4 or a 5, but after writing nearly 2 pages of nothing but bad stuff, 
 I think my score will be a bit lower.
  
  Final Score: 3.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stugiff
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I liked this game when it was first released on the Xbox (RIP) , so i was looking forward to the 
 release of the 360 version, well i guess i shoulda waited for it to drop in price firstt. Visually 
 it is not that impressive and the script is terrible, it is so wooden, all it needed was the canned 
 laughter you used to get on old TV shows. It is very linear in gameplay with little variation in 
 how to approach the game.
  although the maps are quite big on some levels they just don't appeal as say Halo3 and Gears of 
 War do. Also the fact that there is no split screen mode for co-op and deathmatch or mission makes 
 this a little too biased as is the case now with most games towards online play to get all of the 
 achievements.
  Actually the more i write about it the less i actually want to get back onto it. so i guess it 
 is heading for an early trade in. 
  right about now i might just go and get Gears of War again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion Turok IS a bad game as it pleads guilty to one of my pet hates, unfairness. Countless 
 times I was cursing the TV as if it had disrespected me personally. I was stuck on invisible scenery, 
 killed for no apparent reasons, died many times watching the cutscene bit of me climbing off the 
 ladder on the two counters/bombs part and the final boss, well what can I say, apart from the time 
 I got eaten by the T-Rex in front of me DESPITE the fact even my wife saw I had clearly turned 
 tail and run away from it. This end boss must get a prize for the most cowardly boss fight of all 
 time. Once I figured out the way to kill it was running around the containers hiding and shooting 
 I found the boss incredibly easy but felt much less a hero.
  On top of this Turok was billed as a game playable by stealth, I found this a joke. i. e. sniping 
 on one of a group of enemies from a distance whilst under cover and the rest could pinpoint your 
 position immediately. 
  However, this game did possess an appeal which made me play through the adversity to the bitter 
 end and between the annoyances I did enjoy the game but was eager to see the end credits nonetheless. 
 So all in all I rate this 6 and regard this as a generous six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewcarlson
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  what the heck i waited 6 months for it to come out, buy it, played it for 10 hours and sold it. 
 sure the knife kills were awsome but thats the only good part. the detailing was horrible and the 
 story WOW dont even get me started. what happend to the old turok story and the awsome wepons that 
 were in the first turoks. Seriousely i tryed to play it to give it a chance but no it failed to 
 impress me i know there are a few out there that might disagree with me but thats me. Multi player 
 was alright if u like the quickness of your guys like quake and doom. that was probably the only 
 good part of this game. i just hoping that they dont make a turok 2 because in my eyes i see this 
 game going down hill fast first one was great 360 version haha ya just plain bad. its better to 
 leave some games alone when they are first created and not make any more versions. Let the good 
 times of turok on 64 roll on. and not this 360 so call turok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezey323
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Turok is an extreamly dissapoiting game. The weapons are awful. knife kills are cool for the first 
 couple of times. first time: cool second time: wow third: dangit another dinosaur. the graphics 
 are crappy, but the whole game is crappy. online is bad too. really hard to kill with guns so it 
 just a bunch of people trying to stab each other. i'm glad i bough it used because it suked so 
 i returned it. DO YOURSELF A HUGE FAVOR DONT BUY TUROK IT IS A WASTE OF MONEY AND IT IS AN AWFUL 
 GAME. another thing that is a pain is the look sensitivity. default setting is way to fast i put 
 is all the down it it still is really bad DONT BUY DONT BUY DONT BUY DONT BUY 
  
  
  DONT EVEN RENT DONT EVEN RENT
  DONT BUY DONT BUY DO NOT DO NOT BUY
  DO NOT NOT NOT NOT NOT 
 NOT NOT BUY IT IS A CRAPPY GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  TO WRAP UP MY REVIEW I WILL SAY TUROK IS ONE OF THE WORST GAMES OUT THERE SO DONT BUY IT OR YOU 
 WILL BE SORRY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  It's Propaganda's first game, the reason i'm telling you this is because this game isn't worth 
 sixty bucks. You only get like nine weapons, there's only like six maps online which they all are 
 kinda the same maps in a way, the online is really limited and laggy. In a player match you can't 
 even host your own match or pick your own map, on a player match and ranked it has to be the map 
 the server picks, and you can't skip or veto. The only match that you can have eight on eight is 
 a private match. They also say that it is infested with dinosaurs, it's really not there's like 
 one or two running around and they really can't do much, they can run on the bottom and nobody 
 really bothers with the dinosaurs, they're just there. It also says that you can either sneaky 
 kill your opponents offline or go rambo, well you really can't be sneaky because of slade or any 
 of your other partners ruins your cover and you will get spotted easily, the only time you really 
 can stealth kill someone is like three parts. The offline is really fun, and the campaign is really 
 long but the story was retarded. It ends the same way in the commericals basically, and it ends 
 the way everybody would think it would. I was playing with the developers and they said they half-assed 
 the online because the offline was so long.... LAZY. Only get this game if you are a true fan of 
 Turok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misodus
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Why not raise the difficulty by not giving any checkpoints? Fair enough. While we're at it, lets 
 make the rest of it suck too. The only thing decent about this game is the stealth kills, and that 
 doesn't keep this piece of sh** alive. Outdated graphics, unimpressive gameplay, completely unplayable 
 multiplayer, and a terrible story are sure too keep you pissed off. Don't even bother renting this. 
 It's just as broken as the other Turok games.
  
  For the love of god, stay away from this game. Even the Coop is cheap. Propaganda games needs to 
 stop making games. If you buy this, I hate you. Especially if you're one of the 3 people to actually 
 be proud of being "good" at this game, by mistaking lag for skill. Aside from stealth kills, there 
 is honestly no reason to be near this thing. 
  
  I love writing reviews drunk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcope22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  A game for all to enjoy and an instant classic. Turok is back !!! The graphics are are great, the 
 boss battles are spectacular. Once you learn the playing style the game grows on you. They can 
 do great things for this game in the future and is very open ended. This is one of the only game 
 reviews I've felt lead to leave, due to the not so good ratings some websites and magazines have 
 left. The only bad thing about this game is the Multi team battles are little weak, BUT Coop multi 
 and story mode are great. Game has yet to become boring. Have been playing everyday after work. 
 Again great game, great title, and is most awesome on the 360. Get the game and keep it. !!!!! 
 This will not be one to later return or trade this game is for keeps. So, if you like the playing 
 style of Halo 3 you should like this game. This game is nothing totally new, but is unique in that 
 both man and animal are out to get you. Why are you still reading this review go buy the game already 
 !!!!! *** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadshadow
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  First of all.. I played all the old turoks on 64.
  
  What can I say of this game? I expected more.
  Strangely, Turok is not as the hardrock game used 
 to be on the last years.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Sweet, to be honest, the jungle was made with a lot of deail, I really enjoyed that,
  
  Something 
 I dont like is the lack of enemy types.... (i mean the hum.. robots?) the soldiers are ALL the 
 same, the only thing that change is the eyes colors when they see you, and only like 3-4 models 
 of enemies.
  
  Dinosaurs: GREAT DETAILS!! on the skin... BUT!!
  the blood spots... thats a big flaw i mean, you shoot with a shotgun and all the same spots are 
 marked on red on every dinosaur, not fair...
  
  speaking of blood..........
  
  WHERE IS IT???
  only with dinosaurs, but the enemies?? I mean... all of them ... robots? you 
 kill them with the knife and only sparks, come on!! it cant be... thats a big dissapointment of 
 the game.
  
  Sounds:
  JUNGLE!!! rooooaaaawwrsss!
  shot guns, guns, gatling guns, etc...
  well done, the music is not much for a shooter but meh....
 
  
  Controls:
  FPS scheme what else?
  o yeah, the use of the bow, the triggers work great with it, need a little bit precission for it 
 but it works fine.
  
  Dificult level:
  Piece of cake... thats all I can say, even on inhuman... the only hard thing are the checkpoints 
 when you get killed
  
  single player:
  I expected more seriously... its too short!! shorter than Gears of Wars.. (and I still preffer 
 more GoW than this one, in fact i sold it after i finished it)
  the storyline is a good one, but a little weird, you know being a mercernary indian, with BAD LUCK 
 for all your partners, JA they get all dead for being just close to you.
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  this is a big let down until they release a patch...
  LAG hell of lag!! you cant 
 play without it, it is a big dissapointment, and of course all using the damn knife... camping 
 with the knife, I preffer the snipper honestly.
  
  Please fix this multiplayer issue,,, if they release new content or a patch maybe ill get this 
 game again...
  
  final words, its a NICE game... not a OH MY GOD I NEED IT TO FEEL ALIVE...
  
  I enjoyed for 
 a while... the Co-op game is funny if you dont get lag... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, It's another Turok game. With just the title "Turok." For some reason you are now in outer 
 space. It's been a long time since I have played a Turok game, but I don't ever remember being 
 in space! The last Turok game I played was Turok for the nintendo 64. 
  Well, let's get on with the review:
  
  Game Play:
  1) Controls are very weird, but they aren't 
 bad. You will get used to it eventually.
  2) The gun aim is very loose. You won't get a shot right away. You have to fling the control back 
 and forth to get a good shot. 
  3) The greanades aren't very useful and when thrown won't get very far. The grenades are only useful 
 when sneaking on a large group of enemies.
  4) The dinosaur slaughter can't get any better! Knife Vs Dinosaur= Knife is the champion!
  Graphics:
 
  1) Graphics are sharp and clear. They could be better, but they are satisfying to the eye.
  SFX:
  1) Some sound effects sound reused, but overall they are ok.
  The BAD:
  1) Enemies 
 spawn at random places.
  2) Sometimes enemies will surround you and make it extremely difficult to kill them.
  3) Snipers 
 are very annoying. Specially when you only have a bow to aim.
  4) Radar anyone?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: undyingRuin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game as soon as I heard about it. The multiplayer looked awsome and the whole 
 idea seemed cool. I enjoyed the campaign but when I started playing multiplayer every game I was 
 in lagged so bad that I couldn't even play. Now it has gotten better but it's still very frustrating 
 to deal with at times. 
  
  The co-op is really fun once you get the hang of it. It can be very challenging when you start 
 playing it, but you start planning and start using tactics after awhile. I really wish you could 
 play through the whole campaign in co-op, or at least be able to fight a T-Rex together. I hate 
 that there is no offline co-op, and there are only 3 maps to play in co-op. 
  
  Overall, it's a solid shooter that's defiantly worth a shot. Despite it's slight downfalls, it's 
 been a fun game for me. Don't listen to what people say about this game, go out and experience 
 it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  Pretty good graphics. Nice textures. Maybe a bit more detail on the environment would have been 
 better.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  The guns are nice, but the game is very stiff. Also, you will always want to use the knife instead 
 of guns. Lasting Appeal: 8/10
  If people played this online, this would be a very good game, but not many peope online to play 
 with. Multilayer is very fun, but once again not a lot of people play it online.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  It's fun, single player is short but it is fun. There are some minor flaws, 
 but nothing that ruins the game. It can also get very hard at times where it's pretty much trial 
 and error. This could have been a very good game, but it wasn't a very godod game. It was ok, but 
 the fun factor is why I gave it an 8.5. If you are thinking about buying this game, I would rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandam86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has played Turok 64, and is comfortable with the classic design of Turok, this game 
 will be an absolute blast, allthough I dont know where flying Turok's bird in N64 went off to on 
 the xbox 360 or the mode where you can play to capture the monkey, ahh the good old times!
  
  Turok is an awesome game, we should all know by now Turok is a very simple man, shoot, kill, 
 move on, theres nothing to it, if you aren't into this then this game is not for you, of course 
 i found the story line great, and the savepoints are fine, if people are complaining about this, 
 is only as they are trying to pass the game on Hard to unlock more Gamescore Points and cannot 
 do it, thats why its a reward, you actually have to earn it.
  
  Online play is great, lots of variety of weapons, allthough online people are cheap sticking to 
 the sticky gun all the time, like if theres no tomorrow, oh well its counterable just annoying 
 once ure stuck not much else to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoothkid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Hard as heck to control, had my sensitivity all the way down and still too fast. Though it is fun 
 to kill dinos, the LT to kill the dinos works only when it wants too! Co-op maps are fun but very 
 hard. Needs more checkpoints and saves. I like the fact of killing people with the bow, but the 
 sensitivity is so off its really tough. At first glance, i thought the graphics were crappy, but 
 they are only less than average. The enemies are dumb and always go the same way. Headshots are 
 nearly impossible to get (see sensitivity issues) and the enemies will fall and get back up like 
 nothing was wrong. This is neither realisitc nor plausable. I liked playing Turok on the PC, but 
 I hated jumping around. Jumps have no place in shooters, we are done with atari. I rented this 
 game, beat it on normal and sent it back fast. Nearly impossible to find a match in multiplayer 
 that doesn't lag. Rent it to kill dinos, then take it right back and you'll be satisfied. late. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Turok: Dinosaur Hunter was one of the most overrated games ever made. There, I've said it.
  
  I never got the popularity of Turok on the N64. The controls and game mechanics were clunky 
 at best, with some of the worst platforming sections on any game. The game was also heavily marred 
 by some of the worst fog-in programming of any game (that is also putting in the prespective of 
 the N64) . It sold extremely well on the N64, however, mainly because it was one of eight games 
 for the system at the time it was released.
  
  So when the Turok franchise started going downhill for Acclaim, in both sales and quality, this 
 really was not much of a surprise at all. In fact, I think my exact quote was "When was this game 
 actually good? And how could actually be worse?" Then I played Turok: Evolution and was introduced 
 the Tobais Bruckner, a southern slave owning cyborg who rides a dinosaur...
  
  So, Turok needed one of two things: It needed to buried and forgetten about or it needed a complete 
 overhaul. Oddly enough, it got both.
  
  Here's how I will explain this: Turok is the best game it has ever been, however it still needs 
 a lot of work to compete with competition like Halo, Resistance: Fall of Man and to a lesser extent, 
 The Darkness. 
  
  The game ditches the horrendous platforming levels and the horrible fog-in the original had and 
 instead makes a very atmospheric planet filled with indignious wild-life, foilage and dinosaurs. 
 It's not explained why these dinosaurs are here, however.
  
  Instead of platforming, there are sections of stealth that you need to complete with the bow and 
 arrow that Turok keeps with him. It is cool to hide in the tall grass to pick off people, in theory. 
 However, the game's AI is either really smart and can catch you within an earshot or the game didn't 
 impliment it's stealth quite well, because everytime I used the stealthy approach, it ended with 
 death and a restart.
  
  Graphically, it got the complete overhaul it needed. The game looks great when in the sun and grass. 
 However, in the caves, it looks drab and bleary.
  
  Gameplay wise, the development team buried what was Turok and made it an ultra-violent slash fest 
 of a game. Most enemies can easily be killed by stabbing them with a knife, which automatically 
 brings a cut-scene of John Turok performing some execution style kill. While cool when you first 
 try it, it becomes very apparent that the developers used this as a cheap fix to make up for it's 
 shoddy stealth system and it's mediocre at best shooting sections. 
  
  Despite some fairly good things, such as lush beautiful graphics and some cool AI with the dinosaurs, 
 Turok simply doesn't have the chops to stand up to the rest of the competition in FPS's. Talking 
 about it more would give it more attention than it deserves, honestly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padawon2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The cave level where u go find slade is where it gets horrible. Let me get to that later. I love 
 doing knife kills and using bows. The story is movie-like, and the graphics are swell. Now about 
 the game itself, it is fun but like I said it got gay after the cave level. There is a level SPOILER!!!**** 
 where you have to place detonaters on three generators and then climb down a 100 ft (seemed like 
 it) while frickin' bugs are sprayin you. Its incredibly frustrating. Another thing, why in the 
 hell does the flamethrower suck so bad?? And why does a gun overheat and still have to reload. 
 I was very disappointed in this game. rent this crap. SPOILER!!!***** on the last level after you 
 kill kane a Trex comes upm now how the hell did he know where to frickin come?? And you have crappy 
 weapons as well. Its horrible. But worth playing, actually no its not but almost made worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Cool weapons, decent graphics, knife kills are fun, dinos!
  
  The Bad: Soldiers are boring, boring level design, generic multiplayer, B grade sci-fi setting 
 and story
  
  I had super high hopes for this game after being a fan of the N64 games, and I was quickly let 
 down. Instead of being deep and rich in game play and story like a next-gen game should be we just 
 get a generic B grade sci-fi type setting and story. The gun play varies from knifing dinos and 
 soldiers to mounting turrets and killing a few huge bosses. The weapons are pretty cool like the 
 plasma rifle, and mini-gun which you can set down and use it like an auto-turret. The graphics 
 are pretty decent but rely too much on the U3 engine to make it look pretty. The story is pretty 
 simple: You and your squad crash on a dino planet and have to get off... yeah pretty boring. While 
 the animations for the knife kills look cool, and you can attach grenades to dinos and blow them 
 up it gets old really fast. You'll either be running through jungles, or you'll be running through 
 bases. It never changes from that switch off and not to mention the unbalanced checkpoints, and 
 uneven fire fights. I didn't even bother with multiplayer since it just consists of mediocre match 
 ups. Rent this for the weekend and you'll have some fun, but don't expect anything to advance the 
 series or breathe new life. Oh yeah, and the achievements are all wrapped around multiplayer so 
 you might want to consider that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastboy007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I greatly emjoyed playing Turok on my XBOX 360 over my spring break. The story seems a bit short, 
 but really isn't and the weapons are great overall. Take advantage of certain weapons, like the 
 bow's main and secondary werapons as well as using the knife a lot. Knifing the dinosaurs was extremely 
 fun, and it saves on ammo. The fight scene for Kane was quite to my disappointment, but the two 
 T'rex fights were quite fun, especially after killing Kane. One weapon that I would highly recommend 
 is using the pulse rifle, because once full it first holds 100 ammo, then 400 extra ammo plus 12 
 secondary grenades, which come extremely useful. While it doesn't seem you get to stealth much, 
 you can use the bow more often than you think, and it is an awesome weapon to use. The one thing 
 I found tough to use though was the dive/dodge mechanism. Overall, a great shooter like Halo and 
 Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty decent game it has beautiful graphics and voice acting. The controls aren't bad 
 but they will take you a little to get use to. its hard to explain but its nothing that will make 
 you not play it. There are some neat encounters with some pretty bad ass dinosaurs there are some 
 that are new to the game as well. Turok will most likely give some people a good challenge it has 
 some pretty aggressive fighting in it and some skill testing dino fights. The weapons have always 
 been a big part of the game and this one isn't any different there are some pretty impressive weapons 
 to pick from like a shotgun that fires flairs that you can use to direct the dinos to the enemy 
 soldiers to help you save some ammo. There is also a gun that fires sticky bombs and a chain gun 
 you can set on the ground that shoots at the enemy by itself. This is definitely one of the better 
 games in the series. If you're a fan of Turok or just want a decent challenging semi creepy FPS 
 game then this is right up your ally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoidbergUK
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  A new age in the Turok series began on next-gen consoles through the eyes of Joseph Turok, a native-american 
 criminal trained in the art of killing by a shadowy group known only as The Wolf Pack. The new 
 Turok takes a completely fresh direction and has no ties to either the previous entries in the 
 series or Acclaim's series of comic books.
  
  Turok is your standard first-person shooter, set on a remote planet as members of Whiskey Company, 
 accompanied by Turok, attempt to track down and kill the rogue members of The Wolf Pack. Shortly 
 after the crash they discover the planet is jam packed full of hungry dinosaurs who waste no time 
 making their presence known to you.
  
  Aside from the single player campaign, the game ships with 7 multiplayer maps and 3 Co-op maps.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Thankfully the developers decided to stick to the roots of Turok. Big guns, Bow Kills, and lots 
 of dinosaurs. As Turok, you'll traverse the planet looking for crash survivors and locating The 
 Wolf Pack, all while avoiding enemy patrols and vicious dinosaurs.
  
  Turok gives players the option to charge into the fray of battle, akimbo guns blazing.... but you're 
 likely to die pretty quickly. On the other hand, Turok is skilled with the use of deadly silent 
 force by taking advantadge of his Bow and Knife skills. It's nice to have the option to tackle 
 situations as you see fit, either silenty or loud as hell.
  
  It is to be noted that the developers did NOT include any form of aiming assistance, otherwise 
 known as Auto-Aim, so players should be prepared to work on their accuracy if they want to have 
 any chance of taking down bad guys.
  
  Overall, the singleplayer levels are pretty linear, but so are most first-person shooting games 
 these days. At least the scenery is pretty....
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Turok is graphically competent when compared to many of todays impressive first person shooters, 
 using the Unreal Engine 3 to render it's graphical world, but it certainly doesn't break any records. 
 The environments on the planet are a pleasure to look at for the most part, with some texture pop-up 
 delay issues, but it's not a gamebreaker. The grass sways and moves as you make your way through 
 it (important in my book, I hate to be moving through grass, only to watch it stiffly sit there, 
 unwavering) and the dense forested areas add to the sense of foreboding as you listen to distant 
 growls of unseen enemies. Water effects are also particularily nice, with certain waterfalls looking 
 impressive.
  
  This brings me to the debate over Blood in the game. Turok is equipped with a badass knife. Knife 
 like to tear into flesh, and when flesh is torn, one expects blood.... and lots of it!
  
  Dinosaurs erupt into blood when stabbed, and it's satisfying to stab continuously into the eye 
 socket of a Raptor as it's trying to eat your face.
  
  Human Enemies..... not so much. Expect to literally see just a shower of sparks as Turok drives 
 his knife into an enemy's chest or neck.
  
  So why no human blood? Well, the developers have said that the enemies and such ARE ARMORED, and 
 therefore, when metal drives through metal it will emit sparks, leaving the blood to pool inside 
 the armor. I guess it's an alright excuse, but I guess I'm spoiler after sawing people in half 
 within Gears of War.
  
  
  Controls
  
  The controls for this game are really pretty well mapped. No problems have been encountered with 
 the control scheme so far. You can carry a few weapons at a time and dual wield many of them like 
 Pistols, Smgs and Shotguns, but a few of the larger weapons like Pulse Rifles and Flamethrowers 
 must be wielded individually.
  
  The biggest thing of note is the developer's decision to not include any aiming assistance, leaving 
 gamers to fend for themselves and use their own skills to take down enemies. It's TOUGH, considering 
 most games these days include some form of auto-aim, so be prepared to do some grumbling as you 
 empty clip after clip into the air trying to hit an enemy.
  
  
  Sound
  
  I like the sound effects in this game. I really do. It's a lot of fun, and raises the hair on the 
 back of my neck, as I'm creeping around the jungles listening to the far-off cries of wildlife 
 and the seemingly very close growls of raptors waiting to pounce on me.
  
  The music also flows nicely throughout the game, with no complaint again from this reviewer. All 
 of the weapons sound VERY big, but because of the lack of auto-aim, and the lack of hitting your 
 targets appropriately, they appear underpowered.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Turok ships with 7 multiplayer maps and 3 Co-op maps to play with. Multiplayer supports up to 16 
 players, while the Co-op maps can be tackled with up to 4 people. The included gametypes for multiplayer 
 include Free-For-All (both small and large scale battles) , Deathmatch (large and small) , CTF, Assault 
 CTF and Wargames (an objective based multiplayer mode) . No Split Screen play is enabled within 
 the game.
  
  Aside from pitting two opposing teams against each other, a third element is thrown into the mix 
 as well.... the dinosaurs and insects. There can be up to 4 of these creatures on the map at any 
 given time, and all of them are computer controlled. Players are NOT given the option to play as 
 a dinosaur.
  
  There are options to play Ranked, Public or Private matches as well. At this point, there really 
 is no lobby system or option to allow players to host their own matches, which I don't approve 
 of. It's frustrating to find a game that you want to play in, and even more frustrating to not 
 be able to select exactly what you want to play, on what map you want to play, etc. Of course, 
 you can adjust options in Private matches, but then you are forced to have enough friends to invite 
 into the room.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  7.0 out of 10
  
  While it's not a revolutionary title and certainly isn't bound to garner any extreme amount of 
 praise, Turok is a fun and enjoyable game to play. The NORMAL difficulty level will be a challenge 
 for even the experienced gamer which is a good thing, but I can't imagine playing through on HARD 
 or INHUMAN. The lack of auto-aim can, and most likely will, be very offputting to the casual gamer 
 but at the same time it's also rewarding for hardcore players wanting to show off their skills.
 
  The multiplayer has potential for the developers to patch the problems, such as no lobbies/ability 
 to host, but otherwise it's a fun experience. Expect however to see most EVERYONE running around 
 like a fool with their knifes out. Without the auto-aim feature, it's easy enough to dodge back 
 and forth on your approach to an enemy and just try to knife them. Unless you're a big fan of Turok, 
 or want to knifekill a lot of dinosaurs, I suggest a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  The Turok series have never been 'great' games in my opinion. They've had their times, Turok Evolution 
 had the funniest weapon where you could destroy the brains of others, and such. However, Turok 
 for the 360 just offers nothing new... just cool animations that get VERY repetative as the game 
 really wants you to use these rather than your very own weapons. Not like the weapons are any good 
 on this game anyway as they mostly consist of a knife, SMG (Dual SMGs to be exact) and a bow. Well 
 they're are others, but most suck. The graphics in Turok are great, but so are most games that 
 use the Unreal 3 engine, i mean even Hour Of Victory looked cool, and that game is terrible. 
 
  
  I really don't think that even another Turok sequal could be any better, just stick to your Halo 
 3 and Call of Duty 4.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I often go to a friends house, and they always have games i dont have yet, so they had Turok, latest 
 installment from Touchstone. i was thrilled by the game, amazing HDR and graphics, fun knife kills 
 (he he he ) and just the feel of the game went great, i would strongly advise you to go out and 
 buy this game, i love it. Therefore, i never want to set it down, and im even going go buy the 
 PC version cuz its soound cool to, and multiplayer.. OMG freakin unbelieveable i cannot believe 
 how fun it is.... example
  
  im about to snipe an unsuspecting "sniper" in the head, when on my scope all i see is a raptor 
 come and eat him, im like A HA HA HA HA you are so dead... WAIT! he stole my kill, **goes and kills 
 raptor**
  
  go buy it easy as that
  
  i am soo glad at this purchase it isnt even funny, this is great... trust me you will see the pure 
 enjoyment from this. i Garentee it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gapmaster28
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Fun game but it dosn't live up to the Origonal Turoks. Not enough Guns, and not as fluidity as 
 other 360 FPS. What I didn't like is turok is a dino hunter game and this game like %70 of your 
 enemys are human. Also where are all the sweet weapons from the origonal turok series, theres only 
 like 9 weapons, and they can be found in any other FPS. You got your standards, SMG, Plasma rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, RPG, pistol, bow, knife, chaingun, flamethrower. There just isnt any uniquie 
 weapons like the past turok games. No Turok boomarang, ceribrial bore/burst, no crazy superweapons 
 or special items to find. It is a good game with nice graphics, decent fluidity and game play but 
 it could have been so much more. Knifing dinos is sweet but atleast mix it up with some different 
 knife kill sequence, stabing raptors in the head 100 times the same way gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: customgtp
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This is the worse game I have played since Bullet Proof by 50 cent. I put this in and right from 
 the start it just felt bad. The movement was stiff. I seemed to be getting caught on things as 
 I was walking. Then when I got out into the open field I saw horrible graphics that I haven't seen 
 on the xbox 360. The dinosaurs looked better in King Kong for the OG xbox then this.
  Honestly a 7 for this game. it is being nice. Maybe I didn't give the game enough time but there's 
 no way I could. I was ready to turn it off in the first five minutes. I handed to a buddy that 
 was watching me play and it was like drinking medicine for him too. If I would of bought this game 
 I would not have took it back or resold it to a gamestop. I would have thrown it away to save someone 
 from buying it. Just trying to do the world a favor. Those that like this game.... enjoy. I'd rather 
 play King Kong to hunt a dinosaur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is definitely unique.... not many games allow you to kill dinos! Besides that this game 
 lacks substance... and by the time you get to kill the T-rex, its not very satisfying.
  
  The story line is dull and the whole game feels like one giant level. Half the time you battle 
 dinos and then for some reason the other half you spend battling these alien creatures. The controls 
 are too sensitive in my opinion which makes it hard to aim.
  
  Also you should be prepared for dinosaurs to come outta nowhere. you clear out an area and all 
 the sudden a dino comes outta thin air. The weapons feel pretty weak too. 
  
  On the plus side, sound effects in the jungle are good. If you have the game playing thru 5.1 surround, 
 you hear dino and other creature sound effects all around. 
  
  Overall, Turok is a good game is your looking for a different FPS experience other than WWII shooters, 
 but its lacks a good story which makes it hard to really get into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  I've always felt that no matter how poor a game might be, as long as it has hype to back it, it 
 will be well received by the vast majority. That doesn't really seem to be the case here with the 
 latest dino-slaying frag-fest. It seems no amount of hype was capable of elevating Turok to anything 
 other than mediocrity. While Turok has all the makings, and definitely the potential, of being 
 a truly exceptional shooter, the general feeling of playing the game is a mixed bag of frustration 
 and tedium.
  
  Like virtually every other shooter, the story is merely enough to give you a purpose to what you 
 are doing. You are a native American named Turok, and along with a cast of other uninspired masculine 
 beef cakes, your mission is to track down the leader of a gang, Wolfpack, who is known as Kane, 
 and to apprehend him. But before your mission can even begin, your ship is shot down, and it isn't 
 before long before you discover that the planet is inhabited by dinosaurs.
  
  Throughout the game, you will encounter a variety of species such as the Tyrannosaurus-Rex, Dilophosaurus, 
 Velocoraptor, and a few others I can't name off the top of my head. They all look pretty nasty, 
 which is good because you don't want to think their so cute that you can't put bullets in their 
 heads. There are even these little guys, which actually do look kinda cute, but that didn't stop 
 me from slitting their throats. It's a heck of a lot easier than hitting them with bullets, because 
 a variety of the dino species are pretty quick, so your fire may end up trailing them.
  
  Of course, dinosaurs aren't the only ones who inhabit the planet  Kane's gang has numerous outposts 
 on the planet, and troops scattered all over. Sadly, if you are expecting a pure dinosaur butchering 
 game, you will be in for a disappointment. Much of the combat, in fact I'd go so far as to say 
 "most", is combat with other human soldiers. All in all, I'd have to estimate that 60% of the time 
 you are fighting soldiers and the other 40% is with dinosaurs.
  
  The soldiers not only bear a striking visual appearance to those from Half-Life, but the sound 
 effects they emit (presumably speech through an intercom) sounds even less unique. And they must 
 be wearing armor made out of some incredibly genius synthetic material, because I can't even count 
 all the times I made direct and unquestionable head shots with them merely acting startled. While 
 there are a considerable variety of weapons at your disposal, all of them feel both generic and 
 weak.
  
  To begin with, this Turok game makes the same mistake that countless shooters before it have made, 
 and countless others continue to make; that is, the dreaded rubber bullet feel. Games like Call 
 of Duty and Rainbow Six aren't just worshiped by gamers without reason. One major differing factor 
 is the way bullets feel fatal, and as a result, the game feels much more realistic. Turok, like 
 many other unaware shooters, takes the opposite approach by making you pump magazine after magazine 
 of bullets into your foes. It doesn't really matter what weapon you are using; the fact of the 
 matter is that it feels like you are either shooting rubber bullets, or that every enemy is made 
 of solid steel. When are FPS developers going to realize that gamers are drawn to games that feel 
 more realistic, and don't require you to endlessly fill your enemies with fire power? Of course, 
 Turok himself has just as much an immunity to enemy attacks, but it does little make the situation 
 any more interesting. If anything, it only leaves the situation feeling even less dramatic and 
 intense.
  
  I'm a huge fan of the shotgun. I don't have the best aim, but I have excellent reaction times, 
 so it's a perfect companion for me. Well, it normally is. I have to say that the shotgun in this 
 game is incredibly weak, and virtually useless. Unless your target is some three or so feet away 
 from you, it is basically useless. Even then, expect three or four (even more, sometimes) well 
 aimed shots to the upper body before your opponent is affected. In fact, I'd probably go so far 
 as to say that you'd have a better chance at killing your enemies if you throw toothpicks at them. 
 Needless to say, I am extremely disappointed at how weak the shotgun is.
  
  Since all weapons have an "alternate" fire (which really isn't the case) , the shotgun comes with 
 the added flare launcher as its alternate. Since many dinosaurs, such as raptors, are drawn to 
 flares, you can shoot one as a decoy. Theoretically, you can also shoot a soldier with a flare, 
 or even another dinosaur, and watch as the rest of the raptors attack the target. Actually, there 
 is even an achievement for this, if you can manage to kill five soldiers this way. Personally, 
 I was never able to achieve this  not even a single time. For some reason any time I would land 
 a flare onto a soldier it would be burned out within three or four seconds, before any of the surrounding 
 raptors would even feign an interest. Maybe there was a trick to it which I just wasn't aware of, 
 but this gimmick didn't do much more me. Even so, encounters with both soldiers and dinosaurs are 
 few and far between, so it shouldn't be given too much attention.
  
  A bit more bewildering is the fact that the bow and arrows are somehow superior to virtually every 
 other piece of your arsenal as well. I guess, the idea is that since you are a native American 
 your weapons are more powerful and dignified than the white mans. Yeah, that sounds all nice and 
 sappy in philosophy, but I have a hard time fathoming how in the hell an arrow, shot from a tensed 
 piece of wire, is going to deliver more of a blow than a round fired from an automatic rifle. I 
 don't know how that logic was conjured, but it makes no sense to me.
  
  If you're the type of person that likes to play things covertly, then you'll be happy to know that 
 roughly 75% of the game can be accomplished with nothing more than your trusty combat knife. I 
 notice a lot of people making the comparison of Turok with Far Cry. Since I haven't played Far 
 Cry more than a few minutes, I would have to say I thought it resembled Tenchu a bit (but not in 
 any of those nasty-quality ways) . With the knife equipped, not only does Turok run faster, but 
 he is always prepared for instant kills. All you need to do is stand at the right position relative 
 to your enemy and an on-screen indicator will flash telling you when to hit the right trigger. 
 Upon doing so, the camera switches from first person to third person and shows an animation of 
 Turok stabbing the soldier in the throat/chest, or wrestling a dinosaur and/or slitting the dino's 
 throat. It sounds all fine and dandy, but the actual execution of the command doesn't quite work 
 as elegantly as you might like. First of all, enemies seem to spawn out of locations in your immediate 
 vacinity, as opposed to a good distance away from you. This means, they are more likely to catch 
 you by surprise then you to catch them, since they spawn as you approach them, and when they "spawn" 
 (or land) some 20 feet from you, that doesn't give you much of an advantage. Further, the on-screen 
 indicator doesn't come up a lot of the time when you would expect that it should. Actually, getting 
 too close to an enemy will cause it to disappear as well. Several times I ran up to a soldier and 
 had pushed the button expecting it was on time, only to find out I need to back up from the soldier 
 a bit for it to work. The range of the assassination area definitely feels in the need of some 
 fine tuning. Sure, I can understand that the developers don't want it too easy to pull off an assassination, 
 otherwise the game could be even easier than it is, but there is still quite a bit of precision 
 to be desired. It's especially frustrating because there seems to be too much of an emphasis on 
 the use of the combat knife, especially in multi-player matches.
  
  Perhaps, even a bigger bummer than the imprecision you might feel from the knife, is that the combat 
 knife is your only means of performing a melee attack. It feels a bit inefficient that you can't 
 simply whack an enemy with your gun. Instead you have to switch to the knife and hope you are in 
 range to assassinate them. What makes the matter worse is that cycling through your weapons is 
 not done with the LB and RB buttons; instead the weapons are mapped out to the D-pad, which feels 
 clumsy and inaccessible in the heat of combat, when both your thumbs are already occupied.
  
  Believe it or not, but there is actually even a bigger problem and source of frustration than 
 that, when it comes to the use of the knife. Actually, while this frustration is a common occurrence 
 from the use of the knife, it is caused by a large number of things aside from the knife. That 
 is: disorientation! Every time you assassinate a soldier or dinosaur, the animation in third person 
 commences, and when it is all over you are facing a completely different direction than before! 
 The result is feeling incredibly disorientated and having to turn around in circles, while avoiding 
 fire, trying to find where an enemy you just saw moments ago is now positioned relative to you. 
 Actually, this was one of my biggest gripes with the game, and one of the main reasons I was left 
 feeling frustrated more than challenged during the course of the mission. What makes matters worse 
 is that the disorientation comes from a variety of circumstances. Anytime a dinosaur attacks you, 
 the camera swings around to face the one who attacked you, and anytime there is an explosion in 
 your proximity, the camera again swings around in the direction of the blast. Because of all these 
 constant adjustments of your sight, you end up feeling really helpless and frustrated. In the midst 
 of battle, frustration and disorientation are the last things you'll want to feel.
  
  The problem is that the developers have sacrificed the player's comfort for trying to make the 
 game look as "cool" as possible. Fortunately, much of the game does look good. The character models 
 are not superb, but are comprised of a moderate number of polygons. Some of the facial expressions 
 are pretty crummy and could definitely use some work, but generally the people look good enough. 
 Dinosaurs generally look pretty decent, although the tails not only animate kind of choppy but 
 look quite jagged. At least, it's cool to see the dinosaurs moving around even after you've taken 
 them out. It doesn't necessarily do much to compensate for the poor looking tails, but it's a start. 
 The level design is mediocre, with a few highs and just as many lows. Many of the rocks, trees, 
 and other natural objects look blocky, and out of place, in environments that otherwise look fine. 
 Some of the levels are way too dark to even see what you are looking at. On the "bright" side, 
 when you're not confined to a dark and cramped cave, you get to see a lot of varied plant life. 
 Most areas host a good level of variety, but in some areas certain plants are overly used left 
 and right, which leaves things looking oh-so last-gen. Texture work also comes with its ups and 
 its downs. On the one hand, many of the textures are high resolution and varied, but in a large 
 number of areas, there are lower resolution textures, some of which get repeated far too frequently. 
 If you've seen many screen shots from Turok, you've, no doubt, notices that there is a lot of grass. 
 It looks pretty cool at first, although when you start to turn around you realize that it is only 
 two-dimensional, and changes direction as you change direction. Though, it is cool to see how it 
 waves around when an enemy is lurking in it. You really get a sense of being in a jungle because 
 of this little touch.
  
  The absolute worst part of the visuals in Turok are the lousy particle effects. There wasn't a 
 single instance throughout the entire game in which I didn't think the fire, grass, or explosions 
 looked really shoddy. Not only are they obviously two dimensional, but they are all low resolution 
 and extremely blurry. In fact, I honestly can't remember seeing such crummy looking smoke and explosions 
 in an Xbox 360 game at all.
  
  There is also an awkward little quirk with using the sniper rifles scope. For some reason polygons 
 flicker, as if they are intersecting one another, whenever you move the aim around using the scope. 
 It's not exactly a rare occurrence either. In fact, it happens most of the time you are using the 
 scope, but you may not be paying attention to it. I, for one, don't see how you could miss it, 
 and am quite perplexed at how it managed to sneak its way into the final build of the retail game.
 
  
  I hate to say this, but I really didn't think all that much about the aural presentation either. 
 In fact, the visuals were just slightly better than sounds. The music, while drab and unmemorable, 
 tries to establish atmosphere and mood, but comes off as a bit too labored and doesn't do the job 
 sufficiently. The voice over work is average, with a several instances in which it just plain stinks. 
 To make matters worse, the dialog blows and the lip sync is off quite often. Sound effects are 
 generally what you might expect from a shooter, with each gun having it's own firing sound and 
 so forth. I can't vouch for the authenticity of any of the guns, but if comparing them to other 
 shooters, what we have here is all very generic. At least the dinosaurs do sound a bit freaky, 
 and there are some other nice touches, like foot steps in water, and the rustling of grass. Keeping 
 with the overall theme of the rest of the game, what we have here is pretty much mediocrity, by 
 definition.
  
  And now, I am brought to that not-so-friendly part of the review in which I feel it's only fair 
 that I go over the various annoyances and frustrations I encountered while playing. To begin with, 
 as if I hadn't said it already; Turok is a really frustrating game. Don't get me wrong, it's not 
 very hard. In fact, it's quite easy for the most part, but it becomes frustrating because of the 
 various annoyances that really snowball together.
  
  Aside from the problem I mentioned earlier about your orientation being frequently thrown off, 
 there is another major cause for concern, which, sadly, too many games repeat: lack of well-placed 
 checkpoints. Nothing is more frustrating than replaying the same twenty minute chuck of game play 
 over and over. Checkpoints are extremely scarce, and nowhere to be seen when you'd want one the 
 most. There is a particular part, towards the end of the game, in which you are trying to enter 
 an enemy compound. If you've beaten the game, than you will likely remember this  there is a T-Rex 
 chomping on some enemies while you and your squad are staying back and waiting for the feast to 
 be over, after which the T-Rex will leave. The part itself is pretty long, but not difficult at 
 all, as long as you keep your distance. However, after that, there are some five or more intense 
 fights where you exchange fire with soldiers, and during the entire course of these fights there 
 isn't a single checkpoint. So while you may make a simple mistake towards one of the latter fights, 
 dying will mean you will have to redo a huge chunk of game play all over again. Seriously, what 
 gives? I can't be the only one who thought this part in particular was missing something... Oh, 
 I don't know; how about a CHECKPOINT? While this was the most memorable part of the game I can 
 recall which was in desperate need of a checkpoint, there were many others as well - all of which 
 are just as frustrating to deal with.
  
  Now, making video games is a tricky thing to do, because you often want to create the illusion 
 of reality, without ever crossing the line of throwing in reality which voids the fun, which is 
 the essence of a game. This mistake was made in Turok. You see, we all know that when an explosion 
 goes off, smoke rises, and you're vision may be effected. The problem; don't overdo it! Explosions 
 aren't a frequent event in Turok, but they do happen from time to time, whether it is from a scene 
 I will refrain from spoiling, or from an enemy's grenade, you will experience this. What happens 
 is, you can't see a damn thing that is going on for several seconds. The smoke effect is far too 
 drastic for a video game, and the way the screen blurs out red when you are under fire really make 
 just understanding what is going on virtually impossible. When you're under fire, it's incredibly 
 difficult to move in any direction. Whether or not the force of a bullet impacting your body would 
 actually have such a dramatic effect is questionable, and one only those of us who have actually 
 been shot could answer. I am glad to say that I haven't, but I find the way that you are virtually 
 imobilized under enemy fire not the smartest move in a video game. Again, within reason  not overdone. 
 Coupled with the way the camera flips around from the various causes I explained earlier, and you 
 are left with a really unforgiving game. Add another point for "frustration factor".
  
  Control is generally what you'd expect from a generic FPS on the Xbox 360, but there are some major 
 problems, and odd choices as well. Let's start with the poor choices  mapping the weapon selection 
 to the D-Pad is not a very good move, yet many developers don't seem to grasp this. When both your 
 thumbs are busy during combat, the obvious solution would be to map weapon cycling to the other 
 buttons, such as LB and RB (as with many FPS) . Crouching is done with the Y button, which defies 
 all intuition. And then there are the problems, that aren't necessarily out of poor choices, but 
 more likely, poor implementations.
  
  Picking up weapons  a task that sounds incredibly mundane and dummy-proof, right? Not so! For 
 some reason, as soon as you enter the animation of something like reloading your weapon, or stabbing 
 with the knife, you are unable to pick up the desired weapon, no matter how many times you press 
 the button. When combat is all about life and death in terms of milliseconds, having to wait several 
 seconds before you can perform the desired action is ridiculous. It's also funny to note that if 
 you interupt the reload animation, even if only a second from its completion, after you have clearly 
 seen the ammo has been restocked, your gun will remain unloaded! For some bizzare reason, the coders 
 strictly bound the effect of an action with the entire animation sequence, so that interrupting 
 an animation either is not possible or voids the supposed effect it should have. Because of this, 
 there is another problem in which you can be holding the fire button, but your weapon does nothing. 
 This results when a dinosaur attacks you, and the camera flips around (as usual) . Now, during this 
 sequence, if you press the fire button too early, while you are still taking damage, then your 
 weapon wont fire. It doesn't matter how long you hold the fire button, you first have to release 
 it, and then press it again and the gun will fire as normal. You shouldn't have to keep things 
 like this in mind, but unfortunately, that isn't so in Turok.
  
  Turok isn't a complete disappointment, though. There are some good times to be had, and at times 
 it even feels unique. But all too often, the feeling is in the other direction; repetition, frustration 
 and generality. It's definitely not the most fun game I've ever played, and I hate to admit it 
 but I did get bored pretty quickly. Yet, I'd be lying to you if I said I didn't go back and play 
 it several times, and even spend several hours gaming online with it. The differences between Turok 
 and other generic shooters are subtle, but there is enough of a personality to the game to dignify 
 that you play it. It's not going to be the most memorable experience ever, but you're still probably 
 going to gasp at least once or twice. The campaign shouldn't take you more than six hours on your 
 first run, but if you're like me, you'll want to go back for another try, to earn some of the achievements 
 you missed out on.
  
  The online play is a bit more interesting than some shooters, mainly in part to the presence of 
 the knife. The best aim or reaction times in the world don't mean a thing if you aren't aware of 
 your surroundings. Now, you can take this as a good thing or a bad thing - I choose both. In some 
 ways the knife may "ruin" experience by making you feel certain people are "cheesy", but at the 
 same time, you got to admit that it keeps things interesting. I'm not that great and handling the 
 blade myself, at least when it comes to other real humans running around, but I at least have a 
 bit of respect to those who can wield it really well. While you may choose to disagree, from a 
 personal and bitter experience, but the fact is there is quite a bit of skill in being able to 
 perform countless knife kills, while keeping in the shadows. Sadly, only twelve players can compete 
 at a time in an online game, which is quite low for today's standards. That isn't so bad, but what 
 is, is the semi-regular lag that is experienced. Granted, much of that should be accredited to 
 Xbox Live, I'm quite confident that a good lot of it is directly caused by the game. It didn't 
 happen to me very often at all, though. In fact, I played maybe six hours online, and I only had 
 2-3 matches which were absolutely unplayable. In any event, a rewrite of the networking code in 
 the form of a patch would be a really welcome treat.
  
  Turok isn't a bad game. But, for the past couple of years, it has been hyped to be something spectacular, 
 which it definitely isn't. The game's core is mediocre on most levels, and the presentation is 
 lacking in many departments. We've been hearing so much about this new amazing AI logic that was 
 programmed, but I gotta tell you, I'm not seeing it. I don't doubt that the AI is actually making 
 many more intelligent decisions than we are aware of, but if the experience isn't passed along 
 to the gamer, than all that extra coding and patience is worthless.
  
  There will be times that you're bound to drop your jaw with a "wow", but you're just as likely 
 to end up saying "give me a break" as many times. Just as much looks next-gen as last-gen, and 
 the parts that look last-gen are what sticks in our heads, since we have come to expect a certain 
 level of quality from current generation titles anyhow. A few times where I saw a T-Rex, in which 
 soldiers were helplessly fighting it off, I couldn't help but observe a really sad, cheesy sight. 
 A soldier stood maybe 10-20 feet in front of the T-Rex, and by some weird miscalculation by the 
 game's engine, all of the sudden the soldier was literally sucked into the mouth of the T-Rex. 
 I thought this was a one-time goof up, but not only did I see it again, but it actually happened 
 to me during the final battle with the T-Rex. There I am staring the T-Rex down in the face, and 
 a second later I am sucked into its mouth and being eaten! Now, this can only be one of two negative 
 things: 1) a bug, or, 2) an entire animation sequence was just left out. In either case, how that 
 managed to slip into the final retail release is beyond me.
  
  And maybe it was just me, but I felt there was even a bit to be desired with the interface. For 
 one, you can also see how many rounds are in your current magazine with the pulse rifle; all other 
 weapons leave you completely clueless since there is no on-screen indicator, or action to check. 
 The saving system felt a bit overly anal and clumsy as well. I already said you could overwrite 
 the frigging save file once already; do you really need to ask me if I want to overwrite two separate 
 times with each save?
  
  I don't know, maybe I'm just being a little bit too harsh? I really don't think so. I mean, it's 
 a decent game, but I had really expected quite a bit more from it. It didn't "wow" me in the way 
 that I was lead to believe it would. I still feel like I got my moneys' worth, but I can't help 
 but feel that so much can be improved. I guess you could say that I really have highly contrasted 
 feelings in regard to this game. If you are on a real budget, and you don't have many Xbox 360 
 games, I'd have to tell you to check out some of the other, better, shooters the 360 hosts. However, 
 if you've played most of them already, or just want to wallow in dino-blood, then go ahead and 
 pick it up. But, a word of the wise  if you're the type of person that can get easily frustrated, 
 back away!
  
  
  
  
  Overall Score: 6.3
  
  Gameplay: (6) Killing dinosaurs AND stealth - what more could you ask for? Well, less repetition, 
 more fun, a better control scheme and more polished presentation for starters...
  
  Graphics: (7) A mix between next-gen and last-gen - definitely quite the dichotomy!
  
  Sound: 
 (6) Weak voice acting suits the crummy dialog. The music is bland and unmemorable, and doesn't 
 set the mood as best as it could. Some of the sound effects are pretty good, though.
  
  Lasting Appeal: (6) If you have a high tolerance for frustration, then you just may make it. Otherwise, 
 you may never see the end of this relatively short campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorjuela
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  In the world of FPSs, it's always nice to know that everyone judges a game by it's attributes that 
 are similar to other games of the genre. 
  
  Remember when lighting was the issue, or how about when the issues were alternately not enough 
 weapons, then too many weapons, back to not enough weapons and so on.
  
  Well, this is one of those games, more so because it's a competent game, and it has a nice degree 
 of polish that is becoming more common (must be built into the program they use to come up with 
 these things) . 
  
  YAYS!!! include": Great Graphics (UT tech was put use nicely) , mostly great weapons, with the exception 
 of some of the targeting bits, and a pulse rifle that is really overpowered when you face human 
 enemies or seemingly underpowered when you face off against dinos (This is the perfect example 
 of what I mean when we expect certain things based on other games; I don't know about you folk, 
 but I've never even seen a real pulse rifle and I still expect it to be like, you know, something 
 Halo-ish or Aliens-ish) . The AI is also very intelligent, yes, it's true (At least when compared 
 to my neighbor's dog, who charges blindly and while not bright, he makes up for it with lot's of 
 teeth, intent to use them, and speed) . The human opponents do their flank thing and for the most 
 part when I have perished under their fire, it's because I was playing just like the AI that I 
 complain is too easy to kill. The Dino opponents are much, much simpler to describe; they are fast, 
 sharp, and so absolutely hard to stop when close up, that you need to have your knife drawn in 
 order to ensure that you will survive any suspected close encounters. The Bow on the other hand 
 manages to steal the show. Get into enough firefights, and you can easily turn the tables with 
 the bow. Just wait until you get the explosive tips, you will rock everyone's world!!!
  
  NAYS!!! The Knife. Simply put, the knife is so powerful, that IF (and it's a T-Rex sized if) , you 
 only faced off against small dinos; you would use it all the time and you would become bored. But 
 you don't, you can't, and I have a lot of respect for those that charge the T-Rex , armed and aware 
 of you, humans or any other of the bigger dinos with a knife. It won't work. Ever. 
  The save progress thing (auto save) , it's kind of a issue if you fail in your current level because 
 you have start at the last checkpoint, but is it a big deal? Nah.
  
  All, in all, the game is very solid, and has some of the best environment's out there for this 
 generation of consoles. I
  
  Suggestion: Rent it, and allow yourself to not get frustrated because it's not like every other 
 game. It's as original as it needs to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Continuing with the trend of buying games that are average so that I don't have any disappointments 
 or high hopes, the re-imagining of the Turok franchise was a definite pick up upon its release. 
 I played through the demo prior to the game hitting stores and figured the game would be about 
 a 7.0. I was correct with my assumptions.
  
  The menus are somewhat stylish which was pretty surprising but when the beginning cutscene starts, 
 I realized the story is told through the ingame engine which doesn't have the same impressive look 
 to it. Now the engine isn't horrible but the character designs share the same body types as the 
 characters in Gears of War and the skin is also extra shiny. There are inadequacies like this throughout 
 the durations of Turok. The game on a whole looks pretty good but upon closer inspection, there 
 are blurry textures all over the place, hundreds of mercs that look exactly the same and the environment's 
 openness is pretty much just an illusion. It's too bad too because some of the vistas that Turok 
 exposed me too were very beautiful from afar. 
  
  Combat suffers from some strange designs too. First off, the majority of the guns feel very underpowered 
 and that is in stark contrast to what the previous Turok's believed in. Other annoyances are that 
 the dinosaurs in the game usually died these gruesome but awe inspiring deaths while the mercs, 
 on the other hand stayed in one piece during explosions and just shed sparks when shot or stabbed. 
 I understand the move to cut down on violence, but when dinosaurs are exploding into bloody, twitching 
 body parts, I expect to see at least a drop of the red stuff when I'm shredding humanoids with 
 automatic fire.
  
  Those mixed feelings aren't to say that the combat is bad, in fact, at points the combat can be 
 out right invigorating. There were times, most towards the end of the game, where the game would 
 throw everything it could at me and surprisingly I'd survive. I would just pan the area looking 
 at all the dead bodies under the shock of how I survived such an onslaught. The game also happens 
 to pull off a few boss battles fairly well.
  
  Other than the bosses, the mercs show very little variety in looks, fortunately there are a handful 
 of different dinosaurs that break up the monotony of repetitive encounters. These beasts ended 
 up stealing the show hands down. Not only are they usually relentless with their assaults, there 
 are also a few variances of them, from agile tree climbing raptors to raptors with large goiters 
 that spit acid. The AI for all of these creatures is generally good but nothing surprisingly smart.
 
  
  One idea that seems to have backfired on the developers is the fact that grenades, tail swipes, 
 tramples and lunges from the enemies can send your Turok flying to where you can see your arms 
 and legs flailing away. It's a cool effect that leaves you disorientated for a bit which isn't 
 bad per se, but the fact that Turok is about as agile as a flat-tired wheelbarrow with a ton of 
 bricks in it, this new feature means you might end up restarting your game more often then you 
 should. I don't blame this new effect; it's the lack of speed in the controls that are the actual 
 culprit that makes you dead.
  
  Back to the weapons, the knife, bow, flame thrower and the mine gun seem to be the best weapons 
 available, all other weapons require headshots to quickly put enemies down. Each weapon has a secondary 
 function but even these don't help improve some of the guns. The minigun gets improved a bit with 
 the ability to set it down as an automated turret and the shotgun shoots out flares that dinosaurs 
 find as nice distractions but other than these weapons named, the other ones are mostly misses.
 
  
  The story in Turok is a vanilla tale involving a military mission to capture a rogue elite squad 
 leader. Since this is a reboot of the Turok series, gone are the aliens, monsters and most of the 
 originality. This time around the story starts off with a purpose and then as the threat from this 
 elite squad gets stronger, the mission devolves into the quest just to get off the island alive. 
 Teammates throughout the story will meet their untimely demise but that's ok because no connection 
 is built with the supporting cast. I enjoyed just watching the interesting ways each one was picked 
 off.
  
  In closing, Turok suffers most from rollercoaster pacing. The game can hit highs the like of Halo 
 or the Half-Life series but more than often misses producing those moments. It's a good start to 
 the new Turok series, a great turn in the right direction over Evolution that hopefully improves 
 if they decide to make another installment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  I get right into what you want to know with my reviews, "Should i Buy this Game?" 
  
  Well, heres my thoughts. The game has some great moments and some great positives, but it also 
 has some negatives bigger than the T-Rex itself.
  
  Positives: The graphics are superb. Dinosaurs look like they came right from Jurassic Park movies 
 and they move really cool as well. This leads into my next positive... Fighting these beasts can 
 be a real treat. The fights are visceral and bloody, with great sound and great effects. 
  
  Killing with the knife is also pretty cool, as the animations here look really good. The knife 
 does have decent balance, you cant just walk right upto 2 enemies and knife kill them, you have 
 to be sneaky or youll get shot while killing one. 
  
  The few boss fights are good, but again its the graphics and presentation that is good, not really 
 the gameplay, which you have done several times in past games. Its also not really that fun, you 
 just have to figure out what the developers want you to do to win, and theres not much choice. 
 The games story is decent, and you probably will want to see it through to the end, but dont expect 
 to care about anyone in the story (only exception i had was wanting to kill that guy Slade the 
 entire game) .
  
  Now the negatives: enemy ai of the soldiers, while decent, has its share of bugs. Numerous times 
 an enemy would stand still while i was shooting him, or i would kill one enemy, then another would 
 take his place and do the exact same thing as the first, pop out and shoot the exact same way. 
 
  
  The guns are boring. I didnt like any of them. There was nothing that made them feel unique or 
 cool, like in past Turok games. You can also beat almost the entire game with nothing but the pulse 
 rifle and knife. 
  
  The game has horrible checkpoints, you get them when you dont need them and rarely get them when 
 you really do. 
  
  The indoor and underground environments are boring, repetitive, and lame.
  
  The flying "bugs" 
 are annoying and were just seemingly out of place. The Giant scorpions were okay, but overused. 
 Theres hundreds of dino species they could have put in the game, why did they go with insects and 
 bugs? Theres just not enough of the T-Rex in the game and not enough dinosaur species. 
  
  The worst part of this game, is its actually pretty good and has great potential. It just misses 
 the mark in key areas and will frustrate you beyond what you think possible. My suggestion is to 
 do what i did, Rent it, beat it, (took me only 2 days, about 8 hours give or take) and dont look 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakePlisskin88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Expecting a solid fun and different shooter, i picked up turok the first day it came out, and it 
 was great fun... for half an hour. The game itself plays fairly well when the play involves dinosaurs, 
 especially with the choice of running around with a knife, hitting the right trigger to slice enemy's, 
 but when facing human characters the gameplay hits a snag. Fighting humans compared to dinosaurs 
 not only slows the game play, but drains the fun out of turok as well. The fights are usually frustrating, 
 repetitive, and overall pointless. Many of the fights are usually hard as well. Some levels involve 
 small areas meant to be used as a last stand against countless numbers of enemy's, while your computer 
 team mates runs around shooting in the wrong direction. The action mainly revolves around your 
 character running around hunting dinosaurs while trying to battle human characters as well, and 
 combined the game doesn't quite pull it off. If your looking for a part time fun looking game then 
 Turok should be to your needs for a while, while more serious gamers might want to stay away from 
 Turok due to the repetitiveness of the gameplay, and the overall frustration of the battles. In 
 the end Turok's just developed into another game, one that wont be mentioned at the end of the 
 year, and probably one that should be avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacman1192
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Turok is a good game but could have been so much better and should have been. The graphics are 
 breath taking and the storyline is very interesting but I completed the story in less then 10 hrs. 
 The multiplayer is alot different then the offline play and is where alot of improvement should 
 have been made. The online does have adversarial and co-opertive game modes but the co-op is only 
 3 levels long and the adversarial is not much better. The knife is probably the most used weapon 
 because you move faster while wielding it and it is a one hit kill. The sniping is desent but once 
 again could be better. the sticky gun is far too powerful and can even be dual wielded. The rocket 
 launcher is pretty balanced because the round hits then detonates 3-4 seconds later. The bow is 
 a sniper/ grenade launcher combo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleifrei
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game has huge potential and quite beautiful. However, the infuriating battles and lack of 
 saving make me want to smash my console over the developers' heads. 
  
  The game constantly puts you in near impossible situations and gives you a bunch of NPC's that 
 not only hit nothing and block your fire but stand there uselessly saying encouraging things like 
 "C'mon Turok go kill the tank" as five of them hide behind a rock that top THEM from being blown 
 up... but not you. The worst part is, that this game isn't completely terrible. 
  
  The knife kills are phenomenal, and there is just enough interesting characters and plot to make 
 you still want to play despite your violent urges..
  
  Overall 6 is the best I could give it as I'm not sure I can endure actually finishing the game 
 even though I do keep coming back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Turok has its good qualities and its bad ones. The campaign is a little slow to start off, and 
 the indoor human killing parts can get boring and frustrating. The weapon selection is very nice, 
 especially because all the weapons have multi functions. Killing dinosaurs is most definitely the 
 most exciting part of this game though, running around with your knife, not knowing where there 
 going to pop out next makes this game worth while.
  
  The multi player for this game does have some bugs and glitches that must be fixed. For example: 
 There are always lags during play. If your sniping you pull the trigger, hear the noise then about 
 2 seconds later the bullet comes out. The "bullet lag" as its called. That is extremely frustrating. 
 Also all the lags inter fear with the knife killing. You will be running around with an enemy trying 
 to knife him then suddenly it will go to the third person view and your getting a knife jabbed 
 through your face even though the guy was 15 feet away from you.
  The multi player can be a lot of fun when there are no lags though. Since theres no radar theres 
 always that constant fear you will be getting knifed from behind. Knife kills can get aggravating 
 though, especially with the glitch.
  
  Overall this game is worth the money. If your not sure if you will like it though you should rent 
 it or wait for a price drop. It's an acquired taste, it's not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_ofoblivion
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  In my books, this game is a true gaming legend, with features such as knife kills and silent bow 
 kills it's truly unique. Even though the game can get extremely hard at certain points it's still 
 worth the work. If you get stuck, you play and play until you finally reach your target. The greatest 
 part is roaming in the jungle waiting for some raptors so you can slice them open! sorry about 
 that I got a bit carried away with the satisfaction of using a special knife kill. Although the 
 soldiers may tend to flank, take cover and come at you faster than a t-rex, you get just as many 
 old-school vintage dinos which are my favourite opponents in a game to date. This is probably my 
 3rd favourite game of all time and I don't think there'll be another game to beat it soon. The arsenal 
 of weapons is what defines the combat, the bow, the mini-gun, the RPG ,the flame-thrower and especially 
 the knife. This game will be in my good books for years to come.
  Lordo Out! 
  ( Since this review my opinions have chaged for the bad!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  If you can picture a hubrid made of Quake 4, Rambo and Jurassic Park, than you have this new Turok 
 instalment figured out. This game is a complete new approach to the series, quite like Batman Begins 
 is a whole new movie series, also this Turok game reinvents the franchise from scratch.
  The story is about an American native named Turok, the character you'll be controling, he was once 
 part of a black-ops group named Wolfpack, but then he deserted the team, probably because he didn't 
 like the way business was dealt with in Wolfpack. Guess what? Now you've been recruited by the 
 military for a special operation: you're to help and destroy the Wolfpack team, which are now working 
 with a rogue branch of soldiers. The mission becomes quite harder when you're spacecraft (the missionm 
 is to take place in another planet, one going through terra-forming) is shot down by the enemy 
 scattering your crew all around, soon you find yourself lost and unnarmed in a jungle, and then 
 you find out that the terra-forming has been accelerated and we have dinossaurs running up and 
 down. Your objective is now clear, regroup with survivors and get the hell out of the planet. Of 
 course nothing is that easy...
  For weapons you'll have plenty of the usual stuff: sub-machineguns, plasma rifles, shotguns, etc 
 You can carry only two of those at a time, but you'll always be carrying (after you aquire them 
 of course) a knife and a bow; the bow acts like a silent sniper in most cases, and the knife allows 
 you to kill quickly and silently, when you near the enemy Turok will raise the knife and then you 
 press the trigger so he kills the enemy with a rambo-like killing stab. The knife is also wonderful 
 for killing dinossaurs, they are fst and you'll seldom be able to hit them with any weapon, the 
 knife however will allow you to act quickly and deadly, a single press and the dino is down for 
 good (bigger dinos, as well as some stronger soldiers cannot be killed with the knife) .
  Enemies can be resumed in three categories: humans, insects and dinossaurs. Humans are the rogue 
 soldiers, they have heavy-armor and are hard to bring down, insects are either flying bugs that 
 spit acid or giant scorpions, they are a pain in the neck and mean trouble. Dinos: they are the 
 real fun, you'll see harmless dinossaurs and velociraptors and T-Rex's, interesting fact: they 
 don't target YOU, they target EVERY MEAT around, that means your enemy will be fending off the 
 dinossaurs at the same time they'll be fighting you, and the same goes for you ( you can try and 
 trick the dinos into hunting down your enemies, just keep in mind they'll hunt YOU once there's 
 no more meat around...) some dinossaurs will even attack each other (herbivores being attacked 
 by raptors for instance) . When attacked by giant scorpions or most dinos there's the "mauling", 
 at times, which means they leap on you and they'll try and kill you in a single attack, while you 
 try and kick them away by means of buttom mashing (like in God of War and Clive Barker's Jericho) , 
 if you're succesful Turok may simply kick the beast away or even get into a berseker fury and complement 
 the sequence with an extremely savage ending move. For bosses you'll have the T-Rex, the leader 
 of Wolfpack (it's a cinematographic, buttom-mashing, battlke that I swear to you, should go to 
 the history of videogames, it is SUPERB) and a giant sea creature, all are very fun to fight. Also 
 there's a high-suspense mood since most of the time you'll HEAR the dinossaur and see the plants 
 moving, but you won't get a good view of what is happening untill it's too late. Scenarios are 
 pretty much open and huge, allowing you a few different paths and also getting you lost at times 
 if you don't pay attention; wildlife is plenty. This also means that you might want to sneak behind 
 and stab your enemies quietly or even, go right up and shoot them just like any other fps.
  There are no good saves though, it goes through checkpoints and sometimes you'll have to retrace 
 a long way just beacause you died in the end of a sequence, which IS aggravating, however the game 
 is just too good for that to get in the way.
  Graphics are very good, but you'll feel some problem with the way the characters look, it's as 
 if they're constantly illuminated by very strong spotlight, taking away some of the realism. Turok 
 now looks a lot like one of the Gears of War characters, he has a sort of plate-armor and he's 
 monster of muscles. the game uses Unreal Engine, so you have an idea that it's pretty good. The 
 glitches are few and easily forgivable.
  Gameplay is remarkable, so is character and scenario design. The soundtrack looks like right out 
 of theaters.
  Turok is a must have for any fan of FPS, and anyone who doesn't like FPSs should try it out as 
 a rent at least, since the pace it gives is so cinematographic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1060wast
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Hunting dinosuars with a knife is certainly the best part of the game. The dinosaurs act as quick, 
 voracious killers quite well. But, the action can get quite frenetic when surrounded. It feels 
 like they upped the difficulty because of the regenerating health system. Just because you have 
 unlimited health doesn't mean you should be subject to a punishing difficulty level. I managed 
 to complete the game on Normal, but I'm having trouble completing it on the next difficulty. This 
 is from a guy whos beaten halo 3 on legendary by himself, so I'm no slouch when it comes to video 
 games. I enjoyed stealth kills with the knife, but situations where you can sneak up and kill guys 
 easily are rare. Most of the time enemies are grouped together so that if you stealth kill one, 
 the others come running. Making it rare to get away with more than one in a situation. While some 
 times frustrating when I died repeatedly at one point, the checkpoint save system didn't seem too 
 far apart. While a difficult game, I enjoy a little challenge now and then, and bought the game 
 even when it was suggested i rent it first. I felt the Gamespot review accurately described it, 
 and felt I would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Man_of_Steel44
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Well the game it self was good and the mini battle games are just challenging enough to be fun 
 but not to hard to complete. The stealth kills are a nice to touch to a bullet riddled world, the 
 story line is immersive and can capture your attention. The cut scenes are good and the effects 
 are impressive, the vast land scape's are so elegant , prehistoric and vast. when the dinosaurs 
 attack you could acttualy think you are there running and gunning to save your ship mates from 
 certain death. The tactics engine is cool because you can get the dino's to attack your enemies 
 for you, nothing wrong with doing half the work for the better pay off. The one thing that I miss 
 is being able to carry every differant weapon you could find in the original, not the ability to 
 carry only a few weapons at a time. BOOO the more guns the more fun you can have. The achievments 
 are very much based on the online multiplayer and not based enough on the game it self. But So 
 all in all I have to say the juice is worth the sqeeuze. Enjoy and practice safe gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Turok is a sci-fi first-person shooter from Touchstone and Propaganda Games. It's a resurrection 
 of a once great series, which was assumed dead when Acclaim went bankrupt. But not it's back on 
 the next-gen systems and boy does it need to impress, with the likes of CoD4 and The Orange Box 
 on the system. While killing dinosaurs is as fun as it sounds, the game suffers from both a lack 
 of original gameplay and a unfair learning curve.
  
  Turok places you in the marine shoes of Joeseph Turok, a member of a group called Whiskey Company 
 who is on the hunt for a guy called Kane who is the leader of a group called Wolfpack-an evil group 
 Turok was once in. But he quit for unknown reasons and is now fighting against them. As they arrive 
 on the planet he is apparently on, their ship is shot down and they are stranded. It doesn't help 
 there are dinosaurs and evil people with guns on the planet, and now Turok must find and kill Kane, 
 as well as get off the planet. It's a decent plot, but it's nothing special.
  
  Turok plays like a standard shooter. You go through a linear level, killing what gets in your way 
 with a variety of weapons, with the occasional boss fight too. It would have been nice if there 
 was more freedom, but at least the levels aren't as cramped as Jericho. Either way, this game doesn't 
 do a whole lot new. It can feel very derivative at times, and it does get boring at some points. 
 But then you fight a boss fight or an intense situation and the fun comes back.
  
  The weapons in previous games have been pretty crazy, with firearms like the Cerebral Bore. But 
 here, the list is a little less exciting. You get your typical firearms like shotguns and pistols 
 which do the job. You also get a knife and a bow-the two best weapons in Turok. The knife lets 
 you instantly kill an enemy by running up to them and squeezing the trigger, which you can use 
 on standard enemies and dinosaurs. It's the effective weapon, as it can get you out of the toughest 
 situations. Is there an area with six or seven raptors? You could knife kill them all easily with 
 little to no damage. It's not so easy with six humans, as they can shoot you while doing the kill. 
 But still, it's a bit of a crutch. An exciting one, at that. 
  
  The Bow and arrow is best for sniping, as it takes out most enemies with one shot. The rest of 
 the weapons, however, are a little dull. We've used the shotgun and assault rifle before. It's 
 nice that you can duel wield most weapons, meaning you could combine shotgun with assault rifle, 
 but even then you'll still find yourself saying 'I've done this before'.
  
  But the biggest issue I had with Turok was its difficulty. I don't usually complain about a game 
 being too hard, as I like challenge. But here, Turok was simply unfair. Turok lacks an auto-targeting 
 of most shooters, meaning you have to be really accurate here. It's annoying that you miss shots 
 because enemies move too fast. Also, checkpoints are few and far between meaning you'll play for 
 twenty minutes, only to die and have to retry again and again and again. It's a big problem, and 
 one that I couldn't' really overlook.
  
  The graphics and sound, however, definitely impress. Visually, the game is one of the best on the 
 system. The dinosaurs look real, with their shiny skin and muscles and bones sticking out. The 
 humans look good, though it's odd why they don't splatter with blood after knife kills. Environments 
 are pretty closed, though not to the level of Jericho, which is good enough and they look good 
 too, but when you step out into an open area where you see a beautiful mountainside-it's stunning.
 
  
  The sound excels too. A fantastic orchestral score plays in the background at the perfect moments. 
 The acting is good, with some Hollywood actors like Powers Boothe and Ron Perlman. They add some 
 personality to what would usually be mindless space marines. The effects are nice, with the great 
 dinosaur screeches and grass movement. You have to use your ears in Turok, as there could be a 
 raptor behind you which you can spot as they're in the grass.
  
  Turok is a game that not anyone will love. If you liked the previous games, are looking for a challenge 
 or an excuse for killing dinosaurs then step right up-Turok will be your game of the year. Everyone 
 else will just be playing another shooter, though it's better than average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_9909
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  with the extreme downfall of the turok series starting at number 2 the series seriously needed 
 a good kickin in the make a good game or die direction
  
  personally i thought every turok game with the exception of the original plain sucked i wouldnt 
 have given this game a second look but i was outta games to play... i put my addiction of COD4 
 to the side and i wasnt in the mood for guitar hero so i downloaded the demo... it was amazing 
 the graphics are crisp besides one issue i have with the grass... its meerly a 2D image that rotates... 
 this was used back in the days of doom and duke nukem i dont know about other gamers but with an 
 engine as powerful as Unreal Engine 3 it could surely do better and the lack of water splashing 
 apart from that visually amazing
  
  the Gameplay has a fairly common FPS element which is good, the weapons are awesome with the exception 
 of the plasma cannon... overheating = bad
  
  the most unique and greates part of this game (it being the main reason i bought it) is the knife 
 kills. no matter how you kill something its never as gratifying as watching turok pounce a raptor 
 and stab its throat until its bloody heap on the floor, my personal favourite is killing the crawler 
 dude things he runs right up to them kicks them square in the face and then drives the knife right 
 through there skulls...
  
  Excellent reboot to the series highly reccomend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me, you associate Turok with dinosaurs and really weird or huge guns. In this next-gen 
 iteration of a franchise that, to quote Game Informer's Ben Reeves, (has) passed through more 
 hands than bad stock tips" you achieve something that is greater and at the same time, much less, 
 than its predecessor. I believe this is know as a paradox.
  
  I think we'll start with all the things I enjoyed about this game. First off, the fantastical setting 
 of past Turok games has been replaced with a more realistic and, thanks to movies like Alien, a 
 more familiar space marine setting. As Joseph Turok, you are being sent to a remote planet to bring 
 in your former mentor. In classic fashion, things go to hell. Your ship is shot down and you make 
 it out of the wreckage, weaponless. Apart from a better story line, the game features pretty good 
 dino AI, and borrows a health system seen in games like CoD4. Working with squad mates on missions 
 is a blast too.
  
  As it stands, this game has all the requirements to be good, maybe great, but now we hit some bad 
 road. First off, Turok ditches all of its fantastic weapons in favor of more realistic arms. This 
 is in keeping with the change of mood, but I still think the development team could have worked 
 in something more creative/destructive than the regular pistol, SMG, shotgun, sniper rifle fair 
 I'm used to. Additionally, all of these weapons seem to pale in comparison next to a knife. A knife! 
 Turok may be a bad a**, but when a sharpened piece of metal is more potent against a tiger/raptor, 
 than a freakin' shotgun, well, you got me. Apart from this, check points seem to be spaced awkwardly, 
 or too far apart for my comfort. So far, I've only hit a few snags, but I don't believe this is 
 necessarily the fault of the difficulty, but more of a balance issue. The rest of my complaints 
 with this game are small.
  
  All in all, if you'r a fan of FPS's, then Turok for the 360 or PS3 is a great game to buy. The 
 atmosphere in this game is definitely a strong selling point. Apart from the balance issue, using 
 the knife to kill attacking dinos or even killing unaware patrols (there are human enemies in the 
 game also, seperate from your group) is a complete blast. Turok is a pick up and play fun fest. 
 You don't need to know much beyond shooting whatever is stupid enough to move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  MAD!!!!!!!!! when killing a t rex with a knife is underaprciated i get a lil angry but hey not 
 everbodies cup of blood ridden tea is it. heh the most boring parts consist of just you going around 
 facilities killing humans which first happens in the second act but its still funt raining down 
 super tech arrows on a pack of unexpecting dousche bags isnt it, well if you havent already rent 
 the game and you say if its worth the 40 bucks or not. if you dont at least try it youll never 
 be able to sayhey guys guess what i did on the weekend... i killed a dinosaur with a huntind 
 kinfe" well you dont have to go around and kill everything with a knife anything will do even a 
 chain gun can be used to kil the little compy things that try to maul you at first sight. not as 
 gory as i thought it would be but still a bit bloody, the character movement and physics are terrible 
 along with its shaky graphics, but hey still fun and crazy... bit like me..... hehehe..... the 
 lush environments are overated.
  FUN GAME TRY ATLEAST!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikelshearer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  It took me about 6 playing hours to finish the game. Dinos gave me the most problems. Kanes army 
 wasn't as hard, you just had to be patient and not go too fast. The flying, acid spitting bugs 
 were fairly hard also while trying to blow up the reactor. 
  Overall, it was a great game. Have fun killing the T-REX!! The look of the game is great. Had a 
 little difficulty during the night scenes. There are plenty of weapons to choose from. Most of 
 the time trying to figure out which weapons to choose was the hardes part. At certain times you 
 have to have the right weapon. The auto save feature is nice. Sometimes it really takes you back 
 pretty far once you have been killed. You will know when it auto saving. Nice feature in all these 
 game. This is only the 2nd first person shooter game I have played. The first was Call to Duty 
 3 and I would rank it a little higher than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasaPollo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I played Turok on the 64, and I couldn't wait for the 360 version! The day it released I rushed 
 to my local Wal-Mart and drooled on the glass seperating me and the game. I think the lady that 
 opened the case was a little afraid, but that's okay, I got my game!
  
  I get it home, tear open the impossible plastic - after ten minutes of messing with it, am I right? 
 - and immediately put it in the console. My first reaction was a simple, "Wow." I remember, as 
 I'm sure most of you do, the orriginal turok. I rememebr the cerebral bore, the bow, the guns, 
 the dinos. Just to bring ya'll up to speed on the series, the orriginal was Turok: Dinosaur Hunter. 
 And it had a story, but who cared? Big deal, some mystic, something about dinosaurs, I GET TO KILL 
 THEM?! That's what got everybody excited. Now Turok 2: Seeds of Evil was pretty good, not as good 
 as the first one, even though it got a higher review here on Gamespot.
  
  Both of those came out on the N64, There were four other Turok games that released, none of which 
 I care about enough to list the titles. however, these spin-offs all hit the Game Boy, and one 
 of them also ran on the 64. Obviously meaning they weren't as good as either of the numbered in 
 the series.
  
  Now on to the most current revision; this one has the dinos, it has a nice spin on the old story, 
 but of course has its flaws as well. Now as for the Story mode itself, the single player part, 
 I say it couldn't have been any better! The encounters with a T-Rex, the baby Raptors - you kill 
 them by picking them up and sliting their throat, how cool - the explosive arrows, the fairly intelligent 
 AI. If there's something to be added, I can't imagine what it is. I'd go into more detail, but 
 I don't want to spoil anything for those of you that haven't played it yet.
  
  Every game has its Pros and Cons... I was surprised at this one's downside. The Co-op mode for the 
 campaign is online only! So if that's the whole reason you want this, then it's not worth it. There's 
 also no console based multiplayer, which is a little dissapointing as well.
  
  Are the Cons enough to give this game the boot? Absolutely not, Turok for the 360 really brings 
 back the franchise. As soon as I head about this one, I had high hopes, and it clears almost all 
 the obstacles I put in front of it. So in short, I say buy this one, and drool the whole way home! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altar360
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Turok has returned from the video game graveyard and into the next-gen consoles. First off I want 
 to clear up a crucial fact: The story is diferent, so fans of the original might be disapointed, 
 but the game itself is a lot of fun. The story is much like a Hollywood blockbuster. That's not 
 really a bad thing. You start off with a military group in search of your old teacher on an unknown 
 planet, were you crashland and spent most of your time just trying to survive. Sounds like a good 
 movie right/? 
  
  The graphics are awsome. Beautifully dark jungles, awsome looking dinos, and great human faces, 
 and of corse the gore is just mouth watering. The sound department also did a good job, every now 
 and then you'll hear a roar or growl in the distance of the jungle that will make you think twice 
 before lowering your guard, and the voice acting is great, not to mention the music that nicely 
 fits the mood. The gameplay is were it looses momentum though, there's not really any good way 
 to cover when your in a shootout, and reaction comands aren't always smooth. 
  
  In conclusion, Turok is a great way to pass the time, weather hunting dinos alone or duking it 
 out on multiplayer, this game is a must play for first person shooters, and action fans alike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I am playing this game because I spent $65 on it. I bought the game as a result of the, "co-op" 
 feature on the cover. I would like to point out, my daughter and I thoroughly enjoy playing all 
 the Halo's because of the co-op play. I am very frustrated and upset that this game was allowed 
 to present itself as a co-op title. I will chalk it up to a learning experience. I will remember, 
 "Touchstone" games and their deceptive approach from now on. Shame on you, Disney!
  
  Another gripe I have is the ridiculous save feature. The games save points make absolutely no sense 
 at times. I experienced levels where I experienced no conflict. A great example comes when you 
 finish the stand-off after holding your ground while troops drop from helicopters. After you complete 
 the stand-off there is a save. You move to an area that opens up after getting the heck knocked 
 out of you by 2 raptors in the brush. ( I have to admit, this was one of my favorite experiences 
 of the game.... you are done with the battle and expecting down time.... very nice.) I digress. From 
 that point you get 2 saves just for walking for 30 seconds. What? Huh? Thank God for those 2 saves 
 or I would have been able to complete the game. :-P
  
  I guess it is the developers way to extend game play hours..... Wow! Thanks for the frustration, 
 I am sure to purchase the next title release...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Guns and dinosaurs: an infallible combination if there ever was one, right? Except various games 
 have failed to make the formula work in the past, not least the last instalment in the Turok series, 
 its merits were evenly matched by its potential to be 'unforgiving, glitchy and irritating'. Sadly, 
 it is an accusation that could be similarly levelled at this latest Turok  a promising reinvention 
 of the maligned dino-hunting franchise which ultimately makes many of the same mistakes.
  
  This time around, Turok is an ex-con turned military man with a vendetta, coerced into joining 
 a rag-tag company of marines on a mission to extract and imprison a rogue agent wreaking havoc 
 on a newly terraformed planet. Things do not go to plan, and soon Turok's allies in Whiskey Company 
 find themselves dispersed across the hostile world, persecuted by the forces of the man they came 
 to capture and harried by the planet's own primordial ecosystem.
  
  The game is at its best in its stealth sections, where you pick off witless foes at range while 
 creeping through the long grass, using the flare launcher to entice dinosaurs into attacking your 
 human opponents. Unfortunately, this plays a lesser part in the overall game, outweighed by slightly 
 turgid gunplay. Turok himself moves with frustrating sloth and the aiming controls have an unnaturally 
 abrupt acceleration to them that sends your reticule skittering over your mark.
  
  The mad-cap arsenal of Turok's past is replaced with a more mundane armoury; your bow, with its 
 ability to pin enemies to walls, is the most entertaining and effective ranged weapon at your disposal, 
 and the cinematic knife kills offer a visceral thrill the first few times you see them. Many of 
 the smaller dinosaurs are thus dispatched with a context-sensitive tap of the trigger  in fact 
 the knife is really the only effective means of getting through a pack of velociraptors, resulting 
 in protracted battles which amount to a string of bloody, but often near-identical, animations.
 
  
  The difficulty is really only in reorienting yourself once the animation has finished, since the 
 cinematics leave you in a different position from when you initiated the kill. The mushy jungle 
 level design does little to help you find your direction again, and things get worse when it's 
 dark. And then things get worse still when it's dark and enemies are firing explosive rounds which 
 repeatedly knock you off your feet and leave you facing a completely different direction with your 
 vision blurred. Such visual effects can be used well to denote damage, but here the tedious cool-down 
 frustrates rather than adrenalizes.
  
  It may be that such disorientation is realistic but, equally, perhaps realism is not the thing 
 to be aiming for in a game whose central pleasure is the ability to kick dinosaurs in the face. 
 It is of particular concern when death entails a punitive ten-minute trek from the last checkpoint. 
 In fact, one of the very last and trickiest missions can see you lose 20 minutes of play, and doesn't 
 even have the decency to put its checkpoint after the level's introductory cut scene. Lengthy loading 
 times are another reason to begrudge the game's difficulty level which, even on the lowest setting, 
 contains spikes that will have you staring at the loading screen for a sizeable chunk of play time.
 
  
  Yet, somehow, Turok manages to be a more compelling experience than its many and obvious failings 
 would suggest. A lot of this can be attributed to elements peripheral to the actual action of the 
 game  things such as the excellent animation. It is fundamentally this that makes the dinosaurs 
 convincing and fearsome enemies. Attention has been lavished on these creatures  kill one and 
 it writhes for a few moments, clawing at the ground in a febrile attempt to get purchase. Human 
 enemies will similarly use their last breaths to crawl away from you before expiring  animations 
 that appear to be partly procedural, so that the limbs interact with the environment in a way that 
 suggests real contact.
  
  Equal care has been given to facial animations and the depiction of the characters as a whole, 
 made particularly evident in the cut scenes. Turok himself glowers with doleful petulance, and 
 the exaggerated under bite and heavy brow of your grudging companion, Slade, create one of the 
 more expressive faces in videogames. In fact, although the hard-bitten space marines invite obvious 
 comparisons with Gears of War, Turok's allies have significantly more personality than those charm 
 less hulks.
  
  Much of this is a product of the voice-acting, and, in particular, the presence of Ron Perlman 
 in the cast. There's not a huge amount of dialogue to work with, and yet Perlman turns the surly, 
 world-weary Slade into a sympathetic and humorous figure  a character whose initial animosity 
 towards the player could otherwise have been grating. Powers Booth also puts in a performance as 
 the amoral antagonist, Kane, which elevates him above the stereotypical bogeyman. Although clearly 
 restricted by genre and setting, the script is not without merit, and, perhaps surprisingly, you 
 find yourself quite invested in the storyline  largely a result of the intermittent flashbacks 
 which slowly reveal Turok's prior relationship with Kane.
  
  This interest does not really communicate itself to the game's action. For the most part it's hard 
 to care about the fate of the marines on the planet, and the characterization of Kane's Wolf Pack 
 as elite assassins is at odds with the bumbling soldiers you dispatch for the greater part of the 
 game. The sad fact is that this combat mostly fails to ignite interest, and combined with its cruel 
 difficulty spikes, occasional glitches and a severe differential in graphical quality between 360 
 and PS3 versions (the latter losing out) , Turok's strong contextualization and smattering of brave 
 ideas get buried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodredvenom
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Turok is a fantastic FPS that offers constant gore at the satisfaction of killing Dinosaurs. The 
 immense size of each level is astounding; however the same set pieces seem to crop up again and 
 again. For example, Giant tree, some long grass, big rock, some more grass; but once you're actually 
 playing the game, the repetitive side of things seems to vanish. Each weapon has its own secondary 
 fire. For example, the shotgun has a Flare that can lure enemies such as dinosaurs away from you 
 and towards other enemies. The aiming system could be better, as weapons such as the bow are slightly 
 "Trickier" to master.
  
  The multiplayer offers online Deathmatches, Capture the Flag and Team Deathmatches. Each of the 
 intense maps has Dinosaurs and/or Giant Scorpions, both of which are extremely useful for luring 
 enemies towards
  
  The multiplayer also offers three highly addictive co-op maps that are playable for up to four 
 people. A tactical approach is crucial in each of these maps; as unlike Halo 3, you only have a 
 Limited amount of lives.
  
  Overall, Turok's single player campaign may be short, but if played on a higher difficulty, the 
 game will last significantly longer. The AI from some of the soldiers could be improved slightly, 
 as they all look and act identically which adds to the repetitive aspect again. The part of Turok 
 I personally found most enjoyable was sneaking through the long grass with the knife and silently 
 picking off enemies one by one. The knife shows a fantastically brutal cutscene when used, showing 
 Turok repeatedly stabbing into faces of men and Dinosaurs alike. Different approaches with the 
 knife show different cutscenes which makes the knife one of the most "Fun" weapons in the game.
 
  
  If you like FPS games then you will Love Turok. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnyfinestx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok now we all remember the original Turok game for the Nintendo 64. Forget everything about it 
 because this aint a sequel to the N64 title. You still play as Turok in the game and he still is 
 a native american, but this time he's a fuking space marine. So the story goes Turok use to be 
 in a elite assasination group called "wolf pack", so something happens and now you're after you're 
 old mentor who has an army of soldiers on a planet filled with dinosaurse blah, blah, blah, you're 
 ship gets shot down and you have to look for suvivors ya, ya, ya, and on you're way finding survivors 
 you have to battle the dino's and the army dudes. Now this game is tuff at times, because the dino's 
 just dont know when to stand the fuk still! and there's no aim assistance in this game so you better 
 be good at FPS's, and not only that you fight like five Raptors at a time, and you're AI buddies 
 get the job done occasionaly! Now this game does look good, but it aint the best looking game out 
 there. The voice acting is pretty good and fun at times Like Ron Pearlman's voice acting. The enemy 
 AI is good on the dino's, but on the army dudes it aint so good, but they will still kill you if 
 you're not on you're tose, and whats cool to is that the dino's and the army dudes will kill each 
 other. In the end Turok was an awsome game to play, and it does have its flaws but if you're a 
 true gamer you'll have a blast with this fuking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dR_PowerDrain
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo of this game on the Xbox Live marketplace I enjoyed it enough to place a 
 reserve and had high hopes for the campaign and the online multiplayer. Let's just say I was half 
 disappointed and half pleased once I received and beat the game. First, lets go down the basics 
 of the game. 
  The story is extremely predictable for a sci-fi game (marines get stranded on a planet inhabited 
 by killer dinosaurs while trying to capture a criminal who has an army there) but I didn't buy 
 it for story. 
  The graphics are great (this runs on the Unreal engine) but the textures on the rocks, grass, etc. 
 are pretty mediocre. 
  The Gameplay is fun and the dinosaurs make it even more of a blast to play but the levels are linear 
 and one things that was supposed to be a main selling point bugs me. This is that you can go through 
 each battle two different ways, being stealthy and taking everyone out silently or running in guns 
 blazing. I found it hard to stealth kill everyone for one reason, just when your about to get a 
 kill an oblivious soldier someone spots you and you are forced to kill everyone in a standard FPS 
 process. Shoot, Kill, Repeat. After trying stealth a couple times I just gave up and took all the 
 enemies out with loud, attention grabbing guns. Speaking of guns, the aiming in this game is hard 
 to control. Most of the time hitting a moving target is hard because aiming is so slippery. eventually 
 I got used to this and adjusted but it still is difficult. Weaponry is standard, ranging from an 
 SMG to a Pulse Rifle but two weapons really stick out, the Knife and the Bow and Arrow. These weapons 
 are awesome and tie to the main character's Indian background. the knife is crazy powerful but 
 this is a blessing and a curse. Using the knife is awesome in the campaign because there is nothing 
 like stabbing a dinosaur in the eye after getting attacked. (More on dinos later) But the knife 
 can suck because many Multiplayer matches boil down to knife battles. (once again, more on this 
 later) the bow is like a sniper rifle and is great for taking out enemies from a distance. 
  The dinosaurs are basically what make Turok great. Getting tooken on by large groups of raptors 
 or Dilos and winning is awesome, especially when the Dinosaur happens to be a freakin T-rex. Using 
 the dinosaurs to take out enemies is even more exciting and can result in maniacal laughs towards 
 your helpless victims. Eventually you'll face mutated bugs but they aren't as memorable as the 
 dinos. 
  Voice acting is phenomenal but the dialogue spoken is boring. (Think, Gears of War) 
  The game's 
 difficulty is very uneven, partially because of uneven checkpoints and because of battles themselves. 
 Frequently, when I would die I would expect to be placed at say a point i had reached two minutes 
 earlier, turns out I would end up at a part 10 MINUTES earlier. Enough said about that. The battle 
 problem happens only a couple times but it is frustrating when you keep dying because you are being 
 shot at by 5 different angles.
  Overall the campaign is very fun, but the problems I stated lowers the fun.
  Now on to the multiplayer. 
 Two words, Lag and Knifes. I have only found two lag free matches to date so many matches I played 
 looked like a flipbook. Now to knifes, as I stated earlier, most matches boil down to people trying 
 to circle others who actually use guns. And they suceed, making much matches frustrating. One more 
 thing to cover, dinos inhabit some maps but they don't usually get in the way beacuse you can walk 
 around them.
  In conclusion Turok is a "Rent before you buy"
  ****NOTE***** This is my first review so don't expect much, Also i'm only a teenager.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madman10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I originally got this game because I remembered playing Turok 2 way back in the day and remembered 
 how cool, fast paced, and all the insane weapons that was at your disposal. But I was a little 
 disapointed in the fact that there was no insane weapons in this latest installment. The graphics 
 are about what you would expect with the current generation of consoles. The music fits well with 
 what is going on. The sounds will keep you turn to look behind you (which in some cases is a good 
 thing.) Unlike the previous installments, there is little to almost no blood. I did like the controls, 
 although I know many people don't like the fact that there is no aim assist, but I'm an old school 
 gamer so I didn't really ever need aim assist. The stealth system seemed like it needed a little 
 more work. If I stick my head out of some tall grass and someone sees me and starts shooting at 
 me just as I'm ducking back into the grass, they should not have the standard accuracy, especially 
 if I had slowly sneaked off to the left or right. Fighting dinosaurs knife to claw can be pretty 
 fun, but some of the kill animations get very repeatitive. One thing that I could never mark as 
 a positive or a negative is the fact that by the end of the game it seemed like they were still 
 trying to introduce stuff. So as an overall don't get this game just because it says, "Turok" don't 
 get me wrong I did enjoy the game, but for the sake of heartache if your a fan of the Turok games 
 rent this one first, simply because it is very different and you may not like the change. I personally 
 have mixed feelings, but as a stand alone game it is pretty good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brickwork
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  THE GRAPHICS ARE GREAT, THERE IS GREAT WEAPONS FROM ROCKET LAUNCHERS TO BOW AND ARROWS. AND PLAYING 
 ONLINE IS REALLY GOOD TO, AND ALSO COOP MODE IS REALY GOOD FOR THE CAMPAIGN. I LOVE THE FACT THAT 
 YOU CAN CHOSSE YOUR STYLE OF GAMEPLAY , YOU CAN GO IN SLOWLY AND YOUR ENEMY SILENTLY OR YOU CAN 
 TAKE THE OTHER OPTION OF JUST RUNNING IN WITH ALL GUNS BLASING. THE OTHER REALLY GREAT THING ABOUT 
 THIS GAME THE DINOS JUMP OUT WHEN YOU LEAST EXPECT IT, THEY ALSO DON'T JUST ATTACK YOU THEY ATTACK 
 THE ENEMY AS WELL. I RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE HOW LOVES A FIRST PERSON  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This is fun game. You are Turok, the dinosaur hunter.... a legend in your own time.... or maybe in 
 your own mind. You like to wander in the jungles and fight with large prehistoric animals. I can 
 run and shoot and slit the throats of wild beasts and watch the blood splatter. It's a pretty standard 
 first-person shooter; you get the usual machine guns and sniper rifle, but you also get a pulse 
 rifle which is very cool. Each weapon has a secondary fire. You get grenades and flamethrowers. 
 I can sneak up on the enemy soldiers and attack them with my really big knife and there's nothing 
 they can do about it. If you attack with a knife and hit your right trigger at the right moment 
 a cut-kill-scene comes in that is a pretty cool finish move and this can be used in multiplayer 
 too. Some people don't like it in multiplayer, they think it's cheap, but I love it...... it gives 
 the noobs an even playing field cause all you have to do is hit that right trigger at the right 
 moment.
  You will have to fight some big ol' dinosaurs in this baby and some of them is purty hard. I just 
 finished this game today. The multiplayer is pretty fun too. There's nothing truly groundbreaking 
 about this game but what it does, it does well. Decent characters and story. Definitely worth a 
 play if you're a shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Turok is a great game, and well worth the rent. I even enjoy it as a buy, although it is dissapointing 
 on some terms. It isn't the same feeling as the other Turok's. For example, the gore has been almost 
 entirely omitted and you are no longer fighting a dinosaur-like enemy. I think all fans of previous 
 Turok games are sad to see these two major changes in the game.
  
  The single-player campaign has a great story, which is a first for the series. It is fun to play 
 and gives many twists and turns that keeps you wanting to play more. The only thing that kills 
 the campaign is that sometimes the checkpoints are too far apart and can make you disgusted with 
 having to do a long portion over just to get to the part you were stuck on. However, it does a 
 good job of balancing the combat against humans and dinosaurs and that keeps the old Turok spirit 
 alive. The story however does not explain Mendel-Gruman (sp?) and how they fit in with Wolf Pack. 
 But, the story overall is a great experience for any fps fans.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but not really fun. While it gives you real simple combat, it is also a return 
 to the ways multiplayer used to be. Also, the addition of AI creatures to the maps can be a pain 
 in the behind, or can give you an easy kill while your enemy fights one off. They change the game 
 just by simple jumping on players and slowing them down. For example, in CTF I have seen flag carriers 
 being pounced on by dinos, and then getting killed by a defender who happened to be following. 
 
  
  A downside to multiplayer is that it can take a while for matches to start, and sometimes they 
 lag horribly. Also, it seems no on plays ranked matches at some points as it can take 10 minutes 
 to find a ranked game. But, the best part of the multiplayer game (I think every one will agree) 
 is getting a stealth kill. All in all, a great multiplayer experience.
  
  Turok is a great game, although not the best. Hopefully the next Turok will return us to the gore 
 and alien enemies that define Turok. But, we can all agree that is is about time that the dinosaur 
 hunter came back to hunt again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomster98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting ages to get my hands on this game. well my first thought good for single player 
 with a solid storyline and weapons and the dinosaurs are amazing and the Bow and Arrow and Knife 
 will be your best friends and so is the SMG. 
  
  Strangley the men are harder enemys than the dinosaurs except that damn T-Rex. the raptors are 
 very famous in the game such as scorpions aka Soldier bugs are later on in the cave
  
  But don't be fooled if you thought it was perfect. the Multiplayer means no co-op or battles against 
 your mates at your house unless they have live meaning if you dont have live it's strictly Single 
 player but single isn't too bad
  
  overall it's a 9.5 it's good but not good as Halo 3. It's dosen't match up to Halo it is just not 
 that good but has plenty more substance but if you have got Halo 3 you should still buy it if you 
 want different enemies
  
  ayecaramba PEACE:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob5891
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  i completed turok it probaly would of been better if i had rented it because i complted it in 2 
 days but it was brilliant gameplay and the story and graphics well graphics were good but nothing 
 new. the boss monsters can be hard because they have alot of health. if you have xbox live buy 
 this game if you dont have xbox live then rent this game. the guns are brilliant : flame throwers, 
 shotguns, SMGs, plasma rifles, rocket launchers, sniper rifles... etc. the knife that you have is 
 great... when a monster/person attacks you slit its throat, jump on on it and stab it loads, grab 
 its neck and slash it, stab its eyes out, bascically you can kill things with amazingly wicked 
 attacks. this beats most games i have and its worth the money you spend if you get it. its new 
 ways of attack offer a great gaming experience and should be amazing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent-Rage
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I have been quite a big fan of the previous Turok games, but I must say that I was a little disappointed 
 with this game. This game has a decent single player, but the multiplayer is not very satisfying 
 - no splitscreen whatsoever and mediocre online play (especially compared to COD4 and some of the 
 other titles) . The single player is pretty challenging, but is quite repetitive and lacking variety. 
 Dinosaur fights are where this game shines, but unfortunately, they too, lose their fun after a 
 while. The weapons are alright, but it should not take nearly as much ammo as it does to kill a 
 solider. The knife is the most fun of the weapons.
  
  If you're looking for a game to rent, this is a suitable game. I made a mistake purchasing this 
 game, and I'm already considering to trade this game in. To conclude, there are better FPS titles 
 out there for the 360 to play before venturing into this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Good: Good story, Great voice acting, Cool Weapons, You get to fight Dinosaurs
  
  Bad: Not enough Checkpoints, Firefights can last to long, Its funner to fight Dinosaurs than humans.
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Turok is a long time running franchise which got its start on the N64 and spawned tons of sequels. 
 The last installment in the Turok franchise was "Turok Evolution" Which was a completely crappy 
 game. 
  But the new Turok rises above that. The new Turok game is a good game. But something just doesnt 
 feel right about the game.
  
  The story take place in the future on a distant planet. Were you take the role as "Turok". A ex 
 member of Wolf pack. You now are part of Whiskey company. Who has been given the mission to take 
 down Kane, the leader of wolf pack. You are shot down on arrival of the planet. Where you discover 
 that there is more than just Kanes men hunting you.
  
  The gameplay in Turok is smooth and plays great. Which is good. But the down fall to its gameplay 
 is the long firefights with the lack of checkpoints in between. Which can cause very frustrating 
 gameplay. 
  The game has a good amount of weapons. But compared to other Turok games, this is where it will 
 disappoint. You have you Assault rifles to shot guns. Theres really nothing new there. 
  The most interesting part of Turok lies with in its knife combat system. When you are running around 
 with a knife you can run up to a enemy, man or dino and pull the right trigger, this will cause 
 the camera to go into third person to shot Turok fight and kill the enemy with his knife. Which 
 it is a instant kill weapon.
  
  The game uses the unreal engine 3. Like Gears of War. So the game looks great. It has to be the 
 best looking game using the unreal engine out side of Epics own games. The game has solid animations 
 and amazing textures. Great looking weapons. 
  
  The sound in the game is amazing. The voice acting and story is really what carries this game. 
 
  The music almost seems like last minute add on in the game. It isn't very great and isn't at all 
 memorable.
  
  The online in the game is pretty fun. If you can get into a game with alot of people in it. The 
 game also feature Coop for 3 maps... but again you have to find people to play with you.
  
  The achievements in the game are not that great. With all of them focused in Multiplayer. And with 
 no one really playing to much. It can be hard to get these achievements.
  I would of liked to see more of a balance in single player and multiplayer achievements.
  
 
  Over all this is a good start in bringing Turok back. Hopefully the next one is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully I rented this game out, played it for about 3 hours and promptly took it back, and asked 
 the video store guy if I could change it because it was so awful.
  
  What's wrong with it? Just about everything. Visually it's pretty average considering the great 
 looking games that have come out recently. They have used the 'unreal' engine but done nothing 
 with it at all, simply using the technology to just scrape by. 
  
  Sounds are great, kinda. In 5.1 you can hear the enemy moving around behind you etc, until you stand 
 still for a few seconds and then realize there are always sounds of movement in tress, and bushes, 
 but know one is there. You soon learn to forget what you hear, and just shoot what is in front 
 of you.
  
  Storyline was cool, I wanted to know where it was going, but couldn't go any further because of 
 the biggest problem with this game, the AI. The AI is terrible, at times I would be getting shot 
 from baddies 100 meters away, yet at other times I can be standing directly in front of a bad guy 
 at 10 meters, and somehow he can't see me, and seems oblivious to me running around him as I ram 
 my hunting knife through his mates skull. The dinosaurs are equally as stupid, sometimes just standing 
 there while I fill them full of lead.
  
  The AI, or lack there of, makes this game just stupid to play. The enemies are soooooo thick, that 
 it looses any sense of immersion whatsoever, NEXT!..... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The Turok series has had ups and downs. Okay, mostly down. But, the newest title in the series 
 is one of the few ups, but its still got some problems. Turok has plenty of white-knuckled action, 
 but not much beyond that.
  
  STORY - You play as John Turok, a space marine who's prepping to take down his former mentor, Kane. 
 But, just as you're about to touch down near Kane's base, your ship is hit and you crash land in 
 the middle of a dino-infested jungle. And, if dealing with T-Rexes and Raptors isn't enough Kane's 
 guys have tracked you down also. The game has a good revenge story, but where the plot fails is 
 in explaining why there's a planet with dinosaurs on it. Also, all of the space marines are your 
 regular old cliche bada** action heroes, but perhaps that's fitting.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay in Turok is made up of nothing else besides running and gunning. But, surprisingly 
 it takes a while for that whole formula to get old. You have tons of weapons, most of which you 
 can dual wield, and the ever-entertaining knife kills. When you have your knife out and sneak up 
 to an enemy, you can, if timed right, cut to a small animation that takes you out to a third-person 
 perspective that shows you brutally stabbing a dino or human.
  The singleplayer spans across 14 missions, and there's really nothing new thrown in (besides a 
 new weapon or two) between each level. You'll mostly just be blasting your way through the entire 
 campaign, but there's an occasional huge battle sequence between a squad of allies and dozens of 
 enemies, stealth segments, and boss fights, but these don't come often enough. The singleplayer 
 is fun overall just because of how entertaining the action is in general, but would've been much 
 better with more game mechanics besides just running and gunning.
  The multiplayer is quite good. There are tons of modes, from Deathmatch, to more objective-based 
 modes such as a mode that is very similar to Battlefield's conquest mode. There's even a good co-op 
 component that features new levels that you can't play in the campaign. The multiplayer does occasionally 
 lag, but other than the multiplayer is awesome.
  
  GRAPHICS - Turok looks pretty good. The textures are great, and the game doesn't rely a whole lot 
 on bump mapping and normal mapping (which most games do nowadays) and the game features tons of 
 environments from high-tech military bases, to the jungle, to caves. But, on the negative side 
 of things, the physics and lighting aren't too good.
  SOUND - Turok has good sound effects, and voice-overs, that, while questionable in quality, definitely 
 fit the characters and mood of the game. The music isn't very good, and some sound effects sound 
 a little bit muffled, but other than that the sound department does its job.
  
  VALUE - The campaign in Turok is surprisingly long, about 10-12 hours, and the multiplayer is sure 
 to hold your interest for quite a while to come (assuming you can find games.)
  
  TILT - Turok is a pretty awesome action game, and can last you a while, but the production values 
 are pretty average, and there's just not enough to the game's gameplay other than just blasting 
 enemies. But, that being said, Turok is still the first great shooter of the new year, so if you're 
 looking for a reason to take Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 out of your 360, Turok is the way to go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beasterxxx
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Having played Turok on the 1st Generation XBox, I have to say this is a definite improvement. The 
 game flows really well it has some pretty cool weapons, but the knife! The knife makes the game 
 worthwhile and it is enhanced by the animation sequences. The multiplayer leaves a lot to be desired, 
 it seems that with a good next gen game like this a little more thought provoking online experience 
 could have been achieved. I was somewhat impressed with the Co-Op feature although there just wasn't 
 enough, hopefully Propaganda will come through with some good DLC. I give this game a 7.0 for the 
 campaign and Co-Op modes. The online play is just too rehashed to be entertaining, coupled with 
 the fact that you can shoot a guy 25 times with an SMG, and he can still run up and knife you, 
 just seems a bit contrived, like they knew that the knife was the best weapon, just not realistic. 
 I'm looking forward to more DLC for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer85257
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  A game with dinosaurs, why is this the only one. I love this game and would suggest that you go 
 out and get it or atleast rent it. The story is great as well as the graphics. There is one problem 
 and its a big one if you get games for the multiplayer, LAG LAG LAG. unless your the host, 50% 
 of the time the multiplayer will lag and it takes forever sometimes to find an online game. Unless 
 i just havent figured it out yet how to find a game you just need to get lucky and join a game 
 your looking for randomly. Don't get me wrong, i liked the online but it was way too hard to get 
 a game and a good one at that. Why is this the only game where you get to fight dinosaurs. The 
 game is definatly worth playing even if the multiplayer needs some work and nobody really talks 
 online. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelmaster7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to be a dino hunter, this game is for you! first, i will talk about the single 
 player mode, The single player mode is pretty long, and decent. You actually feel like a survivior 
 of "whiskey company." There are alot of dino, and alot of boss creatures. it has nice graphics 
 in gun fights. LOL, It has moments where it scares the crap out of you, and thats always funny. 
 the only problem i have is the online play. its ok, but you get stabbed every two seconds! no spawn 
 shield makes for horrible camping, and there are alot of little annoying kids playing. i like the 
 fact that there are raptors and big bugs on the maps, but i im looking forward to see IF they make 
 a new map with a T-rex on it. that would be awesome online! enough ranting, buy it, or rent it. 
 its Definatly worth the play. don't believe the haters, this game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  You either like the Turok series or you don't. Regardless some people were concerned about Turoks 
 new changes but in the end it was all good. While this game pretty much is good all around the 
 only issues that are really present happen to be major issues which depending on who you are might 
 kill your excitement after awhile and cause you to hate Turok.
  
  Lets start with the good. 
  
  Graphically its a awesome game. The dinosaurs pretty much move 
 smoothly. The graphics feel...."Turoky" lol. It feels like Turok. No real complaints here (those 
 are later really) .
  
  The music and sound were pretty good too. Since the environment is a jungle (some times) the music 
 pumps up the situation and keeps you edgy. The sound helps freak you out too when you your trying 
 to figure out whats going on and all you hear are screeches all around.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple. Simpler then most games for that matter. Your knife will be your 
 most popular weapon and when its not you learn when to use which weapons and when not to. Although 
 I can see diffrent players will play diffrent ways but they really made so you won't have a choice 
 with your knife. Online they have AI dinos that run around and kill people! Would make for interesting 
 play if online wasn't horrible.
  
  Story wise its not horrible but its really nothing new. Crashed ship, get off planet. The details 
 you have to see for yourself. 
  
  Whats so bad about the game though that I gave it a 5.0? Well Turok use to be a game where you 
 could have a blast in MP or facing a friend on the same system. Most of that is all ruined. Besides 
 that there are some major problems and actually no real minor problems!
  
  There is no 2 player at ALL. You can online play online and thats it. So if you were looking to 
 have a good old bow/knife fight for old times sake your stuck unless you play online separately. 
 
  
  Online is horrid for two reasons. 1, you almost never find a server without lag. About the only 
 time there is no lag is when your down to about 2-4 people and by then its barley fun to play. 
 2, the knife is really the only thing people use. I wouldn't usually complain but the weapons are 
 so bad online that you can't really kill anyone as they charge you so most of the time they can 
 run up to you and you end up dead. This really makes online no fun since its mostly knife fights. 
 Needs more balance.
  
  Now in single player theres two things also that make the game incredibly painful. 
  
  1. There 
 is no easy. You get to choose from medium or hard. I prefer just beating a game on easy first and 
 enjoying a game since I have about 3-4 days to beat a game then get another one. Then going back 
 and beating on harder difficulties if I have time or like it that much
  
  2. Because medium is still pretty hard at times you die alot and since alot of factors make the 
 game hard... bad teammates, turoks low health, constant swarms..... you seem to die over and over 
 and over. Well the save system is horrible. So if you can manage to get past 35 guys, 20 dinos 
 and get right to the next check point like 3 miles away but at the last second get killed by a 
 dino you didn't see. Guess what? You have to start from the very beginning again. This wouldn't 
 be that bad if the game wasn't so brutal at times. You will end up doing some section 4,5,6,7... heck 
 10 times before you make it through. 
  
  To add to this is the fact that the game shows no mercy. At one point (I will not spoil) there 
 is a boss of sorts that when it does what it does by the time you get up it does its thing again 
 and you fall back down. It takes tons of times before you can even figure out what you are suppose 
 to do right. The game does a bad job at at least hinting at "Hey do this!" or giving you a fighting 
 chance. 
  
  Well aside from those major complaints the only minor complain I had is as violent and bloody as 
 this game is THERE IS NO HUMAN BLOOD! You can knife a man a hundred ways and you see sparks! It 
 totally kills the realism when you kill a dino and see gore but then kill a human the same way 
 and see silly sparks.
  
  Overall Turok is a pretty good game that in the end its really just about having fun hunting and 
 being hunted by dinos. The lack of good MP OR 2P mode kills... oh and the crappy save system. Its 
 worth the rental but not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I recall fondly the days of the N64, and playing the very first Turok: Dinosaur Hunter. In fact, 
 the game may have very well been my first FPS game that I ever played, and despite the foggy visuals 
 and nonexistent story, I enjoyed the heck out of Turok's frenetic shooting and visceral fights 
 with a childhood obsession of mine, Dinosaurs.
  
  Now, over a decade later, the beloved franchise, once thought dead, has returned to the next gen 
 consoles in a big big way. Yes, Turok has returned in a well executed manner, full of plenty of 
 ferocious action and tight production values.
  
  The story of the game is perhaps the furthest departure from the original series. Here, you'll 
 play as a new "Son of Stone" named Joseph Turok, a Native American soldier with a shady past. Apparently, 
 Turok used to be in a ruthless black ops team that went by the name Wolf Pack, whose methods were... 
 less than savory. Long story short, Turok abandons his command and the company leader, Roland Kane, 
 eventually goes rogue, taking his elite team and holing up on a backwater to brew some evil plan 
 involving chemical warfare. 
  
  The good guys, now using Turok as their insight into Kane's operations, are coming to pick Kane 
 up when their spaceship is shot out of the sky, and the team is either killed or scattered about 
 the planet, which, due to the various experiments taking place there, has a super acclerated eco-system 
 where dinos run wild and giant bugs are all waiting to snap up the unlucky soldiers of Whiskey 
 Company, whose mission has become to simply survive. The story progresses in a nice Hollywood-esque 
 arc that is a combination of Jurassic Park and Predator, and thought not the SMARTEST story, gets 
 the job done well with plenty of action and tough guy moments.
  
  As for the presentation and sound, Turok looks and sounds great. The environments are the real 
 star, ranging between sweltering jungles, to futuristic bunkers and claustrophobic caves. The dinos 
 look and animate great, but some awkward transitions can lead to them looking lost from time to 
 time. Player models look appropriately macho and the Unreal engine makes sure everybody flies off 
 appropriately with explosions and blunt force trauma. As for sound, dinosaurs would and weapons 
 sound like you'd expect, but the real stellar part of the soundtrack is in the games epic score 
 and the talented voice cast. Turok's voice actor is great, and you'll see stars like Ron Perlman, 
 Timothy Olyphant, and Donnie Wahlberg all provide some spectacular voice and personality to squad 
 members Slade, Cowboy, and Shepherd, and Powers Boothe does an excellent general as Kane himself.
 
  
  As far as gameplay, Turok hits hard in all aspects. Shooting is impactful and satisfying, though 
 their is a conspicuous absense of auto aim, which isn't a problem while you're picking off targets 
 from afar, but can get annoying in close up conflicts. The weapons on hand aren't anything TOO 
 spectacular, but a few are either direct descendents from previous Turok weapons or are expanded 
 to a greater role. You'll get SMGs, shotguns, and RPGs, but you'll also get the series staples 
 Pulse Rifle, and the trusty bow which is funner to use than ever. Overall, these tools all help 
 in getting through the game's treacherous campaign. The dino enemies are great to fight against 
 because of their ferocity and sheer numbers, but human enemies get annoying with cheap tactics 
 and laser guided bullets. Overall, the game has some tense and challenging battles that will literally 
 have you fighting for your life, and the few boss battles in the game are fantastic and over the 
 top.
  
  And speaking of over the top, the one weapon I've failed to mention is the game's knife, which 
 is the single most awesome aspect of the new Turok game. It far surpasses the classic knife in 
 that, it can be used to perform awesome scripted stealth and insta-kills on any enemy up to the 
 size of a raptor, and simply needs for anything bigger than that to be knocked to the floor before 
 you unleash a flurry of stabs to finish them off. The kills all are awesome, and there's just something 
 greatly visceral about sneaking up behind raptor, jumping on it's back and slitting it's throat, 
 or kicking the legs out from a soldier and knifing him in the head before he can get up. It really 
 gives Turok a lot of personality, especially since many of the games sections have you with nothing 
 but the bow and the knife, allowing you to explore Turok's heritage of cold-blooded up-close fighting. 
 It's really something every gamer should experience.
  
  Turok's single player campaign is short, but rewarding because of a punishing difficulty. After 
 that, you can replay on higher difficulties, or explore the game's multiplayer suite which includes 
 Co-op. The co-op is a great addition, and although the multiplayer seems pretty rudimentary at 
 first, you'll find some unique modes like "War Games", and also, each map has dino inhabitants 
 in them that are basically wild cards who will attack either team and have to be contended with 
 (much like the single player) . Also similar to the multiplayer, all the awesome knife kills can 
 be executed on dinos and other players, giving the game a uniquely awesome vicious streak that 
 really just bumps up the fun which is otherwise a standard multiplayer game.
  
  Altogether, Turok is a great, if not short and frustrating FPS effort. It's nostalgic effect might 
 not be felt by anyone, but those who are happy to see the dinosaur hunter back will definitely 
 get a kick out of his new adventure. Although the story isn't the best you'll likely see, and the 
 shooting not revolutionary, it's got enough ferocious fun and high production values to keep any 
 FPS fan stabbing dino skulls for the next few months. 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Dino hunting is fun, solid graphics, solid single-player, co-op and online modes, very 
 bloody and violent, sticky mine pistol is fun...
  
  The Bad: Visuals could have been improved, uninspired voice acting, some lag issues in online, 
 very hard.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ah Turok. It's a series that had it's hayday back on the N64. After a pittiful Xbox,, PS2 and GameCube 
 outing, Turok is back in full force thanks to new publisher Touchstone aka Disney and developer 
 Propaganda Games. 
  
  You play as Joseph Turok, a marine whos ship crash lands on a hostile planet filled with enemy 
 soldiers and dinosaurs. Sound interesting? Well, it is a lot more interesting than you'd think. 
 Obviously, the big draw with Turok is fighting dinosaurs, and that is what makes this game unique, 
 but how much the game depends on dinos is interesting, and well deserved. Dinos come into play 
 on almost every level of the game. In the single player and co-op modes, you can leave dinos to 
 take out enemy soldiers for you, or you can kill them yourself and saver the bloody finishing moves 
 as you cut one's throut. 
  
  Single player is all about killing lots of enemies and being somewhat stealthy. This is accomplished 
 using scilencers and your combat knife, which is the single most used weapon in the game. With 
 the knife drawn, you can sneak behind an enemy, press the right trigger when the icon appears and 
 watch as you preform a brutal finishing move on your foe. This works in all modes, including online 
 multiplayer. Most of the guns in the game are dual wieldable, including shotguns. These guns are 
 fun and easy to use, but other trickier weapons such as the Combat Bow offer many benefits to skilled 
 snipers.
  
  Speaking of online multiplayer, Turok boasts a very good sampling of online modes all of which 
 are dino infested, so you don't just have other players to worry about. From what I played, the 
 online modes are pretty lag free once you get in game, but getting into a ranked match can take 
 a while, which is something I hope will be fixed now that the game has officially launched worldwide. 
 Each mode allows you to play around with all of the cool weapons of Turok, including the powerful 
 sticky mine gun and, of course, the combat knife. Knife fights online sound like a lot of fun, 
 and for the most part they are, but sometimes it's simply a matter of who can press the trigger 
 first, and even if you do, somebody may be right behind you to knife you once you finish your kill. 
 This can get kinda annoying, but after practising a few times online, it's not so bad. You also 
 can use dinos to your advantage online. Let a dino attack an enemy, then knife him in the back 
 while he is occupied. Ah, sweet revenge.
  
  The co-op mode is another solid addition, but it has several issues that I hope will be finished 
 in the near future. First, the co-op matches are not story related. They are basically like terrorist 
 hunt in the Rainbow Six series, but you have objectives to complete instead. The a. i. for co-op 
 is really hard, so you basically have to play with at least 3 players, if not all for, in order 
 to actually complete a mission. You are only given one life for each player you have on your team, 
 but these lives are shared, so if one guy dies twice, your other players are out of luck. This 
 is irritating, but it does add a bit more stratagy to the game as far as who you play with and 
 what you do. The other irritating part is that there are currently only three missions, which makes 
 the random map selection of online player matches kinda lame. When I played, we got the same map 
 at least 6 times in a row. Hopefully, new co-op missions will come out as DLC, but for now, the 
 co-op mode is fun, but needs a bit of work.
  
  The visuals of Turok are pretty solid, but it's not exactly the prettiest form of the Unreal Engine 
 3. The voice acting is pretty lame, but the sound effects and music are well done. 
  
  Overall, Turok is unique enough of a shooter to be worth getting for shooter fans. It definately 
 brings the series back in the right direction and with a few fixes via patches and DLC, this could 
 become one heck of a game.
  
  Gameplay: Kill loads of dinosaurs and enemy soldiers with fun to use weapons and brutal finishers.
 
  
  Graphics: Solid for the most part, but some minor touch ups would have been nice.
  
  Sound: Decent voice acting, but solid music and sound effects.
  
  Value: For the enjoyable 
 single player, plus a deep and extremely enjoyable multiplayer, it's worth the price of admission.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Dinos eat meat. You are meat. Run away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWhitburn
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Im not even sure why people are rating this game so high, but its nothing to cheer about. You will 
 be pushing buttons to skip the silly cut scenes and the horrible acting but be frustrated when 
 you can't skip them. This game feels like it wants to be Gears of War with dinosaurs but completely 
 misses the whole thing. The story line is very tacky and is just too over the top. Bottom line, 
 if your playing COD4 your probably going to keep playing it. This game got a 7 out of pity just 
 because Turok was a great game for its day. SAVE YOUR MONEY!
  
  Cons:
  -stabbing the dinosaurs gets repetetive
  -guns are weak
  -storyline is worse than a porno
 
  -multiplayer is a mess
  Pros:
  -the graphics suck, oh wait thats a con too.
  -at least it was fun on N64, they should just remake the N64 version.
  -it makes your other games 
 feel fun again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Turok is a FPS that sets you in a world packed with dinosaurs giant scorpians and a crime lord's 
 army. Sounds fun... right? Not exactly. Although the campaign is fun the rest of it is a big let 
 down, the rest of it is the multiplayer. The games tend to lag a lot, and the players move way 
 to fast to keep up with so guns are worthless hence everybody uses knives. There is a Co-op, but 
 it can be very annoying at times because enemies just keep respawning. On the posistive side the 
 Campaign is very fun and looks and sounds amazing. The story is not very original, you are a marine, 
 and your ship crashed on an uncharted planet. Escape. Turok also kind of leans toward a stealthy 
 game by giving a insta-kill knife and an inst-kill bow. But it is very easy to be spotted by the 
 enemy. I had my hopes up for Turok but... yeah. I would wait until the price goes down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeNzKilll
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Don't know why this game received only a 7, it's an awesome game, and loads of fun. I understand 
 it can be a bit frustrating at times with the save points but that's what makes the game challenging 
 and worth your buck, this game will definitely give you hours and hours of game play, especially 
 with the multiplayer. You're fighting dinosaurs and humans at the same time, am I the only one 
 that thinks that is totally awesome. I just wish there were more people playing it on line, and 
 the ranking system could be a bit more organized, but I think Halo is the only game out with a 
 decent ranking system. You can tell they really want you to try out their multiplayer because guess 
 what, that's where most of the achievements get unlocked, so if you're planning on renting this 
 game and getting all the achievements you better think twice cause you will need to play it quite 
 a bit in order to unlock some of these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeryRAMIN
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I think this is a amazing game but I do not understand why game spot give it 7.
  what do you think about that.
  when you kill the your enemy you enjoy it.
  I think this game 
 is better than call of duty4. when i kill my enemy in call of duty4 i think they are empty, how about 
 you?
  one of the good things in it is it shows the feet but it is not very important.
  the graphic is good. sound is not very bad, but i think that was a short game so value of the game 
 is bad. my score is 9, is it a good score?
  It is a good fps but it just a good fps.
  game play is not bad, i think loadings in game is long.
  You enjoy this game, so buy it! but it 
 can be better if more work on it.
  shot guns in it is better than other guns if you double have it.
  bosses in game is hard.
  
 Buy it i know you will like it.
  Good luck!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladi8or19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I rented it because its Turok.. i dont think i'd buy this game.
  But it is worth Playing for sure. a few things that were inoying at times... basically when dino's 
 ran into you, i always got confused which way i was going.
  i wish the story was a bit different. But its killing Dino's, so im happy.
  i wont be able to 
 play Multiplayer right now because my Live Ran out, But i am interested in seeing what its like.
 
  Theres cool weapons. especially a flame thrower, which you dont see in games these days too much.
 
  The Graphics Reminded me of Gears a bit... which it may be done by the same makers? i havent checked.
 
  i havent found any glitches yet... but i hated that Spider Tank part. the Blasts realy inoyed 
 me because it would spin you around after each hit.
  I would Reccommend every shooter/sci fi fans to Try this game.
  I dont think i'd Buy this game. 
 But it is a great Rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  It's really no what i expected. Killin the dinos is the coolest part. IT's a bloody mess when u 
 knife em all. But the soldiers dont bleed and that is a big downer. Like when u stick a dino with 
 a knife, blood goes everywhere, but when u stick a guy in his head or his chest and make a motion 
 that looks like ur guttin him, no blood comes out. Only some sparks. Thats right. Sparks. Yeah, 
 its pretty lame. The bow isnt all that cool eithr. It just sounds and feels weird. If u ever shot 
 a bow, it doesnt feel anything like that. But u can shoot n stick mofos to the wall with it. And 
 it has some explosive arrows. They're pretty coolio. But the rest of the guns are weird and unbalanced. 
 The smg which is like the first gat that u get, looks weird but its one of the 2 most realistic 
 feeling gun that u get. The pistol is loud and looks cool. But i hardly ever use it. The shotgun 
 doesnt feel like any shotgun that i've ever shot. It doesnt do enough damage. But it's still one 
 of the coolest guns in the game. The granade launcher is the size of a pistol and its pretty cool, 
 but yet its useless till the end. The rpg is awsome. I love that thing. To tell u the truth, this 
 actually might be the most accurate and greatest feelin weapon in the game. The flamethrower is 
 cool, it does what it says. The plasma rifle is the gun that i used the most cuz it's really good, 
 but its nothin special. Just shoots lil blue lines and kills pretty fast. The sniper rifle is pretty 
 sweet. This one is the other most realistic gun in the game. U can zoom in three times and do some 
 long distance brain surgery. The minigun is a nifty lil thing that can turn into turret, It works 
 better when u deploy it as a turret anyway. The knife is awsome. Except for the fact that u can 
 only kill like one person when sneakin around then the others find his body n ur f F'd in the A. 
 The boss fights are cool but frustarating. But still, this game is worth a go around if u wanna 
 kill some dinos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBer-SolidSnake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The only way that statement could've been made more true was if Stallone himself had provided the 
 voice for Turok, though Stallones delivery of many of Turoks lines would've simply made the game 
 for me. The rest of the voice cast was strong, but not Turok, Though I couldn't help myself from 
 hitting mute when he talked near the end of the game and screaming "Adrian!". 
  
  The gameplay itself is far to easy on the normal setting, and the hard setting is mediocre at best. 
 I would've liked to have seen some more ingenuity in the weapon design, most of the guns left me 
 bored and I just stuck to the knife and bow (which you'll have no problem getting through the game 
 with) . It would be nice to have checkpoints placed a little more frequently, but the dev. team 
 must have realized the difficulty wasn't where it should be and took most of them out. Thats all 
 that stops it from being a very easy game.
  
  I liked the way the 3rd person kills are used, but I wish there was more variety in them, during 
 a paticularly long stretch of fighting off velociraptors with my knife I executed the same kill 
 animation more than a dozen times until a raptor caught me off guard and started gnawing on my 
 face, which is not as lethal as it may sound. The worst aspect of this is that you always seem 
 to end up facing away from any other enemies in your immediate vicinity after you perform a 3rd 
 person kill. Leaving your tender rear ready for the riddling. 
  
  I absolutely love the fact that the game developers spent more time developing the AI of the Dinos 
 than that of the Humans. Many times I found myself wondering how we survived as long as we have, 
 developed space travel, accelerated the very nature of evolution and yet we can't produce soldiers 
 smart enough to say "HEY! Maybe I shouldn't run back and forth in a line shooting at this guy when 
 there is cover to my left." or "Hmmm. Maybe it wouldn't be such a super good idea to hide behind 
 this nice big explosive barrel". It is paticularly hilarious to watch the AI glitch out and get 
 stuck running on thin air, or standing on ground thats no longer under them. IThough I will give 
 them this, they have x-ray eagle vision or something because hiding behind things doesn't work. 
 No matter how far away you think you are, or how invisible you think you are, somewhere in the 
 level a human enemy has spotted you and is preparing to shoot you. 
  
  Pros: Dinosaurs! Rawr!
  Cons: Apparently there is a Checkpoint famine sweeping the world, we 
 need to donate our unused checkpoints to a fund of some sort to ensure that games that need them 
 should be able to get them. 
  
  My Final Words:
  Play this for the sake of stabbing dinosaurs with knives. If thats your thing, you'll be in heaven. 
 If you like a combat engine with perhaps a little more variety, or maybe even a decent spread of 
 weapons, then there are better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  In this first person shooter you play as a character known as Turok. He is one of the strongest 
 team members on the Wiskey company and seeks revenge for Roland Kane, a vicious villain and leader 
 of the Wolf Pack. The gameplay is just like any other first person shooter but you can be the hero 
 and jump right into the action and melee as much as you want when you only have one weapon to use 
 melee attacks on. Turok has a variety of weapons as you progress in the game and becomes better 
 when the weapon you find is stronger and has a large radius of damage. The only catch is that the 
 aiming is a little loose. There are some cool features this game contains but not enough to fill 
 in that missing spot in the action and the last level may be a little frustraiting.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game starts out on the wiskey companies main ship as you arrive at an unkown planet 
 which Kane is on. There are a variety of weapons to choose from as you progress through the game 
 and there are some actions that can be played to enter into the next room or to climb over a wall. 
 Whats cool is that most of the weapons you use have and upgrade, (by pressing the RB button) , that 
 comes with it if you have a hard time with the main peice of the weapon yourself you can use that 
 upgrade to rid a crowed of soldiers and move forward because the aiming may be a little loose. 
 During the story you fight through huge T-Rexs, raptors, prehistoric bugs and other dinos. The 
 boss battles are a little easy but untill the last one comes right at you with a hard force. It 
 may be a little frustraiting but if you can figure out the strategy behind it then its no problem. 
 Also you can choose your melee weapon to help kill off an enemy quicker by entering a mini game 
 melee battle or tapping the RT button at the right time in battle your character will do a quick 
 and very awsome assassanation. Last thing is you can also duel weild some weapons to help kill 
 the target faster.
  
  Sound/Music: The sounds fit for everything but the music doesnt pull you into that excitement feeling 
 you get into a close encounter or escaping an explosion.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty decent for the type of game that was based on a comic and it 
 shows alot of blood features on a T-Rex's head or for any other dino. The best part is when you 
 completely desentegrate them in an explosion from using an RPG, Flamethrower, or gernade and shows 
 the effects of the blood and body parts falling from the sky.
  
  STORY: After you crash land on this unknown planet you and your team seek out a way to escape as 
 you find out about the Dinos that live on the planet. Everyone has a thought of escaping but Turok 
 doesnt. Turok is only here to find and kill Roland Kane leader of the Wolf Pack. Turok wants revenge 
 on him because of his villainous ways and how he treats other people. Find your way to his main 
 base with your team and take him out to bring down his power over his whole army.
  
  Multiplayer: Most of the Acheivements are from the online multiplayer section of the game. Once 
 you get into multiplayer mode for one hour you just want to leave. Anyways the game only ends after 
 the first time you play and your back to the menu for multiplayer. Everything is the same as the 
 story mode and I think there are two levels to play on. This place isnt to play for fun with your 
 freinds and have a good time its only for the Acheivements and for people who want them to boost 
 their gamer score.
  
  OVERALL: Turok has turned out to be a great game and has exceeded the average rating. With only 
 one glitch and some bad moments within the game it has turned out to be alot of fun but not so 
 much for the multiplayer. Turok are for those who are tired of shooting at other people and want 
 to go take down some perhistoric monsters on another planet just like in hollywood or just to have 
 a different experience in first person shooters.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Gamerreveiwer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohil27
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Honestly not all that great. okay you can duel wield and the gameplay is decent with the stuff 
 you can do. But the graphics dont do a PS3 any good, they are more like PS2 graphics than PS3 ones.
 
  The weapons are amazingly good. The shotgun kills with one shot, while the MG takes about half 
 a clip, how silly is that. even when they are both shot in the same place. I shot a dino in the 
 side with a shotgun, it died, tried it with MG took half a clip.
  
  On the plus side you do get backup from your mate and then you find another later on in the game, 
 the bow and arrow is wicked to use. Personally my best weapon on both dinos and humans. The scenery 
 is alright, but like i said the graphics let you down. You can take a charge from a dino but still 
 manage to fend it off and then kill it. Also you do run out of ammo fairly quickly if you are not 
 careful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronco_bomb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Turok evolution was a big dissapointmment to me on the original xbox so i wasnt sure if this one 
 would be any good, i was wrong.
  
  This a massive improvemnet on turok evolution.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 some of the best graphics youll ever see with good sharp detail every where you 
 look evreything has been worked on.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 Gameplay is good it just take a bit getting use to. When you get into it though 
 it is easy. The game is still a challenge though sometimes you will find yourself starting quite 
 far back as checkpoints only come once in a while.
  
  Lifespan: 10/10 14 big levels must last about 10 hours or less but when you have done normal or 
 hard it unlocks inhuman which is a big challenge. But when you have sone campiagn the multiplayer 
 is reat fun with 3 co-op maps you can do 4 player and a varity of other maps to play tdm, ctf of 
 a ffa.
  
  Weapons 10/10 the weapons are very fun to use and gives you that satisfied feeling when you crack 
 someone in the head with the bow or knife kill someone.
  
  Overall 9.5/10 Very very fun game but sometimes the online lag can be bad and single player can 
 get frustrating but it is defiently worth every penny a great place to buy is play. com its only 
 30 and the delivery is free. Great game recommeded for expericened and new shooters to the xbox 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindapimp
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  How can u go wrong when you get to kill a t-rex with a knife? you can't. This games graphics may 
 not be the best but they are really detailed in everything that you do. When you in the forest 
 and you're in shrubs and bushes the bushes/ or shrubs will bend when you run, walk, or crouch over 
 them. The knife is one of the two best and fun weapons that you get to use in the game. You can 
 kill anything with the knife. Killing the dinosaurs with the knife is more fun than the people 
 because all the people do is the spay sparks which is a little gay, but when you do it to dinosaurs 
 than you get blood and action on every kill. There are so many cut scenes when you kill both dinosaurs 
 and people it keeps you wanting for more. Also the bow is amazing to use because you can stick 
 people to trees and other environment. Then when you shoot at the people and dinosaurs with the 
 bow the arrows will be stuck into their body and will stay there even when you kill them. The story 
 is very well laid out and keeps you interested all the way through. It never makes me lose intrest 
 during the whole thing. Online is just plain fun to play. The only bad thing is that there is no 
 set host so it keeps going through out and some times you can't even get through a whole match 
 without you and everyone else quitting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  At The Start Of This Game I was Dissappointed...... But Then It Changed........ It Became Good!!!! 
 It Became Really Good..... The Only Bad Things About This Game Are The Seriosly Screwed A. I And 
 The Last Gen Unreal Engine........... This Game Gets An 8.5 Due To Call Of Duty And Halo 3 Making 
 This Game Seem Medicore.......
  PROS
   Good Storyline Keeps You hooked
   Killing Dino's
   Amazing Boss Fights
   Kick Ass Name (Joseph Turok)
   Guy Called LOGAN (FPS 
 MUST) apparently due to most fps games lately........
  
  Cons
   Unreal Engine (Old As Hell)
   A. I Dissapointing As Sh.... T!!
   Prob Gonna Get Murdered For 
 Saying This But....... The Bow is Terrible......... JUST MY OPINION PEOPLE DONT TRACK ME DOWN AND 
 FIRE A REAL BOW AT ME!!!!!
   To Few Single Player Achievements (Online Gets Old Quick)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Ill start off with the good and bad points.
  
  Good: Stunning Visuals, Great Story, Awesome Knife Kills that never get old, and the fact that 
 you can kill dinosaurs.
  
  Bad: No Auto-Aim feature makes aiming very difficult, Human soldiers dont have blood, Few checkpoints 
 within the story, Battles with the MG soldiers are too long and frustrating, poor online matchmaking 
 system, Wierd glitches with the T-Rex that make you die automatically.
  
  Turok is a good game. Not great, not bad, but right in the middle. Ill explain my good points about 
 the game, then the bad.'
  
  Good-
  Stunning Visuals: anyone who loves good graphics will love Turok. The characters, from Turok himself 
 to Slade are very detailed, including the enemies. The dinos look as realistic as you can get. 
 The game also features real-time damage to enemies. Dinos will have blood in their mouths from 
 successful attacks, and will also show gruesome marks on their bodies from the work of your guns. 
 Dinos can also blow to bits with a successfully placed grenade.
  
  Story: As Joseph Turok, you are a member of Whiskey Company, an elite special forces team, sent 
 to eliminate Roland Kane, a war criminal and head of Wolf Pack, of which Turok used to be one of. 
 Unfortunately, things go awry when your ship crashes on a planet that is inhabited with wild creatures. 
 (No spoilers here)
  
  Knife Kills and Killin Dinos: Turok features a special cinematic knife kill system, where when 
 you get up close to enemies, when the RT prompt appears, you press it to initiate a cool knife 
 killing sequence. Its fun to kill dinos with this as you'll find Turok just stab a Raptor in its 
 head, and then just kick it over. Plus, killing dinos is fun!
  
  Bad-
  No Auto Aim: the fact that there is no auto aim (all shooters have this feature to help players 
 with their aim, because aiming with a joystick is hard anyway) makes this game very difficult and 
 frustrating. Since most guns have a high recoil, its hard to keep a steady aim on a target while 
 constantly firing. You might overcome the fact that there's no auto aim, but since the dinos (the 
 most you fight are Raptors) are very agile, its still hard to even shoot them.
  
  No Human Blood: while the dinos have tons of blood to spill, the human characters have no blood 
 at all. When human players get shot, its like shooting a metal wall. Theres no blood, just sparks. 
 Its a little odd to see, but its not that big of a deal.
  
  Few Checkpoints and LONG Battles: the story mode is not chock full of checkpoints. In fact, they 
 are few and far between. Plus, most battles with MG soldiers are long (im talking like, 5 minutes 
 long or more) . When you factor most of the bad things about Turok, they all add up to make the 
 game VERY frustrating. If you are almost done a battle, but then die, you have to fight the entire 
 battle from the beginning all over again. Not very good.
  
  Wierd T-Rex glitches: not to spoil too much, but you DO fight a T-Rex in this game. However, these 
 battles can be very difficult, because the points at which the T-Rex can kill you are very glitchy 
 and bugged. For example, the T-Rex will hit you with its head, and you get knocked back about 10 
 feet. But, you take no damage. When you run for cover, the T-Rex instantly pops over to you and 
 eats you in one move. Not cool. This can sometimes make these battles not worth playing because 
 it seems as if you wont win, ever. But you can beat them, so dont give up.
  
  Bad Online Matchmaking: simply put, the matchmaking in Turok is slow and cant detect players easily. 
 This is also due to that there are not yet many people playing online, but time will tell if this 
 problem gets better.
  
  I havent explained online that much, but to put it plainly: it is fun. When the dinos are added 
 to the mix online, battles between players can go bad at random times due to the AI dinos. Its 
 a good twist to the game, and its fun to watch other players get mauled by dinos, or to help your 
 friend with a dino that is mauling him. Since dinos are attracted to flares, its possible to send 
 a dino after an opposing player and run away, which is very satisfying. Plus, the special knife 
 kills are also in online mode, and work pretty well in an online game.
  
  All in all, Turok is a fun game with many problems that put dents into its shiny armor. If these 
 problems were fixed beforehand, Turok would be much better. Rent it first to decide if you really 
 want to buy it or not. Yes, this review is long, but its meant to give you, the reader, a close 
 look into a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasimlv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  i think this is one of best xbox 360 games . It has great original multiplayer and scary single 
 player . i think gamespot should rate it atleast 8.0 not 7.0 The dino mauling is exelent , and 
 human killing with weapons is standart fps shooter, but the dinosours make game more cooler than 
 it needed to be. 
 
  BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! 
 BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!! BEST DINO GAME EVER!!!!
 
  
  and Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter 
 Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter Great Shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspy16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Turok: Dinosaur Hunter. The game that almost anyone who owned a Nintendo 64 remembers as the first 
 real shooter on the system. Dinosaurs, overpowered weapons and a deep (and sometimes confusing) 
 story are the trademarks of the Turok franchise. Turok 2: Seeds of Evil and Turok 3: Shadow of 
 Oblivion were the next two installments in the series (excluding Rage Wars) and lived up to the 
 Turok legacy. Turok: Evolution for XBX, PS2 and GC was a terrible twist towards a downward spiral 
 that is continued in today's Turok. 
  
  Turok for X360 and PS3 has failed to deliver on two of the three fronts previously mentioned. Yes, 
 there are dinosaurs. There are a lot of dinosaurs, and killing them with a knife is pretty cool. 
 However, the weaponry in this Turok game is a major upset. The days of the chronoscepter and the 
 cerebral bore were the days of Turok I enjoyed the most. I always got a kick out of weapons like 
 the shredder and the razor wind, and of course all the other overpowered weapons that made you 
 an unstoppable force. The weaponry in the latest Turok is an upset because the weapons are so clich 
 of the modern shooter and very unspectacular in comparison to the weapons in Seeds of Evil or Shadow 
 of Oblivion. SMG, Shotgun, Pistol, Plasma Rifle, RPG, Sniper Rifle; All these weapons are in the 
 previous Turok games but they are usually able to be upgraded and made even more powerful and unique, 
 but not so in the new game. The only real weapon that is signature to Turok was the bow, and they 
 didn't even deliver what I wanted out of it in the new game; I want a game with tek arrows like 
 the arrows from Turok 2, when they made that distinct sound right before they exploded with that 
 blue color (yes I wanted the blue arrows!) . Turok should have kept those same color arrows (yes, 
 I realize Evolution didn't have them either) and implemented the poison arrows from Evolution. 
 Then, and only then, can a game be worthy of carrying the Turok name.
  
  Lastly, I'm going to talk about the story. In EVERY single Turok game, you were a member of the 
 Fireseed family. You were always Tal'Set, Joshua, Joseph or Danielle Fireseed. "Turok" was the 
 name given to the warrior from that family who was chosen to protect the Lost Land. You protected 
 the lost land from the Campaigner, the Primagen or Oblivion in the previous games. There is a lot 
 of room for branching story lines in this universe and could have easily picked up from the end 
 of Turok 3 with the scene AFTER the credits that was left as a cliffhanger (go watch it if you 
 don't remember!!) . It seems that all the Fireseed family members dropped off the face of the earth 
 (including Adon) for the new game. Reinventing the story line and turning you into a "space marine" 
 wasn't too smart of a move. This story also gets less and less involving as the game goes on. The 
 only thing this game has in common with the originals is the Turok name and the fact that you're 
 a Native American. Other than that, the story sucks. 
  
  As far as game play is concerned, NOT being able to run kind of sucks when you're being chased 
 by dinosaurs. Also, the whole getting knocked off your feet thing and then changing direction REALLY 
 disorients you and kills you in intense battle scenes. Aiming is a little hard in this game since 
 there isn't a lock function where you can circle your enemy like in Halo. Also, the only weapons 
 that are realistic are the knife and bow because no human can really survive the way you get hit 
 with those in the game (although the dinosaur kills are questionable) . I don't like using half 
 a clip on a human enemy with a plasma rifle before he finally dies. Lastly and perhaps the most 
 frustrating part of the game are the jumps in difficulty. The game goes from brainlessly easy blast-your-way-through 
 parts to parts that you play through about ten times before you beat get to a rare checkpoint. 
 The replay aspect of this game makes you want to throw your controller out the window. 
  
  In summary, I'd say if your a hardcore Turok fan like myself (as if you couldn't tell) then this 
 game is worth a try, but you might as well set the bar low for it. If your a hardcore shooter fan, 
 you won't be happy with this one. If you like to shoot dinosaurs, than this is the game for you. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8nnwilder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  Okay well first of all this isn't the best FPS out there especially with games like COD4 and Bioshock 
 out there but I got it on trade in and it was way better than F1 (the game I traded) ...
  
  So before I get going I have to admit i never played the original Turok so I had nothing to compare 
 it to. And I think that was a good think in my case. Sometimes you play the original and the remake 
 or the sequel just doesn't live up to your expectations.
  
  as I said it is a pretty average FPS in the game play and graphics department as i feel they could 
 have done so much better. especially with the story as it leave you hanging and wondering what 
 the point actually is... they should have gone into more detail overall as you sit at the end still 
 not knowing a g**damn thing about why Turok left Wolfpack.... well and just about everything else 
 is also left to you imagination...
  
  The "Boss" fight are just F******* difficult at first until you actually realize what to do. But 
 what makes it more frustrating as there is at no point any hints or indication on what that "secret" 
 is... So you basically keep trying.... and keep dying... until you figure it out. But then at times 
 you start way back which means you have to fight your way to the boss AGAIN just to be taken out 
 by 40 troops before you get there... then when you get there die again and redo the whole F***** 
 piece over.
  
  But as I said once you know how and you get the hang of things it won't be that hard.
  
  One 
 thing... well actually two things that actually saved the game (for me rating it a lower) was the 
 knife and the bow... It was fun to play with them and made me feel all native and S*** but what 
 would have been really cool is giving you cover option like in Vegas... Give you the chance to 
 be a little more stealthy... But still it works out okay. 
  
  This is by no means the greatest game out there but I think if you can get yourself to play it 
 a second time it might be a lot more fun than the first time round. might not have the replay value 
 for most people but i will play it again just to do it "right" and really have a go at everything 
 knowing exactly what to do.
  
  (Oh btw that is another thing the AI is all programmed a certain way so it will most like happen 
 in exactly the same way so you can go the trial and error route without having to worry to much 
 about the AI doing things in a different way. even thou at stages the AI seemed pretty tricky as 
 they found their way around you in the weirdest ways)
  
  Turok could have been so much more and I could see the potential in it... Why they didn't DO it 
 I don't know. Can't help but think what it would have been like if Activision (COD4) or Capcom (Dino 
 Crisis... I think) had to do this title..... It could have been GOTY material.... But sadly it's 
 not. 
  
  Rent it first if you are full of s*** and harsh on rating games.... Otherwise trade it for something 
 like I did. It was worth that for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullsfan1512
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I just finished single player today and I gotta be honest... disapointed by the extreme lack of 
 story devlopment... could have been awesome story, but was just throw together. It doesn't go into 
 account of the mission that caused Turok to "leave" wolf-pack nor does it tell you what the hell 
 Kane was doing on the planet to begin with! Mulitplayer was sweet at first, but the fact that you 
 can hardly find a room is horrible... need to fix that asap. shotgun is flat-out weak, rockets are 
 over powered, rilfe doesn't do much of anything but alert people to your where-a-bouts.. lol... This 
 game could have easily been a Game of the year contender in the right hands, but they just didn't 
 put forth the right effort. It defintaly has it's problems, but just because of the knife kills, 
 i give it solid 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assasinsgreed
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  id have to say this is one of the worst games i have ever played everylittle bit of it feels so 
 stolen like it doesnt belong here like it came from somewhere else well my guess is it did to be 
 honest i think the publishers just tryed to mix gears of war with jurassic park since the characters 
 seem to look like gears of war and your partner makes comments like baurd making thoose smart a@@ 
 comments that are o so funny in gears but just dont seem right in this game.
  
  and ontop of that the graphics are a joke i cnat believe they said the graphics were meduim good 
 cause they deffinttly were not the hype was big the advertiseing was big but the game was defintly 
 not big and also one of the biggest waste of rental money ever i mean i actually regret spending 
 the 5 dollars to rent this thats how bad it is like when has that ever happend 
  
  in all honesty i am embaresed for every single person who took part in creating this game because 
 its horrid and if i was them i would have just trached it and went back to the drwing board 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JD_Method
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo of Turok, I had decided that this game was definately worth buying and it 
 was a damn good purchase. Some parts of the game can be slightly challenging or frustrating as 
 the checkpoints are scarce. I was ticked off when the I kept dieing at one point and Turok's buddies 
 just sit there and say things along the lines of: "Turok grab the RPG." and "Turok destroy that 
 *spoiler*." all whilst they sit back and expect you to do all the work, which reluctantly I did. 
 Some bits will have you shouting: "Sneaky f****r!" and "Where the f**k did that w****r come from?!". 
 
  
  On the plus side, you kill dinos with a knife. It doesn't sound THAT exciting, but killing raptors 
 and the like with your trusty combat knife is down-right awesome and it is such an achievement 
 to take down a T-Rex with it. The only problem with the knife is that sometimes you miss the dinosaurs 
 with it. You have to pull RT at the right time but due to them being so swift you end up swinging 
 like Norman Bates! And if you're getting shot by a guy who's seen you and you want to kill him 
 with a knife: you're buggered because when you get shot, it slows you down so you basically get 
 stuck on the spot whilst swinging your knife 20 feet away from his face! 
  
  Multiplayer is very fun if you can find the right people to play with. The knife fights I had with 
 these bunch of guys was hilarious! 
  
  Overall, Turok is a solid game which deserves a good score of 8. Try the demo first as some people 
 see it as mediocre shooter and nothing more than that but I really enjoyed the game.
  
  
  If Jurassic Park taught you stay still when you come across a T-Rex - forget it. You'll get eaten, 
 believe me. Although it is funny. Sorry, Turok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggler7
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Turok is a FUN game. Mind you not a Great game - just fun.
  It may be one of the better games released in the past two months. The game design is pretty linear. 
 Visuals are very immersive. 
  One thing that i had a problem with was the timing of pulling the RT and the knife kills. At instances 
 the screen would prompt me to press RT and despite pressing it an innumerable number of times - 
 i would end up dead. 
  Also the sea monster was just plain frustration. Jesus what were they trying to state. Despite 
 a lot of peer reviews bashing enemy AI - it wasn't that bad. But Turok did feel bogged down with 
 weapons on movement - which sucked immensely. Also they should have implemented Sprint. At times 
 i felt like a midget that was so fat that he could barely carry his weight around (excuse the muscular 
 forearms that i project, of course)
  Auto-save was the worst aspect of the system. 
  Dinosaurs were awesomely designed. All of them moved were swiftly (except the T-rex) . I am very 
 much against games that require me to use a certain weapon in a boss fight (referring to the sea 
 monster) . It just sounded retarded that i had to follow the developers rules as to which weapons 
 to use to eliminate enemies (contrary to what the common sense dictates)
  You are better off renting this, unless if you really care for the turok skin that they provided 
 for xbox - i didn't like the game that much to adorn my xbox with it anyways.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3_RBS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Turok is a good game i say but its has alot of donws to it to..... but so ups to i would buy it 
 anyways but lets start with the ups
  
  the game makes you feel like your in a jungle wich you are in one but it really makes you feel 
 like your in a jungle and it has a long story to it fun dinosoar killing the knife in the game 
 is really fun to use just its hard to sneak around somtimes 
  you have boss fights the multiplayer is fun to just when you go quick match you cant select your 
 playlist wich sucks that all of the ups i can think of ill probolly think of more but the downs.
 
  
  there are lots of downs to the game when you got a normal its like playing halo 3 on Legendary 
 or CoD4 on Hardend they give not enough checkpoints to survive someparts so your really gonna be 
 going really slow at someparts to make sure you survive and the boos fights can get hard if you 
 dont know what your doing but boss fights are probolly easyer then some parts in the game the multiplayer 
 is fun but almost all the people use knifes..... you stab someone your more likely to get stabed 
 right after you stab someone else and if you love sniping in multiplayer well that isnt the easyest 
 thing to do in multiplayer because everyone moves really really fast 
  but the Co-op is fun just cant play Co-op if you dont have xbox live kind a gay 
  but the game 
 is worth playing it is really fun but if are buying a 360 ps3 jsut for this or if your new to first 
 person shooters i recommend you dont get this game its has alot of very hard spots but if your 
 good at them i would buy this is a great game
  
  a few more ups 
  great graphics
  good story
  if i havent said this befor it has a long story
  if you like wtaching firefights 
 well watching dinosoars and humans fight each other is fun to do at some parts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beno1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Turok videogame franchise has been in steep decline since it's hay day back on the Nintendo 
 64. After a fairly poor outing on last-gen systems, developer touchstone has picked up the series 
 and moulded it into a new game all together, taking a few liberties with the franchise, but is 
 this game worth picking up?
  
  You play Joesph Turok, a space marine, formerly of the notorious wolf pack. You are assigned to 
 help Whiskey company track down a fellow wolf-pack member and war criminal. After a crash landing, 
 you find yourself on a planet infested with your former team mates soldiers, along with the main 
 attraction for most people king up this game, the dinosaurs 
  
  Well lets start with something you'll notice as soon as you play, the graphics. I was fairly impressed 
 by the lush jungles and dark underground caverns featured in the game, it has the distinction of 
 being a visual treat and the best jungle I've seen on a console so far. The characters look great, 
 special merit goes to, of course, the dinosaurs. You can tell a lot of work has gone into getting 
 the dinosaurs just right, and they have done so brilliantly. One problem I have is that human enemies 
 are just too generic, with abut three different character models for soldiers, there's little distinction 
 between one enemy or the other. But this is a minor gripe that can be said of some great games, 
 including the combine of half-life 2. The human enemies aren't what you're playing for, you're 
 playing because you want to kill dinos. 
  
  The control system is a touch different in certain areas, noticeably the Y button being used to 
 crouch, but other than that, standard F. P. S layout, so you won't take long to get comfortable with 
 it.
  
  Now then, on to the real meat and potatoes, the game play. Turok is a highly enjoyable game, but 
 it does feel as though its carried by the dinosaurs. That's not to say that's a bad thing, but 
 it just seems a bit generic when you're not planting your knife into some dino flesh. The game 
 allows you to make the choice of going in all guns blazing, or to use your knife and franchise 
 favourite Tek bow to deal with your enemies, which is a very nice touch. If you go for the latter 
 however, you'll see one of the more impressive aspects of the game, the knife kills. Knife kills 
 are presented as cut scenes in which Turok performs some seriously cool knife skills. They're a 
 really satisfying element of the game, but feel slightly cheap after time. 
  
  One problem I have with this game has already been mentioned in the Gamespot review. The checkpoints 
 are too far between, and you can find yourself repeating the same fire fight a few times before 
 being allowed to progress. A slight annoyance, but nothing that will stop you from playing.
  
  Voice acting has been done flawlessly, with Ron Perlman being the most noticeable cast member.
 
  
  The multiplayer element of the game has been giving a lot of effort, and co-op maps are great fun 
 if you can get a few friends together. The grab-bag achievement may sour the experience for some 
 (Kill one enemy, yourself, a team mate and a dino) during multiplayer matches. Sure it's only in 
 player matches, not ranked, but it's bound to cuz a few "heated discussions" between players.
 
  
  Overall, Turok is a very good game, highly enjoyable, and lots of fun. The campaign will keep you 
 occupied for a good length of time and the multiplayer is an enjoyable experience. This is a return 
 to form for the Turok franchise and one fans and newcomers alike will find highly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamisjamas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  After reading over the Gamespot review I was in agreement with their assessment of Turok , with 
 a few exceptions. Not anything to specific but I enjoyed the waves of bugs that attacked me although 
 I agreed with them on the save points. There were a few points in the game where I had died only 
 to find that ; Hooray I get to do the whole sequence over again. 
  The main hook in this game was the fact that you get to have fun boss battles with a T-Rex. I'm 
 a big fan of the Dino Crisis series and this just brought some good old school action back to me. 
 That being said; I felt like the game in its entirety was a bit old school. The controls were way 
 to sensitive, the graphics were a little weak and the story line was pretty average. This would 
 have been no big deal on the regular Xbox but I wanted a little more. 
  Now that brings me to the multiplayer component, where is it ? Well it's there but good luck finding 
 anybody; and when you do you better become friends with them so you have people to play Turok with. 
 It's hard to find people for multiplayer. Since were on the topic; why is Co-op online only? Really! 
 Almost all games that come out with a Co-op mode are able to be played offline. This is pretty frustrating 
 when you have a friend who doesn't have an Xbox or the game and you want to play Co-op .
  Even with the problems that the game clearly has I still enjoyed that campaign , had fun shooting 
 dinosaurs and still think for myself it was a good purchase. I would recommend that most people 
 just rent it first though. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  when you start it, you recognize that the graphic is not so huge but perfect in the details; the 
 creaturs are so real, act so real, eat so real and feel so real; you have many ways to kill, many ways 
 to hunt down the enemies, and many ways of dying; the third person camera for the knife killings 
 are so amazing and make you to do them more; you can spend most of your time for walking and watching 
 a beautiful forest and planet or hunting the creaturs or be hunted; many ways to attract you in 
 this game; when there is real forest, a huge planet and most amazing creaturs ever you seen why you 
 do no must give it 10?
  GRAPHIC: perfect in the details; huge in texturs and best in the forest; water and light effects are 
 so real, forest is so alive, grasses moves aturely, bullets effects are pretty, gun's models are so 
 amazing, but character's models could be worked so better and the grounds are so unreal; there is 
 no sharp shaps and the whole world is so so so amazing in the rain;
  AI: it is good for the creaturs and normal for the human-beings enemies; creaturs follow you everywhere 
 and hunt you on the high ground and everywhere you do not think; they do not make noise when they 
 are near you and suddenly kill you from behind; but human enemies are like woods, ask you to kill 
 them pleasely; why, you do not know never;
  in this game you can experience the best moments in the hunting and killing; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_kreationz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Turok is a great game but there is some room for improvement.. The story is pretty good and keeps 
 you guessing what will happen next. 
  
  The Good : Knife kills are pretty neat looking and the A I is every intelligent. Voice acting and 
 Characters look pretty good. The story mode is not that long its about 7 - 8 hours .. the game has 
 14 levels with 4 bosses..
  
  
  The Bad : some checkpoints in the are long and pretty annoying to do when you playing the game 
 on Inhuman but if you play the game on Normal it is pretty easy. Also the major let down for turok 
 is that you cant play the story mode in co-op over xboxl ive .
  
  I think Turok is the best in the series. Its alot of fun and definitely a must buy .. it was definitely 
 worth the wait..
  
  Graphics - 8.5/10
  A I - 9.5/10
  Story - 8.5/10
  Overall - 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to state that Turok has been a great series for a while now, back in 
 the good ol' days of the nintendo 64. The game was great for it's first two releases, but it slowly 
 got worse and worse as time passed, and the newest Turok is no exception.
  
  GOOD: Fun, gory knife animations are fun and very brutal. Satisfying knife cinematics are also 
 quite entertaining as well. The dinosaurs look and act great, the AI in this game are very intellegent!. 
 The dinosaurs actually try to flank you, and most of the time they are successful. The voice animations 
 are great and the intense atmosphere of this game always keep players on their toes. for example, 
 when walking through a forest, one may hear some leaves rustling, it could be just your allie walking, 
 but suddenly a big dinosaur pops out and tries to bite your freaking head off! The sound affects 
 in this game are great too. Decent multi-player and weapons help to make this game good as well. 
 ( If you can even find anyone playing online)
  
  BAD: The entire game is VERY repetitive. Environments are re-used VERY often as well as characters. 
 The things that some of the characters say are very stupid most of the time, like "This place would 
 be better if it weren't dark..." (Your in a hostile alien planet filled with dangerous dinosaurs 
 and people who would kill you on sight, there is more things to worry about than being in the dark) 
 or "don't let the dinosaurs eat you.." (Well duh!, don't let the damn dinosaurs eat you, it's not 
 neccessary to say those things) . The multi-player is decent, but players can spend the whole match 
 knifing. It means that a player can EASILY kill you with the knife animation, they can go the entire 
 match without using guns or grenades etc. The weapons in this game feels really weak most of the 
 time. For example, if you spend 200 bullets on one single human character, they may just come back 
 up and still be alive. Also, aiming in this game is very frustrating, especially when you aim the 
 gun (or in this case a bow) perfect and you still miss; it goes right through them. When you do 
 miss, the enemies are alerted and you get killed. There are VERY FEW saves and checkpoints in this 
 game, so when you spend one hour on a certain part of a level, and you get killed you have to start 
 all over. Not that many people play online, so forget online play. Also when you shoot or stab 
 a human character, sparks come out. WHAT THE HELL? Isn't Turok known to be a violent, brutal scifi-shooter?!?!?!? 
 The graphics aren't all that great either, I would rate it an 8/10.
  
  OVERALL: Turok has the potential to be a very great game. It has fun gameplay and great characters. 
 The action is very fun and fast pace, but several minor flaws keep Turok from being the great game 
 that it should be. I would recommend it to be a rental, don't waste $65 bucks on this game when 
 you can spend it on some other better game such as Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyasian2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  * Set-piece battles go on for far too long 
  * Few checkpoint saves add to frustration 
  * Human opponents aren't dinosaurs.
  
  TOTAL RATING -- 7.0 / 10
  
  these are the cons given 
 to this game by Gamespot...
  
  I totally agree with the too few checkpoints so if you haven't played this game and aren't experienced, 
 make sure you take it easy and don't go balls out every moment you get otherwise you might just 
 end up repeating the same thing for an hour. 
  
  The human opponents not being dinosaurs is just a stupid con because even though the dinosaurs 
 are bad ass, the mercenaries are intelligent and fun to knife kill and pin to walls with bow shots 
 to the head, they are also plenty in numbers, resulting in huge battles that require skill and 
 strategy to survive.
  
  Finally the set-piece battles last too long is sometimes true, but near the end of the game. These 
 battles are very long and kind of difficult if you don't know what your doing but if you have the 
 right weapons, they're fun, like taking out a mercenary transport with a RPG where they exit the 
 vehicle.
  
  So I agree with Gamespot, but seriously consider getting this game, its kick ass and the dinosaurs 
 alone is a good enough reason to get this game... they fight each other, they eat the mercenaries 
 in funny/amusing ways, and stabbing them/button mashing to get them off leads to awesome "mini 
 cut scenes". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  i believe it did. at first i didn't here too much about a new turok comming out and with it's messed 
 up released date i got to get my hands on it earlier. at first i was like, "sweet i remember those 
 N64." days and i would enjoy to relive them again. unfortunatly it wasn't quite the same.
  
  the music in general was "turok", but the story didn't scream out as "turok, too much. some 
 few minor glitches as indestructable dinosaurs to Joesph Turok's knife doesn't really bother me. 
 
  
  when you think of turok and it's components its sort of like halo, gears of war, jurrasic park, 
 and a little unreal
  
  with the knife interactions, it reminds me of the chainsaw in gears of war. 
  with the percision 
 of shooting and just the basics it reminds me of halo and unreal. so it should really be called, 
 "Gears of Unreal Halo"  2008
  
  but you know the multiplayer is perfectly fine to me. but with the lack of a melee move can make 
 you a little frusterated when you get close quarters. but the knife totally makes up for it... 
 the bow is pretty interesting since it's mostly a one hit kill and your second best tool of destruction. 
 if you can't get a kill with a knife of bow, your best alternative is to run n' gun it. 
  
  with the lack of auto save check points gets me a little frusterated in the campaign story mode. 
 but other that im content with this game.
  
  this was worth it's wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlsNecroplasm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  i havent played online but judging from the campaign experience i've noticed lush environment which 
 goes from jungle terrain complete with beautiful brooks, waterfalls, tall grass, and foliage. the 
 way they took out the health and ammo bar really helped show how elegant the world of turok is. 
 
  the bunker/warehouse areas were live and exhilarating in the way the place was really alive. trying 
 to escape an exploding space ship was exciting. 
  something that should be pointed out here that makes it way better thn previous turok games is 
 the fact that this one had a stable plot and developed storyline. it wasnt the greatest story i've 
 ever heard but it was something to be noted. 
  the only thing i didnt like was the lack of blood and gore on the human enemies. you saw dinosaurs 
 explode and gush blood everywhere but the human enemies didnt dismember. they didnt even bleed. 
 only sparks came out of them. its not like they were robots because they did scream. i was just 
 a little disappointed by that. 
  O and the game was kinda short too.
  i like it a lot because i love dinosaurs and gore and shooters
  ............ so as long as ur 
 into those aspects of a game, u'll love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldendemon17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Ive been reading the other player reviews and have been hearing a few things id like to address. 
 
  
  1st - people have been saying that "o this game is no halo" andthis doesn't even compare to 
 COD 4" well Duh!! its not supposed to. this game is designed to give you a fun and different shooter 
 experience e. g. the dinos (who's A. I. is amazing by the way) 
  
  2nd - alot of people have been saying that its just another shooter... id just like to say that 
 isnt every shooter just another shooter. COD 4 gets just as boring as any other after a while
 
  
  3rd - the nife has been getting all of the attention WHAT ABOUT THE BOW MAN i think pinning an 
 armored soldier to a tree with an arrow and then watching his freaked out buddies freak out is 
 way better than stabbing a guy over and over again
  
  4th i also read one that said "u dont know how much health the bosses have and when they are going 
 to die" well i think that adds a certain amount of uncertainty and realism to things do u think 
 if you were really shooting the crap out of a dinosaur that he would stop and say "o by the way 
 i am aproximately half way dead" NO WAY MAN hes to busy trying to devour u
  
  anyway those are just a few of my opinions i personally loved the game it brought me back to the 
 days where i would just go out and buy a game without any prior knowledge of its ratings or whatnot 
 and just going home and having a good time with a friend or two and just playing through it
  
  go buy or rent it and if u get bored just take it to a store that buys back and put it toward 
 another game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdelectric
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Turok is a solid game, but nothing to **** your pants about. I was really anticipating the release 
 for a while, but was fairly dissapointed with the product. The dinosaurs are really the only thing 
 that make this game worth playing really. But, seeing as how the game is not revolved around the 
 dinosaurs, it winds up being just a mediocre shooter. I really thought the movement of the dinosaurs 
 was very realistic, but the game graphics are not as good as an elite console's graphics should 
 be. Like many others have said, the killing with the combat knife is really fun, for about an hour. 
 After that it gets old and there is nothing else in the game that stands out to keep your interest. 
 Unless you love anything and everything about dinosaurs, I would not recommed buying this game, 
 but would be worth your time for a 1 time rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Lets just get right down to buisness this is a quick review for a reason. You are Turok and you 
 kill dinos and soldiers in a generic FPS world complete with jungles, caves and buildings. O and 
 in this game almost everyone you come in contact with has the personality of a hippo. Not that its 
 a bad thing. Not every game can have a good characters with well, character.
  
  If you have ever played an FPS in your life you are going to know how this game works right away. BUT, this 
 game adds a knife into the generic mix. It works with the dinos very very well. But the battle animations 
 get real old after a while. Cutting a dinos throat the same time over and over again is just lame 
 and lazy on the developers part.
  
  The single player is good. Its pretty decent in length. And there are some challenging bosses. But 
 I will never understand how shooting a t-rex so many times in the head with a rocket and it still 
 living makes sense. Thats a huge bother. And the game never really gives you an indication on how 
 much health it has left, or any of the bosses for that matter!
  
  Like most games these days Turok runs on the Unreal Engine. And it looks good enough. It looks a 
 little unfinished in some spots. But overall its a solid looking game. The game is far from well 
 textured though, and it can get really dark in some places. And you will never get anything like 
 a flashlight or night vision to help you.
  
  There is quite a bit to keep you coming back to Turok. Good achievements, decent story mode and quite 
 a meaty online mode. It has some pretty basic stuff. But the Co-op is a fine addition to the already 
 VERY basic team deathmatch mode and free for all. Dinos do roam some of the maps online and its 
 kinda cool to see another guy cutting ones throat while taking care of another guy. In its prime 
 the online can be very action packed. I don't know if this has been patched or not but I have problems 
 searching for Live matches. It takes almost ten minutes to find one. And I'm not the only one with 
 this problem. After you finally get in the match the rest of the time the 360 is on it will be very 
 easy to get in a match, but waiting ten minutes is a long stretch.
  
  All in all Turok is a pretty basic FPS, but its still fun. And the different additions like dinos 
 and the interesting knife mechanics make it sort of unique. Its not worth 60$. This game can get 
 very tiresome. I rented it. And I think I made the right choice in doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vzobel
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This was a very waited game, with a lot of great content ( i tough so) . But in the moment i put 
 my hands in the DEMO i just find myself in JUST another FPS with a bunch of weird weapons (not 
 so cool) and some Dinos, at the begining it was ok, but then some soldiers came out and i just 
 feel i wasn't playing a 360 game.
  
  The dificulty is insane, im was playing in normal and it look like insane mode.
  
  Also the 
 story has changed from the origins of TUROK, passing to a space marine who wants to hunt his Mentor 
 down.
  
  At this point the game didn't catch me, but i start to seeing some positive sides, like the moment 
 were you are about to sneak and kill a bad guy, and you're surprised with a Raptor or any other 
 hungry Dino that wants to try a little piece of you. 
  
  Graphcis look well, and the Dinos were the best, also the sound its very ok.
  
  The multiplayer 
 was very good, and it has alot of great match kinds.
  
  So i give a 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2B
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of the Turok series, especially the first one with all it's crazy power weapons (you 
 could nuke the place with one gun and the best mini-gun ever) .
  This Turok is none of that. Oh yeah you got the great bow and your knife which both allow you to 
 take down enemies silently. 
  I love playing in the jungle, it instantly gives me a creepy feeling because anything can come 
 from anywhere.
  And that is what happens in this Turok; one moment your sneaking on an enemy and the next moment 
 you see a Raptor jump on you trying to make you his next dinner. While you are fighting with the 
 Dino, your human enemy tries to shoot you both untill another Raptor takes hum down. While you 
 get up and quickly get the shotgun and machine gun in dual-wield mode some other scumbag enemies 
 arrive to kick your ass. That's when your team suddenly moves in and starts a fight with the other 
 enemies.
  One very cool moment is when you have to cross an open space. While I was moving towards a tunnel 
 suddenly some Herbivores came running towards me with on their tail the king of the Dino's; yes 
 the T-Rex. I decided to go the other way around a big rock-thing in the middle. Then the Raptors 
 moved in starting a fight with me and with the T-Rex. It's very cool to see Mr. T-Rex grabbing 
 a Raptor with it's jaws or grabbing me with it's jaws. 
  
  The story of the game seems promising but doesn't seem to matter that much later on. You're hunting 
 down a criminal (who trained Turok) on a planet filled with Dino's. When you're flying trough the 
 skies the ship gets hit by a missile and crashes. From that moment you and another guy of the team 
 head towards the main crash site killing Dino's and bad guys.
  
  I hoped for a sandbox type of world or at least a lot of different ways to get from A to B, but 
 the game-play is linear. 
  
  Turok is definitely a decent shooter, but next to the Dino's it has nothing special to offer and 
 it's pretty straightforward. It doesn't have the mass destruction weapons like Turok : Dinosaur 
 Hunter had. But then again, it has nothing to do with the original Turok and it's plot. 
  
  To summarize it; Turok is a nice shooter with cool Dinosaurs but it lacks that little bit of extra 
 power that would make it a great shooter.
  
  I hope that they bring back the Talisman collectables and awesome power weapons in the next Turok. 
 Also a less linear game play or even sandbox world would make this one a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juve4ever
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  The knife kills are amazing! About time a shooter game has a realistic use for Melee. Most games 
 its all bullets but the knife is a key weapon and great if you crave gore!!! Awsome story line 
 and very addictive. Characters look cool and the Environment is good. Very unpredictable with lots 
 of shocks in the story line and action. Keeps you always on edge. Not quite up to Call of Duty 
 4 standards but very close. Fighting the Dinosaurs is a hell of a lot more fun then fighting the 
 humans. Bit like an old Ps2 game when it comes to that but the dino bit makes up for it. Great 
 game to play and highly recommended to buy. I'm totally hooked and only had it since Friday when 
 it was released. I wasnt sure whether to buy it or not as the previous games have been a huge let 
 down graphics and gameplay wise so i wasnt sure about purchasing this one but it has not let me 
 down in any area at all. Great one for the shooter collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game, single player sucks. Co-op is very very hard. You have to think alot on co-op. Now 
 for the multiplayer it is hard to stay alive. Think of it as halo's BTB exept theres dinos in a 
 pit area and 7 swarm you at the same time. Go! You must be quick on your feet because there sure 
 will be snipers and you must use your pulse rifle (AKA super machine gun) and shotgun to stay alive. 
 Single player is totally diffrent. Its like just stabbing people in the back for 5 hours what game 
 does that make? A bad one since theres not much but just to follow the trail. Well Multi and co-op 
 is good you just really have to get use to it. PLAY CO-OP FIRST OR IT RUINS YOUR EXPERIENCE!
  
  THanks for readin.... ..... If your picky, rent the game first!! Thats pretty sums it up for 
 the review now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filip_XxX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Couldn't believe the story mode it was just amazing... Weapons are fun to use through out the entire 
 game!! Multiplayer will never get boring, theirs so much stuff to do in it... Killin' dinos is sick 
 wicked AND nasty all at the same time!! Knifin' guyz all day anyday is a great thing to do in this 
 game...!! Played none stop for like 80 hours and not planning to stop yet.... What drives me off 
 my seat everytime is seeing the T-REX... It looks so sick in this game it actually freaks me out 
 when i see it. All the dinos in this game are fun to kill, shoot and knife! Honestly anyone who 
 hates this game has to have some issues of some kind or is just not into this kind of action that 
 Turoks gives me everytime i play it!!! This is a definite keeper if u love shooting games like 
 me!! Anyone who rates this game 8.0 or under must explain themselves in their review cause, come 
 on this game is so sick to play...!! Gears of War has its ChainSaw moments , but Turok has final 
 struck killin knife moments that i never get tired of everytime i see it happen...!! If ur planning 
 to get this game watch out for the difficulty levels... this game is actually pretty hard to play 
 but i promise you..... you will love it form the beginning to the final knife kill you will make!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baker714
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Turok had the overall potential to beat halo 3 and Call of Duty 4, but didnt quite make the mark. 
 The dino animation killing was thrilling for the first few chapters of the game but as you continue 
 the story line it gets tedious. You might get stuck on many parts of the campaign if you are new 
 to FPS games. Your allies dont seem to be much help on some levels and the enemie humans seem a 
 bit too overpowered towards the end of the game. And at some parts the dinos can get overwelming 
 but its a blast killing them all. The boss fights keep your heart beating fast, and the storyline 
 is very mysterious. The campaign is relativly hard but fun. And the online mutilpayer could be 
 fun on end for you and your friends. Even though ive been finding achievement games more often 
 now. An overall great FPS but if your looking for a game that has more depth in its mutiplayer, 
 then go for COD4. My score 8.5 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doublezero9
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great storyline that unwinds as the game progresses. The dino's could be a little 
 harder and the enemy troops a little easier, but nothing could be more fun than pullin out your 
 blade and goin toe-to-toe with a raptor. At times you might think the gameplay is a little repetative 
 but new stages bring a few new enemies, each one being easier to defeat with a little experimenting 
 of your weapons. If you are able to make it through on normal difficulty, then you wont even wonder 
 how long it might take on the 2 harder difficulty settings (near impossible!) , so in those two 
 respects it has decent replay value. As for the online modes, there are only team deathmatch and 
 free for all in ranked modes and an additional co-op mode for public matches. The one-button knife 
 techniques are harder to pull of with the occasional lag in the online mode, as well as some of 
 the achievements being almost unreachable (most are categorized for online play) . So all things 
 considered, it is definately worth playing through the story mode (in my opinion much better than 
 either of the older Turoks) , but dont expect it to replace rainbow six or call of duty for online 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKX8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Turok: Evolution was a typical joy to play on the PS2 for me, so when I heard about a new Turok 
 being released for the 360 -- using the console's next-gen graphics system, and, of course, being 
 an FPS -- I was nothing short of avidly ecstatic. Then came the day that I rented it, having heard 
 it was short and with no offline multiplayer for me even two rentals was worth more than a sixty-dollar 
 buy, and began playing instantly hooked. 
  
  First off, the plot is much better than I'd expected -- they integrate a 'Turok' character by name 
 and ethnicity, then they used originality in integrating the bowie knife and compound bow into 
 the story.
  
  As far as the graphics go, they're truly marvelous. For once I can fight dinosaurs -- both carnivores 
 and herbivores -- and feel like I'm actually there, more or less, rather than watching a '70s horror 
 flick. Only a few notable glitches I saw throughout the game, most prominently the uneleveled 'floating' 
 effect on dinosaurs you kill with the knife. Ragdoll effects are also done well, bot with dinosaurs 
 and human enemies. Weaponry concepts are surprisingly good, too, shocking me with the realism and 
 potency of the Plasma Rifle. Just as well, they did a good job in adding more than just the typical 
 dinosaurs -- the massive scorpions, venom-spitting dragonflies, and monstrous eel -- into the game.
 
  
  But what really irked me was the sheer aggravation I got while playing the game on the simplest 
 of difficulties. For one, when knifing a dino you should have much more freedom to it; often I've 
 found myself getting killed while the dino is writhin about in pain or even just standing still, 
 waiting for that icon to appear onscreen. Moreover were the penultimate battles in the game, primarily 
 the level whence you must survive the multitude of dragonfly hordes spitting venom with a deployed 
 chaingun giving mediocre coverage; and although the unique eloquency of the boss battle with Kane 
 is put well with a knife struggle, the ensuing fight against the "mama scarface" T-Rex is unbearably 
 tiresome.
  
  Nonetheless, overall TUROK is a nicely done game, but could've been improved. I know, I know, almost 
 all games can be improved -- but some have made it as far as not needed that critical improvement, 
 i. e. Gears of War and Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Regardless, it was good in most spots and 
 inspired me in something else altogether, so my back-to-back rentals were mostly worth it, but 
 I'd definitely say "no" to the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ack754
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Turok . . . 
  
  A pleasant surprise. A game that equals (almost) all the "Professional" reviews.
  
  I do think 
 that overall, it is a dark game. Dark as in screen darkness. Inside some of the buildings, tunnels, 
 etc . . . it just seems a bit too dark.
  
  I can play Turok two ways.
  
  First preference is on my Hitachi 55" plasma. Second choice is my 19" wide-screen monitor. I use 
 the monitor when the Old Lady is home and has the control of the TV.
  
  But, whichever I am using I just can't get a screen brightness I like. If I go up too high I wash 
 out all the colors. Maybe the designers did it that way. I don't know. And maybe part of the problem 
 has to do with my color blindness.
  
  There is now a video put out by a Gamespot member, frederikfrey, that does seem to bear out what 
 I have been trying to say about the Xbox 360 version being darker. See the video here:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/action/turok/video_player. html? id=dyRhxmer5bwKvDba&tag=user_vids; title
 
  
  But on the other hand since these videos are compared side-by-side, literally, it seems like the 
 PS3 has the opposite problem. Darker exterior scenes. Lighter interior shots.
  
  Any video tech/pro want to take this one on?
  
  Halo, pick one, had some dark scenes, but nothing 
 I couldn't overcome. Just about have to believe it is a game design thing.
  
  I haven't made it all the way through yet, but I am finding this to be an enjoyable game. Not quite 
 enough weapons to be had (yet) but the ones I have are quite good. I do like the Bow. Now all I 
 need are some of the exploding tipped arrows. 
  
  I also need the shotgun. I do love a shotgun in any game. Does a great job of taking out the bad 
 guys. I can't wait until I come upon some dinosaurs and a group of the bad guys. Just gotta try 
 that out.
  
  But, I have to wait. I am still searching (or at least trying to) the first installation.
  
 
  Hey, what do I know, I have a tenth grade education, about forty years ago, mind you, but I'd 
 have to come close to saying that the graphics are on par with H-3. But, that's my opinion.
  
  As far as killing, the body will either slump to the ground, if I can us the word, bonelessly. 
 Or, I guess what weapon is used, will slam back. Nice . . . I wonder, since I didn't look, is Turok 
 using the Havok (sp?) engine? I know it is using the Unreal tech stuff, but I'm not sure about the 
 Havok thing. Help me out here.
  
  The grass blowing in the breeze is "Haloish." The kickback on the firearms is put to good use.
 
  
  Yeah, I like this game. Lots of re playability. So far. I guess I should wait until I finish before 
 I post a review (because if you update your review, GS tells me, that I will lose all my comments, 
 if I get any) but this is one good-darn (notice I didn't cuss?) game.
  
  Because of my so-called "screen darkness" I am going with a nine on the score
  
  As of right 
 now, get this game. Make it your own.
  
  Ack754 (Dale) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipslayer_666
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  In the tradition of feeding off of nostalgia a game that was originally released on the Nintendo 
 64 is back with a new coat of paint, next gen graphics, and a new story. But was it worth the wait. better 
 yet do we really need a new Turok? 
  
  
  For those who have never played the original Turok was actually based off of a comic book of the 
 same name. That's a little bit before my time so I don't know much about the comic, but I do know 
 about the game which put you in the shoes of Tal' Set a "Time Traveling Warrior" and had you running 
 around this "Lost Land" preventing it form being destroyed by some evil cyborg organization.. or 
 something like that. Sorry it has been 11 years since I played the game, I think there was even 
 a giant dragon fly or something there too. Regardless it was a pretty decent game, save for the 
 fact that it never kept my then 8 year old mind entertained with finding keys to unlock doors. 
 
  
  That said, lets fast forward 11 years our time and probably a million or three in Turoks time. 
 To a futureristic world, where you've crash landed with a military group called WHISKEY Team on 
 an Alien planet full of dinosaurs and mercenaries led by Kane, Turoks former boss in this group 
 called Wolf Pack. That's the setting for the latest Turok, pretty simple right? Well let's get 
 to the review.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  As with any first person shooter the objective is to, duh shoot stuff. So all the usual stuff is 
 there the circle strafing, the ducking, the reloading the whole nine yards. But what Turok does 
 a little differently is plays on the stealth side of the game. Amongst the amalgam of generic weaponry 
 you find in a FPS (Smg, Shotgun, Rocket Launcher, Etc) you also get a bow as well as your knife. 
 They both work as well as you'd expect but there are some severe flaws with the system. 
  
  With the bow ive ran into many instances where iam pulling the bow back and suddenly every bad 
 guy on the planet knows my position. No I realize that pulling a bow back can cause some noise 
 but not enough to make a group of people aware of you when they're in the middle of a jungle with 
 dinosaurs around. The knife has been pretty solid except for the fact that you actually have to 
 select it as a weapon to use. I find this a bit ridiculous but I may just be spoiled by COD4 and 
 Halo with their melee buttons, but I think it's a bit of a stretch. What it does most is breaks 
 up the action, now Instead of getting in a heated fire fight and seeing a guy run around a corner 
 and getting killed because I couldn't switch to my knife is pretty damned annoying. 
  Speaking of the enemies they range from annoying dinosaurs to stupid mercenaries. The dinosaurs 
 are dumb animals, and they act like it they're attacks is random, quick, annoying and powerful. 
 But on the down side anything under the size of a Dilophasaurus can be quickly dispatched with 
 proper timing from your knife. Which would be great but seeing the same two or three deaths kind 
 of ruin the stealth kill deal. But good old fashioned bullets work just as well.
  Your human enemies though, are on par with some of the stupidest enemies in any game to date. Their 
 thought of taking cover means either leaning in and out from a box, or standing in the middle of 
 nowhere waiting for you to shoot them. The only thing they have going for them is that the will 
 abuse the flanking maneuver if you give the ma chance, and even when they do it its only one or 
 two guys at a time. They aren't the brightest targets, but they do put up a bit of a fight in groups. once 
 they realize they shouldn't stand together around the grenade.
  Your weaponry is pretty bland, I mean you have your basics of any FPS. An assault rifle, cept this 
 on's in plasma form, rocket launcher, smg, rail gun, and the grenade launcher. The only weapons 
 worth mentioning are the shotgun and the flamethrower. First off the flamethrower's flame looks 
 beautiful, plus there's no greater joy than roasting your enemies and have it look cool at the 
 same time. The shotgun has a great secondary feature where it shoots flares, which are all but 
 useless save for the fact that they can be used to lure a raptor or attacking dino in another direction. 
 Which in theory means that you could shoot a flare at the enemy and the raptor would attack, but 
 in actuality most of the time the dino will just stand there and stare at the flare without doing 
 anything. Then wait till the flare goes out and continue their attack on you. 
  
  Graphics:
  Just like every other game in the universe it runs on the Unreal Engine. So it's going 
 to look really good. The dinosaurs look about as realistic as you'd expect, and all of your allies 
 and enemies as well as the surrounding backdrop look good. The only problem I have with it is that 
 sometimes you get a white outline around some of the characters in the cutscene. Besides that it's 
 as good as you can expect anything running that engine to be.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is relatively decent, your in a jungle so you get all the ambient forest sounds as well 
 as the sounds of anything approaching your. But for some odd reason the sounds of the weapons always 
 seem a bit off, and they cause the weapon to feel weaker than it actually is. Instead of getting 
 a satisfying boom from your gun all you get is a sort of downgraded pop. This is disappointing 
 but nothing that would bug anyone but me that much. 
  Value:
  It's a 60 dollar title that could be completed in 10-14 hours depending on how you play. But once 
 the single players done, theres no real reason to go back on the harder difficulty. And with the 
 lack of a decent multiplayer, there's no real reason to grab this game unless you're a huge Turok 
 fan. Give it a rent, Blockbuster got it early and should have a decent amount in stock.
  
  Tilt:
  It's a bland FPS that honestly could have had a main character named anything and still 
 been about wolf pack and killing dinosaurs. The game was made specifically to be a new Turok but 
 at the end of the day it just seems like the name was glued on the box. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryde_rebel93
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Turok is back and this time with a vengeance! Propaganda Games have put in the effort in making 
 this franchise resurrect back from extinction.
  
  You play as a Native-American called Joseph Turok, you were once part of Wolf Pack, a vicious Black-Ops 
 team. You desert Wolf Pack knowing the past was wrong and now you join Whiskey Company on mission 
 to catch the ex Wolf Pack leader, Roland Kane. The story is fast paced and very dramatic, its very 
 strong from the beginning but loses its touch near the end but most of the time you won't be thinking 
 about the story because the game is so fun. 
  
  Turok is your standard FPS with a few spiced up features. The knife, many think of this weapon 
 as useless and weak but in Turok it is one of the most strongest weapons. It so cool to knife your 
 enemies/dinosaurs. The quite kills are awesome and knifing a raptor in the head feels really fun, 
 this game is blood thirsty! The aiming of Turok is very different, the screen shakes and does not 
 have an aim assist. A new feature is quite kills, either go in guns blazing or use stealth, this 
 feature sometimes doesn't fit in the more harder situations of the game but it is indeed really 
 cool. Dino luring is very handy in Turok, using the flare to make your enemies (dinoaurs) into 
 friends. Every weapon in Turok has a secondary use, the best one being the shotgun which has its 
 flare to attract dinosaurs.
  
  The weapons in Turok are cool, with each having a secondary fire but the trademark weapon for Turok 
 is back, The Bow. Although the weapons are cool, most feel weak especially the shotgun. It takes 
 a couple of shells to take down a raptor. Also the knife kills do get repetitive but never get 
 old. 
  
  Multiplayer in Turok is addictive, although it doesn't stand a chance against Call of Duty 4's 
 or Halo 3's, its still satisfying. You have all the standard games like free-for-all, team deathmatch, 
 CTF, assault CTF and a new type called Wargames. Nearly all multiplayer maps have dinosaurs, this 
 adds terror to the player, so you have to focus on dino's and the opposing team, this feature is 
 very intriguing. Knife kills in multiplayer are so cool that it makes you feel on top of the world. 
 Its very challenging and you never know when you are being followed, which makes you turn all the 
 time. Co-op is a fun experience, although it is very weak. The story of the co-op play has no connection 
 with the single player campaign and has only three levels, this is probably a big disappointment. 
 Also Turok does not support offline multiplayer and split-screen, so you can't one-on-one your 
 friends on the same TV or do split-screen co-op. System link is also not available in Turok. 
 
  
  The one thing that bothers me in multiplayer is when the enemy is holding the knife and running 
 around, its nearly impossible to shoot at them because they run to fast. This in some cases is 
 very annoying but challenging because the knife is the lightest weapon. 
  
  Graphics are great in Turok, the dinosaurs act real and look real. The environment is great with 
 the modified Unreal Engine 3. Although some characters have jaggy and sharp edges on their face 
 but this doesn't make it last-gen graphics. 
  
  The A. I for Turok is very challenging the enemy soldiers you encounter can flank you, take cover 
 etc. The dino A. I is very sophisticated especially the raptors, they pounce and maul you. On harder 
 difficulties the A. I is challenging. Sometimes the A. I can get dumb and easy. The boss A. I are 
 very smart such as the T-Rex, a thing you wouldn't want to mess with.
  
  Overall Turok is great game, with minor flaws and a disappointing co-op feature and no split-screen/system 
 link, Turok fails greatly to achieve the big 9 but the game is fun from start to finish and will 
 indeed keep all you Turok fans happy. If your looking to stab dino's or just a FPS fan, then Turok 
 is for you. Turok is back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally awesome, The gameplay is fun, the dinosaurs are cool looking, and the graphics 
 looks amazing, but that doesnt mean it doesnt have its downfalls, the game is really challenging 
 and you will be dieing alot thoughout the single player campaign, but, this is defenatly the first 
 person shooter that will make you a better player, it is really fun.
  
  I also must say, the little Co-op maps that this game supports are great, and I really hope they 
 add a few more soon.
  
  But, I was a little bummed on how much the Turok story changed, because now he is a space marine 
 trying to hunt down his former mentor, on the original Turok, he was a Native american warrior, 
 but that is truely the only problem with this game.
  
  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
  A Linik0007 Review
  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game I won't lie. I loved the Turok for the Nintendo 64. But there is a lot of odd 
 stuff in this one that I really didn't like.
  For one thing the controls are very sketchy and the enemy's are bassicly all the same.
  But over 
 all if you liked the Turok for the Nintendo 64 I don't see why you wouldn't like this one.
  I am enjoying it and I am glad I bought it, I am just saying that there are a lot of things wrong 
 in this game that turn me off, and will turn a lot of people off.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, I have seen better. Trying to kill the dineos are kinda annoying 
 specially if you are trying to kill them with a knife sometimes the button you need to push won't 
 actually kill the freaking thing.. haha..
  
  
  
  
  If I had a choice for other people it would be
  rent it
  dont
  buy it
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Good graphics and environments practically look real.
  
  2) Amazing sound that will make you freak out when raptors pop out at you.
  
  3) Some of the 
 best looking blood and gore I have ever seen in any game.
  
  4) Single player mode is pretty long and will have you playing for a while.
  
  5) Good storyline 
 that stays fresh from beginning to end.
  
  6) Various creatures that you fight like raptors, T-rex, dilophosaurus, giant scorpions and they 
 made a couple of extra creatures for this game.
  
  7) Killing with the knife looks awesome.
  
  Cons:
  1) It is a tough game so you will have 
 to be familiar with first person shooters to even stand a chance at beating this game.
  
  2) Not too much of a variety of weapons but it doesnt bother me because you still can get a Knife, 
 cross bows, Shotguns, pulse rifles, pistols, SMG's, and a couple of other guns.
  
  3) Multiplayer lags a little bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cross28
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay I'm sure everyone played the old Turok games on the N64, or may be the game boy. Now I'm sure 
 everyone would agree, the first Turok was the best, after that they all went down hill. When I 
 first read about them bring this game back, I wasn't that sure about it. But after seeing the first 
 screen shots of the game, I was blown away. This is a FPS through and through just like the first 
 one, but the addition of the knife being able to do sneak attacks was a great idea. It breaks up 
 the FPS action a little, and gives a little different way to aproach things. The use of the bow 
 for a long distance quiet kills is fun, especialy when you nail one to a tree. Graphically Turok 
 looks a Hell of alot better then the first three, even the story makes more sense then the first 
 N64 games ever did. Now don't get me wrong there is some things that mite not appeal to everyone, 
 compared to any of the other 360 game out now, Turok isn't that much of a garphical monster, say 
 compared to Halo, or even BioShock the graphica are okay. The controls are a little loose for my 
 taste, and the game can be alittle frustrating at times. But all and all, this is a game ppl should 
 atleast chack it out, even if your not a Turok fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryancv
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  best turok game ever good start for 2008 dont rent it dont take the word of any other website or 
 crtic just buy it from my word and if you dont like the game then go give it to someone that will 
 appreciate it i think its under aappreciated and they (people who made turok) diserve more credit 
 then they are getting so people i iwsh this game goes up in rankingo ther then a 7.9 and 7.2 lets 
 make it an 8.0 and 7.5 or even a 9.0 and 8.9 okay something like that will work dont let this game 
 get a sucky score well thats my oppion the end ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thespotter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  With a great cast and awesome dinosaurs, This game made me wishing it were longer. When I was playing 
 it was an ultra-stressful bonanza, I wasn't sure if I would make it out of a valley or cave. The 
 cast was original, they all had different personalities, and were all smart enough to help in a 
 fire fight. Turok himself seemed to have changed a great deal, coming from a stereotypical indian 
 to a warrior of the new age.
  The dinosaurs of the game were stupendous in design and were really something you could be afraid 
 of. For instance, when I first walked up on a raptor, I was a bit intimidated, I mean it was moving 
 fast and could jump far. Also the dinosaurs that were fictional in the game were interesting in 
 their design. I remember the first time meeting Mother Superior, the largest T-rex in the game, 
 and let me tell you she was not happy about meeting me. Our first battle was relatively easy, only 
 because of the tree I hid under, but the second time we met, she was not a walk in the park. Apart 
 from dinosaurs the regular soldiers in the game were tough. Alone they were nothing but they were 
 usually in groups and they knew what they were doing. They would flank and kill without feeling, 
 which showed actual intelligent AI (finally) . Not only were they tough but they had an array of 
 vehicles from the classic armored transport to helicopters, they even had an awesome weapon that 
 you will see once you make it to the crash sight a second time.
  The weapons were a delight to use. The very first weapon I got aside from the knife was very original 
 being that its alt-fire was a silenced shot. The knife itself became a valued asset as I learned 
 that it could instantly kill raptors and other small dinosaurs. My personal favorite weapon though 
 was probably the plasma rifle with its rapid shot and grenades. The only way to get better weapons 
 is to get them of MG soldiers whether their dead or not. There were many ways to do this. One way, 
 which is really fun, is to shoot the shotgun's flare at an enemy and watch surronding dinosaurs 
 attack them, you even get an achievement for doing this method enough. Another way was to sneak 
 up on an enemy and stab them with the knife, which was really satisfying. Killing in this game 
 seemed to have and art style to it.
  The enviroments of the game were designed with fear in mind. They twist and turn making raptors 
 and other dangers hard to see. Caves were really stressful to get through since it was hard to 
 see and there was no telling what was around the next corner. Sometimes the tight valleys open 
 up to reveal an open plain with herbivourus dinosaurs grazing, and as soon as you set foot in it 
 a t-rex shows up to get a snack. Sometimes the jungles would be overun by MG technology and you 
 would have to infiltrate bases and outposts, with MG soldiers and dinosaurs trying to kill you. 
 The final level was really something but I can't tell seeing as you probably haven't played it 
 yet.
  Overall Turok for the Xbox 360 is a game that will go down in dinosaur game history. With its original 
 cast, intelligent and fearsome enemies, and outstanding environments, Turok is without a doubt 
 the best Xbox 360 game so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GammaShard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Ok im getting alot of bad reviews on Turok but i have to say that i enjoyed this game deeply, what 
 i think most people see when they first play it is the graphics, there not alll that great and 
 sometimes could look a little pixleated, but if that is the only thing you notice about a game 
 then that makes you the idiot who only judges a book by its cover. The truth this game is very 
 fun the dual welding system is done very well with pretty much any weapon being able to be dualed. 
 The story we have heard before but the way its told attracted me some how, i think the first part 
 where u keep teaming up with some lone guy who is somehow going to rescure u, but then there the 
 ones who keeps dying on you, until u meet slade or ron pearlman as most call him, but any way if 
 u have more experience with games other than halo3 and gears of wars then try it out, if u think 
 the only good games are big budget titles then just stick with ur 2 good games a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKing_Leonidas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Turok is a Sci-Fi FPS based off of the older N64 Turok games.
  I never played those games but I think Turok is a great FPS that deserves to be up there with the 
 Halo games. 
  
  Pros- 
  It has great envirorments and great A. I. A variety of enemys from all different kinds of Dinos 
 and different kinds of enemy soldiers. 
  A large arsenal of weapons. From your usual rifles and pistol to plasma rifles and sticky bomb 
 gun. 
  Great stealth kills with the Oro P23 Combat Knife and the Bow.
  Great multiplayer with plenty of different game modes.
  
  Cons- 
  Sometimes there are just 
 to many Dinos.
  The online multiplayer is way to laggy at times.
  The Knife is really difficult to use at times. You need to get in just the right position to be 
 able to use the knife.
  The story starts off strong but loses strength throughout the game.
  
  Overall it is a great 
 game with great game modes and a challeging campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelostcause
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  More on this version of Turok, ever since putting the game into my system and watching the opening 
 cut scene and knowing that it was run on the Unreal engine I knew that this game would be beautiful, 
 but how would it stand up? I have to say the knife combat system works perfectly. I am a fan of 
 the meelee weapons in FPS, like Day of Defeat and Counter-Strike I was a huge fan but like those 
 games it was almost impossible to really pull it off, you would have to just have the right situation 
 come up and it made it bland for me, why put a knife in a game if you're never going to want to 
 use it? It stands up really well, I haven't gotten too far into the game for much plot development, 
 but the way the AI of the soldiers works on most occasions is nice and how you can lure dinosaurs 
 to take out the soldiers makes the game so much better to play and gives it a little strategic 
 edge, I am just dying to see all the weapons they bring back from the older Turok games (from Turok 
 and Turok 2 on N64) . Overall I say this game is definately worth playing if you are a fan of FPS, 
 Turok, and you want to hunt Dinosaurs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captian501st
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  theres alot of mixed reviews about this game some bad cause its not perfect, what game is though? 
 the story mode is a little short but its alot of fun and has plenty of replay value also the way 
 youcan chose to go silently with the knife or go in guns blazen adds the the replay value .the 
 ai is just right every thing acts real from dinos eating a dead carcass to soldiers patroling in 
 the jungle and takeing cover when you shoot at them. the graphics look great offline and online, multiplayer 
 is addictive they even put ai bugs and dinos to make each game differnt from the rest. the weapons 
 in the game range from turoks signiture bow to RPGS and they all balence out nicely. the only con 
 i can think of is that co-op isnt the main story mode but missions that wisky company squads sent 
 in to take down wolf pack.
  over all i say this game lives up to expectaions and is a instant classic i recomend it to all 
 if your still not shure about it at lest rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This is only my second foray into the Turok franchise, and I have to say it's been good. The new 
 Turok has taken the old Turok's themes and transplanted them to a new and pretty setting, while 
 adding plenty of new gameplay features.
  
  The gameplay itself is really what saves this game from mediocrity. You are introduced to the controls 
 in a nice way, and you quickly get used to them, which is handy, because you'll need them to survive. 
 The enemy AI is average for human foes, but the dinos are smart, and will often attack you in groups 
 or flank you and attack from behind. Your best defense is the knife, a neat addition which enables 
 you to make close quarters combat moves. You can counter an enemy, which triggers an animation 
 where Turok kills the person/creature in a cool way, e. g. stabbing a raptor in the head and kicking 
 it away. The gunplay is fairly average, but the bow saves this area by being a fun and useful weapon. 
 Levels can be slightly confusing, but this is solved by an objective compass.
  
  The graphics are average. They're not bad, but the lighting and depth of field are wrong, thus 
 leaving you slightly dizzy while playing. The dinosaurs look fantastic, and the environments are 
 lush and well designed. Even brief forays underground and into hallways look nice, making the experience 
 enjoyable even though you've probably done it before.
  
  The sound is good in some areas and terrible in others. The effects of dinosaurs are very well 
 done, you'll often hear their calls ringing out through the jungle, which in the right moment can 
 really set you on edge. the footsteps on the other hand, are very poor. the game seems to have 
 no concept of distance, as a raptor can be 50 meters away and yet it's footsteps are so loud they 
 block out your own. The music is okay, but cannot be toggled off, which is a minus for me.
  
  Overall I enjoyed Turok, and as a shooter I would rate it fairly high. What it adds to the 
 series is very good, and aside from mionr technical issues, it's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Turok is a good game. There's a certain vague punch that a shooter should have thats hard to define 
 but you know it when it's there. Halo has it, CoD4 has it and Turok has it. 
  
  A game can have a feature list as long as your arm and still not have the satisfying bite to it 
 in the weapons, AI, interactivity with the environment or in a myriad other places.
  
  That said, Turok doesn't nail it perfectly either. The save system is frustrating. I think the 
 blood fountains on the dinos is excessive. Another drawback that just didn't have to be was the 
 language. The mild language in some shooters not withstanding, I wish I could play this game with 
 my kids, but when they're in the room I have to put the headphones on, which really doesn't help 
 the story along anyway, it's just another road block to being a really great game. Another flaw 
 is the lack of multiplayer splitscreen, system-link or co-op. I think developers these days have 
 less and less excuses for having a robust multiplayer package included. This is an area I think 
 Propaganda really cut-corners with, only doing XBox Live. In our house we love playing two-on-two 
 matches through system-link, but alas, Turok is one player only since we don't have XBL.
  
  However what Turok did really well with, and should have considering the franchise, is the bow, 
 the knife and quiet kills. Additionally the third person kills and cinematics and storytelling 
 do the game justice. These all fall in the area making Turok fun despite it's flaws.
  
  It's funny how getting something as vague as "the right feel for a shooter" can help overcome a 
 thousand blemishes, but that in a nutshell is what I think Turok does.
  
  Turok is a turn in the right direction, if with a few detours along the way. Maybe Propaganda needs 
 a GPS to stay on the straight path. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian0113
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  FPS games are my thing - I love 'em. When I found out about this release I was stoked! Slaughtering 
 dino's with a knife... count me in. Now, after repeated attempts of forgiveness, I have come to 
 the conclusion to count myself out for any more play time.
  
  First off, the controls are way too sensitive; it's nearly impossible to get a good lock on an 
 enemy. Even when reducing the sensitivity, the aiming is still high, and then, after lowering it, 
 you turn around like a turtle on prozac! 
  
  The weapons are ok, but they lack the punch needed for dropping the dinos. Also, it seems as though 
 it takes an entire clip to drop a foe... partly because you can't hit the guy. Your knife is your 
 best weapon... when the hit detection for the "RT" button works right. 
  
  The enemy AI is pretty retarded. Right after you nail an enemy to a wall with your bow, another 
 soldier will just walk right by him... no reaction. Not to mention that they never seem to focus 
 on any of your NPC comrades, they just focus on you... and kill you rather quickly for being the 
 bada$$ that your supposed to be.
  
  The game isn't that bad, it can be fun. It's just frustrating that the controls are as bad as they 
 are (Y button to duck???) , among other gripes. Check it out, rent it, find it on Craigslist... just 
 don't blow $60 on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is borderline horrible. All but the graphics and voice work seem to be lacking severly. 
 The single player mode is very difficult, and it doesnt seem to be constantly hard. The game will 
 give you part where it is unbelivably easy and then there will be times tou'll die about a thousand 
 and one times to get to the next checkpoint. Also, the checkpoint system in the game is frustrating 
 to say the least. If you happen to die, which most cetainly will (alot) , you have to start at the 
 begining of each part. It doesn't seem bad until there is only 4 or so checkpoints a stage. 
  
  Multiplayer is mediocre. Its basiclly a bland shooter with some Dino-AI that run around. Other 
 than that its pretty much the same thing lazy develpoers have been throwing on the market forever. 
 The kinfe effects are pretty awesome in both modes, and its always satisfying to kill someone in 
 a sick way. But the system is flawed, at times you will hit the RT a dozen times before the cinamatic 
 takes effect. 
  
  Overall this game is not worth buying, renting yes. Its too short and multiplayer gives no reward 
 for long term playing. Can someone please make a Turok game that is as good as the classics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn1n6t00th
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  We finally have our hands on the Next-Gen Turok. This game has an intense single campaign mode 
 and a great multi player. 
  
  Pros: From killing giant scorpions to killing T-Rex you will stay in the game till the very end.-The 
 unique weapons are fun to use.- Multi player is unique and fun.
  
  Cons: The difficulty is grueling on even the easiest of the difficulties. You will feel that you 
 are not fighting to beat the game, but to survive through it.-Multi player is extremely laggy and 
 finding a game is time consuming.-Weapons seem... weak. It should not take an entire shotgun clip 
 to kill one raptor. 
  
  A fun game that should be played by all FPS fans. The game IS worth it. Be sure you have enough 
 patience or the difficulty will frustrate you. Yes the game is hard on normal. If you manage to 
 beat it on Inhuman difficulty you are a beast. 
  
  Reviewed by~Burnintooth
  Gamertag- Blud and Ghor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticgod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  turok is not a bad game. acceptable graphics. nice voiceovers. if you played all great fps titles 
 on 360 u should go with this game. dont worry its not a bad game, the most fun part of the game 
 is knife and melee battles. but the other weapons is no that amazing. they create a nice atmospher. 
 after turok 2 its the best turok game ever made. nothing in this game is amazing but also nothing 
 is bad. it is a tottaly forggetable experience. dinos is not that great but killing them with knife 
 is fun. shooting mechanics when u face human soldiers is so good. lightning effects is so cool. 
 also u can use some smart things in the games foe example u can use dinos to kill enemy soldiers 
 or vise versa. but always remember : this is turok and its mean that u shouldnt expect a great 
 game. thats all.
  take care dudes. and waste ur time with games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lou1721
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I thought great another 60.00 piece of #*@% but as I played 
 on I started to enjoy this game more and more. The controls are very simple and so is the weaponry. 
 The knife feature is actually cool as hell. so is the stealth mode using the knife or bow. The 
 dinosaurs are very fast and hard to hit with a gun. Killing them with a knife is cool. They actually 
 make the game, because without them, the game would be very bland. I have been playing in hard 
 mode so it is challenging yet still fun. I have not beat this game yet but I intend to. That makes 
 it worth the purchase in my book. The AI charaters are desent so is the acting. If you like FPSrs 
 this game is worth playing. Despite this games shotcomings its still alot of fun and it keeps you 
 wanting to play more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougar63
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Turok has the potential to be so much more yet comes up short. Graphics are ok but the story line 
 has been played out 1 too many times. Killing man-eating dinos with a knife thru their skull is 
 just stupid and so unreal. Grabbing baby raptors and slicing their throats -- right!!!!??? The objectives 
 are not real clear and you find yourself spending more time trying to figure out which way to go 
 in this vast jungle because the direction finder and markers do not really guide you. I understand 
 that this is a jungle so no radar but at lease make the markers on which way to go easier to see 
 and find! Weapons are a joke - especially the assault rifle- myself, and 2 of my squad were firing 
 an assault rifle and chain guns at just 1 enemey and he was just taking it like he was superman!!! 
 This just really takes away from the action and also fustration because you are just going thru 
 clips of ammo to take 1 person down. 
  Graphic wise - unimpressed!! They showed have taken the graphice to the heights of Mass Effecrt 
 and COD4, but they didn't. 
  Mind you I am playing of the hard level so I know that it is going ramp up the AI somewhat but 
 there are just too many fustrting parts to make this enjoyable. Multiplayer is mediocre and grainy -- 
 connections are no nearly as smooth as many other multiplayer games out. 
  
  Suggest renting this game first before you spend the 60.00 to see if you truly like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yyin9564
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  the first thing i thought when i popped in Turok was ' Wow this is kinda like the turok on 64' 
 and being a hardcore 64 player that atleast piqued my interest. But the more i got into the campaign 
 i found that it was more like the 64 version than i liked. The environments while beautiful were 
 mind-numbing and repetitive. The enemies were at times either too dumb or too strong. The knife 
 kills were a redeeming quality, when i saw each different kill my eyes suddenly opened back up 
 and i found interest in attempting to perform a different variant of that kill. The weapons were 
 nice and most everything was dualwieldable (dual shotties *drool*) but most of it wasnt anything 
 new. And the multiplayer was the final straw, it was either too unbalanced or too laggy to actually 
 try to enjoy, or even attempt to effectively participate in. So i give it a 5... but if you've 
 never played any other Turok then check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma2007
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Now being that this is a next gen.. title and the first in it series. Turok has unbelievible graphics 
 great audio and voice acting, as well as challenging cast of animals and characters. The bosses 
 could have been more of them, but given that the bosses where fun as well as well as frustrating 
 added a much needed tension to first person shooters. story makes sense to the end in the fact 
 of what it entails in this particular title. Multiplayer is extremely fun with dinos in the mix 
 would however like to see a DLC map with the T-rex in the level... overall this game offers the 
 right amount of action, supense, and great FPS tactics that we would come to expect from next gen 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Aright well right off the bat im going to admit it isn't a great game. The visual quality is pretty 
 lame, the AI isn't great, and the game is pretty short. But if you can get passed all of that you 
 will find that turok really isn't as horrible as people say. 
  
  The game's story is about a group of marines heading to a planet to kill someone there. One there 
 way their ship gets shot down leaving the marines stranded on this unknown planet. It isnt long 
 until you find your bow/ knife which if you have played the last turok for the N64 you will remeber 
 well. But along with those you find what makes turok different from all other FPS....... the dinosaurs. 
 Yes from the first few minutes of the game to last you will constantely be fighting off raptors, 
 T-rexs, and all those other creatures that i have no clue of their names. 
  
  The gameplay is actually pretty nice, they have a good mix of stealth and just run and gun parts 
 to the game. There are parts where you can move in silently and stab/ bow your enemies, while there 
 are parts where you can just grab your shotgun and run in blasting. The health system is like most 
 FPS not adays where your health regenerates over time when not getting shot. There are many common 
 guns in the game like the sub machine guns, shotgun, pistol ect... but there are a few weapons 
 that are pretty sweet. My favorite thing is the shotgun secondary fire which shots a flare and 
 causes other dinosaurs to swarm around it. Shoot it in a crowd of enemies and watch the dinosaurs 
 do the killing for you. The story isn't great but it isn't horrible. The online multiplayer adds 
 a couple hours of fun although right now it does take forever to find a game but thats probably 
 just due to the fact that the game was just released. 
  
  All in all not a bad game has a decent multiplayer and singleplayer and is a game that gives you 
 a couple of hours of fun. Worth a rent and maybe worth a buy if you find the multiplayer really 
 worth it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxlsunitxx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This is game is awsome but sometimes it starts looking more like the game King Kong and it gets 
 real weird the graphics are the same to another con is that it didnt perfect fist person shooting 
 it get really hard to control the movement of the screen... still a good desent game though...... another 
 thing is the battle sequences you dont know where things are coming from you can here them close 
 but there not there.... but however it is the best of the turok games i love the grass effect in 
 this game makes it really realistic..... i would wait hoeever intil its price comes down it is not 
 worth 59.99 thats a rip  
 oh yes gigadi gigadi gta iv cnt wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Turok is as many people from the N64 of times is a game where you play a Guy named Turok and hunt 
 dinosaurs and Mutants and the ultamint prey Humans. Now this Turok follows Josph Turok who is a 
 EX member of a Group (maybe terriosts or we just dont like em) Called Wolf Pack. The Story Is Simple 
 kill there leader Escape with your life well youd Expect some Military to come Rescue you And no 
 Cause as soon as the game starts your main ship is shot down and lands on the Planet. Turns out 
 the Planet has Dinosaurs and Wolf Pack. WP is Lead By Kane who you only see in the begining thanks 
 to flashbacks of when Turok became the killer he is today. Now the Gameplay Is hot and is a little 
 Hard at first but you get used to it. Health is used Gears and Halo 3 style but it turns out this 
 one wasnt done to well it takes ages for it to go back to Normal and most times you dont got AGES. 
 The Graphics are the thing that probaly saves this game the most the enviremens are Designed Nicely 
 and the Grass looks sharp. The sound is great but stil theres a problem with it i cant put my Finger 
 on it. The Enemy AI and Dino ( DI) are stupid Dinosaurs constantly run into things but the Human 
 AI is pretty good. The Stealth in this game is TERIBLE i mean as soon as you kill a guy and another 
 guy sees the Corpse HE knows exactly where you are in some spots (or he just fires nuts wich is 
 funny) . Also before i go to the multiplayer aspect of this i have one more complant it needed more 
 check points i mean if it did this game would be a tad easier and not as frustrating. Multiplayer-The 
 Games Xbox Live (or PS3 Live) has Issues but stil its awesome to have Donsaurs going nuts and human 
 Players running and killing each other. Maps are pretty Nicely Designed but i have come to the conclusion 
 that some maps were made for Different Modes of play and it kinda Takes a little while to figure 
 it out. Thats my review for Turok. Suggestions- a Rent if you dont like Turok a Buy if you do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTacSuicide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  So I just bought Turok and an XBO 360 about 3 days ago and Turok and Crackdown were my first bought 
 games. I'm pretty well into Turok right now so I figured maybe I would write a review on it for 
 people that would like to buy it in the future.
  
  The Pros:
  
  The Graphics are excellent, the gameplay in my opinion is well put out and multiplayer could keep 
 you interested for quite some time. The Campaign mode itself has a pretty good story if you want 
 to take breaks from Multiplayer or just want to actually play the game through and through. I'd 
 say I'm about 1/8 of the way through it, don't actually know how long the hole game is, but I'm 
 looking to be playing it for a week or so. It doesn't take too long to figure out how to play the 
 game and the learning curve at that isn't that long at all. 
  
  The Cons:
  
  It seems as though if your not quick, you can get killed pretty easily. The AI is pretty smart 
 but at some times it seems as though they don't know where they are going. Playing the stealth 
 part of the game doesn't seem to much possible considering the enemies are usually close together 
 and start firing as soon as you are to say shoot one with a bow. There are points where you can 
 get through it if you are quick with the bow, which is your main stealth weapon, but for most of 
 the game you will be praying and spraying.
  
  All and all I would say this is an excellent game if you are into the FPS genre, and even if you're 
 not really into it, there is still the storyline which is real interesting and sort of Sci-Fi like. 
 So I gave this game an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter-Spartan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Turok:
  
  The Good: Great Multiplayer, Good Campaign, Great yet weird Storyline, Good acting, Up to date graphics 
 on most points.
  
  The Bad: the Graphics could have been a little better in the caves and on the buildings, repetitive 
 character costumes for wolf pack, Weird gore, Little Lag Issues and animation issues.
  
  I find that turok is an overall great game and deserves to be with the top yet has little issues 
 such as like I said the weird gore ex: if u shoot a rocket launcher at a dino it explodes into 
 millions of pieces and if u do the same thing to a human (wolf pack) it just falls to its side... how?!
 
  
  the animation on the knife is really nice to see yet will soon get too repititive (like GOW with 
 the chainsaw) not all weapons are balanced but I like the fact that they put the pistol and the 
 smg the less used guns more powerful for people to actually use them since theres way more other 
 cooler weapons to use.
  
  They also could of extended the people per games to atleast 14 or 16 to have a big battle because 
 in Turok theres small team game and big team games (8 small,12 big) wich theres not much of a difference 
 of people.
  
  Other than that the games great it reminds me of counterstrike and gears of war mixed together. A 
 must buy for gears of war fans and turok series fans. I recommend buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ph3ar
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  umm ya, i said everything i needed to in the review deck thingy... Play the game! Its awesome! 
 If you havent played a turok game before, rent before buying, just in case this game doesn't tickle 
 your fancy. So now i find out that i need to put in 100 words so ill just say one more thing, the 
 knife kills are fun but there are way too many people that play online that get pissed off when 
 you kill them with a gun. There have been several rounds where we just play with knifes only. Its 
 fun but I like to shoot stuff too, but when a guy starts yellin in the mic that you need to man 
 up and pull out your knife, thats when I turn off the mic, just for your info... Thats the best 
 approach that i have found. But i guess there is always that kind of problem in no matter what 
 game you play, in halo you are a grenade 'person' and in CoD4 your a nub if you use the grenade 
 launcher, just get the kills man! Dang! I think i got to 800 words but just in case i would like 
 to say that the patriots and the giants rule and stuff like that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriekinlemons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game really brings stealth out, if you only know how to use it. using the bow is a lot of 
 fun and the dagger is a little cheap when fighting the dino's because hew your just taking them 
 out one at a time. This game has a great story and also great graphics. Though one thing I seriously 
 found disappointing is that the weapons barley do any damage to other enemies (thew wont go down 
 and die) . I wish there were more weapons like in 64 version but I didn't use the weapons at all 
 mostly I used the bow and knife.
  Sorry about this but I gotta go so ttttttttttttttttt
  uuuuuuuuuu
  rrrrrrrrrrrr
  oooooooooooo
  kkkkkkkkk
  asdfjkhfjkh d; asdjkfhjdfkj sdkajf hkja; 
 sdhdjkask dfhadkfhkj asdh; s dkfha djkf askj dhfsd fksd hjhdasdhfa uih; hdeia ;asfh ;sfdhf sdf hfaduas 
 dfhua uash fuasdaf uadsfh uas df hui; shfu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirlman555
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  it has the same duck, run and shoot action as Gears but areas that are mainly bow oriented are 
 completely fun and add a stealth factor. sections with Dinos are also good for knife minigames 
 that keep you awake and on the edge of your seat. there are a few problems though like the way 
 some sections are impossible to get threw and others are the easiest thing ever. CONSISTENCY is 
 what the game needs. some areas are so amazing and fun but others are just repetitive. there are 
 also not enough dinos! this game is identuical to many good games of the past but has one thing 
 the others don't..... DINOSAURs! and parts that need dinos just don't have enough. the game looks 
 spectacular and isn't glichy like a lot of other next-gen shooters (halo3) . this game definitely 
 surpasses the (Little) hype and leaves you wanting more.......... dinosaurs that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Your Turok. One of the best of Wolf Pack, now working for Whiskey Company on the hunt for you old 
 leader Kane.
  
  Sure there is little more to the story but to be honest, not much more. Something happens and your 
 ship comes crashing down to a planet filled with Dinosaurs! Kind of sounds like another Sci Fi 
 movie that been made a few times or more called "Planet of the Dinosaurs". Plus this isn't the 
 old Native American Turok, oh no, this Turok has been pumping iron with the guys from Gears of 
 War. I really don't mind that, they got to update it so they can get as many new fans as possible 
 and with a little luck, keep the old fans happy too.
  
  I 'll get one thing out of the way, this is lots better than that Turok Evolution that was on Game 
 Cube, Xbox and PS2. That being said, you know they didn't just rush something together and call 
 it a game. Sure the story could of been better, but we are talking about a FPS, story doesn't matter 
 as long as shooting everything is fun. There are a good selection of weapons in this Turok, many 
 not as many as in past games but enough for this reboot. One attack/kill that will never get old 
 is the stealth kills with a knife. I have countless kills on Raptors, Compys ( Or what ever they 
 are) and Soldiers with the knife and you can even do this online! The bow is another great weapon, 
 if a soldier is very close to a wall or tree, you can pin him there with a arrow. Since I'm talking 
 about the soldiers, they remind me a little of the Helghast in look and speaking. Maybe it's just 
 me?
  
  The real stars of Turok are the Dinosaurs! They act so real, it's without a doubt the developers 
 watched the Jurassic Park movies for ideas on the movements. I do wish there was more verity in 
 the Dinosaurs, you mostly run into Raptors, Compys, Dilophosaurs and Tyrannosaurus. There are a 
 one or two more, but I can't think of the names right now. Even with a small amount of Dinosaurs 
 in this game, they do mix it up a bit by having random colors of dinosaurs. You might be killing 
 a brown and green Raptor, but the Raptors are the only dinosaurs to have multi colors.
  
  The Jungle Planet is beautiful, if there was no enemies, this could of been a great nature photography 
 game. Just kidding about that, but the jungles are nice and lots open space. The game is on a set 
 path so you can't go everywhere sadly, but there is always a feeling anything could come out of 
 anywhere. If your having trouble a CPU partner does a good job of helping in battle. It's not the 
 best, but better than a lot of games that stick you with a CPU partner. Turok isn't even that hard 
 to be honest nor is it that long of a game. On the hard setting I only got stuck on a few parts 
 but once those part where done, it was like playing on normal. Even if the game isn't long, there 
 are three big maps for co-op and online should clock in more hours of fun.
  
  The controls are a little different than normal FPS I've played but after a few mins, you'll be 
 playing it like any other game. The score is great, really pumps it up for those boss battles. 
 Turok also made me bite my own tongue! I used to hate when bosses would have a big health bar covering 
 up the top or lower part of the screen. The second boss of the game took forever it seemed and 
 I was almost out of ammo. I was playing on hard but I wish it would of gave me some sign I was 
 doing damage to it when it wasn't close. Yet that made the game fun and challenging.
  
  This new Turok is a good game, might not live up to everyone's expectations, but very rarely does 
 a game do that. You can't please everyone. I would of loved more kinds of dinosaurs but that sequels 
 are for! If you liked the old Turok games or FPS, think about trying Turok! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackjack002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The game story is perhaps not the strongest aspect of the game and at times it even comes off a 
 little corny as does the voice acting but the characters in the game are none the less entertaining 
 and even a bit compelling despite the technical flaws. The game play is nothing too unfamiliar 
 as far as the typical guns go but the knife is incorporated superbly well and the knifing animations 
 are visceral and always pleasing. The dinosaurs end up being the main characters of the story and 
 the variety is pleasing and each every roar and scream is well done and very cool. The dinosaurs 
 also really get your blood going at times because they will come in very close and compel you to 
 use your knife on them and it can get pretty hectic and it makes for some very cool action. The 
 graphics are about what you'd expect from a next gen system maybe even a little below par but they 
 are by no means disappointing. The weapons did seem underpowered but the whole knife/bow dynamic 
 somewhat makes up for that. It just would have been nice if the weapons had a little more "kick" 
 to them. Turok is a worthy purchase if you relish a game that tries to introduce some cool new 
 game play mechanics and tries to create an authentic atmosphere which Turok does with varying degrees 
 of success. Overall a pretty good game here at the start of 2008 and probably the best Turok game 
 to date and it stands out with its cool premise (only viable dinosaur game on the market now) , 
 fun gameplay, and action but if your just interested in a highly polished FPS go with Halo 3 or 
 COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I've played in a while. It is a standard FPS where you fight nameless bad 
 guys wearing gas masks as well as the best dinos portrayed in a game to date. The controls are 
 simple. Think Halo 2, but better. Other than the SMGs, Shotguns, and cruddy pistols, you have a 
 bow and arrow and a knife, the former you'd be using much more than you think you will. The Bow 
 is like an awesome sniper rifle. It zooms and shoots a powerful shot, but it's cooler b/c it is 
 a bow. Using the machine guns, Bow, and knife really make you feel like Rambo, that is until, you 
 fight the dinos.
  
  The dinos are incredibly well made in this game. They look how they ought to, move like they ought 
 to, and fight like they ought to. Fighting raptors with your knife is awesomeness second to none. 
 You can pull off speed kills with your knife, and it's pretty awesome. Overall, the concept is 
 simple: You are a Rambo-esque dude and you fight bad guys and dinos in a jungle. 
  
  The gameplay has no negatives to it. None. The level layout is fine, the mission structure is good, 
 you can't get lost (with a push of the L stick it brings up an arrow of where to go) , and fighting 
 is very, very fun. You are going from point A to point B, and that's how I like it. There are boss 
 battles (T-rex anyone?) and frequent check points assure you that you won't have to do too much 
 after you died. With the absence of aim assist, it really makes the game more realistic and makes 
 every kill more rewarding. 
  
  The sound is pretty good. The weapons don't sound underpowered (like other reviewers say) and the 
 jungle sounds really set the atmosphere. The voice acting is average. The music kicks in at the 
 right time, even if it isn't the best in the genre. The graphics are great. The character models 
 look okay, but the dinos and the environment looks fantastic. I haven't played the online, but 
 from what I've seen, it won't replace CoD4 or Halo 3. Dinos add an extra layer of depth to it though.
 
  
  Now for why I didn't give it a 10. I mentioned earlier that the gameplay is flawless, but the overall 
 game is lacking in some areas. There is no splitscreen whatsoever, and that really stinks. It would 
 be very fun to play, but there is only online. They could have fit it in there, but they didn't. 
 Also, the previous Turoks were known for their awesome weapons, and this game has none. Just standard 
 guns that are in almost every other FPS. The developers said they didn't put them in because they 
 wanted it to be extra realistic, but that was a mistake. These are small complaints, so don't dwell 
 on them because they don't affect the game massively. Note this is only 3 points away from a 10, 
 and is truly a great game.
  
  Turok is very underrated. Yes, some people might not like it, but I enjoyed it enough to recommend 
 it to anyone who like FPS games. And shooting raptors in between the eyes with a bow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  IF YOU LIKE TO SHOOT AT THINGS AND LOVE DINOS THIS IS YOUR GAME. LET ME BEGIN WITH THIS. RENT IT 
 FIRST. IS A GOOD GAME BUT, IN THE END YOU FEEL EMPTY. ITS NOT HALO BUT GET THE JOB DONE. THERES 
 A LOT OF DIFFERENT WEAPONS TO CHOOSE FROM. THE AMMO IS NO PROBLEM THERES IS A LOT SCARSE TROUGH 
 THE GAME, BUT THE A. I. IS DUMB, AND THE GAME IS TO LINEAR.
  
  THE GRAPHICS ARE NICE IF YOU HAVE AN XBOX 360 BEACUSE THE PS3 HAS A LOT OF PROBLEMS. I SAY IT AGIN 
 IF YOU LIKE TO SHOOT, AND KILL PREHISTORIC ANIMALS THIS IS YOUR GAME.
  
  IF YOU LIKE TO SHOOT AT THINGS AND LOVE DINOS THIS IS YOUR GAME. LET ME BEGIN WITH THIS. RENT IT 
 FIRST. IS A GOOD GAME BUT, IN THE END YOU FEEL EMPTY. ITS NOT HALO BUT GET THE JOB DONE. THERES 
 A LOT OF DIFFERENT WEAPONS TO CHOOSE FROM. THE AMMO IS NO PROBLEM THERES IS A LOT SCARSE TROUGH 
 THE GAME, BUT THE A. I. IS DUMB, AND THE GAME IS TO LINEAR.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Good ol' Turok. Now going back to N64 days Turok was a game everyone owned and played and there 
 were even the occasional few that got motion sickness from it. However, they reincarnated the series 
 on the last generation hoping that the "Evolution" added to the end of the name would fool people 
 into thinking that was the next step for the series. Sadly, it was more of the opposite of an "evolution" 
 and more of a deevolution more than anything. Now that Acclaim is dead and a new developer has 
 taken the rights for the series there is hope. And luckily, developer Propoganda Games brought 
 Turok back from the dead as if they were a witchdocter. 
  
  THE STORY in Turok is better than any other entry in the series. It actually takes place in the 
 future on a sci-fi outting. Turok and his companions are on a mission to take down the leader of 
 "Wolfpack" who pretty much went awol. Turok is an ex-member of wolfpack and is the key to taking 
 him down. Most of the story is told with flashbacks and whatnot but luckily it is all told very 
 well. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS unsurprisingly are pretty nice to look at considering this game is runnng on one of 
 the best engines in the industry... Unreal 3. Everything looks natural and looks as if this truly 
 is a world inhabitated by Dinosaurs. Blood rushes from dinosaurs mouths, and the grass all moves 
 in realtime with the wind or with movement. Now though it does have a very gorgeous locale and 
 character models do look great, it still could have looked better. I mean, this game is running 
 off the same engine as Gears and Bioshock, yet it doesn't stand up next to them graphically. And 
 all the characters look really shiny. But don't get me wrong, Turok is a fine looking game.
  
  THE SOUND is awesome. Voice acting is very well done, the music scores kick in at the right 
 time and the dinosaurs all sound authentic. All the guns sound accurate and the SMG with a silencer 
 on it actually sounds dead on. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is brutal, hectic, and fun. You have an arsenal of weapons at your disposal such as 
 the SMGS, to the shotguns, to the back to the day bow and arrow, and the best of all; the knife. 
 The game blends the stealth genre with FPS very well and really makes you feel on the edge of your 
 seat at times, take for example when you first encounter the T-Rex and he chases you throughout 
 the valley. All the dinosaurs move with lifelike movements and almost makes you think how Propganda 
 got their movements down so realisticly. The actual fighting in the game never gets old, especially 
 when you are taking down your enemies with your trusty knife. Raptors will pounce on you and you 
 will be subjected to a sequence where you must press the RT repeatedly and start stabbing the raptor 
 in the face like crazy to get him off. And if you run up to someone with your knife and press RT 
 at the right time Turok will perform a sweet sequence. Or you can even use the dinosaurs as a weapon 
 and flare a human enemy and the dinosaur will attack him rather than you. Though it is fun and 
 brutal than ever (the original ain't got nothing on this version) the A. I. sometimes seems to just 
 play stupid once in awile. And it does get downright frustrating at times. But then again, whats 
 a game without challenge, right? It may not be the best FPS created, but its definately better 
 than mere mediocracy.
  
  THE LIFESPAN is actually a fairly long life. It supports roughly an 8 hour campaign, supported 
 with a well done multiplayer. Its not COD4, but it definately adds a nice twist on the genre. While 
 most of the roots remain fairly basic (capture the flag, deathmatch) it adds in the addition of 
 dinosaurs roaming freely in the maps. So while you may be getting shot at, you can flare the guy 
 attacking you and the raptor will lend his aid. Or get in your way. Its a nice little twist that 
 makes it feel kinda unique. Also add in the addition of no radar and the feeling of being hunted 
 has never been such as this. 
  
  In the end, Turok is back and better than he's ever been. Turok got a much needed overhaul and 
 I am real glad to see this series back. Much props to Touchstone and Propoganda for this resurrection, 
 and hunting your enemies has never been better. Join the hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Turok is a science fiction first person shooter game ( even my grandma knows it goddamit )
  . you play as joseph turok and he is member of a veteran team called "wolf pack ". This team is 
 doing a mission for whiskey co. and is after roland kane who has created a mobile planet (full 
 of jungles) . but in the way of capturing him ,the team would not only encounter with kane ,s soldiers 
 but also some dinosaurs and for accomplishing its missions the team must fight against both.
  And at last they need to get out of the planet . also there are some flashbacks from last games 
 and quite friendly they are all nonsense ,the story has nothing special to say (it is not supposed 
 to be either) and it is only an excuse to play the game . most of the game takes place in a weird 
 jungle full of dinos and brave kane ,s soldiers !!! 
  As for a FPS-shooter the most important thing is your weapon . turok weapons are futuristic models 
 of SMG , Shotgun , RPG ,. And they all have exactly the same power as their contemporary brothers 
 . the game play is quite typical . you can carry 4 weapons a time with grenades .also you can use 
 any combination of your weapons as dual mode ; for example you can carry a shotgun alongside with 
 a SMG . you are also equipped with 2 silent killer : bow and knife . in this game you will be forced 
 to be offensive instead of defensive and you will be rewarded with lots of ammunition .
  I found the stealth killers ( bow and knife) more enjoyable than the game typical weapons .as for 
 bow it is a powerful killer if you hold the trigger enough ,in other word the more you hold the 
 trigger down the more damage you cause and your bow is weapon of choice till end of the game because 
 you can stay hidden in somewhere and doom all the guards in vicinity . the knife story is quite 
 different . you will be forced to approach your enemy and press the (RT) then your enemy is as 
 good as dead. As I told you before this game is like a triangle : turok VS dinos VS enemy soldiers 
 , this means you can lure the dinos toward an enemy and then . !? .for that you have equipped 
 with a flare launcher which attract dinos and you can abuse this attractive stuff . the game is 
 quite liner and you can predict what is going to happen next but this does not mean the game is 
 easy . the game is challenging for many reasons : the guards are all covered in heavy metal shields 
 and helmets - the dinos are really tough and die hard - lots of bug had made the game even harder 
 . the most reasonable way to assassinate your enemies 
  is either head shot or utilizing silent killers . the best way to conquer a dino is one hit kill 
 knife . but even if you are a skillful gamer you will find your self repeating some checkpoints 
 again and again due to game bugs and glitches . there are some frustrating moments in the game 
 that you must do an specific stuff to evade bugs and you will understand it after many replay . 
 turok is a nearly long first person shooter and your game play time can fluctuate from 12 to 15 
 hours. the developers start working on this game three years ago but I wonder why still there is 
 many bugs in the game . the graphics are not bad but it is not what we expected before game ,s 
 release .environment is good and the grasses are really interactive though they are a little unrealistic 
 and artificial . textures are not so appropriate but they are not too bad either. Unreal Engine 
 is in core but unfortunately it does not look as good as games like Gears of war or UT3 . lighting 
 is okay but in some cases it looks a bit too artificial though it does not looks bad . In one sentence 
 the graphics are good but not complete and you can find many games with better graphics .
  with no doubt the sounds and music are the best part of the game . I was not in a jungle full of 
 dinosaurs before but I am sure that it would sounds like this . background music is heavy metal 
 and it is enough to turn player into a brave ruthless soldier who does not fear a T-REX . voice 
 over is well, I did not track the credit but voice of turok himself is realy like Tom Jane . last 
 but not least turok is good but not complete in all aspects .
  IF
  you are a FPS-shooter fan and you have already finished games such as HALO3 , COD4 , Bio shock 
 , orange box
  THEN
  this game is quite suitable for you and definitely satisfying . 
  ELSE
  First try better FPS-shooters that are available then come back for turok.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rummycy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Of all the Turok games that came out over the past ten years, the next gen installment of Turok 
 has to be one of the best. To some degree this title has gone back to basics, no longer are the 
 Dinosuars simply there for show and the ocasional nusence, they acually have a degree of substance 
 to them. The human element the player faces is a bright spot, with AI that works to elimante you 
 in a somewhat tatcical way. 
  One of the most refreshing and I have to say, the best feature of the game are the dionsuars. They 
 without a doubt make the game. I couldn't help giggle like a little school girl when I watched 
 a flare I fired into a camp of bad guys attract a pack of raptors that attacked and produced a 
 secene right out of Jurassic Park. Each species of dinosuar acts accordingly, raptors hunt in groups 
 and a ferocious, while the good natured plant eaters are shy and will only cause damage if you 
 spook them. Of course with any game featuring man eating dinosuars, the big mama of them all, the 
 T-rex makes a few appearances as well as a few intense fire fights.
  The story progresses well from the time you start the game. You start in a spaceship which is headed 
 for a planet where your former mentor Kane his hold up and its your job to bring him to justice. 
 Right from the get go the other soliders don't trust you, and you must fight along side them to 
 gain thier trust. As the story Hashes out you learn more about your past with Kane through a series 
 of flashbacks that also gives you insight as to how Turok got to this point. All of this comes 
 to a climax with a burtal fight at the end which had me on the edge of my seat.
  One of the better elements of the game is the firepower you pack. While thiere are no flashy energy 
 weapons, the mix of post-modern weapons are well balanced. Each weapon have two modes of fire gives 
 the player a few choices when it comes how to bring death to your enimes. One weapon that stands 
 out in the game is the shotgun, not so much for its power, but its ever useful flare gun which 
 can make any dino stare in awe at its shinny goodness. One of the spots that had me again giggling 
 like a school girl was hitting a raptor with a flare and watching his buddies tear him appart to 
 get at it. 
  The musical score and over all sound effects are superb, the background noise in the jungle gives 
 you a feeling that danger could come from any corner at any moment. The voice overs have to be 
 one of the highlights of the game, with voice Talents as Hellboy's Ron Perlman and Hitman's Timothy 
 Oliphant, the dialouge is hashed out very well. 
  The only real down side this game has, is the multiplayer. What were suppsoed to be Dino infested 
 maps are not so infested. The weapons are all from the single player, but it doesn't matter since 
 all anyone needs to gain a one hit kill is the bow, which for multiplayer is grossly overpowered. 
 Thats even if you manage to get a weapon as most matches end up being large knife fights that really 
 come down to who can hit the trigger button at the exact moment the attack Icon appears. 
  All in all this game was entertaining, but nothing groundbreaking and was short, less then ten 
 hours and I was finished with thegame. However I had a blast playing through it once, but I have 
 no real urge to play it again. This game could have been superb if the multiplayer was just a bit 
 better. I'd say this one is worth a playthrough at least once, but not worth the sixty dollar price 
 tag. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljubs6
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Turok is a cool idea. Fighting dinosaurs and mercenaries in the jungle in first person. Stabbing 
 them in the head, shooting arrows.... that's about the extent of it however. The game's design 
 is flawed. The weapons sound about as powerful as they actually are (killing dino's or mercs takes 
 about 3-4 shots with the shotgun at close range) . Most of the weapons seem extremely underpowered. 
 There is mysteriously no blood when you stab a mercenary, but blood galore when you slit open a 
 dino, it makes no sense. When you do stab or shoot a dinosaur though, there aren't any dynamic 
 blood textures ( A COMMONPLACE IN FPS GAMES) the textures simply pop in all over the dino in the 
 same place every time, no matter where you shot it, it has blood all over it. The dinosaur's animations 
 are okay to a point, but they tend to jerk around alot and slide around during their walk cycle. 
 The environments are rendered fairly well, however you can see the seams of some of the textures 
 and it takes you out of the experience fairly quickly. Their is also a "light halo" on most of 
 the characters, it's hard to describe but if you've even played the demo you know it's probably 
 the most annoying thing ever. By far the worst thing about the whole game is that there's no run 
 button. HOW CAN YOU NOT HAVE A RUN BUTTON!? IT'S 2008! And it's not like halo where you don't really 
 need one, the game is practically begging for it. When i'm being attacked by dinosaurs, i usually 
 speed-walk in the opposite direction. I don't run, i just assume that this much larger, much faster 
 creature won't be able to match my super speed. Give me a break. This game could've got an 8.0 
 if it had a damn run button. The story is mediocre as is the acting, and there are very very few 
 "wow" moments.
  
  This is just another generic shooter trying to cash in on an old name. I think we'll be seeing 
 a lot of this as gaming becomes more and more commercial and less original. Just like hollywood, 
 you're going to be seeing a lot of sequels and prequels and "remakes". The thing is, most of us 
 fans liked the original because that's what it was: ORIGINAL. Not some copy of a copy of a copy 
 of another copy of a video game with the old name slapped on the box. Remakes are almost never 
 as good as the original, they're often disconnected, horrible, blasphemies of what was once a great 
 original franchise.
  
  
  The bottom line is that if you liked the original turok games, you might like this one, if you 
 can ignore it's glaring faults. It's definitely NOT a buy. It seems like the team working on the 
 game was a little too ambitious and didn't focus on the details or the story. It feels like the 
 game is still in the late testing phases, not ready for you to go out and buy. They must've shoved 
 this one out of the door before it was ready, and if not then they obviously thought no one would 
 notice the obviously huge flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amixedgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Turok is a good game, the graphics are definentally 2008 worthy. there are some glitches here and 
 there, but they dont rob the fun out of the game. the voice acting is good, but not the best. such 
 as, their mouths move like a half a second behind the actual dialogue. its noticeable, but not 
 very irratating. the sound is pretty good. the guns sounds are pretty good, the dialogue is nice 
 too, the dinosaur sounds are quite good too. the gameplay is one of the best things about this 
 game. the AI is really nice, like the dinosaures dont just run-up-and-rip-to-shreds, they actually 
 form into groups (if there is more than one of them) and they will hurt you badly that way (but 
 a quick knife to throat will take care of them easily) . the soldiers are smart too, they will flank, 
 run away when appropriate, and bonzai rush when they you are reloading or hurt badly. you just 
 have to play the game yourself to expirience the rest, because there is so much and i dont want 
 to type all of it. the story is the other very very good thing about this game. it is almost like 
 an action movie quality story line. the story is kinda like Die Hard. the good guy starts out, 
 everything goes wrong, he goes through impossible circumstances, completes his mission, and has 
 a classic action movie ending. Turok is one of those games that you could rent and beat in 2 days, 
 or buy and beat it in 2 days, get all of the achievments, and let it gather dust untill you get 
 bored waiting for another game to come out. altogether, Turok is a good, but SHORT game that will 
 remind you of an action movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethMcCoy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  The fact that this is an Unreal mod (or at least was created on the Unreal engine) is very noticeable. 
 The weapons do very little damage even in the beginning of the game. Dialogue is monotonous here, 
 unless you consider "I thought these things were supposed to be I thought these things were supposed 
 to be extinct" to be acceptable. You don't have any distinct features, aside from crouching and 
 of course shooting (next gen rocks) . The graphics aren't that great, people glow and shine even 
 while in the caves. The ONLY thing worth a damn in this game is the instant knife kill. Other than 
 that, this game is pretty horrible. Oh, and you're somewhat invincible. I was able to run around 
 in the open with nothing but a knife out and kill soldier after soldier as they were shooting me.
 
  
  Only buy this when it's on the $20 rack at Wal-Mart (which won't be long) , unless you're a fan 
 of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  So it's a great game with a great multiplayer. Once you get online you get used to all weapons 
 you're going to like it it a lot! Best part about the game is a knife. You get to knife anyone 
 you want. For example dinosaur, human or any other creature. Another different and good thing about 
 the game is a torque bow. It's fun and different from gears of war. You get two types of arrows. 
 Regular ones and the ones that blow up. Anyway back to weapons game also includes smg, shotgun, 
 sniper, rocket luncher, turret and grenades. By the way you can put turret down on a ground and 
 it will kill your enemies. When you play in a multiplayer match it's not only your opponents you 
 also have to look out for dinasours and other creatures.
  
  
  Single player is fun and you get to discover lots of different and interesting stuff about the 
 game. Also by using a knife in single player or multiplayer you can assassinate anyone you want. 
 And you can carry four weapons at a time. You can also carry two weapons in both hands.
  
  
  Graphics aren't so bad they're okay. I would say 8/10. But overall it's a fun FPS with a different 
 type of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpatterArtist
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the earlier Turok games on N64, and this game seriously disappointed me. Now it'd 
 be wrong to just a judge a game relative to other games in the series and not but its own merits, 
 so I won't do that. Completely ignoring it's relation to the other Turok games, this one is just 
 bad.
  
  I don't even know where to begin, really... The character is a stereotypical "space-marine" kind 
 of guy, as is almost everyone else in this game. He's buff, he's intimidating, he rarely speaks 
 but does so with a gruff voice, and he even has a neat little scar on his cheek.
  
  The gameplay gets repetitive fast. Between the bland environments, weapons, and enemies, you're 
 going to be wondering why you're even playing this game in an hour tops.
  
  The environments are all the same... all of them. You have jungle, and you have indoor base, sometimes 
 even a cave. There's no variation, all these places seem the same and add nothing at all to the 
 atmosphere.
  
  The weapons? You have the typical MP, pistol, assault rifle (pulse rifle, in this case) , shotgun, 
 and a strange little gun that fires mines and lets you completely obliterate your enemies with 
 no effort (I know there's more but those are all that I've encountered so far) . They're all for 
 the most part unimaginative stock weapons that could be found almost anywhere in gaming history.
 
  
  This game uses the whole "two weapons" only thing, which way too many games are doing nowadays. 
 Apart from your bow and knife you can carry two guns of any type, being able to duel-wield almost 
 any of them. Duel shotguns? Completely doable.
  
  The knife has a "quick kill" feature that allows you to execute your opponents with a single pull 
 of the trigger, but the animations get old fast. There's only one for more enemies, but some may 
 have two or three.
  
  Now for the enemies... you have dinosaurs, alright. Not much I can say about them. They're dinosaurs. 
 You can cut up, perforate, and dismember these all you want.
  
  Now the human enemies are another story. They're all uniformed, act the same, and seem more like 
 cyborgs than men. When fighting human enemies there's no blood whatsoever. This seems a bit odd 
 for the super-violent series that is Turok. When you shoot an enemy soldier, sparks fly. When you 
 stab an enemy soldier, sparks fly. Pretty much anything you do to them will make some sparks fly. 
 When they do die, they hit the ground like flimsy ragdolls. By looking at the corpses you wouldn't 
 think they would have any joints at all. You can't dismember them, you can't bloody them all, you 
 can only make them flop over in funny positions. Yay.
  
  It all gets boring after an hour or two... like mind-numbingly boring. There are so many other issues 
 with this game, but I don't feel like going into them. It's like this game was made wrong on purpose, 
 I don't know.
  
  I thought this was going to be a great game, shame on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strenuus05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  A quintessential shooter except instead of elite military operatives or aliens, its dinosaurs (and 
 elite military operatives, but the dinosaurs are cooler, and If you really wanted to get technical 
 you could call them alien dinosaurs because they're from another planet.) Some points in this game 
 can become frustrating, I found the stabbing mechanic left a little more to be desired although 
 the stabbing animations were kick ass. I also had some problems changing weapons with the D-pad 
 but that might just be because i have large thumbs. It has all of your typical multi-player game 
 formats, but what i really loved about the multi-player is that they included the dinosaurs NPCs 
 that inhabit the environment. The weaponry is kind of mundane; the usual weapons that you see in 
 most shooter, except for the bow which I enjoyed a lot. The stealth in the game seems to fit in 
 well, its not overbearing. Your able to pick and choose when your feel it's best to be sneaky. 
 One thing I will say is that this game was lacking a serious amount of breasts. All in all i feel 
 it's a good buy, but nothing to really celebrate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycobunykiller
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  gameplay could be a bit frustrating at times but overall it is a reliable game to hand out decent 
 and fun entertainment. Graphics are up to par with most of the other games out right now and the 
 blood graphics in particular are very "Gears of War" like. Implementing the knife and the bow in 
 the way that they did created a super fun environment to pick people/dinos off during a level. 
 The difficulty was not that hard but boss battles in my opinion were a little unnecessary. Was 
 it just me or were raptors and little dumber in this game than they always were in jurassic park? 
 Actually... same with all the dinos. Knocking down is a little unrealistic for a raptor but i guess 
 this is the only way they could implement dinos without making it retard difficult. Multiplayer 
 takes a little bit of getting used to after playing COD4 and HALO3 but it is decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game. This years 1st and probably one of the best games has just came out 
 and is a must buy for any turok or first person shooter lover. This game is kind of like a call 
 of duty 4 shooter and a metroid prime story line. Its starts off as a ship crash directly to a 
 good dramatic story. Alot of OMG! moments from opening doors and a dinosaur just jumps on you to 
 a teamate just walking out there and geting sniped or a t rex comes out of the woods and eats him. 
 Dinosaurs are highly detailed and graphics are amazing. Multiplayer is the best from TDM to DM 
 and my favorite COOP. The coop boards are specially designed for online play with the ability to 
 speak to people and plan flanks. A word to the wise is to by this game before Army of two, Left 
 4 dead, Unreal tournament 3, Rainbow six vegas 2 or Frontlines fuel of war comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game i've been waiting for awhile for. A problem was it was pretty difficult compared 
 to other games like call of duty. It has a good but challenging storyline. And the multiplayer 
 is fun. The only problem is always having to dodge the cheap knife kills wich are one shot even 
 though the knife is my favorite weapon. The game also gets a little repititive. The graphics are 
 great. And not only you kill enemeys on multiplayer you fight CPU dinosaurs!!!!!!!!!!!!! A problem 
 is they need more maps and more weapons. Hopefully they release DLC that will have new weapons 
 and maps in the future....... til then, its a good game.
  
  
  
  All in all, the game is good
  
  Pro's 
  -good graphics
  -good story
  -fun gameplay
 
  -Dinosaur CPU's in live!
  Con's
  -gets a little repititive
  -not many maps
  -not many weapons
  -cheap instant kills with knifes
  
  
  In total...
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than halo 3. It has much more better and competitive multiplayer that will 
 keep you going for a long long time. the singleplayer is very hard at times but other than that 
 its a fly by that you can beat in about 10-20 hours or more. it also has a online co-op 4 player 
 multiplayer that is completely different from the real campaign but is still lots and kots of fun. Basicly 
 the only 2 complaints I have is that the water physics are completely outdated i mean come ON!! When 
 walk throughn the water it should make waves in the wtaer but it does nothing. The other complaint 
 that i have is when your fighting a boss like the t-rex one. They should of made it more simple. 
 For instance. When you thow 2 grenades at it it should atleast get tons of skin blowed off. it 
 doesnt make since. other than that it is a must have if you like jungles, 1st person shooters, killing 
 dinosouars, and hunting. its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  More than a year ago, Turok was announced for next-gen consoles and there's been loads of hype 
 ever since, but it turns out that Turok doesn't quite live up to it. You are Joseph Turok, part 
 of a special forces team that crash lands on a mysterious planet inhabited by dinosaurs and other 
 creatures. Your mission is to find and aprehend a war criminal named Roland Kane, but it turns 
 out to be much more complicated than you'd think. Throughout the game you'll encounter a lot of 
 Kane's soldiers and also dinosaurs (including a T-Rex) and giant insects. An awesome gameplay mechanic 
 that has been added to the game allows you to initiate gruesome finishing moves with your knife, 
 and also fend off close-quarters dinosaur attacks by pressing buttons rapidly. Turok's multiplayer 
 is surprisingly good, featuring free-for-all, team deathmatch and co-op playlists, and it's much 
 more smooth, solid, and overall well-rounded than many other games like TimeShift. The problem 
 with the game is that sometimes you will experience design faults such as textureless environments 
 and it doesn't exactly provide the experience you'd expect.
  
  Overall, there's much room for improvement with the game, but any shooter fan (or fan of previous 
 Turok games) will find Turok a solid, playable dinosaur-slaughtering adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xHxKxDx
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been awaiting the new Turok game since I found out about it in mid-2006. I pre-ordered it 
 mainly for the shirt since I didn't know it came with a demo until I picked up the package. Upon 
 playing the demo, I was left with mixed feelings, mainly feelings of disappointment.
  
  I was hesitant to purchase the game upon it's release, but I ended up doing so anyway. A couple 
 hours later, I was really pissed off that I wasted $60 on this game. Within the first couple of 
 minutes during the opening cinematic scenes, I noticed many rough edges around characters. Nevertheless, 
 I tried to stay positive - After all, it IS Turok...
  
  Once I began playing, my hopes were lifted once again as I began trying to find my way out of the 
 plane. Unfortunately, I had no idea I would become quite bored with the gameplay less than 20 minutes 
 later. I highly suggest renting the game first, no need to waste $60 on something you'll end up 
 regretting.
  
  Pros - Some decent graphics, dinosaur noises sound cool, guns make for somewhat exciting gameplay, 
 IT'S TUROK! but hardly..
  
  Cons - Killing scenes are mostly the same and it gets quite repetitive, gameplay gets boring after 
 only a little while, no split-screen multiplayer!!! (only XBOX Live) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lotus69
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Great Dinosaurs and a solid shooter, Turok delivers but doesn't reinvent the wheel.
  
  Good pacing and solid level design combined with roaming dinos helps keep the tension up. Had a 
 few issues with the boss type battles and not enough feedback but that was remedied with some online 
 help (thanks forums)
  
  Voice acting is good and it handles a weak script (at times) decently. Slade is a real character 
 (Ron Pearlman aka Hell Boy) and provides a good foil for Turok.
  
  If you stick with the game you'll come to appreciate the difficulty curve with the aiming mechanic.
 
  
  Some of the interior levels could have had more detail and/or color but once you get back outside 
 the lush jungle opens up before you.
  
  Cool ending I'm looking forward to 2!
  
  (BTW Best Buy is offering this with Devil May Cry 4 for 90$) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegeto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  well Turok is finaly here on the 360 although this game had perfected trallier and looked cooled 
 the gameplay is well.... kinda suck i mean Turok isnt going to be the best shooter game like bioshock 
 or Halo 3 but it wont be the worse first shooter game like dead aim and other shooter games. Achiments 
 are also not that great almost 98% of the achivment are online. so they fail to balances out there. 
 but the up side is that killing dinonsaurs and the Ai soilders are insane in this game i am playing 
 on normal. and the Enviroment is the best. So the storyline is that your playing as Turok and had 
 gone on being a soilders to take this guy down name kane. as you progress the game you will find 
 out that your past and remeber your training. this game was great and wasnt. but the music was 
 great you can feel the tension in the air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symbiote_Spidey
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, great gameplay, great firepower.. Dual weilding and knifing is the best part about 
 it. Turok should be up there, can't wait for the multiplayer. The fact that Turok can speedwalk 
 while weilding 2 SHOTGUNS, or spool a CHAINGUN is pretty hardcore. Dinos are a nice touch, cause 
 it feels like having a third party enemy. You can lure dinos to the bad guys or simply knife just 
 about everything that walks. Like all good shooters, Turok packs a pretty deadly snipers and RPG's. 
 Ive heard many complaints about aiming and not being able to run. There is an aim sensitivity feature 
 in the game options menu, and Turok is practically jogging all the time. When crouching u can stealth 
 kill with either the bow or the sniper. Graphics texture on the dinos are amazing, while fighting 
 them is a whole different experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Turok has a great campaign you do everything you would expect from slaying a T-rex to fighting 
 against incredible odds of soldiers with very furious strong AI dinos. Played on HARD the soldiers 
 take many shots to die which is frustrating and at some points you'll have to scavenge ammo. Knifing 
 is great but when spotted or fighting dino you can't lock on to do third person stab which becomes 
 useless in the game later on. Dinos evolve later on in the game from dumb raptors to baby t-rex's 
 that climb trees and jump on you at all times so don't expect to snipe. Not many weapons which 
 is disappointing for a futuristic game. Weapons are the SMG, Minigun, Shotgun, Plasma Rifle, Sniper, Pistol, RPG (like 
 rocket launcher may cause your own death) and the flamethrower. Button smashing is a definite in 
 defending from sneak attacks. Team AI are mostly useless and fall in battle quite a lot. They may 
 save you a few times, but do not get back up for long periods of time. Graphics are good and story 
 is quite excellent, once you think your almost done another problem occurs. Campaign takes about 
 5-8 hours maybe more or less depending difficulty. ONLINE is not worth it. It's all BEEN DONE BEFORE! 
 Weapons are scattered around and only few game types also knifing online becomes a headache because 
 you can't lock on and so you say SCREW THE KNIFE! Co-op I looked further to but found out it's 
 not even stroy related its just 4 players trying to take out all the enemies with a certain amount 
 of life. OVERALL TUROK is a game that should only be priced at $40.00 instead of $60.00. I SUGGEST 
 RENTING TUROK!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is vastly underrated. The battle action is intense. The physics are excellent and the 
 dino's add a real frightening dimension to the game. The advanced AI is really quite good giving 
 the impression that the enemy forces are intelligent and able to think and move in unexpected ways. 
 The entire Sci-Fi FPS sub genre is very thin. You have the twin towers of gaming excellence which 
 would be Halo and Gears of War. That is a tough standard to match. The thing that really sticks 
 out in Turok is the Epic setting of the game. Imagine standing on a high plateau with a wide sweeping 
 vista overlooking the dense jungle with an incredible array dino's roaming freely below you and 
 very ominous and realistic teradachtyls swooping and flying above you. The setting and environment 
 of this game easily rivals Halo. Finally the fright you will get when you spot your first Tryanosaurus 
 Rex is palpable. My advice... don't let him see you if at all possible. I think the story line is 
 good and many surprises await you around almost every corner on this god forsaken planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  The Good: Dino hunting is fun, solid graphics, solid single-player, co-op and online modes, very 
 bloody and violent, sticky mine pistol is fun...
  
  The Bad: Visuals could have been improved, uninspired voice acting, some lag issues in online, 
 very hard.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ah Turok. It's a series that had it's hayday back on the N64. After a pittiful Xbox,, PS2 and GameCube 
 outing, Turok is back in full force thanks to new publisher Touchstone aka Disney and developer 
 Propaganda Games. 
  
  You play as Joseph Turok, a marine whos ship crash lands on a hostile planet filled with enemy 
 soldiers and dinosaurs. Sound interesting? Well, it is a lot more interesting than you'd think. 
 Obviously, the big draw with Turok is fighting dinosaurs, and that is what makes this game unique, 
 but how much the game depends on dinos is interesting, and well deserved. Dinos come into play 
 on almost every level of the game. In the single player and co-op modes, you can leave dinos to 
 take out enemy soldiers for you, or you can kill them yourself and saver the bloody finishing moves 
 as you cut one's throut. 
  
  Single player is all about killing lots of enemies and being somewhat stealthy. This is accomplished 
 using scilencers and your combat knife, which is the single most used weapon in the game. With 
 the knife drawn, you can sneak behind an enemy, press the right trigger when the icon appears and 
 watch as you preform a brutal finishing move on your foe. This works in all modes, including online 
 multiplayer. Most of the guns in the game are dual wieldable, including shotguns. These guns are 
 fun and easy to use, but other trickier weapons such as the Combat Bow offer many benefits to skilled 
 snipers.
  
  Speaking of online multiplayer, Turok boasts a very good sampling of online modes all of which 
 are dino infested, so you don't just have other players to worry about. From what I played, the 
 online modes are pretty lag free once you get in game, but getting into a ranked match can take 
 a while, which is something I hope will be fixed now that the game has officially launched worldwide. 
 Each mode allows you to play around with all of the cool weapons of Turok, including the powerful 
 sticky mine gun and, of course, the combat knife. Knife fights online sound like a lot of fun, 
 and for the most part they are, but sometimes it's simply a matter of who can press the trigger 
 first, and even if you do, somebody may be right behind you to knife you once you finish your kill. 
 This can get kinda annoying, but after practising a few times online, it's not so bad. You also 
 can use dinos to your advantage online. Let a dino attack an enemy, then knife him in the back 
 while he is occupied. Ah, sweet revenge.
  
  The co-op mode is another solid addition, but it has several issues that I hope will be finished 
 in the near future. First, the co-op matches are not story related. They are basically like terrorist 
 hunt in the Rainbow Six series, but you have objectives to complete instead. The a. i. for co-op 
 is really hard, so you basically have to play with at least 3 players, if not all for, in order 
 to actually complete a mission. You are only given one life for each player you have on your team, 
 but these lives are shared, so if one guy dies twice, your other players are out of luck. This 
 is irritating, but it does add a bit more stratagy to the game as far as who you play with and 
 what you do. The other irritating part is that there are currently only three missions, which makes 
 the random map selection of online player matches kinda lame. When I played, we got the same map 
 at least 6 times in a row. Hopefully, new co-op missions will come out as DLC, but for now, the 
 co-op mode is fun, but needs a bit of work.
  
  The visuals of Turok are pretty solid, but it's not exactly the prettiest form of the Unreal Engine 
 3. The voice acting is pretty lame, but the sound effects and music are well done. 
  
  Overall, Turok is unique enough of a shooter to be worth getting for shooter fans. It definately 
 brings the series back in the right direction and with a few fixes via patches and DLC, this could 
 become one heck of a game.
  
  Gameplay: Kill loads of dinosaurs and enemy soldiers with fun to use weapons and brutal finishers.
 
  
  Graphics: Solid for the most part, but some minor touch ups would have been nice.
  
  Sound: Decent voice acting, but solid music and sound effects.
  
  Value: For the enjoyable 
 single player, plus a deep and extremely enjoyable multiplayer, it's worth the price of admission.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Dinos eat meat. You are meat. Run away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GadsDad
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Turok is a good game. There's a certain vague punch that a shooter should have thats hard to define 
 but you know it when it's there. Halo has it, CoD4 has it and Turok has it. 
  
  A game can have a feature list as long as your arm and still not have the satisfying bite to it 
 in the weapons, AI, interactivity with the environment or in a myriad other places.
  
  That said, Turok doesn't nail it perfectly either. The save system is frustrating. I think the 
 blood fountains on the dinos is excessive. Another drawback that just didn't have to be was the 
 language. The mild language in some shooters not withstanding, I wish I could play this game with 
 my kids, but when they're in the room I have to put the headphones on, which really doesn't help 
 the story along anyway, it's just another road block to being a really great game. Another flaw 
 is the lack of multiplayer splitscreen, system-link or co-op. I think developers these days have 
 less and less excuses for having a robust multiplayer package included. This is an area I think 
 Propaganda really cut-corners with, only doing XBox Live. In our house we love playing two-on-two 
 matches through system-link, but alas, Turok is one player only since we don't have XBL.
  
  However what Turok did really well with, and should have considering the franchise, is the bow, 
 the knife and quiet kills. Additionally the third person kills and cinematics and storytelling 
 do the game justice. These all fall in the area making Turok fun despite it's flaws.
  
  It's funny how getting something as vague as "the right feel for a shooter" can help overcome a 
 thousand blemishes, but that in a nutshell is what I think Turok does.
  
  Turok is a turn in the right direction, if with a few detours along the way. Maybe Propaganda needs 
 a GPS to stay on the straight path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilipepper87
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Goods- Great weapons, fast paced awesome campaign, great addictive multi player. Very good voice 
 acting.
  
  Bads- Some graphical issues in cave area. Could have been more wepons.
  
  Turok is a game that not only fans of the series have been waiting for, but that all FPS fans have 
 been waiting for. It's story really draws you, making you want to see what happens next. The graphics 
 are great and the gameplay is spectacular. The dinosaurs look the best an are detailed very well. 
 The game runs well and opens you up to some beautiful scenery. At some points your enjoying the 
 jungle and at others your running from huge dinos. The only problems with this game are that it 
 would have been better if it had more weapons and a few minor graphical issues.
  
  Overall, Turok is a great game that will provide you with hours of exhilaratingly good game play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dn3datomiced
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  ( (EDITORIAL NOTE: I rated the game 7.5, but I went back and played more multiplayer, and I decided 
 I STILL haven't given the game a fair shake, so I'm bumping the rating up to 8.5.) )
  
  Anyone who has seen me in the forums or read my blog has seen just how fired up and angry I have 
 been at Turok. At the end of day one, I was fuming and frothing at the mouth, about ready to return 
 the game for a full refund. After finishing the game, I've decided it's a standing love-hate relationship.
 
  
  Most of the love comes from the single player campaign. It's generally well done with the unfortunate 
 distinction of having some serious gaffes that mar the experience considerably. Focusing on what's 
 good about the game for a moment, before I start railing on it, the game's character is one of 
 its biggest strengths.
  
  You are Joseph Turok, a Native American convict-turned-black-ops commando who left his company 
 when they started committing acts he deemed inexcusable. You are a special guest of a PMC headed 
 to a new planet rumored to be the location of WolfPack, Turok's former company, as you have experience 
 with the PMC's target, and your former mentor, Roland Kane. You also have the PMC company, which 
 is comprised of a number of individuals with their own separate likeness and voice actor. They're 
 a large collection of meathead stereotypes, but because of their character models, the voice actors 
 portraying them, and the well-above average facial expressions and lip-syncing, they're all worth 
 caring about enough to push along.
  
  The dinosaurs in the game have a sort of personality themselves, whether it be the curious-yet-mostly-indifferent 
 compies, to the standard raptor, which is the most common dino you'll find, as you could probably 
 guess, to the deadly large-yet-quick dilophosaur, which will often kill you outright, and you'll 
 get to know which is which by their behavior, their size, and most importantly, their sounds. The 
 dinosaur AI in the game is pretty impressive, considering. Each dinosaur reacts a different way 
 to thing like being rushed, being shot, etc, and many times, you will be legitimately flanked by 
 raptors, which is why that sound is so important.
  
  The sound is another good element of the game. Like mentioned before, the voice actors lend excellent 
 gravitas to the characters in the game, including Ron Perlman as Slade, your most frequent and 
 most indignant companion. Because of the large amount of foliage in the game, you will unable to 
 spot enemies perfectly, and some enemies are small enough, or cunning enough, to use the tall grass 
 to hide themselves from your sight, leaving you to listen for them to make a noise. If you have 
 a mono TV, you'll probably be at a large disadvantage when fighting outdoors.
  
  The weapons are a pretty straightforward bunch, most definitely the biggest change from Turoks 
 of past. You will always have your combat knife, used only for instant kills, and your bow, which 
 can pin enemies to the wall and comes with explosive tipped arrows. In addition, you can carry 
 two weapons, and can dual-wield several of them. Your choices include:
  - a pistol, which surprising packs a whallop and has a burst-fire secondary mode
  - an SMG which 
 features an optional silencer
  - a shotgun, which fires raptor-attracting flares
  - a pulse rifle that also fires grenades, which are notable for not actually doing damage, but 
 rather blasting the enemy into the air and hopefully into a position you can kill them from more 
 easily
  - a minigun which can be propped up as an automatic sentry turret
  - an RPG which either lobs a dumb-fire rocket or an optional targeted missile
  - a grenade gun 
 which detonates remotely, featuring a secondary fire that fires another primed grenade without 
 triggering the first one
  
  All but the pulse rifle, RPG, and minigun can be wielded in tandem with another gun. In a slight 
 nod to the perfectionist in heavy FPSers like myself, you can actually pick on the fly which gun 
 is held in which hand, which I thought was a sweet touch. Most guns, though, are much harder to 
 hit enemies with when dual-wielded, and when doing so, you lose the ability to precise-aim and 
 lob a standard high-explosive grenade.
  
  The story itself isn't the most imaginative or well-told, despite the characters, but it still 
 manages to be interesting. The game takes place on a planet off on the outskirts of the solar system, 
 where Turok and his company come out of cryo sleep for briefing, only to be shot down with an ground-to-air 
 (space?) missile, and amidst the wreckage, the remaining members of the company struggle to organize 
 and get off the planet, while finding Kane in the process, if possible. While the story doesn't 
 hold many surprises, the dinosaurs are pretty well explained by an evolutionary jump brought on 
 by accelerated terraforming. It wraps up pretty nicely, though, which is a nice thing and a rarity 
 these days. There's only one loose end, and most people will miss it. The length IS on the short 
 end, though, clocking in about 6-7 hours if you're a junkie like me.
  
  That leaves graphics, which is a great stopping-off point for my concerns with the game. The character 
 models range between servicable and great, the dinosaurs are definitely the stars here, and the 
 jungles are appropriately lush and detailed, but there are several visual issues with the game. 
 Any time you head underground or indoors, the level of detail drops to nearly nothing. The buildings 
 are boring, and the caves are almost literally the same texture everywhere.
  
  The other big problem with the game is a lack of color. That's not to say that the color isn't 
 bright, but rather, there's only one color. When you land, it's blue-green. The next stage, it's 
 bright green. The next stage, is orange. The next stage is dark blue, and then dark green, and 
 then back to orange, and when you're not outside, then everything is grey, or blue, or grey-blue. 
 Really, it amounts to three things on this world: Rocks, vegetation, and metal, and that's about 
 all the color that follows it. You don't see bright red or purple plants, and the dinosaurs are 
 rarely any color but green or brown. It's just a mess.
  
  Amidst these issues are some other issues that cause grief among gamers. The human AI is dumb as 
 a stick. If it's not big, square and metallic, they probably won't take cover behind it. Also, 
 things like a lack of aim assist of any kind for those who would like it, no subtitles, no brightness/contrast/gamma 
 (making the game so dark on my TV I had to turn off the lights when I played) , no option to change 
 the ass-backward control scheme (Y is crouch, while Left Click activates the objective reminder, 
 yet Right Click and Back are both unmapped? Who designed this?) , and the most annoying checkpoint 
 system to have reared its head in a while really tick you off, bit by bit. For every one checkpoint 
 in Turok, you'd have had three in Halo or Gears of War, and yet there's no save system to speak 
 of, and the enemies usually outnumber you consistently. I chalk it up to lack of polish and consideration. 
 Oh, by the way, lefties? No southpaw, either. Sorry.
  
  The guns, depending on which mode you're playing, are either servicable at best, or nearly worthless 
 at worst. The shotgun is one of the biggest offenders, you can some times take a human down in 
 one shot, and then take 8 shots the next and he's still standing. More often than not, though, 
 the weapons are useful enough in the campaign to consider having any of them in the arsenal, though 
 the bow is rarely a good option for direct combat, and the SMG's spread makes it a terrible choice 
 for a long-range weapon. Where these weapons really falter, though, is the multiplayer, which is 
 where my largest complaint lies.
  
  ( (EDITORIAL NOTE: This section was edited after I had posted my review initally) ) Multiplayer is 
 what I bought Turok for, expecting the game to be of short length. Understandably, if it isn't 
 satisfactory, I'm going to be disappointed, and I am... scratch that: WAS. It's multiplayer, but 
 with a dinosaur/danger element to it. You can take the high-road and put yourself at risk to the 
 other players, or take the low road and fend of dinosaurs. I initally asserted that the game is 
 basically sniper bait above ground, and a major stealth breach among the dinosaurs. Neither was 
 an accurate summation of each level. I found that, after revisiting the multiplayer, I was wrong 
 on both accounts. Sniper rifle placement is a bit suspect on the map I used as an example, but 
 isn't necessarily true of other maps, and I hadn't even played half of the maps, apparently.
  
  When I said the weapons were disappointing in MP, it's not only because of the guns themselves, 
 but because of the maps themselves. There is a lot of open space, leaving the SMG and the shotgun 
 fairly disadvantageous to wield. The bow is a poor option because if your target isn't standing 
 still and near you, you'll probably miss due to travel time and gravity. The pulse rifle can hold 
 its own well enough, though it overheats pretty fast, and the pistol can be effective too if you 
 finagle it a bit, but the really viable weapons are the Grenade Gun, the sniper rifle, and (imagine 
 that...) the knife.
  
  Explosive are easy to justify. They explode. The sniper rifle, though, is an outstanding culprit 
 because of several factors:
  - The zoom goes up to 10x, and no map seems to be large enough to make even it not enough
  - 
 Many of the maps I've seen are excessively open, meaning any approach to the base is going to be 
 met with a bullet to the dome... well, not as large as I had originally thought, but still pretty 
 large
  - The sniper bullet doesn't stray or lag. It's instantaneous
  Don't forget the knife, which makes you run about 20% faster than your average player-with-weapon 
 and allows for one-hit kills which are only supposed to work from behind, but about half the time 
 work from the front or side, too. This could be an issue of lag, though. It's hard to tell.
  
  When playing player matches, the other team was able to hear my conversation within a certain 
 proximity, and while that's cool and all, I wasn't sure if they were on my team or not (because 
 there's no speech indicator) and in one case, actually told the other team right where I'd be, 
 which, obviously, got me killed. Ranked matches don't seem to be any different after all. I guess 
 just be quiet as you storm a base, or maybe intentionally try to lead the enemies to the wrong 
 spot. That is still a minor complaint afterwards.
  
  All told, I liked the single player game, though it could have been longer and more color-varied, 
 and even after my ranting at the end of day one about how much I hated the game, the game won my 
 respect back. The multiplayer was better than I initally gave it credit for, and if anything, this 
 review has taught me not to judge the game by a one-day playthrough. This game most DEFINITELY 
 grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h_alipanahgold
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2observer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the reserve for this game, I only did it for the T-shirt and demo disc. When my 
 local store called me saying it had arrived 5 days early, I got the chance to try it out before 
 release! So, here goes:
  
  Turok has you stranded on a planet with dinosaurs and mercenary soldiers. You kill them with assorted 
 weapons. You try to survive, you can be sneaky or loud, long distance or close. Now the Details.
 
  
  Turok's singleplayer compenent is it's strongest aspect. The good sized campaign keeps you involved 
 everystep of the way, while not being too complicated enough to trip over itself (like some shooters) . 
 The dinosaurs are impressive killing machines, and ambush and rush you with "animal" like ferocity, 
 and the mercs assault you with thundering force. The hightech weapons are fun, and nothing is more 
 satisfying than taking on a pack of raptors with only a knife.
  
  Weak side is minor technical issues in single player, and the (so far) poor servers and glitches 
 in the mostly generic multiplayer. While dinosaurs and giant bugs attacking you during a capture 
 of flag match makes things interesting, it boils down to rather par matches that don't match up 
 to other shooters out there. Sorry.
  
  Overall: Great Game Worth Notice.
  
  PS: (T-REX IS FREAKIN BIG!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  So, I'll get straight to the point as usual. I'll start with the good, then move on to the bad. 
 Good points. The dinosaurs you face off come in several sizes and breeds. And all are scary in 
 their own right and very quick. Many times you'll only hear them, the sounds of ferns and plants 
 being pushed aside. And then they strike. I enjoyed killing them with my knife to see the fun kill 
 animations. Killing them with the knife is probably one of the most charming things of the game. 
 The bow, of course, a Turok classic, is a blast and its amusing to see your enemies pinned to the 
 wall from a well placed shot. The sound in the game is great. Gunfire, hearing creatures moving 
 on either side of you. Music sets the mood, etc. The weapons are fine, though not as many as one 
 could wish for. The story mode is okay, story could be better, but I won't complain. The areas 
 you pass through go from anywhere from a lush jungle to a concrete base all the way to underground 
 caverns with goo everywhere. The bad. The graphics are sometimes shady in some areas, and other 
 times the grass in the ground is painfully aware of its placement. Meaning, you can almost see 
 where those grids would align. The story mood is painfully short, I beat the game in around five 
 hours. And when the fighting gets really fast paced, you'll find yourself being bum rushed by hordes 
 of bugs or dinos and there's barely anything you can really do to stop them. Some other irks I 
 found is when you constantly pushed over and over by a bigger dino and you don't have time to move 
 or fire, etc. *Spoiler here ----like for example, when fighting the last trex boss, he shoved be 
 into a corner over and over.. and then he ate me. really annoyed me ---spoiler end* Though in the 
 end, I enjoyed the game very much. If your a fan of the series, you'll love it. Like to kill dinos, 
 you'll love it. Other then that, rent it or buy a used copy when they start showing up. enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  - Good : Cyber-alien setting dropped for a jungle survival one. Dino mauling and knife execution 
 are awesome. Boss fights are fun. Guns are cool and most of them have a nice feel to them. Nice 
 atmosphere, good graphics and nice diversity.
  
  - Bad : Not enough dinosaur variety to fight. Some enemies may be TOO intelligent sometimes, and 
 too stupid some other. Knifing can be touchy.
  
  
  
  
  
  Turok is an old yet not forgotten franchise that the new studio Propaganda Games decided to revive. 
 The whole universe had a face-lift, wich may turn off some people, but personnaly, I think it's 
 for the best. 
  
  Some of you may remember Turok as an old-school FPS that had mutant, meta-dinosaurs and alien guns 
 hosted by a crazy native american tomohawk guy who doesn't relead his guns a-la Doom or Duke Nukem 
 3D.
  
  Propaganda decided to rename Turok as '' Joseph Turok'' , giving him a less native american name 
 and taking off his crazy clothes to put him in a special-ops suit with a faux-hawk modern haircut. 
 They also took off everything that was cybernatic and too weird, so don't expect to see any crazy 
 and unreal guns or some hideous monsters.
  
  No, there is no celebral bore, and yet, it's for the best.
  
  Gameplay : The game controls 
 itself pretty well, although some of you may need to adjust the sensitivity ( wich I didn't ) due 
 to the fact there is no auto-aim. It also means harder challenge during the campaign, but also 
 making players a lot less able to shoot each other in multiplayer unless they actually got some 
 skills up their belt.
  
  The game leaves the surreal setting to dive the characters into something more believable. Wich 
 means you'll be able to stealth around your enemies hiding in high-grass, and kill them silently 
 with the bow. You also have a knife to your disposal, wich is the highlight of the game. I think 
 the whole knife idea is a genius one, since it allows you to pull some crazy knife struggles against 
 dinosaurs and some nasty one hit kills on human targets.
  
  Sadly, it seems the less skilled player rather prefer to run slashing their arms around hoping 
 to kill everything. On normal setting, it may work, but later in the game or in heavier difficulty 
 setting, you will get your ass whooped. This actually carries on to Multiplayer, wich player also 
 seem to run around like headless chickens hoping for the one hit kill. Averagely skilled player 
 will understand pretty soon that you can easily kill these players by running backwards and shooting 
 at them.
  
  Sound : Almost every ( if not all of them ) character in the game is voiced by talented actors 
 who brings an incredible performance, making the chattering between characters pretty interesting 
 to hear. The music follows the whole survival/jungle theme perfectly.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are great and there's no slowdowns. No, it's not the best looking game 
 on the console, but its on-par with Halo3. There's some pretty effects there and there, but sometimes 
 the textures seems to pop-up a little bit late.
  
  Value : The game's campaing isn't too long, but its reasonable, The game is very fun and well built. 
 I played through it three times up to now, and although its a linear shooter, there is plenty of 
 little alternate routes in the levels that brings you to try either stealth or well placed explosive 
 shots. The multiplayer is very solid, yet not very original. Still, knifing players and mauling 
 dinos online is awesome, and some of you may find it very entertaining when COD4 , Gears, TF2 or 
 Halo3 starts getting boring.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinU14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical when i heard they were going to do another Turok but after playing it i was amazed 
 by how fun the game was and. I baught it the next day.
  
  Concept: Stab dinos in the skull. What's not to love.
  
  Graphics: I've seen better but still 
 up to par.8/10
  
  Sound: The guns all sound unique but, some dino sounds are reused but overall great.8/10
  
 
  Playability: Controls are spot on and, the Button mashing sequences work real well.9/10
  
  Entertainment: The unmapped AI gives a new exspirience every time and, stabbing raptors in the 
 skull will never get old. This game is awesome.10/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  bbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbb 
 bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I must get this off my chest...... why do so many people dislike this game? Maybe they don't like 
 a challenge? Maybe they hate the fact there's no aim assist?
  
  Anyways, the game is a definate must play. The game brings a new intensity to the genre i haven't 
 experienced in a long time. Gameplay is pretty straight forward. You're part of a group called whiskey 
 and you always have 1 or more computer team mates with you. However, don't rely on them as they're 
 boarding on useless.
  
  Graphics are very well done and make excellent use of the Unreal 3 engine. Music fits the on-screen 
 action perfectly. The cut scenes are the first in a long time that have near perfect lip syncing. 
 
  
  Now, if you are afraid of a challenge, steer clear of this game. Even on normal, this game will give 
 you a challenge. The A. I. enemies range from brutal, to downright stupid. However, the human enemies 
 do show smarts using cover and flanking. The dinos are fast and tough but you can use the knife 
 on them for and instant kill.
  
  Multi player is great, provided it finds a game. I had some points of waiting up to 10 mins to connect 
 to a match and even then there is times of lag.
  
  Overall, Turok exceeded my expectations and this is a great addition to anyones library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonized-Dante
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  this is an extraordinary game at first but when u actually get a chance to play it is a great game 
 it is a good game -online the game loses its value oonline sucks badly- the story is just (spoilers) 
 go get kane and bring him back well the story gets a lil bit more complicated than that its a dino 
 infested planet and wolf pack are everywhere but besides that u start in a ship then u fall to 
 the planet then u must go find the remaininga parts of the ship u keep walking then u play the 
 demo part after that u find the rest of the ship and u get a bow then u meet with the rest of the 
 crew u go search for these communicaters when u find it a t-rex comes eat ur partner then u go 
 find him n fight him kill him then u set of again go to their base fight them of then u go underground 
 with these freaky bugs u fight a fish like creature thing leave go to the surface go again into 
 kane's domain and then u go see another dinasour t-rex attacking u can shoot him but it wont kill 
 him or anythingso u fight of the troops then about 3 helicopters will come and leave troops then 
 to kill them use the turrents then u kill them go down and to the other side there will be more 
 troops do yuor stuff there and go inside the base use the ladders to go inside the sewers use again 
 the ladder that u will find equip ur bow and take out the guy there is only one in that area unless 
 if u dont kill him right away with one arrow he will alert the other guys well proceed to the next 
 area then do the same proceed then equip a gun cuz troops will be there battle ur way till u reach 
 the control room wait then go plat the bombs but there will be flyin bugs after u so be careful 
 once after that go back in then u will see kane an explosion will happen get ur bow a gun or somwthin 
 to shoot with then u will leave but troops will be there be careful cuz there is a place where 
 u have to face off bugs and raptors kill them proceed and then go to the ship u wont leave u will 
 stay k......... after that it is time for ur final mission kill kane find him go inside the base 
 ofcourse troops will be there fight them off see kane and battle him its a knife battle only one 
 knife the way u kill him is by pressing the buttons u press when using the knife then u will fight 
 the final enemy 
 
  the way u kill him is by using ur own techinuques
  thankyou plz comment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamadogr1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game isn't bad. The graphics are very good when you are looking around the jungle but 
 some clunky looking cut scenes when you execute people. The interaction with the environment is 
 a little PS2 where I think they could have done a little more work on opening up the world for 
 a little more interaction. Your path is pretty much mapped out for you and no way to get lost. 
 For those of us who played the first Turok I could remember getting lost a few times.... maybe it 
 is a little frustrating but adds to the sense of being stranded with dinasaurs If you like FPS 
 games then I would gives the thumbs up to play it.
  The multi player is surprisingly fun and this comes from someone who only plays COD4 and GRAW2 
 online. I have noticed that knifing people can be very similar to the chainsaw in GOW before they 
 fixed it. It is not even close to where a 360 game should be relative to frame rate, smoothness 
 and graphics but beings I am a fan of the genre I guess I am partial.
  I would tell you to wait a few weeks and go to your nearest gamecrazy or gamespot and pick it up 
 used.... or rent it. Either way you will have some fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Game play: the game play for the most part is great, with all the great knife cut secnes when u 
 kills a wolf pack member to a dinosaur, Some of the weapons are good, which each weapon has a second 
 kind of fire like for shotguns can shoot a flare to lure dinosaurs to your enemeys or give you 
 time to escape.
  
  Weapons (Some) : There arent as many awesome weapons as we had hoped but there are the nice touches 
 to some of the weapons but some standards for examplethe SMG which you are stuck with to long 
 of the game, shotgun, pistol and knife) now the knife is ussually the worst weapon in every game, 
 but have turned it into the most used weapon, to attack enemeys with great cutsecnes almost diffrent 
 every time, and dinosaurs which change varying to your position when you are attacking, but can 
 get repetitive.
  
  Levels: The levels are outstanding though being in the jungle most of the game takes out some of 
 the fun, the developers said "there are so many paths to the levels in the game you can get lost" 
 as for the game your fellow soilders will lead the way or just click the left analog stick to find 
 out were to go, but there is some times where u can get lost. Some times for a breather they make 
 you go into a wolfpack base or break into a venalation shaft or somthing cleashea as such, which 
 makes it still fun.
  
  Multiplayer: The greatest feature to Turok is its multiplayer frankly i would imagine more people 
 buying the game but not that many are on but there are people that play so u can play with other 
 people several maps, diffrent types of game play nice attacks and weapons, this is why you should 
 buy turok.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for the game are great in standard def but in HD they can look a bit crappy 
 your head more looks of a clyndar square type then a nice round head. The Graphics are needed to 
 make this game what it is and pulled off, great visuals and stunning blood, and effects in general, 
 and when you are stalking a prey or person for a knife kill they cant notice you which is a great 
 touch if you are following them in the beautiful jungle texture.
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Repeitive Cutsences: they do get some what annoying as for the RT prompt for when u knife kill 
 someone in the back and for you only do 3 diffrent attacks on dinosaurs and maybe 5 on enemies 
 but they get old FAST, as for when they are attacked by dinosaurs which makes it realistic i cant 
 help but chuckle a little.
  
  Weapons (other some) : The aiming for the gun i have to say besides the pulse rifle and sniper and 
 horrible, it is very frustrating even on multiplayer it is very hard to kill people with guns.
 
  
  I cunclude my review as for i give it a 8.5/10 A must buy if you are a fan of FPS 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
