-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Two Worlds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/twoworlds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge scope and setting.
 Smooth, simple RPG system that still allows for a lot of character customization.
 Great variety of quests.
 Nice-looking visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too sparse in monsters and fine details to fill up such a big gameworld.
 Default difficulty setting is way too hard.
 Numerous little performance hitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 5.1, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 4,149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Reality Pump
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Aug 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Epic scale and depth of content make Two Worlds worthwhile. 

  A poor man's Oblivion. This description may seem a bit damning, but it puts the game in awfully 
 fine company when you consider the sheer greatness of Bethesda's role-playing game opus. Reality 
 Pump's RPG certainly has it where it counts in the aspiration department, even if, largely due 
 to some design quirks, the first-time RPG developer can't quite match the gold standard established 
 by Oblivion last year. With that said, the epic scale of the game, along with outstanding character 
 development, free-flowing action, and good quest variety, make it a worthwhile play for any RPG 
 aficionado.  

  In an exact reversal of the problems that Oblivion players on the PC griped about in 2006, Two 
 Worlds' biggest issue on the Xbox 360 is its PC-centric design. This is actually a welcome surprise 
 in some ways, as PC RPGs typically boast more depth than their console counterparts when it comes 
 to storyline, character creation, and sheer scope of the gameworld (and that is certainly the case 
 here) . However, this focus is a big problem in other respects.  

           Country and city settings are beautiful and diverse.      

  For example, everything 
 about the interface is geared for a close-up monitor. Even on a large HDTV, it's nearly impossible 
 either to read the minimap on the main adventure screen or to determine at a glance what the icons 
 are on the big map when you pull it up to full size. This can be a serious problem, as the gameworld 
 is so huge and the number of points of interest so tremendous that it's easy to get lost or backtrack 
 for miles without realizing that you got turned around somehow. Text is so minuscule that it might 
 as well be the fine print on a mortgage. Furthermore, the inventory is a clunky affair in which 
 you have to scroll across all of your items every time you want to use a potion or swap out a weapon. 
 You can pretty readily tell that the whole thing was designed with a mouse, keyboard, and monitor 
 in mind, not a gamepad and TV. Regardless, you do grow to tolerate these drawbacks after an hour 
 or two of squinting. The game beyond the interface is worth the eyestrain, and if you happen to 
 be playing on the PC, you won't run into any such issues.  

  The story is stock-standard for this sort of RPG. The backdrop deals with a war in the land of 
 Antaloor between man and orc that resulted in the imprisonment of the orcish god Aziraal in a magical 
 tomb. When the game opens, 300 years have passed and a dwarven mining expedition has possibly uncovered 
 the big guy's final resting place, which doesn't bode well for relations between humans and orcs. 
 You're a mercenary just trying to get by, one who is more concerned with rescuing his missing sister 
 than saving the world or even looking into what's got the orcs all riled up as of late. As with 
 most open world RPGs, you can dive straight into this main storyline and take on all of its quests, 
 or freely wander the world while helping people and killing monsters for fun and profit. It's important 
 to note that there is no level-balancing or similar gimmicks present here, which means that you 
 need to finish a fair number of side quests to gain the experience and equipment needed to send 
 Aziraal and his orc pals packing.  

  So the plot isn't going to set the world on fire, although the personal angle with your sister 
 and the overall character design and development are somewhat innovative. There are no classes 
 here, so after creating your male protagonist (there is no option to roll up a member of the fairer 
 sex) and customizing little things like hair color and arm length, you're left to place the attribute 
 and skill points awarded with level increases wherever you want. If you want a fighter, for example, 
 you have to buff strength and vitality stats, and increase scrapping skills like damage and critical-hit 
 chance. For a mage, you go with willpower and magical skills such as necromancy and the four elements. 
 Or you could try a jack-of-all-trades and distribute points all over the place so you can whip 
 out a sword or a spell depending on the circumstances.  

           Battles are plentiful when venturing off the beaten path into forests, although at times 
 you kill a lot of the same baddies over and over again.      

  There are no restrictions when it comes to the use of weapons, magical items, spells, and the like, 
 at least in comparison with the more closed D&amp; D-style systems. Nevertheless, most hardware 
 does have attribute requirements that limit the really good weapons to fighter types, the really 
 good magical staffs to mage types, and so on. On the other hand, all characters can use the alchemy 
 pot that forms half of the inventory screen. Items like crystals and plants can be gathered throughout 
 the game and brewed into health potions and various other elixirs that can buff your stats, or 
 even add poison or flame damage to weapons. Overall, this is a nice extra touch that opens up the 
 game and lets even a hardcore fighter play mage every now and then.  

  Fewer options are available when it comes to developing your character in the game itself, because 
 NPC interactions are pretty blah. While it's refreshing that you're an out-for-himself mercenary 
 instead of the usual RPG saint or dog-kicking villain, there are few choices in conversations. 
 You always hit up passersby with the same bland questions depending on your location, and you always 
 get the same canned responses. When being asked to undertake a quest, your choices generally include 
 only "Yes, how much?" and "No thanks, not interested." At least the NPCs are designated with colored 
 icons, which means that all you have to do is look for green to know if they have anything of value 
 to say before you even start flapping your gums. Conversations also get right to the point, and 
 can be skipped through quickly if you've heard it all before. All lines are delivered by voice 
 actors, which adds some life to the chatter. Quality is all over the place, ranging from cheesy 
 to dull monotone. You're guaranteed to get some chuckles out of the action-hero quips of the lead. 
 Lines like "Say hello to death!" and sarcastic comments about the weather when it rains don't seem 
 entertaining on paper, but the bombastic delivery is so hilarious that they work in spite of themselves. 

  Combat in Two Worlds is similarly straightforward. The third-person camera (you can switch to first-person 
 on the PC, but only when you don't have any weapons equipped) allows for quick, button-mashing 
 action that doesn't require a great deal of thought. Melee fighters can take advantage of combo 
 attacks, although battles generally require nothing more than hammering on the left trigger as 
 quickly as possible until the bad guys fall down. The magic system is just as basic, with a default 
 attack that functions similarly to the melee option, and spells that can be quickly cast with cards. 
 But even though battles are simplistic, they're far from easy. The only way to succeed when fighting 
 on the medium or hard difficulty settings is to do a lot of dodging and running away, and to time 
 your assaults to land in-between enemy swipes. Of course, considering that the game features a 
 lot of combat, this sort of futzing around gets annoying fast. It's a lot more sensible to turn 
 the difficulty setting to easy (which is still very challenging) and not deal with this dart-and-dodge 
 fighting. Even then, you'll still get killed quite a bit. However, this isn't a hassle, given that 
 you respawn immediately at one of the many healing shrines scattered throughout Antaloor.    

   

  The monsters that you'll slay aren't quite varied enough for an RPG of this length and scope. While 
 scraps fly past so quickly that boredom will rarely be an issue, it seems like you're killing the 
 same packs of wolves, bears, and boars in the wilderness over and over again. And that does get 
 dull, because after the first hour or so of play, you've got enough experience and weaponry to 
 slaughter these beasts in mere moments. Other creatures include fantasy RPG stereotypes like the 
 goblinesque groms, as well as orcs, dwarves, skeletons, ghouls, and dragons, along with more esoteric 
 selections such as  Flintstones -refugee reapers, man-sized jackals, and giant bugs known as trachidis. 
 There seems to be a good number of monsters spread through the entire game; it's just that the 
 repetition of specific types in certain areas makes you feel like you're on a treadmill at times. 
 Reality Pump just hasn't filled Antaloor with a menagerie quite befitting its tremendous size. 

  Quests provide more variety. There are dozens upon dozens of assignments available, spread all 
 over the world. They range from standard delivery jobs to solving murders, from stealing underwear 
 to collecting herbs, and, of course, slaughtering tribes of groms and orcs. Most of the quests 
 are also set within a realistic backdrop of factions and interests. Groups in the game, including 
 the knightly Brotherhood as well as the guilds representing such disparate folk as merchants and 
 necromancers, hire you for jobs at various points. A consequence is that your reputation increases 
 amongst different crowds of NPCs. The world itself is tied together with realistic geographical 
 features and common teleportation platforms that let you take shortcuts after an initial reconnaissance 
 of the map. So you can take in some postcard vistas when you want to sightsee, and when you want 
 to just zip around, you can minimize aimless wandering with this magical transit system (or by 
 hopping on a horse, although the nags in the game are so tough to control that it's easiest to 
 just stay on foot) .  

           Flora and fauna dominate the gorgeous countryside and provide lots of magical goodies 
 to brew up in your alchemist's pot.      

  Multiplayer gives Two Worlds a little something extra not offered by most other RPGs. On the PC, 
 Reality Pump has given the game a basic arena-combat venue where you can go online and duke it 
 out with human opponents, but the real meat is in the quasi-MMO mode of play in which you can wander 
 Antaloor and take on quests with online pals. About the only major differences between this option 
 and the solo campaign is the lack of the story here and the ability to pick specific character 
 classes from lists of warriors, rogues, and mages instead of custom-crafting a hero with stat and 
 skill choices. This isn't quite the cooperative play-through of a full campaign that RPGers have 
 been dying for, but it's certainly an innovative idea. The only problem is difficulty. Even the 
 introductory quests are extremely hard, which pretty much forces you to group up with other players 
 to have a chance at survival. Co-op play is also an iffy proposition because there seem to be only 
 a couple dozen players online at any given moment right now. If the game gets more popular, this 
 mode of play could really take off.  

  At any rate, this multiplayer mode is miles above the dreary (and laggy) limited online option 
 available with the Xbox 360 version of the game. Instead of the cooperative campaign play that 
 RPGers have been dreaming of, all the developer has included here are dull host-or-join game modes 
 like deathmatch (deeply bland because of the simplistic combat system) , monster hunt (better due 
 to the addition of an objective, but still too repetitive to enjoy for long) , and an RPG option 
 where you develop a character courtesy of hacking and slashing through quests on one-off maps with 
 up to seven buddies. The latter pales in comparison to the multiplayer offering featured in the 
 PC edition of the game, as it features full server support that makes maps feel more like persistent 
 worlds, along with player numbers that roughly resemble what's available in MMOs. Anyhow, the only 
 distinction with the MP games here is a wide variety of set character classes, including specialty 
 warriors such as the blade dancer, as well as mages focusing on the elements and necromancy. Even 
 if you want to try these half-baked games, they're often unplayable due to frequent dropped connections 
 and serious lag that regularly turns combat into a slide show. Very few people seem to be taking 
 advantage of the online play at this point, which isn't exactly a surprise when you consider its 
 quality. Ultimately, if you want online RPG action, look toward the PC version.  

           Horseback riding is a great way to quickly see the countryside, although the awkward controls 
 make it tough to settle into the saddle.      

  Visual and audio quality aren't quite fully realized. The game's artwork looks great due to gorgeous 
 mountain ranges, grassy hills, detailed monster and character textures, and nicely varied city 
 and village architecture, but frame-rate hitches and loading pauses frequently interrupt the action 
 on the 360 version. Quick pauses during combat happen in virtually every scrap with more than a 
 couple of opponents. This doesn't affect the overall playability of battles, but remains awfully 
 annoying nevertheless. Section loads are also frequent, if brief. A little disc icon pops onto 
 the screen every so often while you're wandering through the woods, during which the game pauses 
 for a few seconds. This can be a little irritating, although it's certainly preferable to long 
 loading times. However, sometimes the game pauses without flashing the disc icon, which means that 
 the game has either additional, unadvertised loads or a few bugs. The PC version doesn't have any 
 of these hitching issues. Much of the experience is seamless, with area loads being barely noticeable. 
 Best of all, everything runs smoothly on even a mid-grade, single-core machine with a 6800-class 
 video card. You need to dial the graphics back to 1024x768 to avoid choppy combat, although this 
 is a small price to pay to get a game this big and attractive to run so well.  

  Audio quality is mixed. As previously noted, the dialogue is an amusing blend of cheese and action-hero 
 clichs. Atmospheric battle effects are generally excellent, if not pronounced enough to make you 
 aware of their presence. The same goes for most of the soundtrack, which is noteworthy only for 
 some ethereal odes  la Enya and the fact that it was composed by '80s one-hit wonder Harold "Axel 
 F" Faltermeyer. The only real standout tune is the ominous bass-heavy piece that eerily wells up 
 whenever your hit points plummet to near-death levels.  

  If you appreciate ambitious RPGs, seek out Two Worlds. It won't make you forget about Oblivion, 
 but Reality Pump's take on heroic fantasy adventure is good enough to consume many, many hours 
 of your spare time. Even though there are some flaws here, especially with the 360 version of the 
 game, this is a solid role-playing experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (553 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a technical fart. I think I would have enjoyed it much more if it wasn't for the 
 ugly graphics, bland world, terrible controls, bad art, and just overall technical screw ups and 
 glitches. I DID enjoy the quests. I loved exploring, even though the world was bland, I just thought 
 it was a great world map. That's really the only compliments I can give it. 
  
  Besides the technical mess of this game, my next biggest beef with this game is the crap controls, 
 and the lack of information. All the tutorial in this game provides you is to learn how to swing 
 your weapon and jump, that's it. Everything else you have to figure out for yourself. This is a 
 major annoyance because there is so much I learned at the end of the game, but by then, it was 
 too late. I didn't know you could combine same-items until 17 hours into the game. I didn't know 
 all NPCs had different markers on them that tells me if they're merchants or quest givers. It's 
 just little things like this that puts me off. It doesn't help that the controls are kinda complicated 
 in the first place. 
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Two worlds is an Action-RPG. You can play it in third person or first-person, but I'm not sure 
 why anyone would want to play it as first-person, it's terrible that way. You can pick and choose 
 your fighting style depending on what weapons you enjoy using. You can also build your character 
 differently by building up what skills you want him to learn as well. 
  
  
  You gain experience for each thing you kill, but you gain the majority of your experience from 
 completing quests. When you gain enough experience, you'll gain a level. With each level, you'll 
 get 5 points that you can distribute among your stats, like Max Health, Magic Power, Defense and 
 Strength. You also gain 1 Skill point, that you can hand out to your assorted abilities. 
  
  I hate the battle controls. You attack using the R trigger, which is stupid. Enclave for the 
 original Xbox was like this and that game was awful. You can set shortcut magics with your D-pad, 
 but to use that magic you have to pull the L Trigger. It's as simple as that, but still clunky 
 because you can't change the button mapping.
  
  There aren't special dungeons or even real boss fights until the end of the game. Most monsters 
 you encounter use nearly the same tactics, so you won't have to change your tactics to much either. 
 
  
  The game has a standard D&D style weight system, which wasn't much of a problem earlier in the 
 game, but became a hassle later in the game. This is mostly because they only give you a little 
 bit of space to hold items, even if you are hold 100lbs of items, and you can hold 300lbs of items, 
 if those items take up all the space in your inventory, then you can't hold anymore items. This 
 is alot like Resident Evil in a way. If there was an easy way to warp to town, like in Champions 
 of Norrath, then it wouldn't be such a problem, but finding a merchant to sell your junk can be 
 a quest on it's own. Some towns might have 50 merchants, while others don't even have any.
  
  Most of the quests are fetch missions. There isn't a straight "dark" or "light" side you can 
 take. However, the game features a bunch of rival armies, and you can side with them by accepted 
 their quests. Some territories are completely neutral, while others are at war. So it isn't possible 
 to do EVERY quest in the game. 
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  Um.. The story isn't exactly Two World's strong point. I cared so little about the story I don't 
 even know the main characters name, or if he was even given one. Basically, the story starts off 
 with you (hero) and your sister riding on horse back. She looks ill, so you stop at a village for 
 shelter. She gets kidnapped, and its your job to find her. 
  
  That's it really. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Oh man, the graphics are junk. Aesthetically they're crap, 
 and technically they're crap. For one, there is nothing original or stylistic about this game. 
 Everything seems ripped right out of Tolkien and Dungeons & Dragons. Another big problem is their 
 habit of reusing the same character models over and over again. You'll even see the same 15 characters 
 walk around in a town. It's lazy and cheap. 
  
  The technical problems are countless and the main reason why I would never recommend this game 
 to anyone. For one, the game crashes far to often. I think it froze up on me 5 times, and 1 time 
 my character got stuck in the ground, so I had to reset. That is alot of lost time if you ask me, 
 probably 3 hours worth. Then there's the choppy framerate issues. The game chugs along at a snail 
 pace most of the time. It even gets worse if there's a ton of enemies on screen. The game pauses 
 during combat, sometimes for a full second. 
  
  One time my character just completely disappeared. Another time, all my items just turned to white. 
 You can see the complete skeleton of some mountains. I even saw a bear climb up a wall. Another 
 time a giant Tower just split into half. There are countless pop ins, texture mess ups, and other 
 atrocities. 
  
  One problem everyone seems to mention about Two Worlds is the text size. While this is true for 
 the white text that pops up after you complete a quest, that text is really unimportant. The rest 
 of the text is a perfect and readable size, however, they screw u p the text another way. During 
 dialog scenes, they show the dialog on the bottom. They color the text white, and behind the text 
 is a grey, transparent boarder. If there is ANYTHING bright, including grass, sand, snow, water 
 (basically anything) , then the text is near impossible to read. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I actually enjoyed the music. The main theme, which appears on the 
 select screen is a really good song. At first it appears to be a spacey Metroid Prime clone, but 
 then full vocals jump in. While you're playing the game, you'll hear basic synth or heavy violin 
 tracks, but they're often buried in an almost ambiance way. It's good music, but you'll barely 
 notice it's there sometimes. 
  
  The voice acting is a different story though. Some characters sound ok (the hero) , but most others 
 just sound like a joke. It's also really inconsistent. For example, your main hero sounds perfect, 
 but there was a couple NPCs that sounded like they recorded their lines through a tin-can. It also 
 does help that the actors are freaking awful too. The voice work is terrible all around.
  
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is a very open world experience, much like 
 the Elder Scrolls games. Once you're set into the world, you can basically do and go anywhere you 
 want, and tackle any sidequests you want. The main quest is actually a few hours long, but the 
 main chuck of this game is the huge amounts of exploring and sidequesting. 
  
  
  On your menu, you get a basic overview of the world. It will show you all the basic landmarks, 
 like major villages, rivers, mountains, castles, and such. Everything else is unmarked. That includes, 
 Teleporters, Magic and Health regenerators, caves, and so on. Everything is also slightly shadowed 
 over, but as you crawl through the world, you slowly map out your trail. 
  
  
  The map menu also shows your current quests. Some quests show up on your map and tell you directly 
 where to go, others just show you where the quest was given. 
  
  With all of this crap on the map, it can get kinda confusing, especially on the mini-map on your 
 battle screen. However, the best thing about this game is exploring, despite the rather lame locations.
 
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ---------
  21:49:28
  
  You get the choice between two possible endings, I believe. The ending was really short, and there 
 wasn't even credits, which I found to be weird. After the final cutscene, it just takes you back 
 to the select screen. You can go back to your previous save and finish up any sidequests if you 
 want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Altair
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I have made Gaming my profession in life and have made a Gaming Company as well. Read my profile 
 I've worked for blizzard in quality control, thus I know what I am talking about.
  
  I am a huge fan of this game, so much so that I have even purchased the PC version of it.
  
 
  As I read through all these reviews I couldn't help but notice that most of them were poorly made, 
 and by this I merely mean that they claimed it "buggy", and "crap graphics".
  
  Well they are wrong. The graphics are pretty amazing but then again if you are using a bad screen 
 you'll never notice the graphics.
  
  Game had stuff that other games would not dare do such as Music.
  
  The music in this game 
 are far more grown-up. Actually the music has a sound track which was released . . . how many games 
 have that?
  
  This game was given a lot of bad reviews by a lot of poor gamers. This game is worth buying and 
 will be hours of endless fun.
  
  Enjoy it. There are worse games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I can say this outright and with not a little hinch of doubt: Two worlds is NOT a good game, its 
 not even close to being something that would remind you of a game, because games are usually fun. 
 This is just a poorly graphic rendered game with some of the worst combat, controls and voice acting 
 that you probably will ever see this generation.
  
  Lets start out: You are a bounty hunter, you sister gets kidnapped by a mysterious and sinister 
 organization known as "The dark brotherhood" (Wait doesn't that sound familiar somehow?) and you 
 intend to go find her/rescue her. It is quite obvious at already this point that the story leaves 
 something to be desired, but then again so did oblivion and gears of war, but then again again 
 those two MADE UP for it with fun and/or depth. Two worlds continues down the high road to hell 
 and bankruptcy as soon your character opens his mouth. Usually i can cope with bad voice acting, 
 i will admit that i've met some games that have some "not appealing" voice actors but by christ, 
 two worlds made all of these combined seem like a shakespear show. Your character and everyone 
 around tries to speak "real"medival english, however let me remind you that the "real" medival 
 english in american accent sounds so baffingly stupid that you most likely will skip through every 
 single dialogue there is, and then miss a big part of the "ohh hoo-bloody-ray" story.
  
  Now that we have litterature and acting made up lets move on to the more central things in a game: 
 Graphics, gameplay and sound.
  
  Graphics are straight out ugly, even if you look at it and forgive it for being released in 2007, 
 they are still unforgiveable compared to other titles on the market and strangely enough it even 
 manages to keep the framerate BELOW the average 20 FPS. Apart from that, the animations are so 
 incredible ugly that you'd think that a legion of (orcish) gromms all were doing an electric boogie. 
 When fighting you swing you sword attempting to look all fancy and skilled, but results in you 
 looking like you have something bad and creepy in your pants.
  Even worse, southpeak company and reality pump somehow manage to defuse another major draw of RPG 
 games, the need for new equipment. Because they apparently thought that the abillity to combine 
 simillar types of equipment together, to form a new piece of equipment which is slightly better 
 and can be upgraded yet again, was great idea, the only problem they forgot to think of was that 
 you can loot the enemies, meaning if you attack a mine guarded by 20 dwarves and they all use the 
 same axe and armor, chances are that you are going out again with an extremely overpowered version 
 of that axe and armor, and will be wearing it for the next couple of levels. This also means that 
 it won't pay off to go off killing a big dragon for a rare item (I. e Epics if you speak Woweasian) 
 because it rarely is more powerfull than the standard vendor axe. Considering this supposedly an 
 RPG, this is a HUGE gameplay flaw. Oh and did i mention that horses are IMPOSSIBLE to handle?
 
  
  Now onto another not-as-important part but still one of the can-make-a-difference parts. The sound. 
 Like i said before, the voice acting is so terrible that you'd rather be cutting your ears off 
 than hearing a two worlds conversation. But of course voice acting isn't all there is to it. Two 
 worlds sounds in general makes you wish you could ask the developers alot of questions. Such as:
 
  A: Why does it sound like a wooden stick when i am hitting my enemy with a sharp sword?
  B: Why does it make a metallic cutting sound when i make a critical hit on someone with a wooden 
 club?
  C: Why in the world did you combine a medival RPG with both opera AND electric guitars??
  
 
  Overall: It isn't hard to see where Southpeak and reality pump got their inspiration from *COUGH* 
 Oblivion *COUGH*, and how they tried to improve it, but for every single step that Two Worlds got 
 forward, a lot of facepalm mistakes and glitches throw the game 10 steps back
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamestochoose
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  i think two worlds was well worth the money. i mean it beats oblivion. i played oblivion for about 
 2 days and was just bored of seeing the same environment in every place you go. at least two worlds 
 has some different environments. the diallouge may be funny but if they just made you have to read 
 it i bet lots of more people would be complaining. There is tons of different things to do. this 
 is what an rpg should really be! Cant wait for Temptation! ill be honest when i first saw this 
 game i thought it looked really really bad but then i had some credits left over so i thought i 
 would just buy it at my nearest game store and ill tell im glad i did. and that taught me not to 
 go along with what every body else says or what gamesites give the score. so just go out there 
 and try a game that looks horrible and maybe youll end up loving it as i did two worlds. Also two 
 worlds has dragons! unlike oblivion. every mid evil time rpg should have dragons! thats one of 
 the best parts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishwaridin
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  TO begin.
  Graphics : mixed bag of good / bad
  Sound: good for its genre nothing groundbreaking
  Gameplay: similar to the Elder scrolls series/ 
 a hardcore wrpg.
  Verdict: 8/8.5 why? if you enjoyed morrowind on xbox you will enjoy this game. If fearfull pick 
 it up used. This is NOT Oblivion.
  
  
  If you are a beginner to wrpgs that contain a free based world allowing the player to become who 
 or what they want i would recommend you do not try this game, Yet.
  Instead try Oblivion (elder scroll 4) which is a more friendlier experience and easier for novice 
 players. 
  This game will not begin in your first 10/20/30 minutes of gameplay instead it will take hours (6 
 for me) until you get additicted. That is why i consider this more similar to Morrowind (elder 
 scrolls 3) . It has many problems with graphics, glitches but under it all has some great aspects 
 such as combining armor/weapons/ unique skills/ dragons/ undead horses (to ride) with a 60-100+ 
 hour worth of content. Personally i hope the sequel can correct the glitches and take its place 
 as a great wrpg.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooMan89
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:12 am PT
Review:  This game by no means deserves a 1 or anywhere near that. Yes yes the voice acting is bad but is 
 better than having to read it, the bad frame rate does not affect the game that badly. Where it 
 is bad is the map to start with you end up running around just to activate some teleports. There 
 are no names of the cities on the map so when someone gives you a quest you have no idea where 
 to go. The quests are hard to search thru and the map does not display the location of the quest 
 but shows you who gave you the quest, which is no help at all.
  
  The RPG elements are very good and there is a large range of weapons and armor. The spells are 
 good but nowhere near powerful enough later in the game. The idea of combining weapons is good 
 as you can either keep buying new weapons or can combine the new ones to make them stronger. Quests 
 are ranged and for the most part fun and exiting. The different societies are a good idea and keep 
 you interested as you try to work your way up the ladders and be a legend, but they should have 
 made more of it. 
  
  I was going to give this game a 8.5 until I entered the southern part of the map where the game 
 lets itself down. The difficulty level jumps up stupidly and you just end up dieing while just 
 traveling from one location to another, quests are far and few in-between. I just switched from 
 addicted to bored. 
  
  This sadly is one of the best of this kind of RPG on console second to Oblivion but this is only 
 because these sorts of RPG are sadly rear on console. I want to see more of them, and please spend 
 the time to make them good quality unlike this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taco64
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  When i put in two worlds, I saw the customization of the character, didn't like it. When it finished 
 loading the graphics were like a punch in the face, "where did my 360 go!?!... you damn nintendo 
 64, haunt me no longer!!!!" I started and talked to someone, the voice of your character made me 
 laugh, how they tried to sneak in old words like naive. After the story mode got boring, the blinding 
 Atari graphics annoying me. I decided to try multiplayer. All the classes honestly interested me, 
 i tried the hunter, got into a match after 907843690754 searches..... i noticed all you needed 
 to do was click the trigger and it was almost an instant kill, the enemies spawned in the same 
 locations every time so people were saying "oh mah gawd! guys, we've got a skilled hunter on the 
 other team" O_o. Finally, i have to say, don't rent or buy Two worlds because honestly i'm suprised 
 it was even accepted as a game.
  
  You can't help but lol at [Quick match] -- [Any Map] -- [Search] -- ... no matches found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game is a good RPG for RPG gamers, if your thinking of Oblivion II go kill yourself now because 
 this game will probably kill you of disappointment.
  
  
  
  First things first the bad things:
  
  *Crap graphics.
  
  *Bad voice acting.
  
  *Medicore 
 story, seen it done that.
  
  All done, they are the only bad things in the game, and the game has been killed because of them.
 
  
  Now the good things:
  
  *Great and big world to explore.
  *Nice stackable weapon system.
  *Making your own potions is fun unlike Oblivion's one.
  *The 
 combat gets easy once your LV 30 and once your LV 80 or 99 your a god in this world, which is what 
 I want in RPG's.
  *There are intresting enemys to  and demons, the 
 list really goes on and on!
  *You can spend points on more than HP and MANA.
  *There are over 50 skills to learn.
  *You can upgrade spells, armor, skills and weapons.
  *300 
 quests to compleate The dlc's adds 60 to the 300.
  *People make inhuman and funny sounds when they die making combat feel.. rewarding.
  
  
  Really 
 if your looking for a RPG this game will not disappoint.
  
  10/10 really fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  As much as I am willing to give all games a chance Two Worlds really takes the cake at what you 
 could call a 'steaming pile'. This game tried to be Oblivion, but it is far, far from it. I should 
 have listened to my friends and not even touched this game, that is how disgusted I am, 20 bucks 
 wasted.
  
  Gameplay 3- Controls dont work well, combat is very hit and miss with collision, and just about 
 everything in general feels only half-baked.
  
  Graphics 1- Just... eew. Models are ugly and the textures are beyond horrendous. On the box is 
 says it can run in 1080p, but the graphics are so horrible they look even worse on an HDTV. Animations 
 look terrible too. It looks like the devs ripped off the tree models from Oblivion.
  
  Sound 3- Music is passable, so are some sfx, but the voice acting....
  
  Im not even going 
 to dignify giving this game a score for Fun Factor and Replay Value. I never thought a game would 
 make me want to vomit just from how bad everything about it is. But there is a first for everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streech_malkov
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  As u may see the user rating is not the best for this game,
  
  That's because most ppl have an attention span of 20 min, GIVE 
  
  THIS GAME A COUPLE OF HOURS 
 AND I GUARANTEE THAT 
  
  THIS WILL BE ONE OF THE BEST EXPERIENCES YET.
  
  I know the developers should have made the intro of this game
  
  a little more compelling , 
 but seeing the amount of great 
  
  gameplay 
  
  and 
  
  oustanding graphics which come with minor flaws that are 
  
  neglectful compared to how well 
 they fit together.
  
  Graphics 8/10 
  
  Well the framerate sometimes its not the best but it gets better the 
  
  more you advance in 
 the game, and artistically speaking this 
  
  game design is beautyfull it will give you the chills just looking at 
  
  the dense populated 
 city and the great panorama . 
  
  Also the weapon/armor design is great and VARY,
  
  Lots of weapons/armor all different from each other
  
  will make you cry of joy.
  
  
 
  Sound 10/10
  
  Great epic soundtrack and effects make you expirience this 
  
  game at is best.
  
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  Well i didn't know you could blend togheter 
 so many combat 
  
  styles at once, this game has many innovative and old school 
  
  way to fight , explore, level up and more.
  
  Also the many ways to upgrade magic and weapon 
 are great the 
  
  the only problem is that you have to figure out everything by urself 
  
  there is no kind of training in this game [ which i think is not so 
  
  bad sometime is 
 better discover this kind of stuff by urself is 
  
  more entertaining ]
  
  Multyplayer 7/10
  
  SO MUCH POTENTIAL but unfortunately few ppl are online but if 
  
  u 
 really want to experience the online side of this game u have to 
  
  join a community or just play with a group of friends.
  
  
  Overall 10/10
  
  This game 
 will surelly grow on you but you have to be willing to 
  
  invest some patience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  I have tried this game 6-7 times trying to like it, the premise is good the idea is good the game 
 is awful, people say it does get better after the first couple of hours, i personally cannot waste 
 2 hours of my life getting to that section of the game, one of, if not the most off putting thing 
 about this game for me, is the way it actually runs on your 360, generally the major benefit of 
 a console over pc is the fact all games are made for your console or ported to your console so 
 you dont have to worry about will it work wont it work like you get with pc (don't take this as 
 a put down for a pc as its not i love pc gaming!) I wrote that last lien to make it easier to explain 
 how this game runs, did you ever try to run Oblivion on your pc with a pc under the recommended 
 settings, or have you tried to run Crysis with a 486? If so you will know how this game runs, its 
 tragically awful stutter stutter pop up pop up 10fps if your lucky, i cannot get past this to try 
 and like the game. I wouldn't even recommend renting, i went into this game reading so many bad 
 reviews thinking i will like this sounds great, the reviews on the whole are right, this game does 
 suck that much!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game plays and looks like crap. Its a 3rd person hack n slash rpg along the same lines as 
 Champions of Norrath or Baldur's Gate except waaaaaay lower budget. The combat is lame, the user 
 interface is lame, the fugly graphics are lame, the character creator is a freaking joke, they 
 dont dont do anything in game to teach you how to play except to pull out and swing your sword. 
 There is no reason in hell you should waste time even looking at this game when there are so many 
 other games that are infinitely better and thats just from the nintendo era. SouthPeak are utterly 
 and completely talentless worthless rejects who should never make another game for as long as they 
 live. You wont know whether to laugh hysterically or cry uncontrollably while playing this game 
 which isnt a good feeling to have when your wanting to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I don't what to say about this so called 'game' other than its bloody awful.
  
  I have no idea what Gamespot were smoking either when they gave it a 7.0. This game is just embarrassing 
 and insulting to the consumer for having this even available for purchase. 
  
  PROS - Um.... none. 
  
  CONS - Everything. 
  Graphics - They would fail even on Xbox1. 
 
  Sound - Barely noticed it was there. 
  Controls - Painful. I honestly thought my controller was broken. 
  Gameplay - ****! 
  Story 
 - Oh look, its the gruff misunderstood hero who just turns up in some place & promptly gets to 
 kills chickens and bears. Forget about it. 
  
  In closing... AVOID THIS GAME LIKE THE PLAGUE. There should be a law against being able to even 
 attempt to charge someone $100 for this pile of dung. Absolutely  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_isj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Game has some serious issues. Like the fact that your characters can"t be saved or copied to back 
 files up... lost my level 80 ranger and all gear due to hard drive fail from my xbox... Online 
 plays is finally patched enough to be enjoyable, but seriously you get more skill points than i 
 think the developers had skills for... you max out the needed ones any your other ones go building 
 up into useless ones (in my opinion) like swimming and horse back riding... when playing online 
 mounts are rare to find anyway. Single player is actually not that bad, but very dull quests that 
 have very predictable outcomes are very frequent. Voice acting is a shot somewhere between down 
 right hysterical and so bad you have projectile vomit from hearing it. So in my opinion, it's no 
 Diablo, but seriously there are worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XD4NTESINF3RNOX
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was complete and utter sh$$ which I do not understand why they even bothered making this 
 game I am so glad I rented it because i took it back within the first 5 mins of playing it. If 
 you are looking for a good rpg play either Oblivion or Kingdom under fire. This game is not even 
 worth playing for the achievements for and I am a big time achievement which is sad because i don't 
 have the time to play as much as I use to. I don't mean to be bashing this game but I really couldn't 
 find anything good too say about it. IMO if your that desperate for an rpg play oblivion and do 
 not bother even renting it because you can do a lot more with the 8 bucks you spend to rent this 
 game...... All in all this game has horrible graphics, gamplay, and horrible online play which was 
 really laggy to.. I thnk they did not try at all when they made this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tominator14
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  So this was the first game I bought after getting my X box 360 and I thought it would be pretty 
 good. It was, at the start, and I'll admit for a long time I was addicted to it. But I was not 
 addicted for any good reasons. The one thing that is good about this game is the massive world 
 to explore, but other than that it has absolutely terrible storyline, repetitive combat, enemies, 
 and music, no challenge at all, mediocre graphics, unrewarding quests and exploration, and is a 
 terrible waste of time. Once you first start playing you are overwhelmed with all of the choice 
 and customization you can make. The fighting and exploring is alright for a few hours, but after 
 that you can recite the movements in your dreams. This is the same for the music, playing the same 
 few songs over and over again. 
  The weapons: There is a extremely large variety of weapons in this game, ranging from spears to 
 daggers, and dozens of magic spells to use. But the combat and weapons have absolutely no feel 
 to them and sometimes it feels like all of the weapons are the same, just with different damage, 
 range and looks. Also, the weapon stacking system makes the game too easy. about one fifth of the 
 way through the game i went to one of the major cities and killed all the guard so I had about 
 a hundred of the same swords stacked. After that I could easy walk to up to any monster and kill 
 it with only one to five hits.
  Story: The story was non existent. Until i had been playing the game for about 45 hours I hardly 
 did any of the main quests, and then just finished them in 5 hours. The story does a horrible job 
 of drawing the player into the game, and could have just as well not been there.
  Character development: This was alright because it allowed the player to completely customize his 
 character with any skill he or she wanted. On the other hand it was very two dimensional and with 
 the leveling system and the point system the player could improve on any skill even if he never 
 used it. Many of the skills I had were never used anyways because I never had to. 
  To conclude, the game two worlds is an enjoyable game for a few hours, but in the end you will 
 find it to be disappointing and an incredible waste of time that you will regret. DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kosake
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game brand new because I honestly believed it to be a good game, hell, I bought it 
 only a week or so after it's release date. Sadly though, this game fall short of a worthy attempt 
 at fun.
  
  Mind you, I'm not one of the flamers that played the game for an hour or so then gave up. I played 
 through the game twice. Once on it's normal difficulty setting, then again on it's highest setting. 
 I found both to be a dismal joke.
  
  The quests are simply too easy, and far too short with no depth, no real reward worth the time 
 spent, and provide little entertainment. I'll admit, some of the town settings and backdrops were 
 beautiful, but a couple nice looking areas does not make up for the game.
  
  The character customization is something people rave about because it's so good. Sorry, it's not. 
 The ability to stack your weapons in order to get more damage and such is a good idea in theory, 
 but they didn't put it to good use, it has potential however.
  
  Leveling is non-existent. It's far too easy to level up far in advance for a quest, acquire all 
 the gold and gear you need, and then walk through the game.
  
  The magic system I liked a bit, I will give that to the game, it had a nice feel to it, and the 
 spells were decently set up.
  
  All in all, this game turned out to be a poor knock off of beloved games like Fable and Oblivion. 
 Think about it, there is a VERY good reason that this game is sitting in stacks at used games stores 
 selling for under $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draven986
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This "game" is a pile of horse manure. If I were gaming in the mid 1980's I might think this game 
 was revolutionary. The graphics on the box and the theatricals are far more misleading than any 
 other game I've ever played. The in-game graphics are so bad I wished I had my money back within 
 10 minutes. The character animation was utterly mechanical and had zero life-likeness to them. 
 The "AI" was a horrendous flop, if you want to call it AI. The game play made me feel like I was 
 at an arcade console pumping quarters into an original Golden Axe on LSD. What's worse is my wife 
 bought me the collector's edition. What a slap in the face. Was this game even designed for the 
 X360 or PC platforms? It would seem that it was designed for the Commodore or the Atari Jaguar... 
 Shame on the producers of the game, and shame on Microsoft for ever allowing such excrement to 
 enter the platform! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEdOktAInE
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Albeit the first 30 mins to an hr of the game is a tad difficult and boring it really starts to 
 pick up after that.
  
  I was one of the many people who played this game once and thought it absolutely sucked but about 
 2 weeks ago I had nothing else to do so I made myself figure out this game.
  
  Surprisingly. It was great. I figured out what I needed to do and started picking up quests and 
 the more I played it the more i felt intrigued by it. It has a great combat system COMPLETE customization 
 and very in depth story and game play.
  
  It does a few minor glitches like everyone has been saying but nothing honestly awful and the game 
 hasnt ever frozen up on me.
  
  Ever since I picked this game up and figured it out I havent been able to put it down.
  
  graphics 
 8/10 nothing I cant deal with.
  
  story 10/10 very complete and pretty thoughtful.
  
  Combat/Gameplay 9/10 very funn and never really bores you plenty of spells and varieties of weapons.
 
  
  Overall 9/10 great game definitely a must play for me.
  
  Enjoi XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Expensive
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds has the feel of the mid evil times, esp if you listen to the way people talk in the 
 game. may hap you enjoy eh? (couldn't resist) story line is is kinda... odd, trying to rescue your 
 sister from some evil group that want some artifact, but in the mean time you run around as the 
 mercenary, you run around and do mission for different faction ( there's about 3-4 of them) there 
 are also lost of locations to discover and fun enemy's ( FYI ogres and cyclopes are very hard! and 
 also usually in odd ball locations that you find, such as the hunters hut, i suggest summoning 
 a wyven, hell warrior, and at least 2 other beasts to fight them along with strong weapons) . the 
 map is HUGE!! but luckily if you do the mission for the horse breeder, you get a pony of yours 
 own! then you can pick up other horses, trust me i'm a pack rat, and the house has a much bigger 
 carrying capacity then you do, so load'em up! so after you get teh horse it makes travel much less 
 of a pain, but the horse is kinda a tard, but it works, i hard fun after i got use to it. i havent 
 had a chance to to play it online but i would hope it was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Have any thoughts of buying this game??? Well, do yourself and your wallet a favor and stay away 
 from it!!! I went to wal-mart to get a good game, they didnt have the one i wanted so i looked 
 into the game guide to Two Worlds. I thought "this doesnt look too bad, looks fun." yeah, right, 
 God i wish i had a time machine to go back in time and stop myself from wasting $60, thats right 
 $60, on this piece of crap. 
  
  Storyline? - sucks, I dont even think there is one. If there is, I've read better stories coming 
 from children's books when i was in Kindergarden.
  
  Graphics- suck.
  
  Sound- An old record player skipping sounds better than the sounds on this game.
  
  Controls- 
 God awful.
  
  If i can just change one mind to NOT buy this game, then I should get a free ticket to Heaven for 
 doing such a great deed. DO NOT! I REPEAT, DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!!!! I don't even know why I keep 
 calling it a "game". It's NOT a game, its a money wasting piece of crap!!! The biggest question 
 is, what was Gamespot smoking when they decided to give this crap a 7.0??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakey84
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ok This game isnt without its faults (like all next gen games) . this game has glitches and 
 the picture has not been formatted corrctly to fit the screen which does make it hard to see the 
 maps. The framerate does get choppy when in a battle with multiple combatants. Ok so thats the 
 bad stuff but these little things are only annoying for the first hour. 
  The story is deep and gets u involved with your charchter straight away. and their are hundreds 
 of other sidemissions that all tie in together in someway everything u do effects the game and 
 your world in some way. The choices are endless. 
  You have full control over the levelling up of your charachter so be warrior or mage you can do 
 exactly what u want to do. Weapons and skills are plentyfull so you can always play the game twice 
 as a different style and the storyline is so diverse you could take completely different options 
 to what u did the first time round and find yourself in a totally different game. 
  The map itself, well.... to say it is enormous is an understatment you can spend hours of fun killing 
 wolves, bears, groms, wyverns and much more without even touching a single plot or mission you 
 really can play this game your way making it an entirely different experience for every player.
 
  This game is well worth your money as sheer addictivness and great gameplay will attract you to 
 this vast world for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyg756
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game cuase it looked quite good, looking at the images here on gamespot, you would 
 think this game is well worth a shot.
  
  Well its not.
  
  Its horrible, infact if there was a award "turd of the year" this game wouldn't get it, no, it 
 would get the even worse "Mega turd of the year" becuase thats how bad it is.
  
  Frame rate is jumpy nearly all the time, WHY?!?. There would be nothing happening and my game would 
 be going crazy as if there was 50 guys on screen.
  
  The fighting is boring and easy, i could beat up really powerful enemies at a extremely low level 
 becuase as long as you stand pressing the same two buttons over and over they can't hit you and 
 its just a really long waiting game.
  
  The story is so bad its not even worth mentioning it becuase of how dumb it is. Don't buy this 
 thinking it has a good story.
  
  The voice acting in the game could have been better if they decided to just use Microsoft Sam. 
 Thinking of the main character in the first cut scene saying "Good day to you --------are you the 
 village elder?" still makes me luagh at how bad it is.
  
  Some people like this game though, you could call them insane, i would, this game does not deserve 
 anyones time and im really annoyed at Southpeak for wasting my money. They are a small developer, 
 but that does not justify them handing out a game that is pure trash. 
  
  Do yourself a favor and stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  When two worlds first came out last year nobody really took it that seriously they thought that 
 it was a joke and a complete waste of time. Now the game has been divided into two sides those 
 that still don't take it seriously and those that thought that it did what it needed to do to satisfy 
 you and then after that it never needed to be played through again. But that's what everyone else 
 thinks I think differently i think that two worlds was good while it lasted BUT i also think that 
 there wasn't anything incredibly unique or stand outish about it.
  
  This game didn't do anything to revamped or reinvent rpgs or set a revolutionary trend it didn't 
 change anything about how you fight or how you travel and buy or find armor, weapons and items. 
 But.. it did some things that were interesting to some degree but they weren't enough to save this 
 game from doom. For instance it did take on a rather unique way of how you equipped those armor 
 sets, items and weapons and magic spells and they did have cool names for them but none of this 
 stuff was cool looking they all looked ordinary and bland looking.
  
  Two Worlds does have its flaws that considerably are noticeable but so are its innovations of what's 
 there. Those do try to do something with this game but there's just a tad too much of flaws then 
 innovations that make it what it is, and that overshadows the games true potential making it not 
 as good as it should have been or worth keeping and playing over and over. This is only good for 
 a rental and that's enough to just try it but don't expect anything overly innovative to be in 
 this game to make it shine or stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxboxlive
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  this put me of rite at the start with a jumpy char poor voice acting and bad gameplay this review 
 is going to be short..
  a game where you take control of a merc who's sister get kiddnaped i soon noticed that the char 
 i had made looked noting like how i made him. But i contiued playing until i got killed by a stuply 
 over powerful monster. Coming back to life i was killed again and again by the same monster.
  that was the gameplay know to the storyline... well actuly with no map i could see i did'nt go far.
 
  This game is just horible wasted my 20 4.0 WELL SINCE I MUST DO A REVIEW FOR 800 WORDS
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  ---------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stubsdazomby
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  
  By now we should all be familiar with the constant bashing of Two Worlds. While I think that most 
 comments about the game are a little on the harsh side, they aren't all that unjustified, there 
 are a lot of serious flaws with Two Worlds. However, if you REALLY enjoy open world rpgs and look 
 at the game's few positive aspects, there's a chance you might actually derive some honest-to-goodness 
 fun from it.
  
  Let's look at what makes this game fun amidst all it's serious shortcomings. First off, the game 
 world is huge, comparable to Oblivion's. Plenty of towns and houses are sprinkled throughout it. 
 Also, there are some interesting and diverse enemies to be found in the game. There's also no shortage 
 of loot either. It really depends, however, if you can get into this type game or not. If you can, 
 that is what really will make this game fun at points. 
  
  Well, here is why Two Worlds is so vehemently hated amongst many gamers. The worst thing wrong 
 with the game (in my opinion) is the god-awful story. It starts out very simply: your sister is 
 kidnapped by a mysterious cult and you must rescue her. This simpleness quickly... stays constant 
 throughout the game. Nothing takes you by surprise; the first few hours into the game you will 
 figure out the one curveball the developer attempts to throw at you. Plus the ending sucks. Sorry 
 for being so blunt with my previous statement, but other words fail to describe it's, well, sheer 
 level of suck. 
  Now, the combat system isn't as broken as some people say, in fact it is fairly useable. The biggest 
 problem with it is that you never feel completly in control with your attacks, which can lead to 
 many quick deaths in a game where, many a time, one hit will kill you. 
  The graphics are pretty mediocre as well. While there have been worse, they are definitely not 
 very pretty to look at.
  Also, the online is not at all what it could have been. There are deathmatch games, which are very 
 poorly designed with debilitating lag throughout. What is disappointing, however, is the mmo-esqe 
 games that could have made plenty of people overlook the flaws of this game. These games fail because 
 of the same two reasons the deathmatch games fail, poor design and unbearable lag.
  The dialog and voice acting in Two Worlds is so inexplicably bad that it is terribly funny at times. 
 You will literaly find yourself dying of laughter at the utterly braindead things you find your 
 character spewing out of his all-too-big piehole.
  
  Like I said, it takes a special kind of love for these kind of rpgs to have fun with Two Worlds. 
 The sad thing is this game could have been so much more, only to be weighed down by flaws that 
 could have been avoided only if more care was put into making this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterfarticus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game does have its problems, like being choppy as hell, glitchy, (being stuck in the terrain 
 as a major one) and being a bit too short, but I still had a lot of fun with this game.
  
  It is nothing like Oblivion aside from the fact that you can have total freedom. Two Worlds is 
 more like the Gothic game series than Elder Scrolls. I would say if you want a Fantasy Grand Theft 
 Auto, this would be your best bet.
  
  If you do not like mmos than you will not like the multiplayer. The multiplayer is more inline 
 with that of Guild Wars. I would say, if you can not stand anything but a perfect frame rate or 
 the occasional horrid line of dialogue, stay away from this game. If you do not mind those problems, 
 try this game out. I for one heart fully enjoyed it. 
  
  Also on a side note, I hope you know middle English. The people in this game speak as if they were 
 from the 16th century. Although I personally thought the dialogue was good, the voice acting is 
 not. So I just put on subtitles and play with the speech off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperCowMan24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds has, in theory, most of what I want in a classic hack and slash RPG: Lots of character 
 customization, an enormous world to explore, thousands of items and spell sets, and multi player 
 co-op!. I've never met someone who had a character anything like mine. Looks GREAT on paper doesn't 
 it?
  
  The Good:
  Character depth. Lots of stuff to do to make yourself unique.
  Big World. You will probably never get that achievement to explore the whole world. (I didn't)
 
  Lots of enemies.
  
  The Bad.
  Looks like a last-gen game.
  Buggy. Game breaking bugs freeze the game and end quests.
  Lag. Lots of lag. Even with the patch 
 and a few debug mode quick fixes (IE Turning off grass and shadows)
  Multi player just doesn't work.
  Combat animations are silly.
  Voice acting makes you want 
 to peel your ear drums out.
  Uninspired quests.
  I could go on and on...
  
  Despite ALL of this I had fun. Sometime after I got to the desert in my heavily upgraded armor 
 on a horse that looked like its parents were a dragon and a goat I realized that I had been playing 
 for a LONG time, and I wasn't bored. Killing stuff is fun, leveling up is fun, and exploring is 
 fun. It's buggy, but it gets through. It isn't game of the year material, hell it isn't even worthy 
 of a "games I would really recommend people play at least once", but if you see it in the bargain 
 bin and you have nothing better to do, yea... go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkprince_78
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Well... this "Oblivion on steroids" game plays more like it's a teen idolizing Oblivion. It has 
 a long way to go before it gets to THAT level. Having said that, it is still an entertaining game 
 if you play it for what it is and not what it wants to be. It has the ominous and lofty main quest, 
 then a myriad of side quests to double the play time. The game has (or had) alot of real potential, 
 but ultimately feels unfinished...
  The graphics can be great at times, and then terrible at times (pretty much any time it's in mostion... choppy 
 choppy choppy) . I remember when I first saw the pix I thought the visuals surpassed Oblivion! Too 
 bad it doesn't translate to reality (and in motion) like that... not even close. Still.... all in 
 all, they are still next-gen graphics and I'm sure having an HDTV helps (too bad that's not in 
 my budget!!! *laughs) .
  The sound is.... there. The voices, while pretty bad, actually add some charm to the game to make 
 it stand out. Kind of ironic. Music... um.. is there music? I can't remember. The title screen song 
 is nice. Sound effects... not so great. 
  One thing that I (and from what I read, most others) enjoy is the weapons and armor combining. 
 That's cool. It gives good incentive to keep looking for loot... and there are ALOT of different 
 varieties (which is one thing this game beats Oblivion in hands down) . There are also a great deal 
 of different spells; however, most of them absolutely suck (as in being so weak they are pretty 
 much worthless) ! I still enjoy summoning a big bad ass looking demon to fight by my side... it's 
 just too bad that this demon's strength and attacks are about as useful as having a farmer fighting 
 by my side with a damn rake. *sighs
  Ok.... so I'm tired of writing. In summation, if you like the Elder Scrolls games or Western fantasy 
 games in general, you will probably enjoy this game. If you are a casual player that enjoys games 
 with high production values (like Oblivion) and arn't a huge fan of hack n' slash games in general, 
 you will probably be disappointed by this. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBIvey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I read a lot of bad reviews about this game, but found it to be a nice diversion from Oblivion. 
 If you take Two Worlds' combat engine and put it with the Oblivion game, I would be in heaven. 
 My only real complaint was the font size was too hard to read. Not everyone will be playing in 
 high def, and I know that is where I need to be, but there are priorities in life, and I would 
 like to be able to read my game text. I have noticed this problem with a few other newer games, 
 so I can't hold it against Two Worlds too much. Overall, I was not disappointed in the game, it 
 could have been more complex and longer, but I enjoyed playing it.
  I really liked the variety of weapons we could chose from, and the fighting styles each offered. 
 The ability to advance your equipment by merging similar pieces was a nice touch. As I got to the 
 higher levels, I found some of the wandering monsters to be more a nuisance than anything else, 
 but the rapid transit system was first rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenBenBen93
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Well its not as bad as people make it out to be i loved to kill the dragon and most of the enemies 
 ect it is now very out date but sadly it did seam out dated when it came out but that isn't all 
 bad. But i hate when people who only play FPS or racing game get it ad say it is crap its not 1.0 
 rating its just people don't have a good rpg seeker for instance is seen when oblivion came out 
 an review saying is was s*** but people should rent it before buying adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd 
 adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet 
 dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd 
 adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet dsfadfd eafdfd adsad dfdeet 
 dsfadfd eafdfdzvc \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drkarim
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Tow worlds is a game I have been waiting to tell people about. The reason is so I could tell them 
 that they should probably use this game as toilet paper if they ever run out. To Explain more broadly 
 about it however is what i must do to tell you not to get this game. Lets start with the world 
 itself it is trying to be a game that wants to shoot sixty frames per secound however it shoots 
 nothing so the world is full of glitches and loading screens. Second The gameplay system is pretty 
 interesting at first however most do not help in adding a full experience to the game combat wise. 
 Online play- horrible and i have a 15mbps connection its laggy and extremely boring. This game 
 overall is an attempt to mimic Oblivion which by the way has awesome voiceovers and hours of storyline 
 gameplay in which you can do at your own pace . Anyways back to Two worlds, the storyline is dreadfully 
 boring especially because of the mono tone and terrible voiceovers. However the combining weapons 
 to make better weapons and the expansive list of armor would have made a great addition to any 
 other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InflictedOwned
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  The game overall is fairly disappointing. It is similar in scope to Oblivion and Morrowind, but 
 completely lacks a main quest. The main quest is comprised of five fetch quests, and can be finished 
 in probably 5-6 hours. Though, there are tons of side quests and a large world to explore, which 
 is essentially what the game is about. This allows for a great deal of freedom, but nothing really 
 holding everything together. At times you feel like you are just wandering for the sake of wandering.
 
  
  Difficulty is also really weird. The game starts out being extremely hard, to the point of having 
 to hit and run even the most basic enemies. Though, once you get into the higher levels (30 and 
 up) with good equipment, there are very few enemies that last longer than a swing or two of your 
 sword. There should have been a better balance here. 
  
  One good thing is the massive amount of items and equipment. You constantly are finding new stuff 
 and can be combined to create even better stuff. There are also a lot of spells and a wide variety 
 of the types of spells. The leveling up system is also nice because of many skill options, though 
 some of the options aren't too useful in practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Positive
  - You might have though that this game would be the next Oblivion
  - Side quests are good
  - There are more things to do than you could imagine
  - Looks good
 
  - A wide open world
  
  Negative
  - Frame rate is seriously annoying
  - Looks unfinished in many ways
  - Plot is over simplistic
  - Online is laggy
  
  Those 
 who though this was gonna be the next Oblivion, you were wrong. Still there are some things you 
 might enjoy in Two Worlds like the wide variety of things. There are lots of side quests along 
 with a simple story. There are weapons and armor too, obviously. How can you go and fight without 
 a sword or armor? Though don't go expect too much from this game, 'cos over all, this game is mediocre. 
 
  
  The game is a third-person role-playing. Combat is simple and straightforward and occasionally 
 becomes repetitive and sometimes feels tedious. The difficulties in Two Worlds can be very frustrating 
 to newcomers to this genre, feels too challenging and harsh fully hard. But you get the hang of 
 it eventually, if you keep playing it. Character customization is poor. You can only create a human 
 character and there are no other races whatsoever. The story is overly simple. Though it's a decent 
 story there are many side quests which will keep you busy. Presentation is poor and feels familiar 
 to other games. The game puts a lot of characters on screen and the environments, most of them 
 are good, but still the game feels and is unfinished. And the voice acting is just bad, if not 
 awful. Other than the voice acting, the background sound seems good, well better than the horrible 
 voice acting. 
  
  About the combat system, you will mostly use the dodge button when appears to dodge the enemy's 
 attack. There are some minor glitches and bugs here and there. The frame rate is pretty choppy. 
 Almost with every movement. Online on the 360 is buggy and laggy, it seemed than online wasn't 
 made for it. Graphics aren't so bad but some unfinished animations mar the game. 
  
  You might say it was harsh giving Two Worlds a 5.5. Yes, I know I wrote more good things than bad, 
 but at first it can be frustrating and you can enjoy a bit of time on it, it's a worthwhile, rental 
 at best. Though the frame rate, online and voice acting are bad, the side quests and other things 
 make this game shine with other games with the same score. If you hoped for another Oblivion you 
 might go disappointed, newcomers really shouldn't bother with Two Worlds because it's too frustrating 
 and takes some time to learn controls and other minor important things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phynixblack
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is sad, I had another game in mind will wandering the predictable and over-sized 
 environment. Runescape. This game seriously reminded me of it.
  
  I have one very important note to make, this game is absolutely worthless online. It's XBOX Live 
 game play is completely broken and not worth playing. You will literally find yourself cornered 
 by trash talking youth that do nothing but run around using a duplication glitch to boost their 
 characters way pas the point of anyone caring. The enemies are immortal until you cheat due to 
 your damage being next to nothing, even the weaker enemies in the easiest area has over 350+ health, 
 and you are lucky to actually hit 1 damage on it until level 50. 
  
  One player mode is not without it's fun, but got too boring and actually managed to lull me too 
 sleep. I can't find the appeal. It is either hard or too easy. No real full in-between. 
  
  Personally all I end up seeing is an online mode in desperate need of some fixing/banning and a 
 story mode not worth playing all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reilorne
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  The demo was a complete mess. I had hoped there was a possibility they would polish up the game 
 when they released it for $60. Unfortunately the game seemed to acquire more glitches in that period. 
 The character moves funky, he swings his sword like he's never used one, and the most redeeming 
 quality of the game is whistling for a horse you don't have in the middle of creatures beating 
 the pixelated blood out of you. In comparison Oblivion destroys this game as far as graphical quality 
 - I wish I could stand playing the game longer than 10 minutes to find out if there is any real 
 depth. Like I said, I purchased this game as cheap as I could so my roommate and I could get together 
 and laugh at the nonsense. I can't figure out which is funnier: Bears roaring at me over my shoulder 
 while I talk to NPCs or the fact that your hero is a Zap  who whistles 
 for a mystery horse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picodill
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  The game overall is fairly disappointing. It is similar in scope to Oblivion and Morrowind, but 
 completely lacks a main quest. The main quest is comprised of five fetch quests, and can be finished 
 in probably 5-6 hours. Though, there are tons of side quests and a large world to explore, which 
 is essentially what the game is about. This allows for a great deal of freedom, but nothing really 
 holding everything together. At times you feel like you are just wandering for the sake of wandering.
 
  
  Difficulty is also really weird. The game starts out being extremely hard, to the point of having 
 to hit and run even the most basic enemies. Though, once you get into the higher levels (30 and 
 up) with good equipment, there are very few enemies that last longer than a swing or two of your 
 sword. There should have been a better balance here. 
  
  One good thing is the massive amount of items and equipment. You constantly are finding new stuff 
 and can be combined to create even better stuff. There are also a lot of spells and a wide variety 
 of the types of spells. The leveling up system is also nice because of many skill options, though 
 some of the options aren't too useful in practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a testament to bad RPG making. In this game, the player takes control of a simple 
 warrior who starts the game looking for his missing sister. Like most RPGs in the process of looking 
 for your sister, you get caught up in a massive, dark and sinister story involving you saving the 
 world from impending doom. In this case, doom involves preventing the orcs/goblins whatever you 
 want to call them from resurrecting their "God" king. This is where the "two worlds" comes in, 
 the dark side and the good side. In theory, who you fight for determines the outcome. IT doesn't 
 really work like that, but thats the idea. Anyway, thats not where the faults in this game lie. 
 
  The faults in this game lie in the threads that hold it all together. In other words, its a failure 
 and a disappointment from the start. Not only does the character move badly, with appalling fighting 
 moves from enemies, allies and the main character, but the dialogue and voice acting is atrocious. 
 Things like your warrior singing "its raining its pouring, the old man is snoring" when it starts 
 to rain make you want to throttle the game makers on the spot. The combat is clumsy and lame. You 
 can buy and unlock moves by going to certain AI in the game and being trained. The moves however 
 all look very bad. While they would look good if the player was in a parade, showing off the way 
 he can swing his blade, its looks stupid in the fighting context where the character looks like 
 he is just doing tricks that accidentally collide with a foe. 
  Graphically, visually, and aurally the game feels poorly made. There is no sound effects (at least 
 none worth noting) and the graphics are hardly next gen. The enemies are unoriginal, predictable 
 and never much fun to fight. Horse riding looks like you are galloping lopsided on a camel with 
 no legs and the "fighting from horseback" (which can only be done when standing still) looks like 
 a sack of potatoes on the horses back slumps backwards and forwards. Also, when using your bow, 
 you cannot move. It is that dumb. The game does have one redeeming feature. . they included dragons. 
 Despite the fact that they are badly done, move like planks and are easy to kill. They included 
 them nonetheless. 
  That said, I have very little time for this game, and even less time reviewing it. It is a shambles 
 that leads consumers into believing it is something genuinely good. It is far from being remotely 
 adequate. One to avoid. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llyte_1up
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  If you're thinking Two Worlds is another Oblivion in the slightest fashion, then turn around, walk 
 the other way and don't look back. The only thing that's impressive here is how the game manages 
 to utterly flatline on every account trying to compare to Oblivion.
  
  The game starts you off with nothing. No beginning to the story other than some chick disappears. 
 That's right, you don't even know who she is but she disappears and now you have to find her..... 
 Sounds compelling huh? It's sad because the story doesn't get any better either.
  
  The gameplay is bad partly because the controls are sloppy but mainly because of performance issues. 
 Sure there's seamless transition between indoors and outdoors (unlike Oblivion) BUT, it's completely 
 disregarded because you can't walk twenty feet without the game crashing.
  
  Oblivion's visuals are some on the best, period. The visuals in Two Worlds aren't the worst but 
 there are better looking games on the original XBOX. The character models are terrible and when 
 they speak they look even more rediculous. The lighting effects are descent aside from the flames 
 from your torch which look like something from a 1970s cartoon.
  
  Sound is the most pathetic aspect in Two Worlds. The voice acting is terrifying. Every character, 
 including the main character, sounds like they were doing community service rather than being paid 
 for it. The combat sound effects are also horrible as they'll remind you of those 1960s Batman 
 tv shows. It's pretty bad when you're hacking up a gobln with a longsword and it sounds like punching 
 from a Super Nintendo boxing game.
  
  The saddest part is I only spent thirty-five minutes playing this game and I was able to write 
 this review on it. I consider myself luckier than most because I didn't pay a dime for it and wasted 
 less than an hour of my life on it. I'm not saying Two Worlds is a complete waste of time, but 
 it is disastrous and anyone who plays it will find themselves looking around inside the case for 
 a small coupon saying "SORRY, JUST KIDDING. Here's your money back and a free copy of Oblivion."
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: breakitapart
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I admit- starting out the game you can disparage the graphics refresh rate, the various bugs, the 
 hokey dialogue -- but man after a few hours it is very addicting. For those gamers that can enjoy 
 a game even if it is buggy then you will have a good time with it. If you demand perfection then 
 look elsewhere. Hint (Save often) The stackable armor, weapons, magic are just plain cool- the 
 teleporting around the world is great, the hording of items onto horses is a nice feature, and 
 the soundtrack is wonderful. I would recommend this game to those people who liked Baldur's Gate: 
 DA, Champions of Norrath, ect... this however has a lot more depth to the role playing elements. 
 Top down view, Action RPG, with some really really great ideas that will hopefully be implemented 
 better in the next installment. Fun game- don't be a critic and play it with an open mind that 
 it's got it's downs but also has major ups! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fear_Oblivion
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I sold this game to my friend full price one day after I bought it for 35$ from Gamestop used and 
 this game sucked!!!! My friend actually likes it and I didn't sell it back to Gamestop because 
 I didn't want to let my friend down. Anyways, the graphics suck, the gameplay sucks, the voices 
 suck, the combat sucks, and!!!!!!!!..... Not to mention.... It lags in single player (Sometimes) ... My 
 friend says just sometimes even though they came out with that patch or whatever. This game is 
 the worst. Shoot! I don't even know why I'm calling it a game because its not. The character customization 
 blows and everything does too! The main quest isn't entertaining at all!!! DO NOT GET THIS GAME! 
 GET OBLIVION!!!! If I could, it would be 0/0. I don't even give it a one. Don't waste your money 
 on it. Hopefully 2 will be better although I doubt it. This isn't "constructive critisism", this 
 is the truth. I only spent 2 hours on it. Then I called my friend he sayed he wanted to try it, 
 he did, he liked it, he bought it from me for 40$. So..... woot. Lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obsession55
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  well im only gunna write a short review about this steaming pile of over used graphics and Ai its 
 just like Oblivion but not as good you get to ride a horse but thats about all that is fun you 
 make potions and stuff but basicly its the best MMO you have ever played with out the other people 
 gets boring in a huge world all alone and the Ai is over used the horse should go were you wanna 
 go its a freaking video game not horse racing. Not very impresive proud i got it for free tho good 
 if you need something to do like if you cant play WoW but i would recommend Pokemon over this but 
 any way keep going and keep riding oh and i did like the armor in this game really cool but the 
 quest are bull sh**.
  
  
  its going 
 going going going going going 
 
  
  
  ~Obsession55 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anatobia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds gives an excellent game experience for those who can stand several lacks. This game 
 has much to offer to this kind of player. Some people won't have enough patience to discover the 
 hidden jewel in Two Worlds and that's why it's so underated. If you appreciate ambitious RPGs, 
 seek out Two Worlds. It won't make you forget about Oblivion, but Reality Pump's take on heroic 
 fantasy adventure is good enough to consume many, many hours of your spare time. Even though there 
 are some flaws here, especially with the 360 version of the game, this is a solid role-playing 
 experience. ______ ___ ________ ______ _________ ______ ___ _____ ______ ___________ _______________ 
 _________ _____ _____ ___ ____ ______ __________ ______ __________ _____ ___ ____ _ ____________ 
 _____ ____ ________ ____ _______ _______ ____ ___ _______ ___ _______ ________ ________ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poisonshroom
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, TW isn't a terrible game, well, yeah, it is. It's a **** overblown, blatant, no good 
 regard for taste rip off of TES4: O. It's nearly EXACTLY the same, except a lot sh*ttier
  
  let's put it like this: the character even WALKS like he just crapped his pants. The voice acting 
 is amateur at best, his eyes are crossed. The storyline is so bad, like, they got  
 kinda bad, TERRIBLE. It's so bad, I can't believe I wasted 50$ on this pile of dog feces! Like, 
 it's that one game, where everyone else is like "eh, it's okay" about, but you just think it's 
 terrible?? That's how I feel about TW. It SUCKS.
  
  Bottom line, if you're in to having the same feeling as getting your nipples twisted as done to 
 your eyes and ears, then this game is for you. It's torture to watch the damm intro movie, let 
 alone the game itself! It's so bad, they're barely anymore words to describe it's disregard for 
 an average quality game. It's **** I hate it. i want to do to this game, what that one site did 
 to all the copies of Shaq-Fu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartinx3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I LUUVV this game it is awsome there is so much to do its like a real world the i love doing quests 
 with friends or jumping of pvp mode or the new maps and the weather is realistic althought the 
 graphics are not great but the stuff u can do makes up for it i recommend this game to anyone who 
 loves great rpgs if u start actually playing the story then u will just get sucked in because it 
 gets addicting after awile and there is so many quests you can do and different animals in the 
 world groms you can learn magic spells steal, kill or just be friendly great game I cant wait for 
 there new realse the Two Worlds Temptation also the difficulty is good if u want a challenge go 
 the the hardest mode that they have also you get to shape the future of the world you can eather 
 help the good guy or the bad guys they give you so many different ways you can go so its not like 
 other games were u have to do this u have to be the good guy you can be eather nuetral or good 
 or bad you choose not them but the most important part of its is just to have fun like i said this 
 is a really cool game i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome except graphic the story line is very good 
  and and you will have to train your skill and level up very good
  he comes here because his sister 
 has been kidnapped for some months ago and he have to speak first with gandohar and then the funniest 
 begins you can do many things you can play the main quests and do some others quest from many many 
 different people and the end of the game is on your hand well i mean it's how you do your choises 
 like with who will you fight and against who that's another thing that makes the game so good 
 
  and you can enchant your swords with crystals and more things and you can use magic well the game 
 is very very very huge but because it's so huge so the graphic is'nt good well i really dont care 
 very much about the graphic most at the storyline and the gameplay and in the games some towns 
 name is little arabic like qudinar and the dezerts name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWarpLynx
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Think twice before renting this game. If you rent it, think some more if you feel like buying it. 
 If you decide to buy it you may have been put into a state of hypnosis or mind inducing agent whether 
 chemical or subliminal. I received this game as a gift and the person who bought it was robbed. 
 I do not care whether I hurt someone including the creator (s) if I say that it is a crime to produce 
 and sell this game. Two Worlds has a more or less interesting story. So it should be a book, not 
 a video game. But as a video game it is plagued with graphics, voice acting, sound, controls and 
 freezes that are so bad that I know the game must be either an insult, or prank, or experiment 
 on players of RPGs. If you have a strong desire to feel bored than it is a good idea to spend $30 
 to $60 on this game. If you have a strong desire to run from boredom than whenever you see this 
 game start running. I checked for three online walk through and none had much to say about the 
 game and the side quests. That is a direct result of how poorly developed this game is. How could 
 Gamespot give a score of 7 to this game and then give the same score to a great game such as Lost 
 Odyssey even if they rated LO based on a copy that was unfinished? Or a lower score of 6 to Kingdom 
 Under Fire: Circle of Doom, which, although it is full of repetition of repetitions, is still entertaining 
 from time to time? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocketdanman
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 31, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I saw this game and I thought it would be like another Oblivion. But I was poorly mistaken. It 
 sucks. I have seen the other reviews and I do not know what some of these guys have been smoking. 
 Obviously something good to make them think that this was a good game. Terrible graphics, major 
 loading times and lag and I could not even open the gate in the first level. WTF? I expected at 
 least some good graphics to make up for the flawed controls but, I was also mistaken there as well. 
 It was constanly freezing. Another thing I noticed was the dialogue. It sounded like it was made 
 in a basement and the writer was some stupid Dungeons and Dragons nerd who had no idea on how to 
 write a story. I do not recommend this game to anyone and the publishers should be severely punished 
 for wasting my time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  this game has been completely overlooked by the critics. the gameplay will keep you busy for a 
 long time. the graphics in this game are pretty damn good, especially for an open world rpg like 
 this one. there is virtually no loading through out the game so you can just keep playing on and 
 on. this game is definitely worth checking out if you will remain open minded and not compare it 
 to oblivion. i would actually like to see more titles of this game in the future as it is definitely 
 a diamond in the rough and has generally recieved bad reviews from every critic except this one. 
 if your an rpg man that likes to explore the open world games then check this out. the only dissapointing 
 thing this game offers is the ending. there are actually two versions of the ending a good and 
 an evil one however both leave you dissapointed. the game itself makes you feel accomplished after 
 you beat it and you recieve a lot of achievement points for all your explorations and finishing 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds can only be described as an Oblvion clone. While it has captured the scale and depth 
 that Oblivion possesed, a lot of minor annoyances hold this game back, a lot.
  
  The main issue of the game is the interface, the messy PDA system and broken missions panel make 
 the game frustratingly tedious and complicated to navigate, having to flick back to the map and 
 check which direction your going in. Mini-Map? We don't need no workin' mini-map! said the South 
 Peak developers. The Devs must be on some diffrent planet, since there might as well be no mini-map.
 
  
  There ae numorous other little anoyances, one would be the horrific voice acting. You'll be constantly 
 plagued by a monotoned half-wit commenting on the weather. and it's not just the main character, 
 oh no, it's EVERY NPC IN THE WHOLE GAME. Even the orcs seemed to have had a cheap voice actor.
 
  
  Terrible SFX aside, the game sports a huge gameworld, filled with lush forests, baron landscapes 
 and beautiful villages and towns. At times you'll thank the awful map just so you have an excuse 
 to go trotting off into the black areas of the map.
  
  On most of the ads, it says that Two Worlds has a unique combat and magic system. The combat system 
 is unique enough, but the magic is more like a cheap auto-aim. Combat consists of three buttons. 
 X draws your sword/stave/bow. RT swings/fires it and B will make you jump back to avoid attacks. 
 
  
  Enemies aren't varied that much. Animal and creature textures look almost 2D at times and they 
 rotate the same pattern, again and again. It's easy enough to kill a bear at level one, hit, and 
 when it rears to attack, jump back, repeat. The process gets old after a while. Foretunatly the 
 huge game world doesn't have enough creatures and bad guys.
  
  The story is confusing at times, and the map interface really does't help.
  
  Overall, I think 
 only hardcore RPG fans should purchase Two Worlds. It's ejoyable enough, just make sure Oblivion 
 is out of sight.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daidantai
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I thought I was really going to love this game. With all of the 
 stuff that I read about it, I really thought I would enjoy it. But no even 10 min. in the game 
 that I already want to kill myself. I mean come on; how in the hell were those voice actors hired. 
 They sound worse than Barbra Streisand dipped in acid. I couldn't even believe my ears. From the 
 first syllable up to the last line, I think my ears bled a little.
  
  But away from the audio, I just moved on like I didn't heard anything and went on with the story. 
 From there I only have one thing to say; WTF!!! Not only that the audio suck, but the game play, 
 story and camera sucks as well. The quest reminded me a bit of Oblivion but all that I keep doing 
 was going to point A to point B, then back to point A, and then C, and again A with no reward.
 
  
  I will end my review here because I don't even want to get started on the horse physics.
  
 
  I conclusion, this game deserves to be burned and raped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  After Oblivion, everyone wanted to play the next closest game to it. So whenever news trickled 
 about Two Worlds, Oblivion fanatics drooled and couldn't wait to get ahold of the game. In everyone's 
 eyes, this was Oblivion with online play. Oh were we wrong. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are not too bad here. Well, in a sense. The lighting looks great and the landscape 
 looks pretty, but the character models almost made me vomit several times. Add on to that the game 
 suffers from some serious frame rate issues, collision detection, as well as loading issues. If 
 you thought Oblivion made your 360 stress, than you haven't played Two Worlds. And whats funny 
 about the whole thing? Two Wolrds doesn't have as much content, nore graphical greatness like Oblivion 
 did, and Oblivion never stressed your 360 THIS bad. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY here is broken. Honestly, there were some parts that had me going; "Well thats pretty 
 sweet", but the majority of the time, I was too busy trying to get ahold of my spaz horse or killing 
 everything in sight due to the fact that whenever someone spoke, I cringed at the horrid voice 
 acting to the point where I would unsheath my sword and demolish an entire village. To top that 
 off, I had troubles wondering why my guy was obviously taking hits, but there was no detection. 
 The sword and staff combat is pretty well done, but you occassionally hiccup during battles. I 
 do give credit to this game for immersing you in a huge world with limitless opportunities. Add 
 on to that you got a cool alchemy screen that lets you create potions, combine armors and weapons 
 to upgrade them yourself. Its fairly deep. BUT its flawed with a vomit inducing setup that wil 
 get you screwed up alot of the time. I did find times where I got semi addicted to it as if I was 
 playing Diablo, but then there were times where I just flat out thought to myself; "Why the hell 
 are you wasting your time on this."
  
  THE SOUND as I stated earlier is horrendous. The music isn't bad luckily, but dear God the voiceovers 
 are terrible. How do people NOT realize how bad it sounds? It doesn't help that the main character 
 is one of the worst, considering you got to represent him and hear him talk the most. 
  
  OVERALL Two Worlds really did have potential. But the game is clearly unfinished and broken overall. 
 The sound is terrible, and the gameplay (and programming) needs major work. It seriously did have 
 major potential, and follows the lines of Diablo, moreso than Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rootATdarkstar
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  The advertisements preceding Two Worlds promised an Oblivion-esque epic of Oblivion-esque proportions. 
 While Two Worlds does have an amazingly large scope and enough content therein to keep you playing 
 all night long for days on end, a number of various issues and glitches will frequently make you 
 question whether you want to. 
  
  Like all open-ended RPG's these days, Two Worlds begins by allowing you to customize the nameless 
 oaf that you play as throughout the course of the game. The first thing you'll probably notice 
 about the Two Worlds avatar creation system is that the avatar you're creating is ugly as all hell. 
 The character models are blocky, clunky, and altogether very wooden and emotionless. The creation 
 system itself is passable, but then again, the same can be said of a D-.
  
  The story begins with a brief scene of accidental comedy, wherein the hero's sister falls off the 
 back of the horse the two of you are sharing. While you look for a cozy place to hunker down for 
 the night, your sister busies herself by being abducted by a gent in angry-looking black armor. 
 The game begins a number of months later. We take control of the hero as he continues his search 
 for his sister.
  
  Good combat is the quintessential ingredient in a hack and slash game. But the combat in Two Worlds 
 is not good. It's downright shallow. You attack using the right trigger and you block using the... 
 ha ha ha. Got you! There is no block button (alternately: the block button is a lie!) . Instead, 
 pressing the B button causes your hero to jump about 3 feet backwards like he just stepped in dog 
 poop. While it may sound preferential to simply avoid all attacks rather than block them, in practice 
 its... odd. There is an auto-parry system that you can drop skill points into (gained by leveling 
 up and discovering new areas) , but having no interaction with the blocking system really does separate 
 the player from the character.
  
  The world of Two Worlds is extremely large, but unfortunately, there is not much to look at in 
 terms of landscape diversity. The same bland road, grass, and rock textures remain consistent throughout 
 the entire expanse. And navigating these same-y roads and grasslands isn't made any easier by the 
 awkward map system. Quest goals are denoted with a colorful dot that is placed in your minimap 
 upon receiving the quest. Unfortunately, when many quests involve going to the same town or foothill, 
 the only way to be sure which goal is which is to keep checking your map in the menu. The atrocious 
 menu system in Two Worlds sometimes remembers you were on the map sub-screen and opens right up 
 to the map when you pause. But other times it forgets. I grew really tired of navigating through 
 the menu to check my map. And while we're on the subject of the menu system, let's talk inventory. 
 Two Worlds was clearly a pupil at the Diablo school of inventory management. It employs a grid 
 based personal inventory, with the only striking difference from Diablo being that you can scroll 
 left and right (albeit slowly) through the contents of the screen. Now remember this, because if 
 you like to collect alchemy ingredients, they will clutter your inventory, and you'll find yourself 
 scrolling through this ridiculous inventory every time you want to see if the new sword you just 
 found is better than the one you're using. The constant scrolling wore on my nerves after awhile 
 until I all but abandoned the collection of alchemy ingredients.
  
  The alchemy system itself is fun, with some ingredients forming expected results (two ingredients 
 that grant lightning resistance yielding a potion that grants lightning resistance) and some forming 
 completely odd results (two ingredients that increase fire damage, though one to a lesser degree, 
 yielding a potion that increases strength) . I don't remember the specifics, but the alchemical 
 element of "wtf" was definitely welcome and made me feel particularly awesome when I mixed a particularly 
 potent potion.
  
  All in all, Two Worlds is a decent but very flawed game. When it came out, there were severe framerate 
 issues, but multiple patches have lessened their severity. Despite its many shortcomings, I found 
 myself looking forward to my sessions with Two Worlds. Hacking and slashing is just as fun as it 
 ever was, and if you're willing to overlook its numerous issues, Two Worlds is a salvageable hack 
 and slash experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordcarnage2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a game worth playing. I haven't played it in a few months because of newer games, 
 but I will be returning to this game very soon. As of the last time played the game had some bugs. 
 Jerky graphics and the game locked up every once in awhile. I have heard a patch is out there to 
 fix so of the problems. Besides that the game is great. The story is pretty interesting, and there 
 are tons of side quest. It can't touch Oblivion but it is worth playing. There are a lot of weapons 
 and armor to go around. You have total control the class of the class of your character, weapon 
 and armor. The world is huge and there are lots of creatures to kill. There is no level cap (which 
 is always a plus) . If you liked Oblivion you will definitely like this game. So in view; afew bugs, 
 good story, lots to do, and total custom of character and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiraxander
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  First off i had this game reserved and was looking forward to it for awhile. I'm a big fan of Oblivion 
 so this was looking to be the next best thing. But when i actually got it how surprised and disappointed 
 I was. The menus were confusing and hard to navigate. But even there when I killed a bear it floated 
 in mid air. Movement was also hampered by glitches like the dvd was skipping. So I stopped playing 
 and came back to it months later to find a game I've come to love. SouthPeak released and update 
 that seems to fix the a lot of the glitches, all tho there is still some frame rate issues. The 
 story is so-so and doesn't hold your attention. Combat is fun and engaging. After you get the handle 
 on the menu system the game opens up more. The ability to combine weapons and armor is a welcome 
 addition to the genre. Voice acting is sometimes flat but there seems to be a good amount of different 
 voices. Music is so-so never taking anything away but never adding to the atmosphere ether. Over 
 all id say this is a fun game that could have been great but has been reduced to ok due to glitches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 1
Date: May 14, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Its really too bad games can't be rated a 0. Yes, I feel that strongly that this game is total 
 and utter GARBAGE!
  
  Okay, let's start where the game does. You, a rogue-esque player, gets lost with your sister, and 
 you happen to go and ask for directions. Unfortunately for you, she gets kidnapped leaving you 
 to go save her. You can apparently customize everything in Two Worlds, but really you can't. Its 
 male only, the voice actings terrible, and it leaves you thinking, "Could'nt the producers of this 
 game spend more then 5$ making this game?" The game turns out to be a terrible rip-off of Oblivion 
 and Diablo, but much, much, much worse.
  
  Really, if I could brighten the mood at all by saying one thing thats good about this game i would, 
 but whilst i was playing, nothing struck me as good. Okay, maybe one thing, if your a hardcore 
 rpg fan. You can mix spells, potions, weapons, and even clothes and armour. Although, that too 
 is broken. So, what it comes down too is the game isn't worth your time or money.
  
  Overall: 1 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanillaThndr215
Rating: 5
Date: May 14, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I was real disappointed with this one. I had it pre-ordered and everything and when I brought it 
 home I was all like, "You've got to be kidding me..." the quests moved too slow and the interim 
 between scenes was long and boring. Even dialect between the people was boring. Yeah, I understand 
 that they spoke in "ye olde" language back then, but they ARE human... every human makes mistakes 
 in speech, uses slang, etc... the perfect speech just made it sound fake. Maybe I am just too used 
 to playing in first person mode but I couldn't get used to the 3rd person view and fighting style... I 
 kept on dying. However, I will say that the graphics are beautiful in this game and the details 
 are great... but that can't make up for bad game plot. Also I will say that I like how you have 
 to learn how to control the horse THROUGH the character; that made it very life-like and I was 
 rather impressed with that (though I had a difficult time initially getting the horse to go where 
 I wanted him to, and I ride horses myself!! LOL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 1
Date: May 12, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  From the moment I booted this game up, the only thing that came to my mind was "amateur". No matter 
 how much content this game may have, it is unplayable at the laughable 10-15 fps I get on average. 
 I can't comment on how fun it is because I snapped the disc in half before I could have any. (1 
 hour in) . The animations are terrible, the graphics are mediocre. Presentation gets a big zero 
 from me. If you want a medievil game like this, go for Oblivion, and have a GOOD time. Southpeak, 
 next time you make/publish a game, make sure it's fun, oh and also, maybe a little more playable? 
 30 FPS please? The point I gave it is because the bloom is nice, and because they had enough knowledge 
 to put a game on the market.
  
  Bbbbbbbbbaaaaaaaaaarrr lksdlfaslfkfsdf lksflflsfsjf.. faljffjdjfasdlfksjf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricistvipa
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Obviously Two Worlds isn't the best RPG around but it does bring something new to the table. I 
 don't want another RPG to be exactly like Oblivion, simply because I can just play that then. Have 
 we as gamers been spoiled to a point that we almost can't give something a chance if it's even 
 close to a concept of another game. Both games are RPG's, hence, both of them will HAVE SIMILARITY! 
 
  
  Two Worlds adds some intuitive and inventive concepts to its game that I feel are taken for granted. 
 First, the game allows you to stack weapons and potions. Now alot of people don't care about this 
 because they've never had to use it before. This allows you to create stronger armor, potions, 
 and weapons without having to spend alot of gold. Which means not having to use a gold cheat either (Obilivion 
 fans) . Second, you actually level up in this game. Now let me repeat that, you get to ACTUALLY 
 LEVEL UP! In Oblivion, the world levels up with you, which is why I was able to beat the main game, 
 fighter's guild, and arena all on level two. If the world levels up, what's the point of doing 
 it yourself? Another feature that ESO fans overlooks is that Two Worlds let's you take on the missions 
 at any time you want without altering the game world. In Oblivion, the world tends to set itself 
 according to a current mission that you really aren't trying to do. Yes, Two Worlds doesn't have 
 the ability to show every single blade of grass and yes, Two Worlds doesn't have as deep of customization 
 options for your character. However, Two Worlds does bring a unique concept to the RPG genre. Oh 
 yeah (Oblivion fans) did I fail to mention that Two Worlds actually makes you feel like you're important? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikrath
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  I was introduced to Two Worlds by several annoying and friends that talk about video games and 
 how they could beat me at them all day long. If only their bite was a third as good as their bark, 
 maybe then they could actually live up to their words.
  I digress.
  Like the imbecile I am, I rented Two Worlds, simply because of all the good things that I've heard 
 about it, for the worst thing that had reached my ears about it before that moment I rented it 
 was that the combat was so shallow that all you had to do was button mash.
  After playing through the main quest twice now (and still not completing all of the side quests) , 
 I can say that the combat system is the least of Two World's worries.
  One of the reasons that I was looking forward to this game was the mounts that one could get during 
 the course of the game. I heard of undead horses, and dragon mounts, and was sold. Unfortunately, 
 for one, the 'dragon mounts' are nothing more than horses with scales and horns. Plus the movement 
 on mounts is absolutely atrocious. It's no faster than running, and most of the time, just goes 
 its own way, despite your urgings for any direction. And sometimes, it would get stuck in some 
 reandom place, such as a cliff that it deigned to be too steep to climb down, and not be able to 
 get out unless you got off.
  The story was probably the weakest and most cliche that I had seen in a long time, and led up to 
 a final boss fight to was so remarkably easy it was not even funny.
  The graphics were comparable to the PC version of Morrowind, and sometimes presented glitches that 
 made me fear for the health of the Xbox.
  The combat system (one of the better points of the game) actually wasn't as shallow as originally 
 presented. However, it was extremely simple for an RPG: look, hit, kill. Enemies have health, you 
 have health, whittle theirs down before they destroy you. What made it so easy though, is that 
 the maxed out critical hits on this game have about 30% chance to happen, and do 500% damage... 
 meaning that at level 30, I was doing 3000 damage per shot, and 15000 damage every three shots, 
 and most normal enemies only have about 1000-5000 health. Plus, not to mention, the AI of enemies 
 dictated that they run up to you, attack you once, and wait to die, only attacking more if you 
 just stood there and yelled "GIVE IT TO ME!". Now, since I was (as always) an archer, that meant 
 that I could sit back probably 50-70 meters away from a camp of 100 enemies and take them ALL out 
 without even taking any damage.
  Despite all this, it is still a pretty good game, and an easy 1000 gamerscore with not but the 
 initial loading screen, which is always a plus.
  
  Alternatives:
  Elder Scrolls Oblivion is probably the best alternative you can get, because even though there 
 are *gasp* loading times. The story is MUCH better, and the combat is significantly more in-depth 
 and death-defying
  Mass Effect is another good alternative, though follows a shooter style instead of the normal sword-and-bow 
 style of normal RPGs
  Lost Odyssey would also be a good alternative to this game, which also has a storyline and soundtrack 
 lightyears above that of Two Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgamespotj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  For all the hate this game has gotten, I think many folks have gone into it expecting a lot more 
 than they should.
  
  Two Worlds is a 3D, outdoor Diablo. It's not a hyper-real world with weapon degredation, sleep 
 schedules, and exciting yarn pickups in every other barrel. it is a fun hack-n-slash run through 
 a huge and beautiful world. If you enjoy collecting and looking at a huge variety of arms and armor 
 and using them to crush the life out of hordes of creatures, this is a fun time. The quests are 
 middle of the road compared to Oblivion: There's nothing with the thrill of the Thief''s final 
 quest, but there's also much less of the carry this here and back, focussing more on exploration.
 
  
  The interface definitely takes some getting used to, but once you do, it really is a fun romp.
 
  
  It's a game to come home and relax to, to smile with, not to become insanely good at and get pissed 
 at when a stray bullet ends your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalki_Avatar
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  The only thing mildly good about two worlds for Xbox 360 was how hard I laughed at the profoundly 
 bad voice acting. This was probably the worst game ever made for any system ever. The game sucks 
 all around. It lacks the luster of a classic RPG. The fun of building your character and leveling 
 up is completely lost in the bad visuals and glitchy gameplay. All of the NPC's sound like they 
 are using old english even though none of them have anything even similar to a European accent. 
 Its pretty hard to take a quest seriously when people are spouting off nonsense like "methinks" 
 and "mayhaps". The fighting is like 3rd person Oblivion with down syndrome, the magic looks like 
 colored poo exploding from your fingertips, and to top it all off there is no in game map. I work 
 at a game store, I play alot of games. This game was called the "Elder Scrolls Killer", but methinks 
 this game isn't even worthy of licking the crap off of Bethesta's studded leather boots of sneaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katjajett
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The game it's self is somewhere between Marrowind and Oblivion. There's a main quest, but most 
 of the game is self motivation. In other words, the plot's fairly flimsy and not very important 
 except to "complete" the game. The side quests are fairly generic. Go kill this, go get that... 
 A little more interesting then Marrowind but not quiet up to Boulders Gate or Oblivion. 
  
  The graphics are good, nothing to brag about except maybe the armor designs. It basically meets 
 what you would expect from an xbox 360 game. The music is fine, nothing generic but the only song 
 they really put some thought into is the main menu song. The sound effects aren't really worth 
 mentioning, they don't suck, but I wasn't impressed.
  
  It should be noted that under "Related Games" Gamespot lists Lost Odyssey and Mass Effect as some 
 of Two Worlds similar games which isn't true.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Sure it's got a couple weaknesses and little bugs in it, but it definitely is enough of a unique 
 experience that it stands out from the rest so it deserves my 10, This game's really good, when 
 just unskippable cutscenes are a bit annoying. It's quite long, i'v been playing for about 15 hours 
 and i haven't made much progress. There is only the starter class, with very little customization 
 which i feel suits the style of the game 
  as it quickly throws you right into the action. The fighting system can be a 
  slight bit simplistic 
 as the main combat is hitting RT or LT to throw a spell or heal. The combat style is kinda diablo 
 2 like, LB and RB are ur health and mana potions. The chatacter leveling is very deep, there is 
 lots of ways to level and customize different wepaons and armor. The gameworld is huge, just a 
 bit smaller than oblivion. The feel of the game takes a bit, but once you get it it's quite fun. 
 The horse can feel difficult at first, but he's worth riding once you master the feel. He is quickly 
 earned after a mission for the stable man. There is alot of different weapons and the option to 
 duel wield, takes a while though to unlock it. It requires alot of prequestites skills
  to be learned, so in a sense eventually all the level as a predetermined sequence unless you have 
 the priority of going for a custom build like a mage or a necromancer. Side quests are fun, because 
 you earn reputation and the main character is interesting. He's a bounty hunter , kind of like 
 the 
  contract killer of the medieval era. It is similar to oblivion minus the killer load times of the 
 elder scrolls. In some ways oblivion has the feel of going to BIG, where tthis game fits perfect. 
 It is also enough to be able to stand on it's own from oblivion, for one the combat system is more 
 fun. They are both great but different enough that they can't be compared, IT's a dynasty warriors, 
 oblivion, and diablo blend. Lots of fun highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who often judge a game by the first 15 minutes of play... you will not like this 
 game. If you spend an hour or two with this game it definitely starts to grow on you. There are 
 many bugs with this game however, for one there are random freeze ups that occur (two words: save 
 often) . Also the frame-rate stutters a lot and at times can be annoying. The patch cleared this 
 up a little but not by much. 
  
  If you like Diablo/Oblivion type games you'll like this game. The amount of armor and weapons in 
 the game is awesome and the obsession with opening every chest and checking every dead body for 
 loot is definitely there. 
  
  The voice acting in the game trys too hard to be "ye olde tyme" and the sentences are poorly structured 
 but still get a across what the people are trying to say, honestly the more you play the more you 
 tend to forgive the bad voice overs. 
  
  You can ride horses and other creatures in the game but it often becomes frustrating and you'll 
 find yourself walking most places and using teleports for the rest. 
  
  On another note there was a major bug when I was playing the game where I was 14 hours in and picked 
 up a important quest element and was supposed to get an achievement. I didn't get the achievement 
 and the main quest log said I still needed to collect the element. I had to restart the whole game 
 because I had been overwriting my saves. If you play always save just before you collect quest 
 items.
  
  Overall this game can be addicting and enjoyable, you'll just have to also be able to forgive its 
 flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursiveSaturn
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a horrific, broken game that is really pointless on the 360. The actors make the npcs 
 sound like they just pulled a guy off the street and told him to read this. Now I had huge hype 
 for Two Worlds because of knowing it was going to have online multiplayer. Thing is the multiplayer 
 is completely screwed! The online lag is crazy. Its so crazy that if you even try to have more 
 than two people in a match the game will force you to wait for the connection to fix up. Hell I 
 was lucky I could play with one friend online. But anyway the online is extremely random. The quests 
 are quite boring and uneventful. In some levels that are suppose to be low level areas, you'll find 
 a monster that is mabye level 30 or so in the middle of the blasted streets! I just happened to 
 walk into a Sand Dragon which I now know was a level 70 monster. Freaking thing one shots me. Using 
 the bow and arrow in the game is extremely hard to do if you are facing an enemy as fast as you 
 or faster because if you are hit when trying to shoot, it will stop ya from firing. The next thing 
 that ruins the whole class thing of RPGs is that you can train in every single stat in online without 
 even trying hard. The theif class is able to rob and backstab. Thing is that even if ya rob somebody 
 right infront of their face in online, they wont even try to stop you! The backstab is an extremely 
 overpowered skill if ya max it out. With the damn skill, I could two shot my level 89 friend with 
 a level 23. On the positive side, the graphichs arent too bad to look at and the use of magic is 
 a bit fun, especially if your a necromancer but ya gotta watch out online, because there are some 
 people the duplicate spell powerup cards and make their spells so strong that it basically one 
 shots everything! In the end I give Two Worlds a big two thumbs down and the title of "Biggest 
 Letdown of the Year". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds definitely competes with Oblivion for one of the Best RPG's on the console. The character 
 build is better than the most recent Elder Scrolls, but even with the more in-depth building, there 
 is some room for improvements. I am happy to see RPG's for the console leaning towards MMO's. The 
 only really big down fault to this game is the map system, and how you figure out where you have 
 to go. I have to give it to the creators of Oblivion, cause there system is the better one. And, 
 one other minus for this game that I noticed, the graphics are a little weak for the 360. When 
 I come up to different areas that would be lite unlike the areas you were in, the tv looks almost 
 like the graphicx card is gonna go. This can become very annoying. This game does keep my hopes 
 up, that one day there will be an MMORPG that is similar to pen and paper RPG's in the idea of 
 character depth and creativity. Yeah many people say they got that, but for computers. I'm still 
 sticking with my idea that it is far better to play on a console than a desk top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is one of those games that had people thinking it may be the next Oblivion. Unfortunately, 
 those people were dead wrong. Two worlds is a broken game. It failed to keep me entertained in 
 every way. The game hurt me in every way - gameplay wise, graphic wise, sound wise, and value wise.
 
  
  The gameplay is basic hack and slash with the occasional magic use if your into that. I personally 
 just hack and slashed through the game and I got by just far. The game isn't challenging at all. 
 The worst thing about the game is that the framerate is off. The single player game is laggy and 
 I hear that the online experience is completely and utterly broken as well.
  
  Now I saw the pictures in the Gamespot review and I was weired out. The game does not look near 
 that good. The graphics are horrible and look like they are came from the PS2. 
  
  Don't even get me started on the sound in the game. There isn't a game out there that has appalled 
 me like Two worlds. The voice acting is horrible. Whoever hired these people should be immediately 
 fired. Also, sounds like the horse, enemies, or slashing your sword just sound out of place. Personally, 
 I couldn't stand listening to the game but it had some nice orchestrated music playing in the background 
 occasionally.
  
  The main storyline is very short. However, it takes along time to do it because the final boss 
 is so hard to defeat. After the main storyline theres not too much to do. The sidequests are okay 
 but frequently repetitive.
  
  Now this is a shorter review but the game is broken and unplayable. The only reason why I played 
 this game was because my friend let me borrow it and I wanted some more achievements for RPG games 
 so i could get a badge on 360 voice. Sad eh? And the sadder thing is it wasn't even worth it. I 
 wouldn't even rent the game. Crazy RPG players may want to try it but if you don't like RPGs I'd 
 stay the hell away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review you are probably thinking multiple things in your head. 1, Was I 
 dumb enough to buy the flaming piece o'crap that is Two Worlds? My answer is a happy NO! 2, Were 
 you stupid to buy this game or are you wanting to buy this game. The answer, read this review.
 
  
  
  Two Worlds previewers and hypers destined TW to be the next Elder Scrolls wanna be. BUT with the 
 amazing online system that would make us walk away from what is Oblivion and into this RPG online 
 fantasy game. Well obviously from my introduction that didn't happen. Hell if you could even get 
 online and play a game you were godsend, thanks to the lag loading screens and the framerate bogging 
 down the entire 360.
  
  
  Now, I'm a fair person and don't believe in sitting here blah and blah about how much a game sucks 
 this biggest amount of crap. This game does have alot of qualities you don't see in other games. 
 Such as a realistic teleportation system that will successfully transfer your character across 
 the map to another system you opened using a key. This is a good idea and I think is better than 
 the press A and travel like the Oblivion style. But then again going around and opening traveling 
 portals is really lame. 
  
  The simplistic plot of Two Worlds takes your character into the position to save your sister who 
 has been captured by a mysterious force who wants you to open up the Tomb of Aziraal and he will 
 release your sister. Seeing that this is a RPG suppose to take down the mighty Oblivion this Plot 
 fails miserably. For one the story is more lack luster than a buddy cop movie with Arnold Shwarzennegger 
 and Chris Tucker. It's to plain and the fact you can seriously complete this game by yourself in 
 litterally hours is redicicolous for a 'RPG' game. However, The game makes up for this by adding 
 in tons of Caves, Lakes, Forest Creatures, Lodges, Cities, etc. But none of this balances out the 
 fact that this plot is nothing but a stinking piece of doo doo.
  
  The one simple thing to Two Worlds is the fact advancing your character skills and attributes is 
 as simplistic as hell. You literally walk to a shop that has a person who can sell you, your attributes 
 and you buy them. All with the click of a button and like that you get an attribute. Unlike Oblivion 
 in which you must kill enemies, run constantly or be an amazing marksman. 
  
  The biggest downer for this game to me was the fac that this game is a Next Generation video game 
 and it has the running quality and framerate issues of a Playstation 2 20 dollar bin game. I'm 
 not kidding the graphics of the landscapes and characters is the worst I've ever seen for a Next-Gen 
 video game.
  
  No game is also complete with a good dialogue/music to fill that background of boringness. Let's 
 just say if you could finish this game without the sound in the background you would actually have 
 more people buy this damn game. The sound quality in this game is complete garbage bin BS. Like 
 the voice acting is from Jim Carrey drunk on Jack Daniels trying to golf. It studders and is filled 
 with twenty five page long answers or requests that by the time you are done reading, YOU FORGOT.
 
  
  Now, like I said I hate destroying video games because it's not as easy as point and click like 
 people think, but this game has unredemming qualities that no other game will carry on. The RPG 
 online system probably will continue to fail or only get better thanks to this game. I completely 
 reccommend staying away from this damn game and save yourself the 8 dollar rental or 49.99 price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthonynohtna
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  IT'S TERRIBLE! I mean, let's face it, this excuse for a game wasnt even ready for one world. The 
 Bad; dialogue sucks, graphics are worse than PS2, boring story, lots-o-lag, and when Orc warriors 
 are easier to kill than 2 wild boars, something in the A. I is screwed up. Speaking of A. I, i attacked 
 some high level dude and i ran, i turned around and he stopped, almost like his mom said he couldn't 
 cross the forest path. So i shot 30 arrows and he died. 30!!!!!!! This game is hard man, you'll 
 get killed quick in the wilderness. Sure you could find combat bugs to kill everything and cheat, 
 but we call that cheating. Going back to the cliche storyline, your sister was kidnapped or something 
 and you, only you, have to find, yep, 7 crystals. There is some good about this game, like the 
 decent armor and looks your character can wear, however that doesn't change the fact that he acts 
 like a retard. I recommend getting this game if your a pyro or just really, really, high. Trust 
 the critics, Chinese Checkers is more fun, and has a better storyline, LUDACRIS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Before I start let me say this, Two Worlds is a terrible game. There is no other classification 
 for it. If you are reading this thinking about getting Two Worlds, don't bother, you would have 
 more fun flicking yourself in the love spuds with a towel.
  
  From the very start the game is ugly to look at, I mean quite frankly the textures and jagged edges 
 make it look like a badly coded PS2 game. Everything just looks unfinished, and it plays that way 
 as well. You can barely move 5 steps without frame rate dips or mini loading screens. Not much 
 use in a FREE ROAMING game. It's almost like playing the entire game with a frigging strobe light.
 
  
  The sound fairs even worse, every single, and I mean EVERY, voice actor in the game is dire. Yep 
 all 4 of them. There is a huge amount of characters spread throughout the game, yet there only 
 appears to be about 4 voice actors for them. Woot. The dialogue to go with it is as entertaining 
 as watching a shaved back contest. With lots of "methinks" and "prays" thrown into the conversation 
 making it sound like a fan dubbed piss take.
  
  Not that any of this matters as the story seems to have been stolen from the mind of a pregnant 
 pink flying hippo as it may as well not exist. The story, summed up in 40 hours of playMain 
 character must save sister from ambiguous evil" Yes I wrote stories like that in Junior school, 
 only with more flair and depth!
  
  Now for the meat of this game, the gameplay. It's a third person RPG in which you hack in, kill 
 stuff, get bored, start imagining ways you can kill yourself then trade it in.
  If you somehow get past that then there are level ups, item combining, herbs and alchemy to be 
 had to. Of course you will have to waste another 20 minutes of your time figuring out the controls 
 in the menu system, as it was clearly designed by a sadistic small minded monkey who will laugh 
 knowing how frustrated you will get with it.
  
  I will give it this, Two Worlds is good for value, I mean the disc could be used as an ashtray 
 or coaster for example. But if you decide to play it, the game is massive, with quite a few side 
 quests, none of them are interesting mind, and they are far between, still running from point A 
 to point B IS time consuming.
  
  Pretty much avoid this title, it can be mildly entertaining if you can get past it's many, many 
 flaws but there are lots of better RPG's out on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 67gt500
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow.
  
  I've played some real stinkers in my day, but this one takes the 'cake'. It is hard to believe 
 that no-one at Microsoft bothered to play this busted horror story before sending that Gold Master 
 off for pressing. I can't believe this one got past Certification. But, I digress - I'll concede 
 that I'm speculating here but I'm reasonably sure that if someone had actually played it, there 
 is little to no way that Microsoft would have allowed such an atrocity to further sully the good 
 name that they have been trying to build with xbox360. 
  
  It really is that bad. And the people who made it are still at large...
  
  From the ridiculously 
 bad dialogue, to the seriously unstable framerate nay, the early-PS2-era graphics - it's hard to 
 put your finger on just one laughable thing about Two Worlds. Fortunately you'll have ample time 
 for consideration while waiting for your console to restart after one of Two World's many bug-induced 
 crashes. Or maybe the framerate chugs to a near standstill during battles so that you can consider 
 some 'tactical options'. C'mon now, I'm just trying to give them the benefit of the doubt here. 
 Pretty sad when you can't even do that...
  
  It's equally rare to have the gross misfortune of buying a game that has no redeeming qualities. 
 I even sprung for the Collector's Edition which cost $10 bucks more than the regular issue, further 
 adding insult to injury. I really wanted to like this game, but Reality Pump and Microsoft let 
 me down. Don't make the same mistake I did. There are many quality games out there that are worth 
 you money - this game is not one of them. 
  
  Two Worlds is a God-Offal mess. I'm giving this 'game' a 2.0 out of 10.0 simply because giving 
 it a 0.0 or a 1.0 seems petty and obnoxious.
  
  But don't be fooled into thinking that Two Worlds is more than a 2.0 out of 10.0 game. 
  
  
 It's not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  "Forsooth knave, thou art about as visually appealing as having pins repeatedly stabbed into myne 
 eyes", is what I would say had I presumably gone mad from listening to all the awful dialogue in 
 Two Worlds. Fortunately I skipped most of and never actually have to listen to it again until I 
 feel the urge to take up the expansion pack, not only is two worlds the worst sounding game I've 
 played (non XBL) on the 360 it's also the worst looking, its so badly put together from a visual 
 and audio perspective that it looks similar to an N64 or early PS2 game (disturbingly it reminded 
 me of the original Summoner) . "The "Two Worlds" developers are sheer perfectionists" quips the 
 games website ( http://www.2-worlds. com) when talking about the upcoming patch, excuse me.. are 
 you on crack? Fortunately if you can get past the games massive graphical and sound flaws theres 
 actually some fun to be had here and while Two Worlds certainly deserves to live in the bargin 
 bin, once its there its certainly worth picking up for some short lived RPG entertainment
  
  Two Worlds dumps you into the boots of bounty hunter who's disturbingly large breasted and 
 scantily clad sister has been kidnapped by some seedy hooded guys with no faces which sets him 
 off on a quest to save her. It's not the most original of storylines and it fails to be so at any 
 point in the plot, you will spend most time in the game doing sidequests as the main story is pretty 
 brief (probably about 4 hours game time max) and the only way of levelling up to do it is to kill 
 monsters and do sidequests. So your character sets forth into the world to bash many wolves with 
 their combat method of choice and spend lengthy periods of time trapsing through empty blocks of 
 terrain getting to new locations. You go to a town, do the sidequests in it (some are simple, some 
 a bit more involved) , kill some baddies and level up so your high enough to do the appropriate 
 main plotline bits. It's simple, and actually quite oddly compelling, in a similar way to how Diablo 
 is compelling in its endless repetition of the same formula Two Worlds as a hack and slash rpg 
 with a few quests is actually pretty entertaining. Forget plot, forget compelling stories what 
 we have here is a straightforward formula to make your guy powerful and find "ph4t l3wt" as people 
 used to say back when I played Everquest. If this sounds boring to you, stay well away as you will 
 probably have more fun stapling your hand to a keyboard than playing two worlds if you dislike 
 simple hack and slash with a pretty dull plot guiding it.
  
  The levelling up and skill tree system is one of the meatier bits of Two Worlds, you can spend 
 points in skills (Diablo style) to get more impressive versions of exsisiting abilities and also 
 find trainers in the world to help you unlock new skills. When you level up or complete quests 
 you get a number of bonus skill points to spend along with points to raise your abilities. You 
 will certainly need them too, as Two Worlds while fairly unforgiving in that when you die you respawn 
 a few feet away will kill you a lot. The last two bosses alone killed me about 20 odd times between 
 them (a process that began to get irritating after a while ) and it took every ability I had unlocked 
 in my 40 levels to actually defeat them without embedding my fist in the TV. Yes be warned that 
 even on easy Two Worlds is frustratingly unforgiving at times and unless you really are a king 
 and queen of grinding you will spend a fair bit of time running circles round monsters shoving 
 weapons up their bums or running away from monsters spontaniously turning to blast them with a 
 spell. There a fairly large amount of differing enemies to run away or around in the game from 
 weakling wolves and run of the mill orcs to huge big fire breathing dragons, demons and stone golems 
 all of whom can have you in pieces around the landscape in under five seconds. Lovely.
  
  Graphical, technical (the games frame rate is awful) and sound issues aside, the other main hinderance 
 to Two Worlds being "good" rather than "fun but mediocre" lies in the fact developers Reality Pump 
 have made a huge world perhaps comporable in size to Oblivions but promptly not put enough content 
 in the game to actually fill the world or even make reaching level 50 a really credible option. 
 To begin with youll be overwhelmed in fairly entertaining side quests but the further south you 
 go the less likely you are to find much to do other than wander aimlessly occasionally being killed 
 by huge enemies. The game world feels empty and lifeless at times, but satisfying and deep at others. 
 The developers seriously needed to put more content into the game to improve the experience for 
 those who play till near the end. The variety of environments (the desert and chinese style town 
 in particular were refreshingly different and fun) just about makes up for this error but it's 
 certainly still noticable.
  
  To sum up Two Worlds is a game I enjoyed, but a far from perfect one. It was more fun than the 
 considerably more polished Blue Dragon, however it is technically awful and only lasted about 15 
 hours or so to play through (granted I didnt do everything) . What Reality Pump have produced is 
 an RPG that will appeal to hardcore fans of PC RPG's of the past, but not really to anyone new. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I most of the time try to review like a pro. I walk through each aspect of a game pointing out 
 both good and bad aspects of the game, but Two Worlds is just............. bad. Really, really, 
 bad. 
  
  The frame rate often drops below a frame a second and even appears to lock up before jumping from 
 here to there. The odd thing is is that the graphics and animations are so poor, you would think 
 it would run smoother then most games since it looks closer to a PS 2 game then a 360 game. So 
 simply put, it fails on all visual standards. Online porno games have higher production value. 
 (Note to Developers: A little porno in Two Worlds would of went a long way.)
  
  Of course graphics are not everything and game play is where Two Worlds excels. Wait, did I say 
 excells? I meant fails horridly. The gamplay is simular to Oblivion if you radomly rearraged it 
 and then set it on fire and then launched it up Rick Moranis' anus with a home made cannon. Even 
 moving your character feels strained so doing anything else is out of the question. 
  
  I guess in the end of the day story must save the day, but guess what. Oh hell yeah, this is the 
 worst aspect of this heaping pile of polygonal unicorn crap. If you can get past the worst voice 
 acting and script writing ever the story will finally gut you like a thanksgiving turkey making 
 you wonder what just happened. Two Worlds happened my friend. Two Worlds happened.
  
  In closing, it sucks. Really, really hard. Any one who even looks at the package has a chance of 
 going insane with rage or possibly getting herpies. Yeah, it's that bad.
  
  Dollar value.........$0 of course 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonRising
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is a good game but the online is laggy and when i say laggy i mean broken its not 
 playable almost but would be a great game online without the lag. The single player is good good 
 story line (kinda) , decent graphics, but has many flaws like the voice acting, the way you really just 
 want to have a challenge, the way the quests and monsters and armor lining work out is in need of 
 minor improvement, and the voice acting, i really can't stress this enough the voice acting is the 
 worst in video game history to my knowledge. And two main things this game was nearly dead from 
 the time that it started to be hyped it was said that this game was "it's Oblivion on steroids" 
 and that killed this game not many games could live up to that. And the other thing is that this 
 game had alot of fans that were all let down i was and every one i attempted to play online with 
 was. But still if i still haven't swayed you judgment on this game rent it or borrow it (good luck 
 on borrowing it) . Ok and for all the Gamer score stockers this game is easy achievement points around 
 8 or 9 hundred for beating it. To all the hardcore gamers i apologize for giving the fact of easy 
 achievement knowledge to stupid gamers. I played this game alot i really wanted to like it but 
 i really couldn't. If you are a fan of gothic 3 then you will probably like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSnipa
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Do not. Play. This game. I cannot stress that enough. It must be, easily, bar none, the worst RPG 
 of all time. The game quotes, "... nearly seamless transition from the inside to outside world..." 
 or something along those lines. No. No, no, no. It is complete and utter disappointment galore. 
 Horrible graphics, gameplay, music, multiplayer, and anything else you care to name. Please, I'm 
 doing this for your own good. Do not under any circumstances waste your cash or time, or purchase 
 this game and therefore defile your console. The lag is so, so sad and online is broken. When it 
 first came out, it required a patch. ON LAUNCH! Complete letdown. You will freeze in place online 
 and instantly think, "I'm getting back to whatever it was I was doing before I decided to play 
 this abomination." Sad face. Not worthy of the term abysmal. Sad face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aslag94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I have seen an uncountable amount of bad reviews for Two Worlds and all I can say is I am surprized. 
 The game places you in the role of a guy who you name. Now you can only play as a human male in 
 single player but he can be any class you choose. Your sister has been kidnapped and you have to 
 find her, its not the best plot in the world. The combat itself is not very comlicated and reminiscent 
 of hack and slash type RPGs like diablo where you hammer one button until the bad (or good) guy 
 is dead. Probably the best part of the game is the exploring. There is a desert area, an evil volcanic 
 area, a swamp area, and an asian inspirired area full of bambo and a city where no one really likes 
 you. Some might call it an Oblivion knock-off but there are enough differences to keep you from 
 feeling deja vu. And yes, horses are a major pain to ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gial240
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  After renting and playing the game for about 6-7 hours, I had my final opinion of Two Worlds: Oblivion's 
 Child?.
  
  The Bad:
  - Bad Voices
  - No variety of Mobs
  - Too many things similar to Oblivion
  - Hard to navigate and complete quests
  - Confusing 
 Story at times
  
  Once I started playing the game, I believed I was in for a treat, boy was I wrong. I am not saying 
 this game is horrible, it's a moderate game that had a hard time matching up with "Oblivion". C'mon, 
 after playing Oblivion, it will be hard to compare the two.
  
  Something that really bugged me about the game was the Dull voices everyone had. All the NPC's 
 and player characters voice were the same and sounded like the person talking was bored out of 
 his mind. Anyone say robot? If it weren't for the name of the character speaking next to the subtitles, 
 I would not have known who was talking.
  
  Through most of the game, you will be fighting goblins. Although Goblins are not the only things 
 you can fight, there is a small amount of them. Bears, Wolfs, Goblins, Shopkeepers.. ect. If there 
 were more things to kill, I would have rated the game slightly better.
  
  Another thing that bugged me was the constant similarities to Oblivion. It may not be bad in some 
 cases but if you want to play something like Oblivion, play Oblivion.
  
  The quests and story in the game were either confusing, boring, or hard to find/finish. Not all 
 the quests are like this but a good amount of them are. The world in Two Worlds is large, so if 
 you don't know your way around the game from the beginning, your going to have some problems.
 
  
  The Good:
  - Interesting Spells
  - Human Models
  - Variety of Items
  - Interesting Multiplayer modes
  
  Even though Two Worlds has some annoying and negative things 
 to it, it does have some nice ones.
  
  The amount and variety of spells are something to take a look at in the game. It is one of the 
 things that will want to keep you playing. So if you do not like the melee (which you should if 
 you enjoy Oblivion and Morrowind) , you can always cast breathtaking spells.
  
  The human models (Shopkeepers, Guards, Citizens) in the game are done fairly well. They have good 
 outfits for what their profession and lifestyle is like. Something that I personally enjoy in a 
 game is good character models. Especially when your going to be seeing them around a lot.
  
  Just lke the spells, there is a good amount of different items in the game. From jewels to 
 swords to scrolls, you name it and you can probably find something like it or similar.
  
  Even though some of the multiplayer portion of the game is annoying, the different game modes are 
 fun and interesting to play, Like the horse racing.
  
  
  There you have it, a review for the average game: Two Worlds. I recommend looking into the game 
 some more through Google or rent it b efore you go out and waste money on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nieldy-Fx
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is an above average game. The game has a very large map and some of the 
 magic moves and weapons are fun and interesting. Also some of the quests are adventurous and exciting. 
 But some quests are just boring and repetitive, the graphics are poor especially when in battle, 
 the blood and the way you attack have very very poor graphics! I think this game is just a cheap 
 copy of obilvion some parts of the game are better but most are much worse. i would advise before 
 you buy this game get the demo or rent it to see if its your type of thing. And if you have played 
 oblivion your would think it is a rubbish copy of oblivion. Also the worst thing about the game 
 is the online multiplayer! Especially the horse racing type of game mode that is very very dull 
 also online the server is very laggy and jumpy. I personally think this game is quite fun and is 
 enjoyable at parts but after a while it becomes boring and i would advise you to buy other games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  this game looked to me as the new fable, and i tell you it wasnt far off, the dynamics and grasp 
 of gameplay is extraordinarily similar to fable whereas its lush environments resemble oblivion 
 but then again its leveling system copies world of warcraft, or you could just say it duplicates 
 many other games to form a quite nice blend which i found fun. what also is enjoyable is its endless 
 levels and endless items which seem to copy themselves as you progress on, if you dont use cheats 
 you probably wont go past level 100 but i like to muck around with cheats so i did and ended up 
 being so fun i couldnt stop playing. the creatures are hard to make out and the voice acting is 
 just weird and disgruntleing, but the gameplay is fun and walking around and killing random townsfolk 
 is always bloody and fun. overall this is a particularly fun game which i reccomend for any rpg 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProvoCado
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game was promoted as a serious competetor to Oblivion. Well, it is not even close!
  
  The graphics are great, sounds and music marvelous, and those two parts are as good as Oblivion 
 but there's more to a game than graphics and sound.
  
  The first feel of the gameplay is good and it works. It takes very little time to get the hang 
 of things if you've played RPG's before. The NPC's in the game are varied though I did expect even 
 more variations here but it is sufficient. The map seems at first glance as it is enough, and it 
 is the first couple hours of play, but when you've started exploring more serously, it is not easy 
 to get a good overview. They have solved the transport around on the map very good with teleports 
 and stones, though it can be a bit difficult to find your teleport stones when you want to teleport 
 back to a location unless you remember exactly where you teleported from. That's a real "bad" in 
 my book - especially since you only get three stones during a game.
  
  Walking around in the terrain is good, but I did get stuck and had to load a few times. Compared 
 to Oblivion - where I've never got stuck even how hard I tried, this never happened. And the horseback-fighting 
 is a joke! The locations where you can ride a horse you only can fight bandits and animals. Why 
 bother developing fighting from horse-back when a horse is more or less useless? 
  
  This game only gets a 6 from me - should probably get even lower. They launched it as the game 
 that could compete and even beat Oblivion, and is nowhere close to do that. 
  - There are too few locations. 
  - To few things to do. 
  - Too few side-quests. 
  - Not 
 good enough gameplay
  - Too few caves, castles, mines and such.
  
  And the main story line is short and easy (even on hardest difficulty) and too confusing to be 
 interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conveant
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  South Peaks new view on Elder scrolls, this game boasts large open environments, large assortments 
 of weaponry and armor and old English dialogue.
  So it should be great yeah? Well.. no, for a starters, the graphics left a lot to be desired, as 
 textures were incredibly disappointing, the character creation was very little more than name selection 
 and height, offering little in customisation. Also I can't help but believe the dialect was a bit 
 unnessesary in the ammount of translation to Shakespearean English, to the point where the Novelty 
 wore off and it took about 2 minutes longer to explain everything when in modern English it would 
 of took just 20 seconds. 
  What this game can be proud of though is the vast outdoor space, in which exploring is vital to 
 get anywhere. If you can get over the annoying attacks of pathetic Wolf packs every 10 seconds, 
 you will eventually find a decent fight with Orcs, Golems, or even the odd Dragon or two. The Storyline 
 can be completed in multiple ways, although with a level 35 character I found it reasonably easy 
 to take the quick route for two artifacts and kill anything what got in my way (The Relic frame 
 for example, where you can do one of two sets of questlines or just kill the guard at the gate, 
 kill the leader who puts up no fight at all and take the frame) . After being warned that my character 
 is too low to finish the last bosses, I completed the game at level thirty six with ease pretty 
 much.
  Yet despite the lack of a challenge I found it to be pretty fun after ignoring its other flaws 
 (a task harder than completeing the game) . After taking my character to level 42 to get a good 
 view of the game, I still believed that perhaps it could of been better, it could of been great 
 really, but someone somewhere had just lost all hope for his/her game and only half finished it. 
 And that is exactly what this is, a half finished game and a let down for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_I_R
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm sooo disappointed, surely xbox 360 games should be better than this? The character's faces 
 don't even move right when they're talking, it just seems really fake almost like it's trying to 
 be funny it's so bad, and the voices don't seem realistic at all! The fighting system is hard and 
 doesn't seem fluent or realistic and the writing on the screen is too small. Maybe it's better 
 for PC but I'm really not impressed with this game : ( waste of 20 quid. Bear in mind I only played 
 the start of the game for about five minuets and then gave up in my sorrow and disappointment. 
 Maybe it gets drastically better to become somewhat a decent game but I could not be bothered to 
 find out.
  but dont be sad, when fable 2 comes out we shall allllll have no lives as it will be sooo amasing 
 ^_^ and i have to keep writing for that stupid minimum number of characters. . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junglegym
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  What..... a 7.0 how do you rate that a 7, the dialog is sudo 16th century , the graphics are 1999 
 ish and maybe it was just my xbox but the frame rate was unbearable. This isn't a true review because 
 I could only stand about 30 minuets of it. I give it a 2.5 only because it makes a good coaster. 
 Dang it , I have to have 100 words to write a review for a game that deserves 20.... Fine, The 
 character animation was sad, the voice acting was sega cd style, and I hacked at a guard for 2 
 minutes and he greeted me kindly afterwards. After a game like Oblivion we should not have to spit 
 out 60 bucks for slum like this, I am sure the devs worked hard on it but sheesh did they play 
 any recent rpgs. Morrowind was better than this. I think they had the right idea but they just 
 couldn't put it together. I will say one thing though I don't have any cup rings on my coffee table 
 anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game was way over looked to be a good game, i am a calm reviewer but i cannot stand on how 
 they could make a game like this, anyways to the pros!
  
  PROS:
  
  Scale of game: Imagine oblivion, but with nothing to do, the world in two worlds, is preety big 
 but being in a big place, means good graphics, and they really didnt finish the graphics to this 
 game anyways, You can pick up and make potions, magic, skills etc a nice touch.
  
  Cons:
  
  Graphics: The agony, oh hell the agony, have you ever seen one of those youtube video were 
 the quality is so horrible you cant even make out the faces, imagine two worlds like this with 
 some preety bad voice acting, it looks like you dont belong when you jump, it looks like runescape 
 (a decent game better then this game!) read the back of the game case (Realistic!) and etc, the 
 wolves looked like they had been stung by the biggest freaking bee or are alergic to most things, the 
 blood looks way to cartoonish, the lag oh god the lag constantly you lag with a load, and even 
 when you walk it lags.
  
  Gameplay:  okay, you could play a old might and magic game and 
 call it heaven compared to this, just hack, slash magic, and bow i would think they could have 
 at least, diffrent classes that you can be like classified "so yea i am the bowarriorician a "warrior" 
 "magician" "bow man"
  
  the game is broken and pointless... anyways at the end of each review i have a new rating system 
 sort of like game informer
  
  Concept: stirp away all of spidermans high flying slings and make him punch him self for eight 
 hours
  
  Graphics: look at a nintendo ds game... there ya go
  
  Sound: as i said terrible voice and if your not laughing at the terrible gameplay then listen to 
 the wailes they call sound.
  
  Replay value: throw it away
  
  and adventure is hidden deep beaneath this game some where... all under the lag... some people see 
 it i say throw this game away... save ur 60$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrb5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Not one of the best games I've played, but a good medevil game at best. I didn't like the enemies, 
 some of them where really stupid. Like the wolfs and bears. I mean you could take them out in one 
 hit. In real life it would take more than one hit to kill them. The graphics were amazing though, 
 Everything looked so real. The weapons were pretty cool. I liked the upgrades, they were great. 
 I used a sword that had a lot of lighting upgrades. The magic you can use was nice. Summoning creatures 
 was alot of fun. Also, the missions were not that much fun. Having to find certain people was so 
 boring!!!: evil: This game I think needs alot more added to it, it really does!!!! I also hate how 
 long the reviews have to be. I mean there are some games I just can't make a review that is long 
 enough just on what I think of a game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philhilluk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  I can imagine the feelings going through these developers minds when they first saw Oblivion and 
 they compaired it to their own creation.
  
  Oblivion moved the goalposts there is no denying it but if we had never been given that game at 
 all I think this would have been the epic RPG for the 360 by a country mile.
  
  Like everyone else here who never played past the first half hour I was initially disappointed 
 in the voice acting and the clunky interface, however once you learn to navigate through the huge 
 number of options and begin to understand the depth of the game that is delivered here the interface 
 actually becomes second nature and begins to feel no worse that that 'other RPG'.
  
  The guys and gals involved in its development really tried hard to deliver an epic experience and 
 I think it shows. It's unfortunate that the main voice actor could have used a few lessons... however 
 if you play though the game as a 'meat head' smashing everyone over the head with huge waepons 
 the voice actually suits very well.... the 'forsooths' and 'may haps' even become quite enchanting 
 and I always smile when I hear them.
  
  After a while I was completely hooked. I was discovering things I never knew were in the game and 
 begining to appreacate the rather impressive graphics. When you get a nice sunny day and get up 
 high this really does rival that 'other RPG' for delivering wonderful sunsets or sun rises and 
 some beautiful views going literally from one side of the map to the other.
  
  The map is huge by the way. I am over 30 hours in and there are huge undiscovered areas and cities 
 I still need to visit. Not even started the main quest yet.... someone said the single player game 
 ended when you did and I don't want it to end.... not yet.
  
  Have I mentioned the multiplayer? - Now thats one over on that 'other RPG' and after the patches 
 it now runs very well and is very enjoyable and does not interfere with your main quest at all 
 as everone starts new characters to play on the many maps available.
  
  I dont think they could have delivered it any other way as the maps obviously needed to be smaller 
 than the main quest map, however with the number of maps on offer there is a lot to do and discover 
 and as an alternative to tabletop RPG its a really good try. Thumbs up actually for trying as they 
 didn't need to at all.
  
  To sum up, please give this a try if you like your more old school RPG's. It's really actually 
 rather good fun in the end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  I did enjoy this game, though many have not. I played the game after some patches, so I do not 
 know what it was like before. That said, this game is definitely a rental. 
  
  So to start off ill compare this game to Oblivion, as it has the most in common with it. The world 
 is expansive and beautiful much like oblivion. The game does not have open ended features and quest 
 content as oblivion. But on the positive side the gear is much like dablo, which I find more interesting 
 than that of Oblivion. Ubgrades and combining adds some excitement to the game. The Story itself 
 is mediocre and the voice acting is terrible, but I got used to it after a while. The combat is 
 also mediocre, I found myself dodging a lot more than in Oblivion. The graphics were laggy and 
 jerky, but not too bad. Also the game locked up on me a few times, so I suggest saving quite a 
 bit unless you want to redo an hour or 2 of gameplay. I dont imagine you do. 
  
  So in summary I recommend this game to those who like these types of games, id suggest renting 
 it not buying it because the replay value is next to none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycunnings
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain awful. I wouldn't make an enemy combatant play this as torture, because 
 I wouldn't want to be charged with war crimes and besides I wouldn't be able to sleep at night. 
 Just the thought of this game was enough to have one break into a terrified scream in the middle 
 of the night. The graphics are really not bad and literally that's it. The story starts and then... thats 
 it. I'm afraid that when the expansion comes out that I am going to have to buy it just to figure 
 out what the hell that "Taint" actually is since he references it at least 8278 times during the 
 game. The voice overs just make your ears bleed and the lack of anything resembling a plot just 
 completely obliterates any joy that was intended in playing the game. Go run your head against 
 a padded room before playing this game. Return it if it is still sealed. Don't open pandoras box. 
 I dread to think I could spend even one more minute playing the game. So please for your sake, 
 don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefGerbil
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well i only gave it a 2.0 for trying and being in the huge shadow of Oblivion. I am so glad i rented 
 first big disappointment not worth buying dont waste your money its almost not worth the 8 to 10 
 hours of gameplay beating it theres a little more gameplay to offer if you wonder around finding 
 and clearing out dungeons and caves. Another great failure in the rpg world is not needed especially 
 for the 360 console that has very few rpgs im a little ashamed to have the achievements for this 
 game on my gamertag, The characters voice's are bad even worse eare the controls try rideing a 
 horse WTF's up with that and the enemys are way to easy i never took much damage they just seem 
 to not be in a fighting mood this game is just a very bad Oblivion rip off and poorly made for 
 a rip off.
  
  Overall
  
  Graphics - Ok but buggy
  
  Gameplay - Very little 8-15 hours
  
  Replay Value - None 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioGalaxyFan1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Well from what i've played so far this game is just like world of warcraft with oblivion attributes 
 i find it really hard to play with the glitchey horse and stuff and also i bought my controller 
 new cause my dog ate my other and this game makes the controller act all weird in my opinion if 
 you want to try this game wait tell it 14.99 in the used section at gamestop!
  This game is really a poor game and didn't live up to its expectations. Plus it is just flat out 
 a sketchy game play and controls wait until its cheap to buy it.
  Just please heed my warning either buy it cheap or rent and then you'll see how bad it is. We only 
 have it cause my brother wanted it and i had to pay for the mvp discount card so it was only 44.99 
 waste of money if you ask me i got mad at him for getting it i beat it in 8 hours its to short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Wow, did they actually think this was a good game before they released it? whoever made this game 
 is freakin insane. The gameplay is horrible, the voice acting is worst then i've heard before.. 
 it sounds like somebody from scooby- doo is playing the role of the characters. The graphics are 
 horrible.. the frame rate is slow.. everytime you leave the area it like takes ten seconds to bring 
 its self back together and load [every 10 seconds it does this] . It looks like they copied off 
 oblivion, but they did a HORRIBLE JOB! This game is absoutetly horrible... a bad game, and i've 
 only played the demo... If you have to... and only if you haaaaaaaaave to..... just don't. But 
 if you have to have to.... rent it first and see how crappy it really is or just play the demo. 
 It's very unbalanced and the worst game i have ever played in my life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: temjinyui
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Wel ive played the agme for 12 hours now and this is what i can tel you about 2 worlds.
  
  At the begining of the game i thought what most people that have played the game think," What a 
 total let down". but after playing the game and getting to grips with the game style of play i 
 have found that the game is awsome too play. it does not live up to Oblivion standards of RPG depht, 
 but its not far off. With oblivion you create you charatcer from scratch with the Choices of race 
 and character customizeation, but you also choose what class he is going to be, which later on 
 in the game means if you don't like the character you, ve made you have no choice but to go back 
 to the beginning and start a new, (VERY ANOINNIG) . This is were Two Worlds out shines Oblivion, 
 your Character Class at the beginning is the same you don't choose what he will be. What you have 
 to do is follow a path E. G if you want a warrior type class you have to focus on building up your 
 Strenght, Endurences and Dexterity were as a Mage will require WillPower, Dexterity and Endurence. 
 As you progress with you class you can also gain special techninques E. G with a warrior you could 
 make he proficent in Duel Weilding. doing this is simple, all you have to do is go the major citys 
 and villages and talk to a trainer who will train in that style for a set price.
  
  My Character at the mo is what il like to call a Shadow Mancer, He is a duel wielding sneaking 
 dead raiseer lol, and the good thing is if you've made a character you don't like or is not your 
 stlye, go talk to a blue robed mage and he'll reset your abilitys so you can recreate you class 
 in secounds Cool in it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampprincess888
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Now I'll admit, I got this game to see how it compared with Oblivion, now I knew even before I 
 started playing that I more than likely would be disappointed by it after playing Oblivion, but 
 I played it anyway. I wasn't too far off in my observation either. Now with every game there are 
 pros and cons, Two Worlds has many cons but it also has a few pros as well. 
  
  First con, the mini map. I think everyone who has played this game on the 360 will agree with me 
 when I say that Southpeak obviously didn't design the mini map to be displayed on anything but 
 a PC. On the 360 the mini map is so small that more often than not, I had to finish some low level 
 quests in order to get rid of a couple "shiny dots," as I call them, from the map so that I could 
 find a main quest location. And even when you do use the world map in one of the many confusing 
 menus, it doesn't go to the "shiny dot" for the particular quest you want, instead it makes you 
 look around at all of the other quests in order to find the one you want.
  
  Second con, the teleporters. Now I'll admit Oblivion spoiled me with the ability fast travel, so 
 when I realized that the only way to teleport around was to actively seek out that particular teleporter 
 disappointed me. I mean sure the game gives you a couple of portable teleporters but you can only 
 use them to teleport from the spot you're at. In other words the teleporter stays in the spot where 
 you used it, and doesn't come with you. 
  
  Third con, the horse. Now I did like how in Two Worlds unlike Oblivion you could fight while riding 
 a horse. But what I really didn't like was how whenever you teleported from somewhere, your horse 
 stayed at in the area you just left. Which of course means that if you wanted you rid around on 
 your horse, you'd have to go all the way back to where ever the horse is and get it. Which makes 
 it a major pain in the ass.
  
  Forth con, the item bag. In Oblivion, you're told how much weight you can hold, and you can't carry 
 anymore than that. In Two Worlds however, in order to carry an item, you need to have enough room 
 in your bag for it, now this can easily be remedied by stacking similar objects on top of one another. 
 But if you don't have similar objects to stack, then you have to stop what ever it is that you're 
 doing, and teleport to the nearest city to sell your items.
  
  Fifth Con, the character creation. First of all even if you're using a PC how the hell can you 
 see your characters face when you're designing it? it's too damn small and you aren't able to zoom 
 in on the face or any other body part for that matter. So for all you know, your character could 
 look like he got run over by a truck.
  
  My advice is to either rent it or just don't buy it at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_wortho
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds was touted as an Oblivion beater, everyone knew that wasn't going to happen but still 
 had their intrest piqued. 
  
  Shame southpeak failed to deliver on some of the more simple points and in the end it marrs almost 
 every aspect of the game. Two Worlds doesnt get off to a good start, you design a character only 
 for him to be replaced by some hideous mutant for the initial tutorial, then your character emerges 
 from the tomb youve just been in. That serves nothing more than to totally detatch you from the 
 game, as first impressions go thats like going to a girls house flirting with her mum then knocking 
 out her dad in the space of 20 seconds.
  
  The voice acting is the worst thing about the game in terms of its quality, but after a while it 
 becomes funny, especially when you play the Two Worlds drinking game, a shot for every "mayhap" 
 uttered.
  
  The gameplay is fairly simplistic and the weapons and spells are varied, the same with the armor. 
 The ability to stack items also adds a level of strategy to inventory management. HOWEVER the menus 
 are awful, like a straight port from the pc (which i suspect they are) the interface doesnt work 
 as fluidly as you would expect on a console which is a shame.
  
  The only other problem to be had is some graphical problems but most reviews have already made 
 light of them so i dont feel like i need to repeat everyone else :P
  
  All in all Two Worlds would have benefitted from more time spent polishing the game off and ironing 
 out some of the niggling features to streamline it for the console platforms. By all accounts the 
 game in places feels incredibly rushed and its a shame as you can see the potential in the title, 
 sadly its potential that falls short of the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phinfan3329
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  This is by far the worst game i have ever played nothing from the incoherent plot to the horrible 
 and i mean HORRIBLE framerate is even fun.
  
  I will start with the only positive gameplay feature i could find the weapon upgrade ability of 
 combining two of the same weapons to make it mildly stronger is a little fun and the game disc 
 fits in your 360 though you wish it wouldnt.
  
  Now to the bad the framerate and all to present load times are mind numbing this game chugs like 
 no game before it which is very troubling since it looks like a low-end original xbox game in the 
 first place, and you load in the middle of fields for extended periods of time. The plot is another 
 offender it doesnt hook you at all and is almost non-existent (to be fair i did not torture myself 
 enough to play the whole way through) and gives you almost no direction in where to go or what 
 to do as you spend most of your time chugging through fields and load screens till a random enemy 
 kills you. The menus and interface is bad you and nearly impossible to figure out and the horse 
 is the hardest thing i have ever had to control it would be like trying to drive a car with no 
 steering wheel.
  
  This is not a game you should buy, rent, or even look at its a horrible piece of junk that should 
 be banished from earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyfoot
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  first off i would like to say NO NO NO NO NO NO NO!!!!
  
  Now thats over with i would like to tell you of the greatest disappointment of a game i have ever 
 played. Two worlds looked to be a good game but as soon as i turned on the console i realised it 
 was absolutely dire. Everything about it falls short of anything. The graphics are terrible, the 
 combat is aweful, the player customisation is so-so and the NPCs are rubbish. Even the SPEACH is 
 rubbish. its all done in oldy englishy, which would be fine if anyone spoke that nowadays but half 
 the time you havnt got a clue what anyone is saying. Well, at least i now know what 'verrily' means 
 just from working it out about two thirds through the game.
  Yes the map is expansive but all i can say about that is that it was a huge waste of time for the 
 developers because it all either looks the same, seems to be completely inaccessible or you never 
 actually go there on the game! 
  The online gameplay is also terrible. Its basically the same thing with more lag and more idiots 
 killing everything they see.
  The difficulty curve, to quote zero punctuation reviews is like 'running full pelt into a brick 
 wall'.
  I have said about the graphics being bad but seriously, i wouldnt even expect these graphics on 
 a normal xbox, let alone the 360.
  Apparently the developers hired hundreds of people for the NPCs but all i can hear is some inexperienced 
 actor playing the same role over and over again. I wouldnt mind if the voice actors voices didnt 
 actually make me want to cut off my ears.
  And the name... What is the second world? i though it meant a parallel dimension but there was nothing. 
 The only major decision you make is in the last few minutes of the game and even then you have 
 to pick the right boss to defeat. If you pick the wrong one then its just the end. If you pick 
 the right one its the end but at least you get some achievement points. over 300 of them!!!
  We were promised major decisions that would seriously change the game environment but even then 
 we were disappointed. NOTHING HAPPENS TO DO WITH THIS!
  Also to do with the last boss is what only can be described as a giant demon which if you just 
 add some spell or other to your weapon and you time it right you can just move back and formwards 
 for about ten minutes to defeat him, even though you are supposed to be about 100 levels higher 
 than you actually are.
  
  Finally to refer back to my first comment NO! i was expecting a good game and all i got was a few 
 hours of boredom and horror in how bad it was.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds sounded great on paper, sounded great at E3 and had serious potential. Unfortunately, 
 this game had certain flaws. However, not everything was bad about this game. 
  
  When you first play Two Worlds you are offered to customize your lead character. However, you are 
 limited to how much power you have in customizing your character. I thought the Character Creation 
 System could have been better designed. 
  
  As you play the game through, you find that the game starts to become more difficult and there 
 was no balance in the leveling system compared to the enemies. It seemed that you began to experience 
 more and more difficulty leveling and the enemy bots felt like they were 2 or more levels above 
 you. 
  
  The pluses to this game is that the environments were outstanding and the graphics were superb 
 for the different forests and towns. However, you soon discover that there is something strange 
 about the characters themselves, it feels as though the characters seem to be designed for an Xbox 
 or PS2. However, overall the game does stick to the RPG aspect of the genre. I give this game 7.0 
 out 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrRoberto
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Two Worlds. A great attempt to out-Oblivion Oblivion. In a sense, there is no greater praise 
 than imitation. That being said, an imitator that pales in comparison comes off like a drag queen 
 dressed as Cher. Sure, you get the hair and make-up right, do the tongue thing, and attempt to 
 sing "If I Could Turn Back Time", and you have something close to Cher, but you can still tell 
 the difference. In fact, these differences become eerily fascinating in a sort of creepy train-wreck 
 kind of way. This feeling that I am describing is exactly how you will feel playing Two Worlds. 
 There are some great elements, but overall, it just never gets on track.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are pretty weak. Control feels sluggish, and over-simplified. In particular, 
 combat is so dumbed down, that once you get the hang of it, you will never get hurt. Even if you 
 are having trouble, there are statues that heal your character instantly, allowing one to simply 
 stand around the base of it and take on an army with no real risk. Of course, you have access to 
 the healing properties, but anyone else around you does not. Gee, it's so nice to be the center 
 of attention of the entire world. And, what a world! I would have loved to explore it, but the 
 map is so hard to read, that I could not even use it. As you can tell, I hit frustration at every 
 corner. Having played the game for 10 some odd hours, I could not believe that I was still trudging 
 on (more on that later.) Oh, don't get me started on the lag-fest that is multiplayer. The fact 
 that the game was released with such a terrible multiplayer experience is astounding.
  
  Graphics look decent, but not as crisp as they should. I started out playing in standard definition, 
 but switched to HD in the middle. The game looks much better in HD, but it still feels like an 
 original XBox title. Animations look anemic and lacking in frames, and in combat, especially repetitive. 
 Spell effects look weak, and other effects are just plain ugly. The blood effect was ripped directly 
 from Mortal Kombat... well, to be honest, it looked better in Mortal Kombat. Character models are 
 blocky and look very older-gen. Speaking of older-gen, the conversation portions look particularly 
 bad. In fact, Knights of the Old Republic had better looking conversation models on the original 
 XBox. Overall, the game just lacks visual polish at nearly every corner.
  
  So, after the requisite bashing, what if anything is positive? Well, to start with, any game that 
 tackles the monster that is Oblivion is worth playing. Two Worlds is absolutely massive. Once you 
 get past some of the shortcomings, the game is actually fun. The fun factor relies on nostalgia 
 for games like Diablo, as combat devolves into an over-simplified affair that leads to piles and 
 piles of loot. The inventory system, obviously designed with a mouse and keyboard in mind - aw 
 heck, the whole game is designed for the PC. There, I said it. Strangely, I still played on... 
 I guess that last sentence sums up the review. No matter how poorly made Two Worlds may be, this 
 gamer is still yearning for another engaging Oblivion-like experience, and as such, I will put 
 up with a fair amount of mediocrity to come close to it. All aforementioned points aside, there 
 is a fun time to be had here, it just requires a basic understanding that, as shipped, this game 
 just feels broken. Maybe it was rushed out of the gates, but it could be turned around with a monstrous 
 patch. I would love to wait for the patch and re-evaluate the game. Until then, I trudge along 
 begrudgingly, wishing that I had bought it used.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is not the Oblivion-killer Reality Pump would lead us to believe it would be. In fact, 
 Two Worlds' only real accomplishment is reminding us of how great of a game Oblivion is.
  
  Playing Two Worlds can be extremely painful at times, not only because it is mediocre at best on 
 most levels - usually much lower - but also because it is ridden with performance problems, design 
 flaws and bugs. It very well could be the absolute worst performing and presented game of all time 
 for the Xbox 360. With so much wrong the game, it is quite difficult to decide just where to begin 
 at dissecting this, often repulsive, toad that is disguised as a prince.
  
  The story of Two Worlds is about as deep as its game-play, which is just a few drops, mind you. 
 Of course, you might be thankful after not too long, because if it was much longer you'd have to 
 endure more torment of actually playing it. I know, that's not much of a hook in getting you enticed 
 into playing it, but I'm not trying to reel you in on this one, because you are quite likely to 
 ask to be thrown back in.
  
  To summarize, your hot sister has been kidnapped by a cult of gothic geezers in robes, who speak 
 in deep voices, and it is your job to rescue the babe. The theme? Incest, I suppose. There's really 
 not more to it then taking orders from these demon worshipers, thereby giving them what you want, 
 in the hope that you may may it with your thankful sibling at the end. Two Worlds boasts all the 
 cliche minions you'd expect in a text-book Diablo-esque RPG and many of those baddies you'd encounter 
 in Oblivion, with pentagrams to boot. Oh, and it boasts some of the most frightening next-gen graphics 
 I've ever seen, so I guess you could say it's part horror as well.
  
  Within a minute of playing, your first observation will probably be the poor frame rate, coupled 
 by constant hiccups and freezes. Get used to it, because it will be a constant hurdle to overcome 
 if you intend to continue playing. If there are several enemies on screen the frame rate dips even 
 further, and after slaying each of the enemies, the game usually freezes for a split second (possibly 
 to think about where to place the body) and then resumes. It's a constant annoyance, and one you 
 may not ever get used to. It has been a long time since a game suffered from such excessive pop-up, 
 but Two Worlds definitely takes the cake. It isn't just scenery and buildings either. You can be 
 walking along and all of the sudden enemies or people appear directly in front of you, as if to 
 say "peek-a-boo"! While the more serious pop-up doesn't seem to occur too frequently, it's there 
 and it's definitely a cause of annoyance. Two Worlds also suffers from a graphical phenomena that 
 I have never seen before and can only refer to as "undrawing". Simply put, the game's engine renders 
 objects in the distance, sometimes in inaccurate places, and then later, as you are approaching, 
 undraws the object (s) if they shouldn't have been there, and then redraws them in different locations. 
 It's quite a sad sight to see, since it does tend to happen fairly frequently, but many people 
 may not even notice it is going on. I did, and I perceived it as another sign of poor planning 
 on the part of the game engine. Even worse is that objects frequently become stuck in midair or 
 move around in the air or inside of other objects. Then there is over-shininess which can be found 
 on across all the coasts - the contrast gets so intense that sand becomes pure white. Character 
 models and animals are very jagged and clumsy looking and could not possibly be mistaken for their 
 life-like counterparts. If you go inside the few buildings that are actually accessible you will 
 notice that there are only a few interiors that were designed and they have been cookie-cut repeatedly 
 throughout the world of Two Worlds. Many textures are low resolution and extremely repetitive, 
 and cities and environments tend to be very void and dull. All of this constitutes one of the poorest 
 looking "next-gen" games released to date. One thing is certain - the screen shots are misleading.
 
  
  The next thing you will notice, if you haven't noticed this already, is the absolutely dreadful 
 voice-overs. Dreadful is maybe a compliment, because these voice-overs, and the dialog itself, 
 are embarrassingly ridiculous. Not only does the tone very rarely fit the mood of the text, but 
 it sounds so exaggerated and goofy that no one could possibly take it seriously. The game is also 
 packed full of one-liners that are spoken by our "hero", which serve as constant reminders that 
 you are playing one of the corniest games ever. And, I'm not just talking "poor" voice acting, 
 but pathetic voice acting. These actors that were cast seriously have no idea how ridiculous they 
 sound, and if they do it is beyond belief that they accepted the roles. Poor voice talents are 
 not the only problem with how Two Worlds sounds though - the scripted dialog is terrible. It's 
 littered with so many different old-English words and phrases, like "mayhap", "prithee", "verily" 
 to name a few, that you can't help but wonder if the developers are only using such a dialect to 
 create a sense of "culture" or atmosphere in order to hide a very shallow game premise. The music 
 is generic and bland for the most part with nothing that will leave you entranced. The sound effects 
 of the animals you battle don't sound accurate at all, and about the only good sound effect is 
 that of the lightning. The sound does not create atmosphere as it should, but only gets on your 
 nerves as your hands itch to toss the gaming control at the speakers or television set.
  
  It is not just the graphics and sound of Two Worlds that hurt it, but also the way the developers 
 have implemented both. For example, the weather in Two Worlds is quite comical. I like to compare 
 it to a light switch, because that is often how it behaves. One second the sun is shining and it's 
 day time, and then all of the sudden it is night time through little, if any transition. One moment 
 it can be clear and a few seconds later it can be pouring rain. I guess the developers felt, if 
 everything else is shoddy, why should the weather be any differently? Grass also tends to be over 
 used, presumably to hide what appear to be otherwise jagged and sharply shaped terrain.
  
  Like Oblivion, Two Worlds tries to be a free world with free choices that lead to consequences, 
 but it fails miserably on so many levels. The main quest, while incredibly short, is extremely 
 linear and does not provide any real sense of choice in how events are played out. In fact, the 
 side quests also provide little, if any, choice into how a particular quest plays out. When you 
 do have a choice, which is rarely, you will never feel that you are in a moral position to make 
 a critical judgment call, as is the case with so many other open RPGs. With Two Worlds, everything 
 is cut and dry with no room for ethical choices or real dilemmas. If a choice you make does yield 
 a result, it is incredibly superficial and shoved in your face simply to show you what you picked 
 made a difference. There are absolutely no subtleties to be found anywhere in the game, so the 
 experience is then left feeling very unrealistic.
  
  While under the cracks and crevices, one might be able to see the underlying potential in Two Worlds, 
 more likely than not it is shrouded by a myriad of horrible design choices and flaws. To make matters 
 worse, the game-play mechanics are broken well beyond repair. The game completely lacks any sense 
 of balance - enemies go from being too hard to too easy way too quickly, although you still will 
 encounter several foes that will kill you in a single hit, but most likely never encounter a foe 
 that is of a moderate difficulty. There only exists a pseudo sense of free-will in Two Worlds, 
 as you are constantly restrained from having any serious effect on the world around you. Most of 
 the side quests you end up going on revolve around trivial little tasks that yield a feeble amount 
 of gold, which often makes it hardly seem worth it. If it wasn't for the reputation earned and 
 experience points gained from completing side missions, there really wouldn't be any incentive. 
 Therein lies another problem with Two worlds; the complete lack of balance means that you can climb 
 from a nobody in a specific faction to the most renowned member of the faction in a matter of mere 
 minutes. It took me no more than 30 minutes to go from a renown level of 0 out of 10 to a level 
 of 10 out of 10 in the Karga faction! Once again, Two Worlds demonstrates its absolute disregard 
 for subtleties and evolution within the societies you interact with.
  
  While putting another stone in the grave, Reality Pump decided it wasn't worth any of their effort 
 at delivering a polished menu and navigation system. Instead, we are left with a horrible clunky 
 and frustrating menu system which makes scrolling through items and potions a tedious chore. Instead 
 of having the menus list your items, they are scattered around in a Diablo-like fashion. Only, 
 unlike in Diablo, it is a pain in the ass to select new items in your inventory in Two Worlds. 
 When you press up or down in your inventory, the game often chooses something you didn't want or 
 wouldn't think should have been selected by your input. The poor menu system is a clear indication 
 of a lack of refinement for the Xbox 360 version of this game, as it is very clear that the menus 
 were designed solely for use with a mouse. At least, the developers could have let you use an analog 
 stick like a mouse - it would have been far better than the current method of navigating your inventory 
 that you have to cope with.
  
  I also found it a bit odd, and illogical, that you seem to have two storage limits in terms of 
 what you can carry. First there is the numerical weight limit, in which all items constitute a 
 certain weight and you can only carry up to a certain number in weight, based on your strength 
 and level. But then, there also seems to be an unmentioned restriction on the number of invisible 
 tiles you can use in your inventory. This doesn't make any sense at all, considering you are already 
 capable of scrolling to the right to see more tiles of items. My only thought then is to why they 
 allow you to scroll in the first place if they are just going to limit how many you can use. If 
 you're like me, and you like to hang onto all your gems, potions and plants, you will constantly 
 encounter the problem with not being able to carry more, even though your storage capacity is far 
 from being met. Most often I had not even reached half of the weight my strength permitted me to 
 carry, but I still was unable to carry more items because I apparently didn't have any tiles left 
 to place items. This is frustrating, because the game makes no mention of this, and doesn't even 
 show you the boundary of allocated space, but just stops you once you reach that invisible limit.
 
  
  Combat in Two Worlds consists of repetitive button smashing - only you are merely smashing a single 
 attack button. There is no sense of timing or precision and fighting lacks any skill, challenge 
 or thought. If you get knocked down, you will often have difficulty in getting back up, as the 
 animation sequence your character takes at getting up is slow and allows for further attacks to 
 keep you on the ground. This can be very frustrating because you often feel like you do not even 
 have a chance when you spend much of your time fighting on the ground. Enemies also tend to kick 
 dust into your face quite frequently, which prevents you from fighting or doing anything else other 
 than a corny animation where you cover your eyes. While this cheesy animation is taking place, 
 you are incapable of fighting back, casting magic or picking up items, but you are still free to 
 move around. Moving around with dust in your face shows our character gliding around on the ground 
 without moving his legs - a true wonder that would make even Michael Jackson jealous.
  
  And then there is the problem with casting spells. You can't cast magic while moving, so anytime 
 you try to you simply stop dead in your tracks, cast the spell, and remain stopped. Or you can 
 think ahead and stop moving before casting the spell, then cast it, and continue to move; this 
 way you won't suffer from as much of a delay, but nonetheless casting magic is very sloppy and 
 poorly integrated into fluid movement.
  
  When you do manage to defeat foes that are not keeping you on the ground or covering your eyes, 
 you will notice how their body is almost always repositioned after they are dead. Instead of simply 
 letting physics do its wonder and allowing the body to collapse in the position dies in, bodies 
 are repositioned once killed - a truly last-gen sight to see.
  
  AI, while very poor, is capable of doing things which you are not, such as running up steep cliffs 
 you would never be able to pull off. This sometimes makes chasing an enemy down impossible, but 
 it is definitely no worse than the other problems with AI in Two Worlds. If you are running away 
 from enemies, they will always turn back and leave you alone once you reach a certain defined distance 
 from them (which is not that far) , so all you have to do is reach that limit and they will turn 
 their back to you and start going in the other direction, so then all you have to do is start going 
 after them again. It's very cheesy, and becomes a standard part of how you battle with some of 
 the more fierce foes. The one and only original thing that exists in Two Worlds is quite possibly 
 one of the poorest choices they made with the game. For some strange reason, the developers decided 
 that horses should have their own AI, so when you are riding, and presumably controlling the horse, 
 it often goes in completely different directions than you tell it to! I found myself walking the 
 entire game, or simply using teleports, because riding horses wasn't worth the hassle of dealing 
 with incredibly unresponsive and unrealistic AI. Its sad, but the one thing that Two Worlds didn't 
 "borrow" from another game was a very bad idea and shouldn't have even been implemented in the 
 first place.
  
  Much like the horses of Two Worlds, humans are also just as unforgiving. If you ever manage to 
 get on the bad side of the villagers, for whatever the reason, you will forever be incapable of 
 making peace with them! I found this out after hitting the A button, to pick up the meat from an 
 animal, which is also the button to pick a lock, since I happened to be in front of a door. Since 
 the game interpreted my action as lock picking, I was immediately remarked to be seen "stealing" 
 (apparently there is no distinction in Two Worlds from stealing and trespassing) . Unfortunately, 
 I didn't have the gold on hand to pay off the fine, so I had no choice but to be shunned from the 
 village. The bad part is, once you have this notoriety in a specific region, you will never be 
 able to pay off your debt and come in peace - any attempt at revisiting the city will result in 
 every single villager chasing you around to butcher you. I find it to be rather incomprehensible 
 that the development team did not add a method of paying off your debts or even serving time. Instead, 
 you are never welcome in that location, which means if you have any pending quests for that region 
 to complete you are out of luck. What a bummer.
  
  Aside from poor design choices, and what seems to be pure laziness in coding, Two Worlds is also 
 ridden with all sorts of bugs and quirks. For instance, when you receive achievements of receive 
 private messages from your MSN account, the normal Xbox 360 notification that pops up informing 
 you of the event often causes Two Worlds to become graphically distorted with graphical artifacts 
 covering the screen for a few seconds. While it doesn't happen every time, it happened to me at 
 least twice, which is still worth mentioning. Your character also has a constant tendency to move 
 on his own, when you aren't even pushing on the controller. I tested this behavior with multiple 
 controllers and different games and it only happens when playing Two Worlds. This can be very frustrating 
 because casting spells requires your character to remain stationary, and when he runs off in some 
 direction without you even telling him too this makes the task very difficult. And it doesn't happen 
 just once an hour or less than that, it's very frequent and seems to occur at least once in every 
 few minutes - I noticed it seemed to occur at certain times while controlling both analog sticks 
 at the same time. The game also constantly has to load up new areas, which can interfere with the 
 game place experience since it can freeze the game for even combat for up to 15 seconds. Most of 
 the time, the game advertises that it is loading by displaying a spinning CD icon in the bottom 
 corner, but a lot of the time this icon is no where to be seen which makes you wonder if the game 
 crashed. And crashing it just may. Two Worlds crashed on me three separate occasions, which permanently 
 froze the Xbox up and had to be rebooted. That's not very fun when you can lose a lot of progress, 
 especially since the game does not contain an auto-save feature. Since I am played the game on 
 a brand new Xbox 360 Elite system, I am forced to assume it was the solely the game's fault - especially 
 since I have not had any other games crash for me yet. If you do play Two Worlds on the Xbox 360, 
 you would be well-advised to save frequently to avoid the frustration I went through. There were 
 also several points in the game where it thought that I had solved quests I am certain I did not. 
 And then, while not necessarily a bug, it was humorous, and sad, to note that the developers even 
 misspelled "ogre".
  
  Not everything in Two Worlds is pure crap, though. Fortunately, there are loads of items to obtain, 
 and even cooler is the ability to spice them up yourself by combining gems into them to give them 
 elemental attributes. Mixing potions, while not all that original, is also a welcomed feature, 
 though, unless your alchemy skill is maxed out, items are stronger in their pure forms than being 
 in a potion, so one does wonder what point there is in making them.
  
  Two Worlds feels like a collection of many of the most renowned western RPGs to date, or more specifically 
 a little of Oblivion mixed with a little Diablo. The feel for beefing up your character is there 
 and it is the main force that will keep you playing (if you do) , but, unfortunately, the developers 
 only manage to grasp certain superficial details of the formulas that many of us fell in love with, 
 and don't really seem to comprehend the mechanics of an entertaining, rewarding and rememberable 
 experience. It is a shame, because deep within, one may be able to see the potential that exists, 
 but potential doesn't make good games, however, poor implementations do make poor games.
  
  Within the first couple of hours of playing Two Worlds, I found myself asking how on Earth Microsoft 
 licensed this game for their console. I truly believe it has the potential to give people the idea 
 that there must be something wrong with the system because of this game's horrendous performance, 
 which in reality is simply because this is one of the poorest ports of all time. If you are capable 
 of giving it a chance, you may be able to appreciate some of the game-play aspects - particularly 
 leveling up your character and trying to create the most powerful weapon - but when that is all 
 said and done, the quests are a bore, the rewards are trivial and the mental pleasure of playing 
 the game simply isn't there. This is definitely one game which is nothing more than a lot of fluff. 
 Its aim is noble - creating an immersive and interactive environment superior to the best RPGs 
 - but its implementation is shallow and shoddy, which leaves Two Worlds to be one of the most poorly 
 executed ideas in games today. Instead of providing innovating ideas and concepts, Two Worlds consists 
 of nothing but rehashed concepts that have been tweaked ever so slightly in an effort to pass them 
 off as creative. In truth, Two Worlds is nothing but a sad attempt at being something big. Its 
 lack of substance and ambition will show itself early on and leave you feeling cheated when its 
 over.
  
  
  Gameplay: (5) Packed full of bugs, and performance related problems with a horribly dull story 
 and bland world, you won't find much more than leveling your character up and modifying your weapon.
 
  
  Graphics: (5) Some of the screen shots are a beauty, but the game, in fluid motion, is a nightmare. 
 The framerate is horrible, character models are clunky and jagged and the artistic style is below 
 average.
  
  Sound: (3) Some of the worst voice acting in games ever. Mediocre, at best, sound effects with 
 bland and unemotional music.
  
  Lasting appeal: (3) You can beat the main quest in a few hours tops, and it could probably be done 
 in under an hour if it weren't for having to level up your character. Side quests are repetitive, 
 bland and unrewarding. No reason to go back and play this stinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaSod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  For an RPG fan, this game is definitely worth it. The character progression and vast amount of 
 items to collect and places to visit will give the avid role-player hours of fun.
  This game garnered massive criticism from reviewers for looking bad and having choppy gameplay. 
 And some of the worst voice acting on a modern video game.
  So there is nothing good I can say about the voice acting. It was like they had no direction whatsoever. 
 A side character asked me to find his family heirloom, which he pronounced 'hairloom'. The worst 
 violator is the main character who is continuously spouting 'That's interesting' even when he picks 
 up the most mundane rock lying on the ground, or pulling the heart out the the 200th wolf he's 
 slain.
  Otherwise, the cons have been overstated- The game looks pretty enough, some people are ugly, some 
 are pretty. Once you get armor to cover all of you, your avatar looks pretty good. There is some 
 amount of pop-up, but I never found it excessive. I think the developers tried to put too much 
 stuff on screen at once.
  As for choppy gameplay, this is once again a stat driven combat system. So sometimes it will seem 
 like you are swinging and missing a lot. Well, that is probably because the stats are telling the 
 engine that you are missing a lot.
  For an RPG enthusiast like myself, there is a lot to like about this game. There is lots of leveling, 
 and each level will give you stats and a skill point (almost identical to Diablo 2) . But you can 
 also earn skill points by making discoveries, killing certain amounts of enemies and picking locks. 
 The map has a similar method to Oblivion in that there is a bit of hand-holding during quests, 
 markers show you exactly where you need to go. The plot is fairly vanilla, but certainly not as 
 bad as a lot of other games, and much better than that of most shooters.
  And as a 360 owner, we don't have much choice if we want to play something other than a shooter. 
 Why not give Two Worlds a chance? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brewstabear
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  at the end of the day, you're never bored! tons of stuff to do and tons of stuff to kill; what 
 more could you want really.
  
  loads of weapons to get, lots and LOTS of customization. the points based skill system makes you 
 work so you can upgrade
  
  best of all is the whole sense of evil you get from the game. in the south part of the whole map 
 it kind of turns into mordor from lord of the rings, there're giant wasps and stuff its mental
 
  
  the only real bad things are the tiny text and maps, the repetitiveness of the wilderness fights, 
 the damn horses and the way you die every five seconds! ah well
  
  give it a chance lads! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lance_shogun
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Two-World is a very interesting game allowing the user to create a custom character of his choosing 
 and guide him down the path of either the savior or destroyer. But this game contains numerous 
 flaws in every aspect possible and it even adds new ones. The character dialogue is horrendous 
 and the combat system is kinda confusing. Also, battles are ridiculously cheap, allowing the character 
 to hover to a heal totem and fight off the enemy will not sustaining any damage. The final thing 
 that makes this game the epiphany of "half-*****", is the environment of play, its rather choppy 
 and inconsistent, and lacks the details that Oblivion so incredibly breathtaking to watch. The 
 grass doesn't sway , the trees are rather 2D and the overall clarity of play is very poor. This 
 game is only worth renting or borrowing, DONT buy this game, unless you want to waste $60 dollars 
 on graphic suited very well for the Dreamcast or PS1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 010dragonslayer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is a game that seemed to atempt to imitate oblivion... It failed, believe me.
  
  
  Graphics: Ew, the graphics look awful for a 360 game. Even the boxart looks evil. The animations 
 are moronic along with it, your character runs like he has some sort of problem. There's no excuse 
 for this kind of sloppiness.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty much garbage. Fighting anything seems to have the same repetitive sound, 
 its unbelievable how annoying is can get. The voice action is no good either. I realise they were 
 trying to get a realistic midevil feel but seriously! In the most serious conversations between 
 characters you'll be laughing your head off with their constant use of mayhap, shalln't and thou. 
 They sound almost robotic the way they use constant pauses between words. Thou ears shall be bleeding 
 after the horrible mess.
  
  Difficulty: Oh good god the difficulty. It's next to impossible in places. Now if you haven't completed 
 the game yet your probably thinking "My god this reviewer sucks huge portions of a**" Wait till 
 you see the final 2 bosses. I was lvl 55 when I fought them, they pretty much have one hit kills 
 and literaly take 45 minutes to an hour to defeat... each. Probably the only way of killing them 
 is leading them to a respawn point, landing a few hits, dying, and respawing, rinse repeat. This 
 difficulty will really have you on your last nerve.
  
  Gameplay: Well here things aren't particulary bad. The controls are relativley easy to get use 
 too and navigating through menus can take a little time to get use to but all is pretty well other 
 than combat. Combat consists of mashing one button and occasionly hitting a button that makes you 
 jump back wards and avoid the attack. It's extremly repetitive and will bore you to death, im really 
 quite suprised someone hasnt already been killed.
  
  Multiplayer: I can simply sum up MP in one word. LAG! You cannot kill anything, you cannot find 
 your teamates, hell you cannot find yourself! I haven't played in a little so they may have fixed 
 that issue but I still really doubt it's all that great of an MP experience anyway.
  
  With a lot of patience and tolerance the game can be enjoyable, once you get a high enough level 
 you can destroy entire cities of people laughing like a lunatic. I wouldn't reccomend this game 
 unless you have already sucked up every second of all the other great RPGS out there.
  
  I just wanted to point out some false advirtisment real quick, the back of the game case says "It 
 is oblivion on steroids!" I bet you $100 that was said before the game came out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanegp
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has great game play a giant world good story line and lots of cool magic attacks. Most 
 people who say it sucks probably don't know what good is (and probably think DND is fun) . This is 
 one of the best rpgs for the 360. Saying this game sucks is like saying halo 3 sucks. There are only 
 three bad things 1. Voice Acting sucks 2. horse controls are difficult but you get use to it 3. actually 
 there is no three only two. This game had great every thing else people should start beating games 
 before making reviews so they dont look like idiots by me when they say a great game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3viliv3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  First of all, I finished the game and it only froze on my 2 times and even saw two different endings. 
 Other than that, zero bugs... maybe after the patch they fixed pretty much everything. I dunno, 
 I didn't encounter the bugs people were talking about nor know they are talking about comparing 
 to Oblivion. I also have Oblivion, and I didn't bother to finish Oblivion 'cause the game was so 
 long and boring. The loading time on 2W comparing to oblivion is like nothing, another thing I 
 have no idea what they're talking about. Talking about glitches, I encountered more glitches in 
 Oblivion more than 2W, from freezes to get stuck at some place that I shouldn't be such as getting 
 off a horse on a hill...
  
  It's so weird that everyone seems to be playing a different game than me and the reviewer or something. 
 I didn't experience all the stuff that people talked about and got disappointed. If everyone was 
 expecting it is just like Oblivion... well, I'd say just play Oblivion. Why bother to play other 
 games that you want them to be Oblivion? As for the game play, it's the classic formula... you 
 run around, do something, end quest, start another one. Nothing is new there. One thing I liked 
 in 2W were the skills. Instead of just shooting arrow after arrow, you can upgrade your skill to 
 shoot multiple targets with one shot - it's really funny when you use Freezing Wave to freeze your 
 enemies, line them up then shoot them and see 2-3 goes down with one shot. It's better than just 
 "Whack whack! aha you're dead!". The skills aren't new either, remember good old Diablo and Divine 
 Divnity? It's just in 3D that's all.
  
  Overall, 7.0 is a fair assessment... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeramJD
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Let me try to explain my contempt for this game. I fervently awaited its release while keeping 
 up to date on the various news flashes and updates. Each one only making my seat that much more 
 uncomfortable; I shifted and wiggled with anticipation. The previews looked great, and the 360 
 was desperately in need for a good swords/shields/dragons/etc RPG since Oblivion, for those of 
 us who didn't think Oblivion was so wonderful (seriously - the character in Oblivion moves like 
 a retarded robotic automaton, why even bother with 3rd person views? Plus the million other reasons 
 why it was mediocre at best) .
  
  Anyway, after a long, long wait the game was finally released. The day of days. Who cares if the 
 boss finds out I returned late from my lunch break; I had to be one of the first to get this game! 
 Palms sweaty, I drove home later that night to put this 60 dollar piece of plastic into my 360. 
 
  
  "Black Metal" as intro music? Eh, no big deal. In fact, this could be a good thing. It's geeky 
 - and geeky is good when it comes to RPG's, right? Okay, so the character customization options 
 vary from down syndrome to polygon man, the game isn't ALL about the character. Okay, so the voice 
 acting is a little weird! And no, it's not "funny" weird. No big deal (horrible) . Well, wait, why 
 does the game play look so very playstation 1-ish? Is that mortal combat blood I just saw? Again 
 and again? The same exact "blood splat", as it were? And I'm fairly certain that goblin's sound 
 effect was a recording of someone taking a crap at high speed. Ah. So I see we've come full circle. 
 
  
  I say to you all, please buy this game. I shall not be the only one to be subjected to such torture 
 and disappointment. I shall never be deceived again. And if I ever meet anyone who claims to have 
 any hand in making the Two Worlds game that ISN'T homeless and a completely trashed miserable broken 
 person, I will beat them to death with the game box itself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aleisterlavey
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  The game play is choppy and clumsy. The camera is frustrating. The plot is lacking. The voice actors 
 sound like somebody forced them into doing the game. And visually... well, it's darn right ugly. 
 The range in character design is very disappointing. We made the mistake of buying this game before 
 renting it. We bought into the hype. We spent a couple days trying to get past the glitches, trying 
 to find the supposed gem that was underneath, but it was painful and all we found was crap. We 
 traded it in and cursed the wasted hours we spent on it. Honestly, I just can't understand how 
 some people enjoyed this piece of crap game. It's not even worth renting. Don't waste your time 
 or money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiSkyBiZ-13
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the worst game I have ever played. Where to even begin?
  
  Character Customization: An essential in any good RPG, we take pride in how our hero will look 
 and we need the full ability to customize him or her to the fullest. 2 Worlds has one of the worst 
 character creation programs I have ever seen. You can't zoom in on the face enough to see what 
 you're changing, and the options are limited. They would have been better off to make a standard 
 "Choose: Fighter, Wizard, or Thief!" 
  
  Voice Acting: Another important component to an RPG, the voice acting can bring us closer to the 
 storyline. You know what? I won't even touch this. If you've played the game you know what's up.
 
  
  Gameplay: Choppy much? Yes, I think so. If you thought riding a horse in Oblivion was frustrating, 
 just wait for this...
  
  AI: Don't even let me start... HORRID!!!
  
  Graphics: Awesome, if this were Nintendo 64 or PS 1.
  
  Bottom line: save your money for booze, 
 this game ain't worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackouthc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Initially this game was so glitched i lost interest in it but a recent patch has fixed a few key 
 problems. The hores are now brainless and the people in towns you have offended can forgive you. 
 The sheer size of Two Worlds is enough to buy the game just for that. It clearly beats Oblivion 
 in the magic department as well. It also improved on Oblivion in the armour department. There are 
 over 500 different pieces of armour and weapons. The weapons are also more customizeable. Has a 
 good set of side quests along side the main quest to keep you interested for a while. Two Worlds 
 is an entertaining RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atagger1
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This was suppose to be the next Oblivion?
  
  Not even close. Terrible story, PS2 graphics, horrible voice acting. The game play and combat are 
 even boring and difficult.
  
  This game is bad to the point where my girlfriend was like, "why are you playing ps2 again?" Then 
 she would laugh every time a character spoke because the voice acting is so damn bad.
  
  Don't waste your cash on this title. 
  Don't listen to the hype that this is anything like Oblivion, 
 because it's not at all.
  
  Why did they bother releasing a collector's edition of this game?
  
  Two worlds is two worlds 
 of doody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0s3rx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds had an amazing amount of hype about it; almost as much as Halo 3, most would say. You 
 couldn't open a browser window to any gaming site and not see an ad for Two Worlds. It's like one 
 of those movies where they put the best parts of the movie in the trailer - this game is exactly 
 like that. The voice acting was horrid - absolutely, completely horrid. Most of the voice actors 
 constantly spoke with a flat tone that was irritating at best and torturous at worst. Your main 
 character often said idiotic one-liners such as, "Oooh, wet" when leaping into a lake. Uhm, duh? 
 The sound quality was also off, often sounding grainy and distracting. The graphics were not as 
 wonderful and polished as they could have been, and the framerate was gag-worthy. The fighting, 
 unfortunately, was a bit shallow and there are too few enemies for such a massive world. The character 
 customization options are too few and disappointed me quite a bit. It's a character that you'll 
 be stuck with the entire game, and you can't even make him look much different without making him 
 look like a disfigured, mutant-person that was thrown out of the back of a moving vehicle onto 
 hard ground when he was a baby. I don't mean tossed so that he rolled, I mean thrown. Hard. Face-first. 
 The game leaves a great deal to be desired, though it has it's own good points. You can be a good 
 person, out to help other people or you can be a self-centered, greedy mercenary who does what 
 is best for himself - or somewhere between those extremes. The magic system was a very unique take 
 on an age-old system of mana and spells. The combat becomes more and more in-depth and less shallow 
 as you gain more abilities. There are enormous amounts of armor and weapons, and most of the time, 
 they all look different. The story, though the main character is flat and annoying, is engaging 
 and the game eventually will grow on you. I would suggest to any casual gamer that they rent it 
 first to try it out. Otherwise, you'll end up wanting your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker96
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds was Probably one of the most hyped up games that sucked. From the comparison to oblivion 
 and it ridiculous comment saying its "oblivion on steroids". This game as nothing on oblivion, 
 The elder scrolls still lives on as the best RPG games out their now. Two Worlds as nothing good 
 to promise, The game is bad in every single aspect. The on-line was a good idea but the games lagging 
 kills the fun. The story was totally of balance and pointless, and the graphics make it look like 
 an X-box game rather than a next gen game. Their isn't much to say but that oblivion is still king 
 of role playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stygian_Warlock
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of RPGs and video games in general, I was quite excited to see a new RPG making its way 
 to the XBOX 360, though I couldn't understand why Gamespot or any other online gaming site hadn't 
 posted reviews of it yet. Well, I took a chance and went ahead and bought the thing having only 
 checked out a handful of player reviews which were split pretty much 50/50 on the first day of 
 the game's release date. Usually, I almost always wait for professional reviews before I purchase 
 a game with my hard-earned money, but with no professional review in sight I decided to go for 
 it. What a mistake! This game is the worst piece of crap that I have played in recent memory. The 
 graphics really do look like they come from Playstation 1 or 2! There is absolutely no difference 
 in the fighting animations as you just kind of mindlessly swing your sword by repeatedly pressing 
 the right trigger. It lags badly, too... and I'm not even playing it on Live! I mean, seriously, 
 this kind of lag was reminiscent of the early days of Everquest 1 (though I don't think Everquest 
 ever lagged as badly as the Two Worlds) . In short, if your heart is set on the game, I would highly 
 reccommend renting it first and playing it for a while before you spend your cash on it. If, after 
 that, you are still interested, try and find a used copy (I'm sure there will be plenty) . Definitely 
 one of the WORST games I have ever played in my life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is through and through, as Gamespot stated "A Poor Man's Oblivion". Being even placed 
 in the company of one of the greatest RPG's ever is quite flattering, and Two World's does have 
 many aspects it excels well in.
  The epic scale, with the great character development, and the decent quest variety make this a 
 good game in its own. However, you get the feeling this was designed for a close up monitor of 
 a computer, as many things can be illegible due to their tiny size. Like the fine print on a big 
 contract. Regardless, its something you grow used to as you play on.
  The story involves a war between man and orc in a land named Antaloor. This war leads to an imprisonment 
 of an orcish god. The game opens 300 years later, as you play as a mercenary just trying to get 
 by. You can choose to quest, or wander the world freely, like in most open-world RPG's. However, 
 there is no level-balancing, so therefore to be able to make a particular feat, you must build 
 up a fair few of side quests to gain the experience and equipment you need to progress into the 
 story. The plot however, is mostly uninteresting.
  There is no classes in Two World's. Rather, you start with your protagonist and change him over 
 time with skill points. These skill points can pertain to being a warrior-like character, a spellcaster, 
 or a hybrid.
  There are fewer options in the game itself to develop you character. NPC interactions are dull, 
 and most responses are limited to only a couple to a few phrases. 
  Combat is straightforward, with plenty of brainless button mashing. Although melee combatants have 
 combos, its all rather presented poorly. The monsters you slay aren't of a broad horizon, as you 
 will likely fight the same enemies over, and over again. One addition that could have been great 
 is the multiplayer, but with the exclusion of a co-op, you can only do deathmatches, and monster 
 hunts.
  Two World's is an ambitious multiplayer. But the inevitable comparison with Oblivion has the game 
 fall short. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say that I very literally just turned the game off maybe five minutes 
 ago to write this review for you all. If this review gets one person to play the game, I feel like 
 I've done SouthPeak the justice they deserve. Secondly, I'm NOT the type of person who exemplifies 
 the saying "misery enjoys company." I will never lie in one of my reviews to try to trick someone 
 into buying a game that sucks. I won't even do it for comedic effect. This game is AWESOME. Anyone 
 who says otherwise has not played it for very long. I guarantee you, anyone who says they played 
 half the game and hated it, is lying. I have put probably 30 hours into the game so far an I've 
 barely put a dent in the total gameplay experience.
  
  Let's start by talking about what could be improved upon. The voice acting is laughable. The actors 
 are very overblown. If you can overact in voice acting, then Two Worlds is a great collection of 
 people who do just that. Also, the frame rate is a little low sometimes. It isn't really noticeable 
 until you step into certain areas where you'll see the frame rate as it is supposed to be. But 
 if it weren't for these spikes here and there, you wouldn't notice it. Finally... the game froze 
 on me once, for seemingly no reason. Once in thirty hours isn't bad, but I feel the need to note 
 it.
  
  The Good: The voice acting. I know I just said that everyone in the game was an over-actor, but 
 this actually nice comedic relief. The main character has a dark sense of humor (think Bruce Willis 
 in Die Hard or Vin Diesel in... anything) . When he kills things, he makes awesome quips like "meet 
 death" or he gives a nice, hearty laugh. It's twisted, but simultaneously, it awesome! Next, the 
 world around you does not level with you. I believe everyone who played Oblivion will agree that 
 that really sucked. In this game, if you meet a villager that can whoop you at level 1, go talk 
 to him or her again at level 30 and they will give you the key to their house, their horse, their 
 firstborn children, and everything they have in their pockets at the time in exchange for your 
 temporary mercy. In other words, when you level up is fun again. The main story is a little short, 
 but it's interesting. Where it makes up for it's shortness, though, is the PLETHORA of side quests 
 available. There are 7 "companies" you can work for (like the Necromancers, the Brotherhood, etc.) , 
 each with their own quests, and your involvement in one company affects how the others will like 
 you. 30 hours of gameplay and I haven't so much as HEARD of two of the companies yet, much less 
 gotten very far in any but one of them. Armor and weapons... there are ZOUNDS of different types 
 of armors and weapons for you to use. You can also stack two or more of the same type of armor 
 or weapon to make them stronger (and worth more in the shops) . In other words, you might find armor 
 made entirely of diamond, but if you held on to some crappy chainmail from the beginning and just 
 kept upgrading it, it might be better (not to mention lighter) . For those of us who like to use 
 bows, unlike in Oblivion, your arrows are unlimited. While that's not as realistic, I personally 
 think it's more fun not to have to worry about how many arrows you have on you. Alchemy, in this 
 game, is surprisingly fun. You can finally create potions that will last infinitely (ie. provided 
 you have the right ingredients, you can make yourself forever impervious to harm from fire or completely 
 unaffected by poison) . You can also collect and use gems to enchant weapons at any point in the 
 game (no secondary skill required) meaning you can have a piece of crap dagger that deals 5 damage 
 on its own, but 3000 fire damage, so it's taking down dragons in a couple hits. That's another 
 thing... dragons! Yeah... this game has dragons! And you can fight 'em! It's really cool. The map 
 is HUGE, too. I know they're saying it's not as big as Oblivion's, but really, most of Oblivion 
 was forest... nothing you ever really wanted/needed to explore. Two Worlds has probably five times 
 more towns than Oblivion, every imaginable landscape (from glaciers to deserts to volcanic areas 
 to dead forests to eerie surreal realms) , just just in general, tons more to do.
  
  The Awesome: A patch will be released soon to fix the frame rate issue along with adding a ton 
 of new stuff. You can fight with two weapons. You can perform one-hit-kill assassination strikes. 
 MULTIPLAYER.
  
  I'm sure there's a ton I'm forgetting to mention, but even so, just look at all that. This game 
 is worth buying. Don't buy the limited edition (like I did) , the bonus DVD's extras are pretty 
 worthless and if you really want to play their DnD-like roleplaying game, you can probably find 
 the manual online somewhere. But the game itself... AMAZING. I was worried that it was going to 
 suck at first, then I got to playing it and was a little disappointed for maybe an hour (because 
 I couldn't get past the voice acting and the controls were difficult to learn, at first) , but after 
 an hour or so, I really started to enjoy the game a lot.
  
  I really enjoyed Oblivion, but I very honestly like this game better. No offense to Bethesda or 
 Elder Scrolls fans, because Oblivion and Morrowind ruled, but I really think this game has more 
 to offer. It gets a bum rap by reviewers who didn't give it enough time or could get past the voice 
 acting, but if you are a fan of Diablo and/or Oblivion, this game won't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandibles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  to be honest at first when i bought this game and popped it in i thought WTF??... so i thought what 
 the hell ill keep playing and suprisingly after a while i started to really like this game. when 
 you first start playing the game you'll probably notice it is often a little laggy but when you 
 consider the fact that the game world is incredibly massive i mean... its big and the fact that 
 the visuals are really nice and there are zero loading screens.. none thats pretty awesome right 
 there. after a while you really wont notice the lag at all because its just so much fun. the weapon 
 and equipment system is great and allows you to synthesize weapons of the same type to make it 
 stronger so you dont really need to buy a new weapon every time there is a better one at the shop 
 you can just find one you like and keep it. some of the character motions and voices are kind of 
 goofy but overall the voice acting is pretty good and the character development is excellent.
 
  
  overall i think this game is veryyyyyyyyy underrated and deserves some time
  if you give this game a chance you will definetly get addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has no fun in it at all! The graphics look like PS2's first games. The controls are the 
 worst I have used the whole year! This game is a huge stinker. When I played this it I thought 
 it was a beta because it was so buggie. I played this at a friends and he wanted to sell it to 
 me for 20 because he hated it. He payed 60 for it and got $16 at gamestop, WHAT A RIP! Please do 
 not waste your money on this game because I feel bad for my pal and you should for yourself. Anyone 
 who likes this must be high or something because this is a horrible game almost in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sire_Crush
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  After playing a while to Two Worlds, I found out a really good game which needs to be discovered. 
 There is a lot of fun to get with it... Stacking items, alchemy, character development, multi player... 
 bring this RPG to another step and with the patch coming, this game must deserves at least a try. 
 Two Worlds has much to offer to the player who's trying the game more than 15 min... It is defenitely 
 underrated by most of the medias to get this kind of average. Finally, I think that Two Worlds 
 is a pretty good game for anyone who likes the Role Playing Games style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximbobin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Actually I can finish my review with the subject. Two Worlds is better than Oblivion. Morrowind 
 (Elder Scrolls III) was GREAT - I played it for 3 months and played add-ons. Oblivion - I played 
 for 2 weeks and never even tried any add-ons. I am playing Two Worlds for a week and I think that 
 I'll be playing it for quite some time - for months actually. The world is bigger and more interesting 
 than in Oblivion, it is definitely much more complex. The graphics are OK. Huge fun with alchemy 
 (though I still have to find a trainer) . Huge fun with weapon modification. Quests are great (in 
 Oblivion I got sick and tired of the same towers) . Development of the character - great! (Currently 
 I am lvl 14.) You feel the world in Two Worlds - you live there. I didn't have that feeling Oblivion. 
 GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  It seems that this game has received a lot of derision from the critics and the public alike, following 
 as it does in the highly polished steel armoured footprints of the mighty Oblivion.
  
  I think this derision is unjustified, and often comes from people who have played Oblivion to death, 
 have wanted to try another RPG, and bought this game expecting the same experience and the same 
 level of sheen and depth, in a similar game set in a different universe.
  
  I was one of those people, but unlike a lot of others who only gave it 20 minutes, I have given 
 this game a chance, and, having played it for 20 odd hours now, I think it is great fun, is highly 
 addictive and is very compelling, with an ever-growing story and a wide variety of fun missions, 
 big and small.
  
  I have to admit, I'm no big RPG fan who'll play anything as long as it's an RPG. In fact, Oblivion 
 was the first 'swords-and-sorcery' RPG I had properly played. I'm more of a sci-fi fan, as before 
 it the only RPGs I had played were Fallout , Deus Ex and System Shock 2 ( I did give Ultima Ascension 
 a go once but got fed up with the constant bugs and crashes, and I have played the Zelda games 
 on my 'Cube.)
  
  Since then I've played Morrowind, Titan Quest and now Two Worlds... and I have to say I've enjoyed 
 them all, and especially have a real soft spot for Morrowind as it feels more sci-fi than it's 
 follow-up... but Two Worlds is the one that has grabbed me the most out of those three, and I could 
 argue that it's been as addictive and as much fun as Oblivion (though I have put it a probably 
 250 hours on that and it's expansions!) .
  
  Two Worlds is definitely worth playing for at least 5 to 10 hours to get a feel for it - and I 
 can forgive people for initially being put off the game by the cheesy voice acting, the hokey dialogue, 
 the somewhat lame old skool 'swords-and-sorcery' concept and the often less than pretty graphics 
 and sound, as well as the poor framerate and the few technical glitches that appear. But please 
 persevere, because under the rough exterior there's a (cliche alert!) great little gem of a game 
 that eventually develops into a great big epic RPG romp.
  
  Okay, it doesn't have the slick professional big-budget look-and-feel of Oblivion, or the big budget 
 Hollywood names doing the voiceovers either (though if you ask me Terence Stamp was completely 
 mis-cast as Mankar Camoran!) . And it's fairly obvious they had a shortage of personel, time and/or 
 money - or were just very lazy - when it comes to the complete lack of variety in the people, the 
 monsters and the flora and fauna of Tamriel... er, I mean Thalmont.... Everyone looks the same, 
 character animations are very poor, there are never-ending hordes of boars and wolves and bears, 
 and the environmental audio sucks. The worst example of this is the city of Tarbakin, which is 
 half populated by a clone army of the same woman who has three different ways of saying 'go away 
 and leave me alone you pervert!'.
  
  The landscape itself doesn't look too bad, and though it's lacking in the richness and diversity 
 of Oblivion up close and suppers from random object 'pop-in', the distance views are often quite 
 detailed and even rather beautiful. I think the architecture is pretty good on the whole, but often 
 times the muggy textures and dull lighting let it down. The worst aspect is the subterranean stuff 
 which is very bland and uninspiring, but mercifully quite brief. And can someone please tell me 
 since when does a hollowed out boulder stuck on the side of a hill constitute a cave?
  
  BUT... for all this, there is stuff that feels so much better than Oblivion. The interface for 
 a start - the accessibility of magic and alchemy make them much more fun and useable, and though 
 I've got sick of making the same random dull potions, at least they give you more than a few HPs 
 or couple of seconds of crap magic. The map and journal are greatly simplified, but feel better 
 for it. Weapons are muchy less troublesome, they don't degrade and magic applied to them never 
 runs out. Though that makes Oblivion feel realistic, it was often just a real pain. I also like 
 the way you can double up weapons and armour of the exact same sort to make more powerful or tougher 
 items without adding to their weight. Wholly unrealistic I know, but ti works me me (it is a 'game' 
 after all!)
  
  Also, though the lanscape is a bit more spartan, there are less places to stumble upon, and if 
 you are like me, all those caves and mines and forts in Oblivion often got a bit overwhelming in 
 the fact that you felt you had to explore but often didn't get much out of it. In Two Worlds every 
 place seems to have a purpose, either fitting into the branching main storyline or the side missions. 
 There's also a more definite direction in the game, and though like Oblivion you can wander all 
 over, it definitely feels like you are progressing through the story and the missions the same 
 time as progressing through the landscape... heading south, encountering more difficult situations 
 in more to troubled lands. I like the linear sort of non-linearity in my games ;)
  
  As for how you travel - well, like in Oblivion, I do tend to go everywhere on foot as don't want 
 to miss anything, but I also make heavy use of the teleport system to finish missions and quickly 
 pop to favourite traders etc. I use the horse less, but not because of the much derided gee-gee 
 control system - I actually like the fact the horse has a mind of its own at times. But this only 
 tends to happen when its faced with an object or a particularly small entrance you are trying to 
 get it through, and isn't as big or as an annoying detraction as people make out. You can canter 
 or gallop for ages without it veering off to the side you don't want it to go - just slow down 
 when you want to navigate a busy area.
  
  Anyway, bloody-minded horse or no bloody-minded horse, I have to get back to Thalmont... I got 
 an ogre to remove from a windmill, a load of zombies to kill in a graveyard, some marauding orcs 
 to repel and a king's tomb to plunder for a relic - and that's just one village!
  
  In summary: this game has its flaws and its rough edges, but given half a chance it develops into 
 something that is as addictive and enjoyable as it is satisfying and laughably cheesy and inept 
 - it always makes me smirk when the mercenary hero says 'take that, you dog!' after killing a bear. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smitticus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  First off I love Oblivion I have played some 150hrs so far. Secondly due to the bad publicity I 
 decided to rent this first. After about 1/2 hour I would agree with all the scores from 1 to 5... I 
 wasn't impressed. However I also heard that if you persist with the game and level up a bit it 
 gets better........ I am glad I did! I have since bought the game even after the GAME salesperson 
 tried to talk me out of it. In the end I think I talked them into giving it another go.
  
  OK... yes there is some lag/loading issues while playing the game. None of which makes you want 
 to stop playing, Yes.... the cheesy dialogue is cheesy, but that adds to the charm of the game. 
 Accept that the game is 'ol English dialogue. So what.... move on.
  
  What shines with this game is the depth found with collecting, combining and upgrading all the items 
 you find. Think of it as Baldurs Gate Dark Alliance 2 or Diablo on steriods. If you enjoyed those 
 games then no doubt, given some time you will enjoy this game too.
  
  Combat can be as mundane or strategic as you want it. Start off with bows/arrows, change to your 
 Barabarian sword with 50% fire, then hit em with your magic spells...... lot of fun.
  
  Does this game need a patch...... I'm looking foward to it. If it addresses all the issues that 
 people have with it then this game is definetely a diamond in the rough.
  
  In short this game is FUN.... what games should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BouYasha
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is sadly very bab. When i first heard of the game i thought it would be worth getting 
 right up till i actually played it. How the hell did they think this would match up to oblivion. 
 Graphics not great, gameplay questionable, and is this company so poor that they can't get more 
 than five people to do the voices!!! But the silver lining for this game i guess is the online 
 feature but even that is pretty laggy. And it is way to easy to get to a high level when you play 
 online. and why can people on your own team steel from you can anyone explain this?????????
  
  In closing if any of you people out there where thinking of playing do not waste your time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sootster
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game isn't even worth rewieving i'm gonna scream for the rest of this review
  
  aaaaaaaaaargh
  aaaaaaargh
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaargh
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a a a a a a a a ar r r r r r r r r r r g g g g g g g g h h h h h aa aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a r r r r r r g g g g g g g g g g g g g g hh hh h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Ok.
  First of all, this game is an awesome example. It shows us how a game SHOULDN'T BE!
  
  This is Terrible!
  
  When you start playing it, you miss one very important thing... You 
 will ask no your mind... What are those graphics??? 
  
  YEAH! IT SEEMS A DAMN OLD PS2 GRAPHICS!
  Even THE Xbox (the old and perfect black box) have games 
 with better graphics, like HALO or FARCRY INSTINCTS.
  
  Well, after you have the first bad moment with graphics, you begin playing...
  
  Then you think... 
 SH*T!!!!! Where's the GAMEPLAY?? 
  Yeah, this is the wonderful moment where the game just copy the gameplay of ARABIAN NIGHTS ( remember? 
 the Prince of Persia game for Dreamcast???)
  YEAH! OLD TIME!! MEMORIES!!
  
  After that, when you're almost turning off your Console, you give it one last try...
  
  You 
 give up playing, and try to kill someone in the village, because you're very angry with such trash...
 
  And you find out one miracle... YOU CAN'T KILL VILLAGERS, BUT THEY CAN KILL YOU!!
  
  Yeah... IN THE END, YOU'LL TURN OF THE CONSOLE, AND GIVE UP THIS TERRIBLE GAME...
  
  And don't 
 forget that I told you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletwist
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this without renting, based solely on the box. Never will I do that again. The combat 
 system is intuitive enough; unfortunately that's about all that is intuitive. The manual doesn't 
 tell you jack squat, so you'll screw around for a couple hours before you figure out all the stuff 
 you can actually do. Plan on sitting about two feet from the TV if you want to read anything on 
 the map.
  
  The graphics are fairly decent. The creatures are well-designed, but the humanoids in the game 
 look a bit weird sometimes. Fire and weather effects are very good. The few hitches that people 
 mention happen about every 45 seconds to 2 minutes. At that point, the gameplay freezes completely 
 for about 2-3 seconds. Sometimes the little loading icon will show up, sometimes it won't. And 
 sometimes it will never un-freeze, which happened a few times. It's very similar to playing online 
 with extremely high latency, except not everything is in a different position when things start 
 moving again.
  
  The plot is nothing to write home about, and the conversations in game often seem like someone 
 took a bunch of King's English and threw it in some haphazard order, using words like Verily! as 
 interjections. There's a lot of cutscene dialog that you can't skip with a single button press 
 - and if you don't wish to listen to them plod on, you have to repeatedly skip portions of it by 
 pressing the button until they stop talking. Couple that with the fact that you only have to get 
 in close proximity to certain characters for a cutscene to start and it gets really annoying, really 
 fast.
  
  And the horse! Holy crap, I have never wanted to kill a digital animal so badly in my life. That 
 thing isn't just hard to control, it's IMPOSSIBLE to control reliably. You can barely keep the 
 thing going in a straight line much less fight on it, as the game claims. Trying to swing a sword 
 at a wolf or something while on horseback is a bit like trying to play polo riding atop an 18 wheeler. 
 If the terrain has more than about a 20% grade, the horse is not going that way. But it doesn't 
 simply stop, or continue trying to run without going anywhere, it turns for you, so then you're 
 heading the wrong direction on a beast that can't turn for crap. At that point you have to bring 
 it to a complete stop in order to turn around, unless you have a 100 foot radius of flat land to 
 turn around in (and there aren't very many of those) . Even after you get used to that annoying 
 quirk, you find out that a horse will never go through a town gate on the first try - it usually 
 takes 3 or 4 attempts going through at a snails pace before it will agree to go in there.
  
  The default difficulty level is ridiculous. It wouldn't be too bad if you had a single enemy 
 to fight, but every animal, grom or bandit you run across has friends. On medium difficulty one 
 can kill you in about 3 hits; so you certainly aren't surviving with four after you.
  
  You need a ton of patience and an unshakable love of RPGs to overlook the faults of Two Worlds. 
 It's strong point is that there really isn't anything like it for the X360; I wouldn't really compare 
 it to Oblivion because the gameplay is so different. It's a lot closer to Blizzard's Diablo series, 
 but with better graphics and a different perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleverDoug
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Terrible. This game doesn't even deserve the time I'm spending to tell you how terrible it is. 
 I'm sure the developers thought they had a hit on their hands here because no other company has 
 tried to make an Elder Scrolls knock off. But as these guys learned, pissing your pants will only 
 keep you warm for so long. This game has it all; terrible sound, graphics, story and game play. 
 I think we would have been better off if the case had included only the manual because I had more 
 fun reading it than I did playing the game. Let's just hope there isn't a Two Worlds Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmcphillie
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna say it, nope I won't mention Oblivion, bugger, there I said it.
  Its nigh on impossible to review Two Worlds without mentioning the greatest RPG on this earth (well 
 almost) , at least till the next one.
  
  But, you wouldn't be far wrong in doing so. In so many ways they are similar, epic main storyline, 
 hundreds of side quest, graphics are difficult to tell apart in stills. Without knowing what to 
 look for you'd be forgiving for thinking that it was Oblivion.
  
  There it is, the standard has been set, so how does it compare?
  Well if broken down ( broken 
 being an appropriate word) , it suffers quite badly.
  One of the first things you'll notice is the erratic frame rate, ranging from a little hitch to 
 a complete stop on occasion. There always seem to be a little pause barely noticeable when fighting.
 
  This doesnt seem to coerce with what is happening with the number of enemies onscreen, as it performed 
 pretty much the same with a few or many (later in the game I counted over 20 at one point) enemies 
 present.
  
  Next you will realise that this game isnt going to handhold you through your exploring, tread too 
 far without leveling up and death will be creeping up behind you with a large mallet.
  While this isn't so much a problem as when you die you are resurrected to a nearby 'Maliel shrine', 
 with the only penalty being that you need to make your way back and get killed again. Thus not 
 necessarily requiring the regular saving, so not to have to repeat large sections again from your 
 last , ala Oblivion.
  
  But, you will find you will be needing those saves anyway, because more than once this game crashed, 
 no apparent reason, just decided it didn't want to play anymore, so regular saving is not only 
 good practice but needed as this doesn't have an auto or quick save. Manual saving is the only 
 way.
  
  As well as the crashing there are several performance hitches, glitches.
  Getting stuck in scenery, graphics overlapping, popups, etc, nothing extremely major, but, nothing 
 a few more months development time couldn't have fixed.
  
  Horses make good glue. Well at least in this they do cause they manage to stick to everything but 
 the road. They are worse than awful, and at times impossible to control, I hate these horses ( there 
 are a few other things to ride too) , I even found myself chopping one up in a fit of rage, when 
 I finally managed to dismount, but a plus point is you can use their bodies for storage.
  
  Which comes to the inventory system, which makes you cry out for a mouse, the cursor does follow 
 things logically when they are in line. But if they are not in line you will find it fiddly and 
 time consuming.
  
  The map difficult to read and the onscreen mini-map is practically useless, you'll be walking for 
 ten minutes before realising that you have been redirected at some un-known point
  
  By now you've probably looked back up to double check the score that i have awarded, just to make 
 sure that you saw it right. I still stand by that score, why, well for all its faults Two Worlds 
 does a few things well.
  All of the points listed, like any game with faults, you will get used to after playing for a couple 
 of hours, they aren't bad, just annoying occasionally
  
  The combat is actually quite fun, playing more like a dungeon crawler, and later in the game actually 
 requires a minimal amount of strategy (pressing dodge at the right time) . Each fight is often only 
 lasting a few seconds, which prevents the combat getting stale, with only the later, larger enemies 
 offering a significant challenge.
  
  Its character leveling system has excellent customisation options, want a duel wielding swordfighter, 
 with level 5 fire skills and can fire a bow with pin point accuracy, you got it.
  Change your mind about the bow, want to learn water magic instead, just visit a mage from the society 
 and hell wipe you memory giving back those valuable skill points to redistribute. Its nice to have 
 a choice of customising, without being penalised for wrong choices, just cost you a few pieces 
 of gold.
  
  The actual quests are varied and often multi-tiered, sending you on a much longer quest. Most of 
 these are quite logical transgressions through the course of the quest. Also you are often posed 
 moral choices, which can result in the failure of one quest, in pursuit of another, this adds a 
 nice personal touch.
  
  Two things I really liked with the inventory system, one was the alchemy pot. This is available 
 from the very start. Take 2 or more ingredients and make a potion, weapon enhancer, bomb or trap. 
 You can use to your hearts content or leave it alone completely.
  The other was the ability to combine weapons and armour.
  These have a class rating, start at 
 class 1 (funnily enough) , if you happen to have 2 class 1 katanas, combine them to make a more powerful 
 class 2 katana. This is a nice touch, and you will find later in the game, necessary to get more 
 powerful weapons and armour.
  
  This is my first ever review, if you dont like this game I probably can't change you mind. I felt 
 compelled into writing this review, why, because all I see are people slating this game, highlighting 
 all the bad and not the good. Now anyone who reviews a game should have completed it or in the 
 case of deadlines played a significant portion of it. Most of these people (bad reviews) havent 
 in my opinion given the game any time, I may be wrong in some cases, but, over 20 years of playing 
 games and reading reviews gives you an insight into the review system, I'm sure there are people 
 who will know what I'm talking about, you know when some is reviewing a game for themselves or 
 has played ten minutes and regurgitating someone else's review. Given the opportunity this game 
 will suck you in, grip you tight and make your girlfriend (yip I've got one and I dont have to blow 
 her up beforehand) jealous with the amount of time spent with it and when your done you'll be sad, 
 for two reasons, one that its over and two, they could with more development time have made it 
 so much better.
  
  I implore you give it a chance, if you dont like it i'll sell my Class 26, set number 341 matchng 
 armour. (honest, I do have a girlfriend)
  
  Roll on Two Worlds 2 (or they could call it Three Worlds)
  
  David 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds
  
  Two Worlds is a great roleplaying game that's been hammered and hammered with bad reputation since 
 the word go BUT I hope my review will change the way you think.
  
  First of all the game is set in the world of Antaloor, the average equivalent of a little bit of 
 our Earth.  and oceans. The story follows the tale of an unamed 
 mercenary on the search for his sister and slowly the quest becomes more than a resque. The story 
 has many peaks and its great for an original storyline.
  
  On to gameplay...
  The game has exellent control scheme and makes it easy to manage your hero. The game has a LOT 
 of weapons and armour, seriously its like WoW out there in Antaloor. There are tons of skills from 
 deadly strikes to swiming skills. There are around 6-7 different mounts to ride, although they're 
 hard to ride you'll get used to it and more tweaks are coming in the next patch.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great. Effects, weather, armour the lot.
  
  Sound:
  From the 
 hilarious times of the dialouge to the thwakes of weapons its awsome.
  
  
  Overall two worlds is a great game. Don't miss it don't diss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastheace
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Before this game came out I was really enthused at the screens and the way the game was looking. Sorta 
 like a mix between Diablo and TESO. Boy was I wrong. The game by today's standards in terms of graphics 
 is poor. Along with horrid loads and frame rate issues this game is in all ways inferior to TESO, 
 and even to Diablo.
  One bright spot is however the vast array of spells and weapons at your disposal. And the open-ended 
 style of gameplay. But those are quickly tarnished with terrible voice-overs and repetitive sayings 
 from towns folks.
  I would recommend TESO by far over this game and even Diablo one or two. This game had serious potential 
 but felt rushed and unfinished. You had best stay away from this title and rent it if you must, 
 but you've been warned. And whatever you do, stay away from the horses... Terrible, just terrible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krol_gow_champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  i am really tired of people saying this game is bad so ill write a review with the truth in it!!
 
  At first the game is a little dull and it takes time to take out something as simple as a pack 
 of wolves.
  The towns are pretty boring to and it really needs a better tutorial.
  
  Now with all that out of the way this game RULES!!
  The fighting is simply amazing and the new 
 towns are awesome
  theres seven guilds and that means no matter what you can find a guild that suits you.
  ive put 
 about 35 hours of gameplay in it and that does not even include inventory time. Some say it&acute; s 
 to hard but when you get a little into the game it&acute; s perfect
  
  i&acute; d give this a 9.5 if it wasn&acute; t for all the bugs
  
  i&acute; m thinking of starting 
 a new character tommorow
  
  anyway allot of people compare this to oblivion
  and listen to me now
  
  IF THIS GAME GOT RID OF ALL THE BUGS IT WOULD JUST AS GOOD AS OBLIVION
 
  
  this game is number 3 of my favorite games for the xbox 360 and that includes backward compatible 
 games if you are curious about it then here is my list
  
  1. NO DOUBT THE UNBEATABLE Star Wars KOTOR 1&amp; 2 share the first place
  
  2. Gears Of Wat
 
  
  3. Two Worlds &amp; Oblivion share the third place
  
  4. Bioshock
  
  5. Hitman: Blood Money (even though Halo 3 is close)
  
  Now heres my comparison of oblivion 
 and Two worlds and it&acute; s quite funny to see that what one game does right the other does perfect 
 just watch this
  
  Horseback: oblivion good
  two worlds bad
  
  Fighting:
  Oblivion okay but gets REALLY old
  Two worlds PERFECT
  
  Guilds:
  Same as above
  
  
 &acute; now i&acute; m done&acute; he says and jump into a gap of flame (boys) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathrowy2k
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  I gave this game such crap and did not listen to some people saying it grows on you, it DID! First 
 I have to say this is not oblivion!! but it does get good. The first time I played it I did for 
 about 10-20 minutes thought it was crap and returned it to blockbuster, then later on I rented 
 it again, I can't stop playing it!! I am very tired at work because of lack of sleep from this 
 game. I rated it a 2 now I rated it an 8. It is an 8 only because the frame rate is not great, 
 the horses are hard to control, the quests menu makes it hard to figure out where to go, and at 
 first I hated the voice acting but don't really notice it now! The graphic are pretty good I don't 
 know what everyone is talking about, there is alot to like about this game but I am not going to 
 list it all because I want to go play it. People that rated it bad played it a couple of minutes 
 or an hour or so and gave up on it, I know I did!!!!! This is coming from someone with probably 
 near 300 hours with Oblivion (with the addons) and I am still not ready to retire that game. I think 
 Oblivion is better but this is still different and pretty good!! If they fix some of the bad stuff 
 I mentioned and some other things part 2 will be very very good and I will buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Before this game came out I was really enthused at the screens and the way the game was looking. Sorta 
 like a mix between Diablo and TESO. Boy was I wrong. The game by today's standards in terms of graphics 
 is poor. Along with horrid loads and frame rate issues this game is in all ways inferior to TESO, 
 and even to Diablo.
  One bright spot is however the vast array of spells and weapons at your disposal. And the open-ended 
 style of gameplay. But those are quickly tarnished with terrible voice-overs and repetitive sayings 
 from towns folks.
  I would recommend TESO by far over this game and even Diablo one or two. This game had serious potential 
 but felt rushed and unfinished. You had best stay away from this title and rent it if you must, 
 but you've been warned. And whatever you do, stay away from the horses... Terrible, just terrible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altlan
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game got boring REALLY FAST. Faster then another game I played earlier this week called 
 Stranglehold. Everything about this game screams ripoff of Oblivion and waste of your time. Fighting 
 enemies fells like playing Runescape in that you just plug away at enemies with the same two attacks 
 with no strategy or motivation to do so. The story and character creation system are so weak its 
 laughable and the developers must have felt the same way from the dialog. Speaking sequences are 
 just as boring . The frame rate of this game on the xbox360 was just horrible for me. It made the 
 game feel really awkward and stupid looking for a game I thought would look better then it ultimately 
 did. No music practically. Many games I'm guessing are going to try to copy Oblivion now, but the 
 formula of this game seems forced, uninspired, and a waste of my and your time. And since the basic 
 gameplay doesn't even work, playing this game with someone else isn't worth it like I tried the 
 game out for. And with a 59.99 price tag, at least I learned this game sucked from a rental. If 
 you are just really in to RPG's then go ahead I guess, but there are to many better games like 
 Everquest, World of Warcraft, Eve Online, for the PC. For consoles, Oblivion and the future Mass 
 Effect which is coming in November is still your best bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowdy75
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  First off I love Oblivion I have played some 150hrs so far. Secondly due to the bad publicity I 
 decided to rent this first. After about 1/2 hour I would agree with all the scores from 1 to 5... I 
 wasn't impressed. However I also heard that if you persist with the game and level up a bit it 
 gets better........ I am glad I did! I have since bought the game even after the GAME salesperson 
 tried to talk me out of it. In the end I think I talked them into giving it another go.
  
  OK... yes there is some lag/loading issues while playing the game. None of which makes you want 
 to stop playing, Yes.... the cheesy dialogue is cheesy, but that adds to the charm of the game. 
 Accept that the game is 'ol English dialogue. So what.... move on.
  
  What shines with this game is the depth found with collecting, combining and upgrading all the items 
 you find. Think of it as Baldurs Gate Dark Alliance 2 or Diablo on steriods. If you enjoyed those 
 games then no doubt, given some time you will enjoy this game too.
  
  Combat can be as mundane or strategic as you want it. Start off with bows/arrows, change to your 
 Barabarian sword with 50% fire, then hit em with your magic spells...... lot of fun.
  
  Does this game need a patch...... I'm looking foward to it. If it addresses all the issues that 
 people have with it then this game is definetely a diamond in the rough.
  
  In short this game is FUN.... what games should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinoy_pride
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is a rpg game that is like oblivion but oblivion is better, i know you people out there 
 thinks this game is so crappy and that
  well, if you are a rpg gamer, you might like it and give it a 7.0 rating. But if you not a rpg 
 gamer
  maybe lower than 5.0 or something. This game
  has a bad start and a confusing begining but if you
  pay attention to the game, as you progress, 
 it gets better
  but the side quests can be a pain cause the marker in the map
  is sometimes confusing but overall, its a fair game but a good game
  for some rpg gamers out 
 there, so rent first before you buy it just
  to make sure hehehehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  For those who have read my reviews in the past, I basically have gaming ADD. I buy video games 
 endlessly and rarely ever get into them before the "next thing" comes along unless they are something 
 special and actually catch my attention. 
  
  Two Worlds actually won me over, after all the mixed reviews I simply had to see what all the fuss 
 was about and generally speaking I was somewhat surprised. 
  
  To make something very clear, if you are a huge Morrowind/Oblivion fan and are expecting to fill 
 your need for a huge open end Adventure game and think Two Worlds is your fix, keep walking. 
 
  
  Maybe it's me, perhaps I am just not smart enough for games like Oblivion. I remember starting 
 it up and debating the pros and cons of being one of the many races I had the option of making 
 my character then painfully debating what other attributes to give my character then spent at least 
 30 minutes creating the outer appearance. 
  
  Once all that was done the game had started yet I had been sitting in front of my TV for more then 
 an hour. The best way I can sum up Two World's is a simple yet huge open ended RPG. 
  
  When I started two worlds I had no choice, I was a Male Human. Sure I got to pick some of the more 
 interesting aspects of his appearance but I was off to the races in less then five minutes, a very 
 easy game to get into.
  
  The gameplay is fairly simple to understand and in your first mission to "clear out" the temple 
 you will generally figure out all you need to know to progress in the game in terms of opening 
 doors drawing weapons and attacking enemies etc. My complaint however is the utter lack of explanation 
 of how to use your very detailed and confusing menu.
  
  Although if you press "select" you will be given some help. The control of your character is as 
 simple or as hard as you want it to be, during an attack you can walk right up to the baddy and 
 start swinging and let them swing right back or you can swing and move away and swing again, basically 
 you can add some tactic to your battles. 
  
  The strength of the enemies varies greatly but unlike the Elder Scrolls franchise the gamer is 
 not brutally punished for straying off the main path by running into enemies who are much faster 
 and much stronger then you who will crush you before you can draw your weapon. 
  
  While there is variety you quickly learn who you can take on and who you should run from. Another 
 perk I found is that in a way you are rewarded for exploring early because unlike many other games 
 the difference between weapons is staggering as is the difference between armors.
  
  I was hardly able to fight a single bandit let alone a half dozen but after acquiring better weapons 
 and strong armors my character who had only increased by a single level was much more powerful 
 and durable in battle. Leveling up at times can feel like a little bit of a chore. 
  
  While you have only four base stats to level up, you have MANY different skills you can opt to 
 build up over time. It can be frustrating when you are debating if you should place your two skill 
 points into lock picking so you can actually open the chest in front of you, Critical Hit so the 
 Black Bear waiting for you outside the cave won't kill you, or swimming so it won't take another 
 ten minutes to swim across the river. 
  
  Couple that with nearly everyone you meet offering to sell you MORE skills that you will have to 
 debate upgrading; needless to say my character is a level 10 swimmer. 
  
  Another general comment is it seems the 360 almost struggles to play this game at times. Its strange 
 I can have ten bandits all hacking at me and moving around like crazy and not a single slipped 
 frame, yet when I am walking along a dirty path with a few trees it may require a few seconds to 
 load the rest of the path and trees. Did not take away from my enjoyment of the game but should 
 be noted. 
  
  Graphically it's not Oblivion, but it shouldn't have to be. While the latest Elder Scroll is the 
 benchmark for what is considered perfection for such games it should not punish Two Worlds. The 
 landscape is stunning, as I had to take a moment to just soak it all in when I was standing atop 
 a fairly high hill looking over much of the eastern map. Each town, village, trapping community 
 all look fairly different and are well done. The difference in the armor and weapons as they appear 
 on you while you are progressing through the game are very well done.
  
  The issue I have is that most enemies look the same; I fight the same three bandits: The guy with 
 the red hat, the shirtless guy, and the guy with the leather helm. The Animals are all the same 
 as well. 
  
  It should be noted however that the townspeople actually have a fair bit of variety which you would 
 not expect after you have fought your hundredth shirtless bandit in a row. It should be noted that 
 this game suffers from a disorder I call "Dead Rising Text" where if you are playing the game on 
 a SDTV smaller then a 36" or an HD TV smaller then a 27" the text within your option menu can be 
 very small and hard to see. 
  
  Biggest annoyance is clearly not being able to clearly see how many potions I have left. Even on 
 a 61" TV I find that I at times need to focus to see some things are stand up and walk closer, 
 nothing I have found thus far in terms of the small text can make the game harder (IE needed to 
 read something in battle to save your life) but it is annoying, and was clearly designed for a 
 PC user sitting a foot away from a monitor. 
  
  The Sound is interesting, your main character sounds like the guy who reads the text during movie 
 previews that over the top deep voice. The attempted use of old English is at times WELL over the 
 top and is almost comical. At times the "generic" yell of "Put your weapon down" that is called 
 by any human you have to do battle with in the field can be somewhat tired.
  
  Where the game really stands up is the voice acting of the extras and the supporting cast of the 
 game. Every town person you go up to actually speaks to you and the major supporting cast is very 
 well done and believable. 
  
  As for the Value of the title, If you play only the main quest the game will be fairly short and 
 what was odd was the secondary quests were actually much more interesting then the main story quests, 
 although the main story itself was interesting. 
  
  If you intend to beef up your character and you are a fan of "building up" this is the game for 
 you a huge map a wide spectrum of weapons, magic, armor, etc and side quests as far as the eyes 
 can see. If you intend to walk in play only the main story and be just strong and skilled enough 
 to beat the game then you will hate it because the substance of the core game is good but not great, 
 what makes it great is the options and the interaction and the secondary aspects of the game, much 
 like Oblivion. 
  
  Overall, if you found Oblivion to just be a little too much then perhaps Two Worlds could act as 
 your training wheels. Even if you are just not the type to be bogged down by having to recall and 
 remember hundreds of things and side quests at a time Two Worlds may be your thing, because you 
 can accept as many side quests as you want and through out the game play you normally stumble onto 
 their solutions, there are no punishing timelines. 
  
  As I said earlier, if you live and breathe Oblivion then you will not enjoy Two Worlds, but if 
 you are looking for a straighter forward Action RPG with some good depth and an interesting story 
 then perhaps this will be up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanctuary13
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  The fact of the matter is, Two Worlds would be 'ok' if this were an alpha build. SouthPeak Interactive 
 once again manages to advertise a game, and then release a half-finished pile of garbage. While 
 there are tons of games that I really wish were never released, Two Worlds most definitely should 
 NOT have been released... not for another six months to a year at least.
  
  Pretty scathing right? Not a very nice way to open up a review for an Xbox 360 game, especially 
 ona website that gave it a 7 . (7? really? did you even turn your 360s on for this one?)
  
  So how do I justify this anger riddled claim? Well, let's look back on when TW was first announced. 
 I'm not going to bother going through old updates, but the gist of it was Oblivion like environments 
 with online play and for a guy like me, that just sounds as awesome as a chocolate covered stripper 
 who thinks D20 system sucks. I really liked Oblivion's level of interactivity, but even though 
 I own every damn thing in that game, as I'm an MMO guy too, what's the point if no one can see 
 it?
  
  So up to 8 players can adventure together. awesome. Sometimes i get burnt on MMOs but id still 
 like a multiplayer RPG without breaking out Chronotrigger.
  
  Character creation is a joke. 47 shades of blonde hair (what about black/red/brown?) every skin 
 color looks like you're beginning to jaundice (what about dark skin tones? we're not all asian/european) . 
 3 forms of mullets for you to pick from. Basically, the customization looks like ass, nowhere near 
 Oblivion, the title they tried to emulate.
  
  Then the game begins, some nonsensical plot with a busty woman in a dress that would make Boris 
 Vallejo blush, and some hooded guy helping her out. The hooded guy goes into a cave, and POOF! 
 in front of the woman is Generic Villain #3854. B!!! oh, and he brought the horned helmet too, so 
 look out.
  
  That's pretty much it. then you'll see some half assed control tutorial which is about as informative 
 as reading the french part of your cd player instructions. upside down. while blindfolded.
  
  In high definition, everything looks futuristic. This is just a fact of nature. but it does 
 not mean you can forego audio. With that said, rent this game and play it on a fake profile JUST 
 to listen to the worst voice acting since the original Resident Evil. Forsooth seriously is used. 
 a lot. it's just pathetic.
  
  Now we get to the meat of the game. A shoddy, ugly, ridiculous attempt at an RPG. If this was a 
 free rpg i had downloaded from a website, i'd still be pissed, much less a game that costs you 
 $60 and will be seen on your Xbox Gamertag history. the framerate immediately drops with anything 
 more than 2 or 3 strands of grass on the screen. and i don't mean it drops a bit. you miss full 
 movements. i target a boar, i cast the ubiquitous fireball spell... it disappears. then poof the 
 boar has red on it. note i didnt say it was on fire, mainly because ... it wasnt.
  
  running around not caring for a while, i came across a blacksmith. after pressing the talk button 
 4 times, he talked. asked me to help on a quest and complained about how no one helps these days, 
 which is an rpg staple. when i went to talk to him again, suddenly the top of his torso flipped 
 around linda blair style and his head stretched out a good 6 feet before the cutscene began.
  
  at that point, i quit the single player. it's broken.
  
  I tried the multiplayer. no you 
 CANT adventure with 8 friends. what you CAN do is do some sort of half-assed deathmatch/capture 
 the flag crap with an entirely different character from the single player campaign. IF you can 
 find someone actually playing this pile of crap.
  
  my first match was 3 people, including me. but apparently, during the load screen one of the dropped 
 out. so we sat, FROZEN for SEVENTY FIVE SECONDS while we waited for them to reconnect. frozen as 
 in you cant move, you cantcheck your menu, all you can do is move your camera. for 1.25 minutes, 
 just frozen. Now i realize RPG enthusiasts are a lot more patient than your average twitch shooter 
 kid, but come on...
  
  so finally, its me against two others... yay. i start at my blue base with a bunch of blue creatures. 
 they start at the red base. ahh i get it. i kill red critters in the pen at their base, they do 
 the same for my blue critters.
  
  so i make the long long long assed walk to their base, which is just a striaght line. no twists 
 and turns, no strategic cliffs or tunnels, just a straight freakin' line... and immediately die to 
 a demon from hell. and i get messages that theyre cutting through my critters like butter. i respawn 
 back at my base... i gotta make that run AGAIN. this time though i see them coming toward my base. 
 so i go whack at em. i've got some sort of battle axe, which uses the EXACT same animation as the 
 sword attack, which is an allegedly impressive flurry, but thats all youve got. no jab or thrust, 
 just flurry thing.
  
  i do NO damage to them. they ignore me. its not that i missed, i hit em and had the splat of blood 
 come out... actually i think its the same splat of blood from Dracula on the Sega CD. so i decide 
 screw the critters, im gonna wail on these guys. after a moment of that, one of the guys QUITS 
 because i wasnt playing right.
  
  i ended up losing anyways. but that means that i will never hold the title of greatest player at 
 two worlds which is oh so comforting.
  
  This game, for wont of a better term, is broken. its a lame effort from a lame company and a lame 
 premise. The only link to Oblivion is i thinkTW concept artists probably played oblivion for a 
 few hours, but thats IT. the rest of this game is nothing but a bunch of Forsooth, cross eyed heroes, 
 invulnerable enemies, and beyond choppy movement.
  
  on the bright side, i played on someone elses 360 and on someone else's profile, so my gamertag 
 remains untainted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  2 worlds is a beautiful mess. huge worlds with some glitchy nothing special graphics. the games 
 magic system is a complete and total mess along with the story line and acting. the combat is actually 
 fun when put in such a huge world and the weapons vary and can be upgraded to your needs. the horse 
 back riding is a complete mess too no matter how many points you put into it you just cant get 
 the horse to do what you want. theres glitches that wont allow the hoarse to walk into town even 
 though its a clear shot in. the archery is just kinda there to be there. the character customization 
 is very very shallow and you never get a feel for what he is because the acting is so bad. the 
 only thing that saves 2 worlds is that its hand-to-hand combat is fun and you can really get a 
 feel for the kind of depression and doom the world is going through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjmol
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  At first it didn't look worth playing. Then I kept playing. And playing. Into the night. And into 
 another night. It grows on you. It's a wide open world, with more ingenuity than Oblivion. The 
 rather uninteresting 'fetch' quests from Oblivion also don't appear here, they all have a bigger 
 appeal. As far as I can tell, they've combined nearly everything from the best RPGs from the past. 
 They've learned a lot from Baldur's Gate. The graphic beauty of the game is impressive. There's 
 sufficient 'dramatic' impact, from well-developed storylines. The dynamics of the power struggle 
 in the background (which rather puts it at the foreground) is a completely different experience 
 than you-against-the-threat of Oblivion (and feels a bit similar to Baldur's Gate) . It's actually 
 quite a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnage420666
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, the game was ok. It seemed more like the elder scrolls series. The bosses were easy, 
 and the in game monsters went down in 1 or 2 hits. There are plenty of quests to keep you busy 
 for a while, but if you play the game for while some quests will glitch out, and npc's will disappear, 
 making you unable to complete quests. Even though they tried to make the game non-linear, there 
 were still some terrible loading phases when going from one area to the next. There's probly some 
 more i could say about this game, but i won't waste the words on this game. I recommend people 
 just go get elder scrolls oblivion. It will last longer and it probly looks better to most people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopoop_1044
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Im going to get straight to the point, this game sucks.
  Do not buy this game, it rent it if you must, I did and ended up playing it for 2 hours before 
 deciding this was a waste of my time. The voice acting is laughable, graphics are average at best, 
 combat is just plain dumb, and the menu is hella hard to navigate through.
  The enemies are either too easy or to hard, I had no trouble dealing with three orcs, but look 
 out for those boars, they killed me every time.
  All this game did was make me want to play oblivion, I mean if you buy this game over oblivion 
 you have something wrong with you, wait if you buy this game period you have something wrong with 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been so much more! With games like Oblivion out there, the bar has been set. 
 That being the case, Two Worlds doesn't do it!
  
  First off, the graphics are horrible for an Xbox 360 game. The character models are humorous and 
 the framerate is terrible. The combat feels broken and the menus are so hard to navigate, I find 
 myself trying to just keep up with all the stuff!
  
  Overall, I would have to say stay away from this one. If you have to try it out, do yourself a 
 favor and rent it first. You'll be glad that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This is another RPG game with a brand new range of land and citys to see, there are many sections 
 to the world and there is lots to explore. There is a main quest and many other quests you can 
 do for other people in towns and for guilds which will get your reputation up in their guild or 
 clan, there is a wide range of weapons and armour to wear and you can combine identical items together 
 to upgrade the items class and make it better than it already was. The main story is about a Mercenary 
 (you) trying to find his kindnapped sister and you have to go all over the world to find elements 
 for a family relic and you may have to do other jobs to get to the individual elements. The graphics 
 are nice in the game but it does lagg quite a lot and can crash sometimes which is a pain, there 
 are easy achievements to get on the game and you can get up to 670 gamerscore just by doing the 
 main storyline. Online Xbox Live play makes the game better because you can work together in the 
 fantasy world with friends or you can have death matches and a few more game modes to try out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is the elder scrolls rip-off without a doubt, been there, done that.
  Two worlds got to much glitches, bugs and a awful frame-rate.
  i understand why people give this 
 game a very low score, and you know what they are absolutely right.
  but hardcore rpg fans will love this game even if its to clumsy and unpolished.
  Hardcore rpg 
 dudes don't give a damn about the bugs and glitches, you know why? because they are to busy with 
 customizing there own weapons and items in the inventory.
  Not only the customisation of the inventory is awesome but playing this game on xbox360 with a 
 buddy is also very satisfying.
  
  Its like a shopping day with you're best buddy, but you can also see it as a huge forest walk.
 
  
  Two Worlds ain't original at all, and the game suffers a lot on many things.
  But it can still be a fun game at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Oh dear. My character has just spent the last hour having his horse uncontrollably ride him around 
 the countryside stopping frequently for lag and jumpy loading times. After ditching the stupid 
 horse he visits a city only to fall off a wall and land in an inescapable area between two walls! 
 He is trapped and there he will remain. This game is so broken, it clearly isn't a 7 out of 10 
 game. If you have played Oblivion, Diablo or any other medieval themed fantasy RPG avoid Two Worlds 
 as it will only annoy the hell out of you, for the potential it hints at compared to what it delivers. 
 The interface is unweildly, combat is bland, the setting is uninspired and apart from a few memories 
 it manages to conjure up from games like Legacy of Kain and Oblivion it has very little to offer.
 
  
  The quest log is hard to follow, you won't have any idea where to go at any given time and if you 
 do manage to find out where to go you'll either be killed on the road or your horse will decide 
 to ride you for mile in the opposite direction before you regain control. The lag is just totally 
 unacceptable on a next gen-game, if I'm going to put up with lag I might as well play the original 
 Xbox Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic, at least that's a good RPG.
  
  Fortunate I only rented this game. I would strongly advise against buying this game it's a terrible 
 effort that shouldn't be available on the market. It is poorly conceived, shoddily executed, broken 
 and unfinished. The epic battle is not against evil wizards and orcs but against the controls and 
 the in-game menu system, and it's a battle you'll surely lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion-boy147
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Why is everyone shooting down Two Worlds? Two Worlds is a very good game. Everyone really needs 
 to stop comparing it to Oblivion... because they may have a similar game type but two worlds in 
 my opinion is a faster paced game. It doesn't take forever to beat, but makes me want to come back 
 for more. As for the starting monsters being too hard.... the reason most people probably say that 
 is because they run up to a young Grom at level 2 and start hacking away at it, remember there 
 is a back jump button...! As for the mount riding, quit whining, to me it was like riding a bike, 
 I figured out how then it was just easy as heck. At least there is some sort of combo attack, in 
 Oblivion it was  attack.... 
  
  The Good:
  
  Good Graphics
  Good Story
  Lots of world to explore
  Variety of different armours/weapons
 
  Different kinds of mounts
  Challenging bad guys (depending on your difficulty level)
  Very fun to explore
  Keeps you wanting more
  Challenging mobs
  
  The Bad:
  
  Not much 
 help at the start of the game
  Some frame rate issues
  A little trouble making money at the start, nothing big
  No death penalty
  Can't get up some 
 no steep hills
  
  Multi player: I have yet to get on multi player as I can find no one to play with online.
  
 
  Two Worlds is a game in its own. In my opinion it had nothing to prove oblivion, because it was 
 not an Elder Scrolls game, nor was it OBLIVION!
  Both are very good games and need to be compared separately not as Two Worlds doesn't have _______ 
 but oblivion does! Just think in real life did you have pinpoints on a map telling you where to 
 go? This game makes you explore and go out of your way to have some fun, but it's all worth it 
 in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a poor mans Oblivion. For all of the features it has for itself and all of the freedom 
 and gameplay mechanics it offers, not one ever feels original or fresh. Two Worlds is a mess on 
 all ends, with technical issues plaguing every move and gameplay that feels old and dated. It is 
 a wonder how a game that so blatantly rips off Oblivion can be so broken in the process.
  
  Two Worlds is set in the land of Antaloor amidst a battle between man and orc. Aziraal, the orcish 
 god has been captured and imprisoned in a tomb full of treasure. Although the game is set 300 years 
 later, you will soon be caught up in a deadly digging excavation of a tomb said to be that of Aziraal. 
 The story itself is very bland and unsurprising, with nothing to keep you interested for very long. 
 Although there is a good assortment of side characters and off-setting story arches to partake 
 in, most never give any back story or relate to the main theme at all, making many of them completely 
 useless to engage in.
  
  Similar to Oblivion, although done with less features and a blocky userface, players can customize 
 their main fighter. Your character can only be male (sorry female fighters) and there are only 
 several features that make yourself different from the others, such as hair, eye, and skin color. 
 But the character customization is hardly engaging or worth spending time on considering the userface 
 is a terrible, blocky eye sprain to read and most everyone ends up looking the same in the end. 
 The character creation only goes so far into the game as well, as you will literally see yourself 
 roaming around towns as lazy and bland character models make everyone look plain and simple.
  
  Your character has no given class when you begin, but you have the option to assign him to 
 a special class throughout the game. Killing enemies will earn you points, which can be assigned 
 into categories that give you new attributes. Pour points into strength to improve your melee fighting 
 or put points into alchemy to increase your magic, and so on. The system actually works, and it 
 is one of the few features that actually feels solid throughout the entirety of the game. There 
 is even an option to invent new items, which can be gathered by defeating enemies or just exploring 
 the world. By collecting various items you can create potions, brews, and even new weapons and 
 armor. Its rewarding to be able to make something useful out of ordinary plants, but the chances 
 to make weapons or powerful items are rare and never come into use when you need them the most.
 
  
  Combat feels dated and broken almost to an extent of hilarity. There is no skill involved when 
 fighting, and due to that fact the game can be incredibly easy or insanely frustrating. Most melee 
 battles will consist of constant button mashing and running away. Since most enemies are always 
 tougher than you no matter how strong you are or how tough your armor is, running away is the only 
 essential way to survive. Enemies also dont seem to get phased when you strike them with your 
 sword, which leaves you vulnerable in almost every battle. Magic works exactly the same except 
 you can assign certain spells to buttons on the controller, or even use cards to issue magic. But 
 still, it requires no skill except having fast enough fingers to jam on the buttons faster than 
 the enemy. Just be prepared to run in every battle you encounter.
  
  The quests are spread out across the world, and you can pick up as many of them as you can possibly 
 muster at one time. Completing tasks nets you gold to buy items with and experience points to upgrade 
 your character. Most of these quests are nothing more but fetch quests in which to find someones 
 lost family member or kill some enemy who is blocking a certain path; to put it plain, everyone 
 in the world is lazy and dumb. Doing side-quests is almost essential to survive in the game considering 
 the difficulty of fighting the easiest of foes, but doing do would get repetitive extremely fast. 
 Many of the quests also lack any originality and there will be numerous times when you will see 
 similar quests that just have new character names and location but the exact same objectives. Sticking 
 to the main story at least gets you involved in your character, but that too is unrewarding and 
 bland as well.
  
  Multiplayer is like a cruel joke by the developers into tricking players into wasting more time 
 by thinking there is any sense of excitement found online with others. Its quite astounding that 
 playing online with others is more boring and broken than playing by yourself in the main game. 
 Deathmatch requires absolutely no skill at all and it boils down to that has the better connection. 
 If that seems too boring for your liking (but then again if you are playing online in Two Worlds, 
 you are far devoid of fun anyways) , you can join up with up to seven players to go on monster hunts 
 in up to five various worlds ripped from the game. Its nothing to go crazy over, but at least 
 it has more replay value than the rest of multiplayer.
  
  Visually Two Worlds is a broken mess. Framerate drops constantly throughout the game, making both 
 exploration and battling impossible to manage. Usually, if more than two characters appear on screen 
 at the same, the game will lag along trying to keep up. Wandering into any new area causes minutes 
 of loading times and since the world is so incredibly large, this can get annoying extremely fast. 
 Character models all look similar, and as mentioned, you might often or not casually stroll upon 
 clones of NPC characters or even yourself. Enemies also are not as diverse as they should be, with 
 endless armies of orcs, skeletons, and other clich&eacute; fantasy foes roaming about.
  
  The sound is equally as bad as the visuals, only with much more goof-ups and disjointed tracks. 
 Sounds never match up to actions being performed, such as swords clashing seconds after you actually 
 hit or enemies screaming after they are dead. While this could be blamed on lousy developing it 
 most likely is due to the framerate problems that constantly plague the game. Characters will also 
 answer all of your questions relatively the same, usually with a Thanks for helping! or You 
 are so mean! line and almost everyone in the game says the word hath once in every line they 
 say.
  
  Two Worlds fails to live up to any of its so-called promises and feels nothing more but a broken 
 and blatant rip-off of Oblivion. The combat is a complete mess to perfect and with constant slowdowns 
 and technical issues there is just nothing that seems to fall into place in the world of Antaloor. 
 If you are a fan of Oblivion and have done everything you possibly can in that game, than pick 
 this up for the nostalgia. Everyone else should just stay clear of this game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Truth be told. they ripped off oblivion, but did nothing as well. nothing. the combat engine is 
 a joke. the lock-on of enemies doesn't work. i picked up a torch, yeah couldn't drop it, no matter 
 what i did. the characters look they were mutated by acid or something. the development team should 
 be fined for plaguerism, and fired. this game was a joke, and barely rates above broken.
  
  the only people who will tolerate it are hardcore rpg fans, and honestly they are welcome to it.
 
  
  on the bright side if ur pockets are empty, this game should be a bargain bin grab in about three 
 months.
  
  oh i almost forgot the derivative story. it's bad, it's real bad. imagine if lord of the rings 
 had been the exact opposite of cool and fresh and engaging... ok now you've got two worlds vapid 
 storyline.
  
  please dont waste ur time on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykopenguin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  At first it was not much to be desired. After a few hours I am really enjoying it. Just give it 
 some time and it will grow on you. I am really hooked on it right now. It is everything I expected 
 after reading up on the previews. After getting used to the sparse differences in gameplay compared 
 to other rpgs I have really come to enjoy it. The voice overs are very comical for my friends and 
 I. It all adds up to a good time if you are a big rpg fan. Otherwise I would advise you to stick 
 with Halo 1, 2, and 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladesmen21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay yes ive seen how peopel think of this game it sucks, its bad blah blah blah 
  
  The truth is this game is a very fun and cool game.
  
  1. you can combine items up to different 
 clases making the item even better than before
  
  2. For the most part the voice acting is solid occasionally it is terrible but like i said for 
 the most part its good.
  
  3. The combat is a little strategic but in reality its a masher all you need is good stats and 
 basicaly wail on that R trigger
  
  4. The horses are really hard to controll and sometimes there just plain stupid &gt;_&lt;
  
 
  5. Your character isnt some gussy up boy like mario or zelda hes a hard ass mercenary looking 
 for his sister and soem godl on the side
  
  6. Skills are there to help guide your character down the road that you want :)
  
  7. The story 
 for the first few horus is bland but after that the story starts picking up and gets intresting
 
  
  8. the different guilds/factions make the game more intresting deciding as to wether be their ally 
 or their enemy ;)
  
  Now yes there are some problems with the game as mentioned above but they are easy to ignore, for 
 example the horse problem? just dont ride horses they dotn go much faster than your character anyway 
 and the visuals are astounding with an even greater scalling than oblivions ^_^ and the environmeants 
 are detailed the only bad thign about the environments is the water effects when your character 
 swims in them but theres no real point in the game where you have to swim so its nto a real problems
 
  
  Dont let the bashers fool you even though the game has miner problems it shouldnt stop you from 
 getting thsi rich and detailed game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malckeor
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  ok, I was telling my dad for months and months that I want this game because I have been hearing 
 that it would be able to beat Oblivion. So I got this and tried out the 1 player campaign... wow... I 
 cant believe I got this game. The graphics are like the Playstation 2's, the AI is bad, the acting 
 is terrible, and character customization is boring. Not to mention that there's always lag. I was 
 hearing that they were going to set up some servers in the USA (all the servers were supposedly 
 in Europe) but nothing... DO NOT buy this game, its a waste of your time, and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The prospect of another Oblivion so soon after the last, and by a little known Polish developer 
 was never going to be a good bet. Two Worlds just has too many serious flaws to recommend it to 
 anyone other than die hard RPG fans who have learnt to overcome major quality issues.
  
  The ambition is worthy, and some of the RPG elements, like cards for spells and power-ups, are 
 neat ideas. The core gameplay of 'wander-quest-level-up' is sound and enjoyable as ever, but that's 
 where it stops.
  
  Two Worlds has a number of very serious flaws, and a whole wagon of minor ones. In order of severity 
 they are:
  
  1. The worst dialog and voice acting in any game, ... ever. Everything is in mock ye olde English. 
 verily, t'woth gets ye grammer mit nonny verbs and nouns all circum-twisted . That is is delivered 
 with monotone American impressions of British accents with no pronunciation or enunciation is even 
 worse. Playing with the voice track off doesn't help as the text is unreadable gibberish.
  2. Terrible frame rate - at most 10fps
  3. Terrible one click combat - pull trigger repeatedly 
 until dead; else if you=dead {respawn} ; repeat until enemy=dead. Enemy= [wolf, boar (wolf) , bear (wolf) , 
 bandit (sort of wolf) , orc (big wolf) ghost (wolf) ] .
  4. Cheap PC port - complete with tiny icons, map that requires mouse to navigate, tiny text, no 
 autosave, cheap textures.
  5. Quests are guess work - there is no logic or reason to quests; and the AI often doesn't take 
 into account what you are/doing/have been. In fact it is so broken it can be unplayable.
  
  So there we have it. It is fun to wander around and laugh at the dialog. The RPG bits are quite 
 nice (level-up, spell collecting) , but when everything else is so bad, there is not much enjoyment 
 to be had after the first couple of hours of hilarity.
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Presentation: 3 - reduced from my previous 5 as Mini has found even more problems... there are only 
 about 5 character models!
  Story: 6 - it is big if you can put up with the many faults and poor narrative
  Design : 5 - 
 limited and broken
  
  For: It's another RPG
  Against: Pretty much everything...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falcorious
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  My feeling is that the reviews for this game have been fair to the extent that they address the 
 obvious warts of this effort. However, if you concentrate on gameplay only -- this is a great game. 
 If you're a real RPG'er, not just someone who leaves FPS's for a month to play Oblivion, this is 
 a game that you will enjoy, period. There's more than a touch of Diablo in the nearly endless supply 
 of goodies, and unlike Oblivion, you can level your character up to the point where you can take 
 out a pesky wolf in one mighty swat -- the same wolf that ate you several times at the beginning. 
 That was something that really hurt Oblivion, and I spent as many hours in there as anyone. There 
 was always the sense that you could never get stronger -- nothing was as frustrating as getting 
 to a level 37 and having to battle for three or four minutes -- sucking on health potions all the 
 while -- just to take out a Goblin! Come on. The idea was good, but they just didn't think that 
 through. Well, there's no such problem here, and you can wander all you want and easily find yourself 
 kicking butt at will -- or running for your life when you realize you aren't doing ANY damage to 
 an enemy. The game does a good job of letting you know when you're out of your league.
  
  The scenery is beautiful, and certainly next-gen. The character renders are, as you will plainly 
 see, several generations removed from the present -- though the armor and weapons are well-done. 
 Why? Who knows. Anyway, once you leave that behind, you're going to have a blast.
  
  Let's face it, this is a game for serious, veteran RPG gamers who put gameplay first. If that's 
 you, you are going to love this just as much as any other RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GauntsGhosts
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Said to be oblivion on steriods, nothing like it, i myself, love oblivion, i bought the game thinking 
 great, something like oblivion with the added spice of horseback fighting
  to put it simply, i didnt even get a horse, the rest of the game was so foul, i've already traded 
 it in after roughly 5-6 hours of playing it
  the voice acting is pretty bad, along with the actual dialog and well, its built on lies in my 
 opinion, almost everything it states is amazing about the game is pretentious and i didnt enjoy 
 it one bit, the fighting is more repetitive then enjoyable and the oppenants offer no real fun. 
 along with the fact its mainly based for the pc, and for those without a huge tv, works horribly 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has probably the worst frame-rate of any game on xbox or xbox360 but once you get used 
 to that, the acting, and not starting out being able to block, It's a fun game. The story is somewhat 
 interesting and unique as is the fighting (mounted combat) , combining weapons and armor to increase 
 its strength. Online multi-player for xbox Live which is horrible hopefully they patch this up 
 soon as it's free and up to 8 players co-op or PvP, but the worst part is the amount of players 
 in co-op mode that spawn kill you and don't let you play in peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, Im a little tired of these so-called RPG fans (more like fanboys) saying that 
 if you dont like such-and-such RPG, then you are obviously not an RPG fan. There are countless 
 RPGs out there some good, some bad. But to say that Oblivion or Morrowind are the definitive 
 RPGs upon which all others are compared to yikes. (See my reviews of Oblivion and Morrowind youll 
 see more truth in them than about 80% of the reviews for either game from the fanboys.) And yes, 
 I am an RPG fan. I just like RPGs that are playable and worthy of my time. Oblivion isnt one of 
 those RPGs, and obviously, neither is Morrowind. In the same spirit, Im afraid Two Worlds is also 
 in that poor excuse for a game category. (Although ironically, I spent more time playing Two 
 Worlds than I did Morrowind and Oblivion combined.)
  
  Lets start at the beginning, shall we? Obviously this game was geared more for the PC than the 
 XBOX 360. (Hell, even in the instruction booklet youll see a random press spacebar or click 
 the left mouse button. Pretty cheap when you cant revise the XBOX 360 instructions to actually 
 tell you the correct button to push for particular actions. In the part about magic, it says theres 
 a section in the back of the manual that has all the spells listed umm, not unless that part of 
 the instructions disintegrated during shipping.) When you start the game, the menu is quite PC-ish. 
 The character creation feature is severely more limited than they make you think from reading the 
 back of the box. This is what character creation was when it was first introduced its pre-pre-gen 
 character creation. (And its worse in single-player mode because youre stuck playing as a male 
 character sorry all you female gamers and male gamers who like using females.) No matter how 
 much you adjust the eye width, nose height, arm length, etc, your character still looks butt ugly 
 when you start the game and see them in their first conversations. So, basically, its just a waste 
 of time. Find a full-facial helmet quick, and you might feel a lot better at seeing your character 
 carry on these pointless conversations.
  
  Although the helmet wont cure the horrid and laughable dialogue Pray tell. Is a horrible dictation 
 of quasi-Olde English language of some import? (Sorry, I just hear that is that of some import? 
 ALL the time from your main character and practically everyone else in the game.) Apparently it 
 is and even though it can be funny at times, its really quite boring. There are lots of characters 
 that you CAN talk to, but you dont have to talk to ALL of them. People you can talk to have 2 
 different symbols that appear over them: one is a round symbol with 2 faces, and one is a diamond 
 symbol with 2 faces. The diamond-symboled characters are the ones to talk to they usually provide 
 quests or are important people towards finishing a quest. Most of the round-symboled characters 
 in a particular area/village/etc will usually say the same thing (if you talk to one of them, youve 
 basically spoken with 90% of the area/village/etc) . Some have a round symbol with a gold pouch 
 on it those are merchants, so youll want to talk to them every now and then to get better items, 
 weapons, armor/robes, magic cards, etc. Otherwise, keep the chatter down to a minimum if you dont 
 want to fall asleep by hearing the same mundane gibberish a-zillion times.
  
  Quests vary from straight-forward to where the hell am I supposed to go now? The map/journal 
 tab in your options screen doesnt help matters any, unless you have a huge magnifying glass in 
 front of your TV. Also, the map pointer was created more for a mouse than an analog stick or D-Pad 
 most of the time you cant select the microscopic dot you want with the clumsy pointer. The journal 
 interface is frustrating and only partially useful.
  
  In the intro to this review, I said this game rips from many of the recent, more popular RPGs 
 and claims its original. This game only has one original thing going for it, and that is the 
 weapon/armor/accessory level-up system. If you have 2 of the exact same sword in your inventory 
 dont drop it or sell it for peanuts. You can combine it with the other to increase the level and 
 stats of the newly formed weapon. This makes it much better for you in battle with improved stats, 
 and better for your gold pouch when you sell it. This idea is pretty unique, but it hardly makes 
 the game original. Many people have compared it to Oblivion and Morrowind (high praise to some 
 but not to me it just means its more horrid garbage that costs $60) . I think there are some elements 
 of Fable in there especially the multiple attack options (magic, melee/weapons, and bows/arrows) , 
 real-time combat, and huge world to explore. The only thing is, Fable is infinitely more entertaining 
 to play (and replay) than this even looks better too, and Fable is an original XBOX game!! (Cant 
 wait for Fable 2.) Ive actually started playing Fable over again for the 5th time I dumped this 
 garbage back off at Blockbuster after only playing it for about 6 hours. (I believe that sufficiently 
 covers the replay value of Two Worlds.)
  
  Gameplay is about as sluggish and horrid as you could possibly imagine. You push the attack button, 
 and then it seems like your character just stands there for a second contemplating whether or not 
 they actually want to attack then they give in and attack. (Or get attacked while they were just 
 standing there) Two Worlds tries to give you a quick menu for using items/spells/special melee 
 attacks/etc., but again, it would work much easier on a computer or at least a mouse/keyboard 
 combo. Using the D-Pad in conjunction with some button (while also having to use the analog sticks 
 to move/rotate camera) is just awkward in the heat of battle. And for heavens sake, PLEASE dont 
 get on a horse. If I had a horse that acted like that, itd be glue in no time. It initially will 
 only move in the 4 cardinal directions once its running fast and out of control, itll conform 
 to [almost] turning like an actual animal one that is an 18-wheeler. (Wide turns, no matter if 
 you turn left or right.) By the time you get your horse to your destination (after all the fidgeting, 
 stopping because it cant climb certain hills/backing it up/staring over in another direction, 
 or you ran it into many-a-tree) , you could have walked there in the same amount of time.
  
  Overall, Two Worlds is a headache best left on the shelf. Hold out for Mass Effect and Fable 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Ugh. Here I am, reviewing Two Worlds after 20 hours of time with the title and all I gotta say 
 is this: To the developers, please, for the love of god, release a Xbox 360 patch for this game 
 as soon as you can for the loading issues. This game will not be loved properly until this has 
 been done. Now, onto the review:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  one of Two Worlds shining pieces, the gameplay is amazing fun. From the many ways to fight to the 
 new types of spell not seen in Oblivion, Two Worlds accomplished a ton in this department. I loved 
 the combat system of the game for having upgrades so easy to learn and creating new classes of 
 weapons made the game last even longer. I believe my favorite element was how new classes were 
 made: you take two of the same type of weapon and combine them to make it upgrade. This was done 
 for armor and rings as well. I also loved all the spells you could make on the fly, just by tossing 
 in random ingredients. Make something good? you can save the spell and even name it. The quests 
 are even a ton of fun once you get to neat ones, like deciding what side your on when it comes 
 to fighting families and such. Now, on the down side, this is all brought down by, of course, the 
 game's graphical errors, but those I will talk about in that section. The other thing that brings 
 this game down is horse controls, or lack of that is. There excuse for the Horse being so hard 
 to control is that it adds realism (stated in the manual) . Realism? Look guys, if i wanted a realistic 
 horse that doesn't listen to anything I tell it to do, than I would get a real horse. Besides, 
 my guy is a magic-weilding dude with duel-weilding swords... I don't think thats realistic, now 
 is it?
  
  Graphics:
  Oh god, here it comes: who were the game testers of this game? Seriously, if you didn't notice 
 that the game was having trouble loading, than you obliviously are blind or didn't debug the 360 
 version of this game at all. I can't see how you can miss the issues in this so easily. BUT with 
 that aside, the game does look pretty nice in HD. I mean, when the sky is clear in the game, the 
 game takes a whole new graphic level, even out preforming Oblivion when your wearing the nicest 
 stuff. Its just that this game is broken when it comes to loading lag...
  
  Sound:
  
  The music of Two Worlds was beautiful, but it all came crashing down when the first character spoke. 
 I mean come on, who wrote the script for this game? and more importantly, who hired these voice 
 actors? This game is, by far, the most cheesiest thing you will ever play in modern video game 
 history, and it even has an ending that just weirds you out. the main character is even worse than 
 all the characters combined however, because his crying about it raining and you walking in the 
 rain are just plain stupid. On the bright side, everything has a sweet sound to it, like the swords 
 clashing together the wolves howling in the night. very well pieced together... thats if it loads 
 it all.
  
  Value:
  
  Ok, all of my complaints aside, the game will be worth it on PC right now, and on the Xbox 360 
 AFTER the patch or when its $30. Right now, on Xbox 360, the game goes to unplayable at some points, 
 but after those loading problems are fixed, be sure to put the money down for this game because 
 it got 40 hours worth of gameplay for you to enjoy...
  
  Tilt:
  
  As for me, I generally liked the game. I mean, I was frustrated about the loading problems and 
 the horse not working really made me angry, but when it comes down to it, Two Worlds was a welcomed 
 game experience in my home with its great combat system being the key to its success.
  
  Overall: 7.0/10.0
  
  Two Worlds had to have the worst beginning and ending in modern games 
 these days, but the stuff in the middle was all I needed to enjoy this adventure... if you decide 
 to try the game, make sure you get into about 2 hours of the game before passing judgment... its 
 pretty bad in the first hour, but it gets better once you learn how to do everything... Oblivion 
 fans, steer clear away from this game and continue to anticipate either Halo 3 or Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarakin
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Ok... so the point of this is what? to save your sister? i haven't played very much and i really 
 don't plan on diving farther into the game.
  
  the combat is not very good you just mash RT and hoping they don't hit you back. you can press 
 B to jump back but it really doesn't do anything. the low level enemies seem way too strong. i 
 ran to... i think it was the second quest. I had to find some people in a goat cave or some crap. 
 and all of a sudden 3 silver wolves run at me and just slaughter my pathetic little bounty hunter 
 guy. Where the hell did silver wolves come from? why so soon after normal wolves? I think i only 
 found maybe 2 normal ones in total.
  
  Then some bandits came at me along with 2 more of those silver wolves and at first i thought the 
 bandits were like guards coming to help me until it became a kind of free for all. I ended up hiding 
 my a magic healing altar thingy and healing myself with my healing spell while mashing RT and waiting 
 till i won. I died 3 times but luckily the enemies don't heal after death.
  
  ok and i have a fire spell it used to do a lot of damage... until i leveled up 3 times now it does 
 almost nothing. and i even upgraded my fire spells to lvl 3... i think thats what it does im not 
 sure. The skills and inventory layout is really quite bad. It took me quite awhile to get the hang 
 of inventory but i gave up on skills and just started adding passive stuff.
  cycling through your spells took a while to figure out as well. This game really needs some kind 
 of tutorial to get you acquainted with the menus and stuff it's just so jumbled and messed up.
 
  
  I do enjoy the fact that you can combine weapons of the same type to upgrade their class and do 
 more damage but it's skill not very noticeable. I have a class 6 short sword doing what looks to 
 me like quite a bit of damage but it still takes me forever and about 5 healing spells to kill 
 2 boars... BOARS you know? the basic enemy you should be able to kill in 3 hits just like in almost 
 every other RPG?
  
  Ill avoid bashing the graphics too much since im not too picky with that stuff but being a RPG 
 and a 360 game somehow i expected a little more. The player walks as if he thinks he's some kind 
 of pimp and the running animations really aren't good.
  
  now the voices... those are terrible. It's not the fact that they say things like Pray tell and 
 forsooth and crap. I can handle that stuff it's not a big deal. It's the horrible horrible feeling 
 that every line by every character (except that evil messenger dude whos name starts with a G) 
 sounds incredibly forced. Especially the players voice. One line that stuck out was when the village 
 elder (who by the way looked to be like 35 or some crap) tells you that it would be better to wait 
 until dawn and the camera zooms in on the player in an attempt to be epic or something and he says 
 I do not have sufficient time it was delivered with the usual forced feeling but the way he said 
 sufficient was especially annoying for some reason. Really how hard is it to come up with lines 
 and actors who don't sound that bad?
  
  so basically the animations, voices, combat, and difficulty need some big improvement. There are 
 probably other concerns i could make but i really don't feel like continuing. This game might be 
 more enjoyable multiplayer but once again an Xbox game is only online multiplayer so im screwed 
 because i don't have gold. Thanks a lot jerks.
  
  Oh and one last thing... i turned off the game almost right after that moron in the white robes 
 mentioned elves.... i've had more than enough of elves. They mentioned dwarves to but at least dwarves 
 are cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is another RPG, which hype suggested would kill Oblivion, but when it came out people 
 found that they were lyed to. Some went into shock by the fact that they just spent 60$ on a choppy 
 RPG that reuses every convention in the book, and does them poorlyn and then say its not Oblivion 
 and we shouldnt compare the two, but thats what the hype has been comparing it to forever, and 
 regardless, it's still not any good. Lets start with the good features, though. The water looks 
 nice. No Bioshock, though. Being able to combine extra sets of weapons and armor together is a 
 well done concept. Making potions is cool. It's not unplayable. Now for the bad. The combat system 
 is boring, leaving you to just tap the right trigger until the enemy is dead. The voice acting 
 is dreadful, and your charecter has a plethra of one liners that he will use throughout the game 
 that will make you want to reach through the TV and slap him. The selection for making your charecter 
 is like buying Mexican food. It doesnt matter what you get, its all the same. You cant even make 
 your main charecter black. Teleporting doesnt even work all of the time, most of the time when 
 you enter the chamber to teleport and you pick another teleporing chamber to teleport to the game 
 will do nothing and you'll be forced to huf it. More than six enemies on the screen attacking will 
 cause the game to chug, and of course the online laggs horrible, and scince the game has already 
 been out for over a month. I dont see a patch comming out for it. Now the ugly. The by far worst 
 part of this game is the horses. YOU WILL NEVER BE ABLE TO GET THE HORSE TO GO IN THE DIRECTION 
 THAT YOU WANT IT TO GO!!! They decided to give the horse AI and in doing so they made the creature 
 so touchy and hard to turn that if you're not going in the direction that you want to go you're 
 walking. I'm glad that i just rented it. This game is just a rehashing of all the classic RPG elements, 
 and there are plenty of gamees that do them better. Just go buy Oblivion. It's only 30$ now :) , 
 and if you already have it then wait for Mass Effect, because its just around the corner and it 
 will blow Two Worlds out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3rb
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Never have I been so angry after purchasing a software title. This game is littered with horrific 
 voice-acting, sub-par animations, terrible frame rates, and is just.... poor. The animation looks 
 unnatural. The cinematic bits look like something you might have seen back in '86. Hello!? McFly?
 
  
  I played it for as long as I could. And I am not that picky, people. I really tried. I also really 
 laughed uncontrollably during the first few minutes of voice acting. Then, I was cursing and throwing 
 things at the walls.
  
  It carries an M rating. I showed it to my 10 year old nephew... I can't tell you what he had to 
 say about it because Gamespot wouldn't allow it! Let's just say that no one under 5 should even 
 bother with this. You'd get more enjoyment out of a rattle, or perhaps one of those little paddles 
 with the rubber ball attached. Swat it, kiddo!
  
  Hardcore Gamer had the audacity to say this game was Oblivion on Steroids! It was printed right 
 on the box. WHO said that?? I want their address... so we can... chat. I want to know the context 
 of that statement. Wait... aren't steroids bad? If you take steroids and play baseball, doesn't 
 that get you KICKED OUT? I think it does. Well this title should be kicked right out of the store 
 and into the landfill. Recycle the packaging to make something more useful... like perhaps a new 
 My Little Pony GBA title. I did like the part in Two Worlds where... uhh... oh dear, I've lost 
 it. Shucks. Nope. There is just nothing nice I can say about it. I am sorry. I am just utterly 
 appalled. I should have just reinstalled Diablo 1.
  
  If it carried a 19.95 price point, maybe... JUST MAYBE, it would be worth checking out. That is, 
 if you have sufficient time .
  
  Two Worlds gets two middle fingers from me, way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  the one thing IMO that stands out about this game is that the while engaged in combat i can actually 
 tell that I am scoring a hit!!!!! I felt that the combat in OBLIVION felt weak at best. i love 
 all the customization options, you can upgrade weapons by stacking them, yes armor works in the 
 same fashion. I have been playing it all day long and have enjoyed this game far better than OBLIVION! 
 and I truly did love the afore mentioned game. the dialogue scenes do not look 'next-gen' (character 
 models look kinda BLEH!) , but i felt the NPC's in OBLIVION started looking very creepy and morbid, not 
 to mention recycled voices that i kept hearing. in short it doesn't look as clean, graphics wise 
 as OBLIVION did. not saying that it looks ugly, but not quite as stunning. gameplay to me was way 
 better, and you can change your character stats to suit your needs, so your not stuck playing a 
 mage role, wishing you were that hard striking warrior type. well worth playing if you dig RPG's. 
 just give it a couple of hours it really does grow on you (in a good way) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsd1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I love RPGs, and I was waitining for this game since it was first announced becouse Oblivion is 
 rocks, but I would prefer a game a bit more combat focused, and that what was promissed about Two 
 Worlds, Hardcore Oblivion, well, thats not quite true.
  
  First, comparation between the games is really impossible, 2 Worlds is a different kind of RPG 
 so I will talk about the game withou comparisons.
  
  At first, 2Worlds looks great, having a theme with vocals need balls from the devoloper, and that 
 works. But things start getting bad at character creation, even there you can feel that controls 
 are not doining what it was supposed to do.
  
  You get into the game not really understanding that you are that ugly character, but well, you 
 are. After walking a bit you start to think about upgrade your videocard, them you remember that 
 you have a Xbox 360, and a game made for it was supposed to run well. But well, 2Worlds dont run 
 well on the Xbox.
  
  Them you get to combat, and its confuse. Controls dont works well, the combat dinamics is poor 
 and you really get annoyed.
  
  After some time playing, the only good thing about was that I only rented the game and so wasted 
 no money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigbjornj
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  Two worlds is a typicall RPG game. You start by creating your character, kill some easy enemies 
 and start your quest. The first thing i find bad with this game is the radar and the map. They 
 are simply the worst ever. There is absolutely no guide how to use anything, you are just thrown 
 into a huge world on your own. In oblivion you could just bring up your perfect looking map and 
 find out where to go, but in this game the map is awfull. The radar is tiny as h**l and are filled 
 with coulors that you dont know what symbolices. You will be stuck all the time, and believe me: 
 The game is bad. I looked forward to this game in over a year, but know i really hate it. The graphic 
 is bad, the gameplay is bad, the controll is bad, and the voice is even worse. Live: Dont wanna 
 talk about it, because it sucks. Lets tell the guys who made this game a lesson or two how real 
 RPG games is going to be, feel and look. Bad, bad, bad.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake187Eyes
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I've read so many reviews telling me how you have to play the game for hours before it starts to 
 get good, or if you just can get past the bad voice acting, crappy graphics, horrible map interface, 
 etc. I played the game for about 2 hours, In those 2 hours I found that I couldn't get over how 
 much i wanted to kill the horse for getting stuck on thin air, the weapon animations are the same 
 thing over and over again, and seriously the graphics are comparible to the nintendo 64. This game 
 is BAD, just because you payed 60 bucks for it, doesn't mean you have to drag others down with 
 you. I'm not gonna be generous and give this game a 5. I'm giving it a 1 because as a gamer, If 
 im gonna go spend 60 bucks on a game, I don't want it to be on something i feel like its a chore 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HessenKnight
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Comparing Two Worlds to Oblivion doesn't do it justice. This hack-and-slash open world RPG combines 
 elements of Diablo and Oblivion, but inherits ALOT more from Diablo. Diablo, Diablo, or general 
 RPG fans should at least give this game a shot, because it is a good game if you can look past 
 it's problems.
  
  First off, you're treated to a REALLY terrible cut-scene, and dropped into the game world with 
 little or no hint as of what exactly it is you need to do. The game will give you a terrible first 
 impression, but push on a little, and you will be hooked. First off, the voice acting is flat out 
 terrible. The sound in no way compliments TW, and drags the quality down a severe amount. But you 
 will be treated to some impressive visuals, and the least load times, gorgeous enviorments, and 
 insanely large draw distance, at the expense of the occasional load time, and the most game world 
 you will be offered next to WoW. Speaking of WoW, the game does have a MMO feel. You will traverse 
 the game world, encountered by bandits and monsters, and you will be treated to a steep level grind, 
 as it does not sport the level scaling that Oblivion had; I feel like an idiot for complaining 
 about the level scaling now. The game is insanely hard at first, even on Easy Mod, as you wildly 
 swing your weapon at an enemy, only to get whacked, and thrown across the room. An easy solution 
 is to use a Bonus code for an insanely powerful sword. It makes the game easier, and it won't affect 
 your achievments.
  
  The game also has an interesting multiplayer element, which lets you make an individual character, 
 and play an instanced campaign with your friends, or you could duke it out in the PvP mode.
  
  Monster types are few and far between, as you will usually fight the same baddie time and time 
 again. There are a few physics bugs, such as enemies falling through the enviorment, crumpling 
 up like a piece of paper, and getting their limbs stuck in the enviornment. There are also the 
 occasional lock-ups (So, don't worry, it ain't your console) , and some minor graphics glitches, 
 but Two Worlds is worth a least a peek. At least rent it, guys. It's an aquired taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmyr
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Roleplaying games are by far my favorite genre of games, so when I found Two Worlds in the used 
 bin at my local store 1 week after its release I snatched it up.
  
  The game is pretty good, though it is not Oblivion. It does not have the depth that Oblivion had, 
 conversations with the general populace are canned, and graphically though good is nothing new 
 or fascinating.
  
  That said it is still a good game. There have been some lock up problems on my console which have 
 caused me to loose hours of time (I now save more often) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddroach
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  i did really like thisgame untill i completed the main story line, to say i was disapointed was 
 an understament. play this game for its charater development and not the story. which is short 
 and pointles. it may not be the best looking game but every now and then it will surprise you. 
 most of the skills and spells have been thought out well, and look good when used. the option to 
 join same types weapons together was a good touch. these can then be magicaly enchanted with crystals 
 as well. Online there is so much lagg that at the momment it is not worth playing. i hope this 
 get sorted out because this is the only game of its type which is online currently on xbox live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillbillybilly
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm perplexed at the negative reviews because this game is awesome. It's certainly less buggy than 
 Morrowind or Oblivion were, so I can't understand that criticism. I like it better than Oblivion 
 for a few reasons: Oblivion spent too much time in, well, Oblivion. It was an uninteresting and 
 repetitive game world. I like feeling immersed in a Middle-ages-like world, which you get in Two 
 Worlds. Two Worlds does a good job of blending real world antagonists, like wolves and bears, with 
 monsters, to get you into feeling that you're in that realistic world. Oblivion just felt too crazy 
 that way. The voice work was actually done in England, so no more painful attempts at a British 
 accent by American actors.
  
  Also, Two Worlds has solved some very annoying flaws (IMO) with Elder Scrolls games. It allows 
 you to stack extra copies of an item to make a more powerful one, so, now, collecting garbage weapons 
 that you'd otherwise throw away can be a good thing. It gives permanent stat increase benefits 
 to certainplants, so now alchemy is really sweet and all those plants are no longer a waste of 
 time. I also love that there is no level scaling; I was feeling pretty macho until I came upon 
 a giant who killed me with one punch. Um, maybe I'll come back to him later... Item enhancement 
 is unencumbered by irritating restrictions (at least so far) . I was unbelieavably annoyed in Oblivion 
 when I couldn't stack jewels to get more than an 80% shield benefit. The game world is huge like 
 Morrowind, and very open-ended. Character development is fun and flexible. The quests have been 
 good so far -- not a lot of fetch this or fetch that. I've had to make some real choices, because 
 taking a quest for one faction can put you at odds with another. The factions feel real and interesting 
 to me.
  
  I'll admit the game does not start well. It kind of drops you in this random location without early 
 quests (until you get to the nearest town) . But, heck, that only lasts a couple of hours. These 
 negative reviews are inexplicable. This game is Morrowind with better graphics, or Oblivion with 
 the annoying problems solved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daedalus_Wynde
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds Review - 7.5 Current mood: disappointed Category: Games I suppose I've delayed this 
 enough.
  
  I realize that game companies whether they be publishers, developers, marketing executives or whatever, 
 are in the business of making money. I totally get it. BUT, making horrific promises of gameplay 
 features and/or stating that this will be the most epic blah-blah-blah of all time is just **** 
 *deep breath* Two Worlds was one of my most anticipated games this year. I'm a veteran of many 
 RPG's, MMO and single player. So naturally, I was stoked about a multiplayer RPG for the 360. I 
 did enjoy my romp through the massive 35 square-miles of varied environments that Two Worlds has 
 to plunder. I felt as if I had Burrfoot blood as I galloped across rocky highlands, scorching deserts, 
 serene bamboo forests, blasted wastelands, beautiful coastlines, and mist-choked marshes. Titanic 
 battlements and ramparts rise around cities full of citizens going about their lack-luster lives. 
 Many of these people give you bread-and-butter, (fetch, meet someone, assassinations, etc.) RPG 
 quests. People interactions are voice-acted and allow you to make choices that really don't affect 
 anything outside the quest. Making good choices when dealing with people will result in more experience 
 points, snarky choices usually result in more gold. The main story line is a conventional go get 
 the artifacts and save not only the world but the maiden aswell. I think the script for the voice-actors 
 was trying to sound too old school. At times I think they through in a forsooth or methinks or 
 verily just to have it, because it doesn't fit the situation, nor do the actors have emotion in 
 their voices. In a game with tons of character interaction it is a MUST to have high quality voice 
 actors. I would rather sit and read hours or text than listen to poor voice acting, though it can 
 be hilarious at times.
  
  Character development is completely open. There are combat, magic, and stealth skills that, though 
 lacking depth, can be mixed-and-matched into any combination. Upon attaining a new level, you also 
 receive points to increase strength (melee damage and carry weight) , dextrerity (ranged damage 
 and stealth skills) , Willpower (overall mana) , and Vitality ( overall health) . The hero starts 
 with several basic skills, but most must be purchased from Skill Masters that will each offer several. 
 Prices depend upon character level. All major cities have a Skill Changer who will allow you to 
 redistribute attribute and skill points for a small fee. This allows you to change your play-style 
 basically whenever you want. The single player experience was pleasant hack-n-slash dungeon delving 
 and surface exploration and burglary. Every combat style is effective in different situations and 
 utilizing atleast two would be a wise decision, if nothing else than to mix up the unimaginative 
 combat. Each melee weapon style has a 3-5 hit button mash combo, and that's what you'll be doing 
 the majority of the time. Mounted combat isn't much better. You can use the horse to trample groups 
 of enemies and with a maxed out Ride skill it's fairly effective. I found the fact that you can 
 not use a polearm from horseback odd, especially during a charge...
  
  Unfortunately the multiplayer did not live up to expectations. Slow combat and glitchy areas are 
 a constant problem. Believe it or not, I hadn't missed the Lag Demons that plagued old MMORPG's. 
 In fact, I never considered that it would be an issue with this generation of games. There's a 
 handful of PVP modes including Monster Hunts, Arena Combats, and Horse Stealing. The RPG multiplayer 
 has the world map divided into difficulty areas and each throws run-of-the-mill quests at a party 
 of up to 8 players. Bad frame rates and slowdown in battle leads to you being resurrected at a 
 shrine, especially if you aren't the armor-clad warrior type. When creating a new multiplayer character 
 there is a base class system that gives starting skills to your character. Skill Masters and Skill 
 Changers are also found in the multiplayer modes, so again, any combination of skills is possible. 
 Characters are static and retain all experience and equipment from each multiplayer game they play.
 
  
  I had high-hopes for this game, but I don't feel it was a failure. I really enjoyed exploring the 
 lush terrain and discovering new locations. The open character development and massive world to 
 explore kept me entertained for a week, but I highly doubt I'll ever grind out the last 70 acheivement 
 points I need. The main story takes around 15-20 hrs, but if you're easily side-tracked by scenery 
 and seeing what's over the next hill, it'll take longer. I give the game a 7.5. I enjoyed it, but 
 with relatively low replay value and poor multiplayer it isn't going to stand the test of time. 
 Hopefully sometime in the near future we can have an Oblivion-caliber RPG with smooth mulitplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteGamer34
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  After the first minute of playing the game i was ready to turn it off but i didn't hoping that 
 the game would get better... and it did. Many reviews you will read of Two Worlds the reviewer 
 will not have played the game long and do to that the game dosn't get the credit it deserves. Now 
 dont get me wrong the game isn't perfect. It clearly was made more with the computer in line than 
 the XBOX 360 which i have it for. Many people were expecting this game to be Oblivion but you must 
 face the fact that Oblivion is one of the best RPG's ever and probobly the best for the XBOX 360. 
 My opinion is if you really are disapointed in the game try playing and once you get deeper in 
 the game and use to all the flaws and controls you might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertvjk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  the games was good and had allot to do and explore, but if you have a rubbish weapon/armor you 
 will be dying every 30 minuets. It has a lot of weapons and armor to find. you can also combind 
 so u dont have to keep buying better armor and weapons + you can't move when you have puled back 
 your bow!!!!!. also i found that sometimes when i picked a peace of relic up i hade no achevment, 
 so i have to do some of the game again. another is that you can't continue the game after you complet 
 it, so be shore you save at a good point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreebo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  I have been looking for an RPG that I like since Fable, I know this will go against the grain with 
 most of you but I didn't like Oblivion that much and found it too tough in places as I'm a casual 
 gamer and dont have hours to waste. I liked the fact that it's simple to learn and combat is hack 
 and slash, nice, easy and quick. It also reminds me of Baulders gate the way u level up weapons 
 and such. I wish they could find decent voice overs for the cut scenes, they all sound so cheesy 
 and fake, but some of it is mildly amusing. I've only put in 8 hours but so far , but picked it 
 up in about 2, at first the control system is a little confussing but you soon suss it out and 
 it becomes second nature. My experience so far has been not an unpleasant one although I have not 
 tried the multiplayer out yet, so far its all been good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Alright I know how many people are quick to flame this game. But I am also aware of the people 
 out there who can see the great game through the fog of the flaws. I realize that this game truly 
 falls on personal preference. Either you like this game or you don't.
  
  The singleplayer is fun, more fun then Oblivion. It is more straightforward and the leveling system 
 is classic and lovable, the alchemy system is also easier to use and stackable weapons is a great 
 addition! Its a nice change to see some more eye appealing combat. The swing and twirls of Two 
 Worlds combat beat Oblivion's Swing Sword... Swing Sword... Swing Sword . Yes, your character will 
 actually twirl his body if he does a 360 attack. The animations of the combat system are 10/10.
 
  
  Now, the different Interfaces (map, inventory, quest log) were very confusing at first and took time 
 to understand. The horses were frustratingly hard to learn to control and the unfinished physics 
 are probably major flaws of the singleplayer aspect. The so called unbearable lag is a myth. For 
 me it lags only a bit, and only sometime and usually is corrected after restarting the system and 
 taking a break. Do not be afraid to rent this game because of a few flame threads.
  
  Multiplayer.... is a joke. The ideas and the concepts behind it are marvelous, but the lag destroys 
 the game. When the lag is patched, the online will rock. You dont need to know anything else about 
 online untill it is patched.
  
  This game is good, but again that is for YOU and YOU ONLY to decide. People who do not like this 
 game have their opinion, but don't let them choose your opinion for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This could be a great game, but due to a few things.. it wasn't.
  
  Lets start with the negative aspects:
  
  - Frame rate is very bad
  - Occasional 1 second 
 pause in frame rate
  - Frequent load times during travel
  - Horse riding is difficult and glitchy, horse often controls you
  - There should be no option 
 for easy / medium / hard
  - Online play is disastrous due to **** servers
  - Storyline is basically just gay
  - Voice acting is horrible, and boring.
  - Cut scenes lack 
 emotion
  - Spellcasting lacks enjoyment
  - Quests are boring and meaningless, but reward well
  
  
  Positive aspects:
  
  - Action 
 RPG style gameplay is fun, similar to Diablo 2
  - Weapons and armor look great
  - Physics are well polished
  - Environment is cool
  - Music fits
  - Tons of different monsters
 
  
  
  This game really did have tons of potential, too bad the idiot developers **** it all up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  As stated previously, this game is very alike to Saint's Row, Voilition's surprisingly good GTA 
 spin off. Two Worlds is a free roam game with obvious inspirations from Oblivion, but enough character 
 to shine on it's own. Two Worlds starts you as a simple mercenary going around doing jobs for money, a 
 choice that finally has the nerve to toss out the cookie cutter good or evil character that developers 
 use to add a little depth to a shallow game, the game starts you killing groms (goblins in Two Worlds 
 lore) after you do this you fool about doing minor quests and slowly leveling your character so 
 that bears don't kill you so easily. Another thing the exploring player will see is that there 
 is no leveling system like Oblivion, at any level you can go to Gor Gammar the Orc capital city 
 and fight lava dragons some of the toughest enemies in the game, instead of going there and finding 
 a few wolves and some groms at low levels. The game does have an extremely slow and horrendous 
 start but South Peak makes you work to get the game going, after enough time you'll barely remember 
 even having trouble with bears. The game also has several guilds, that if you interact with one 
 you may be forced to fight another, or even betray your original guild, unlike the boring guilds 
 of Oblivion where you had little or no choice in what you did in guilds. The game's sound is alright, 
 a musical score that is good, but unacceptable from the man who made the Top Gun soundtrack, all 
 in all it's fair but will not get stuck in your head for days on end. The acting is okay but very 
 wooden, although the Old English is pretty cool, I can't get emotionally involved in the story 
 when it does'nt seem like the characters are, please dude your sister got kidnapped show some sadness 
 or fear or anything at all, the main character's lines seem like they were copied from old Arnold 
 Schwarzenegger movies, although some of the jokes are so amusingly bad you laugh anyway. All in 
 all two worlds is good but not right for everyone, maybe if there was just a little more polish, 
 especially on the clumsy menu screens that probably got stolen from Diablo, and maybe more stuff 
 to do the game could dethrone Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boywondereyed
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  I really have mixed emotions towards this game. On one hand I stuck with it to the end and got 
 all the achievement points (well the ones that are possible) but on the other hand the glitches 
 and obvious lack of proper game testing make this hard to recommend to anyone other than die hard 
 RPG fans.
  
  So in brief :
  
  The good :
  
  - Good deep leveling up system which offers a bit more depth than oblivion.
  - Addictive gameplay.
 
  - Ability to use a bigger variety of weapons than Oblivion such as dual swords, axes, staffs, 
 spears etc.
  
  The bad :
  
  - Unforgivably bad framerate
  - Graphics are not optimized for the 360 - really lazy.
  - Stupid unforgivable oversights in 
 the gameplay - e. g there is a Disarm Horse skills but sadly there are no enemies actually on horses 
 to use it on.
  - Appaling presentation - awful voiceacting and fonts used for subtititles - could have easily 
 been fixed.
  - Absurd difficulty level that doesn't seem to get any easier no matter how much you buff up you 
 character - seems likely that some of the behind the scenes calculations are not working.
  -Too much trudging over the map - no fast travel. In addition map is very sparse - not enough interesting 
 features.
  
  So overall hard to recommend but you'll probably get some enjoyment from it if like me you have 
 enjoyed serious PC rpgs in the past (such as the might and magic series) . I played it through then 
 sold it on ebay - that way everyone wins :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYviking
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  The online is laggy and usually the match ends with everyone being disconnected. The single player 
 is fun when you're doing the quests but gets boring easily after it is beaten. On the bright side 
 there are many different kinds of weapons and armor. The weapon upgrading system is great because 
 you can bind like weapons to make them stronger. You can also do this with armor. You can make 
 useful potions including ones that will permantely increase your stats. There is also horse back 
 fighting but can sometimes be hard to do because the horse can be hard to steer sometimes. The 
 character customization is fairly basic. The online rpg has monsters and NPC's that are way overpowered 
 and make it less fun to play with a group of your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  Even before Two Worlds came out, we knew it was going to be a flop. Here is why:
  
  If you've seen me on Xbox Live in the past week, chances are you've only seen my on Two Worlds 
 (or the dashboard, leave me alone) . But just because I play the game alot, doesn't necessarily 
 mean I like it. The game is plagued with gamestopping glitches, poor combat, a horrific framerate, 
 poor draw distance and lack of character variety. That all said, the game does have some high points 
 that conspire to make the game fun. The graphics are nice, nice not great, but OK that doesn't 
 make a game fun but it does make it easier on the eyes, but Two Worlds is very strenuous on the 
 eyes, as there is often alot to look at at once, the character moves at a jogging pace, never running, 
 never walking, and the framerate all add together to make the game almost nausiating to play. Two 
 Worlds does however, do a good job of emulating the true feel of an MMORPG (on online RPG mode 
 and singleplayer, though that might not be a good thing offline) , by giving you the chances to 
 level up and add skill points to the skills you prefer to play with. Two Worlds also has online 
 multiplayer, RPG and PvP (or Co-op and Versus for those who are unfamiliar with MMORPG-ic terms) . 
 While the RPG mode is just like the offline, it is much, much smaller and is split up into small 
 areas which can only be altered by quitting the active game and making a new lobby. RPG mode has 
 its flaws, but it is far superior to it's sister mode, PvP. PvP is laggy, complicated, overly difficult 
 for lower level characters, and since your PvP character is different to your RPG and offline characters, 
 PvP feels rushed and limited. Two Worlds is not a great game, but if you intend on playing a watered 
 down version of Oblivion, meh, go for it.
  
  Graphics: Nice, a bit blurry and hazey. Not enough variety to NPC's, or armour and weapons for 
 that matter. Water is nice. Poor draw distance and frame rate are my biggest gripe with this game.
 
  
  Sound: Not enough voice actors. In game soundtrack is misused and totally out of place. Music on 
 main menu is kick-ass.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty straight forward. Poor combat yet nice leveling and skill system.
  
  Value: 
 The main storyline is incredibly short for an RPG, but it does get very difficult toward the end 
 if you don't spend time leveling. Finding the relics is a pain. RPG multiplayer is good with friends 
 and strangers. PvP is a joke.
  
  Two Worlds is strictly a meh when it comes to topping Oblivion. Don't expect much and you will 
 get some fun from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When compared to Oblivion, which is an unfair comparision, this game has everything that Oblivion 
 was missing. On the flipside, it also lacks everything that Oblivion had. This game was an extremely 
 ambitious under-taking, and should have spent another year fine tuning the game.
  
  What it had that everyone wanted in Oblivion was dual wielding weapons. You could also stack the 
 similar weapons to create a more powerful version of the same weapon. I felt this was broke. Simply 
 because you couldn't always make the stack. Whether it be because of different elemental damages, 
 differing skill bonuses, or an over abundance of potections added, it felt too limiting. Than again, 
 that could have also made the game too easy also. Then the level limiting on some of these weapons 
 were ridiculous. You'd add two weapons that you could normally use, and then there could be a level 
 requirement 20 levels higher than what you currently are. That's way too large of a difference.
 
  
  Spells work good, but attacking spells seem to be worthless against the stronger enemies, and summoned 
 creatures don't seem to be nearly as powerful as the ones you face.
  
  The rumors are truth:
  1. Voice-acting is terrible. They should have gotten English actors to 
 speak the Old English dialogue. Instead you have American voice actors speaking lines that could 
 only have been said in an English accent. The game lost a sense of authenticity there. It also 
 wouldn't have sounded as cheesy. This wasn't a huge deal to me, because if I wanted to watch an 
 animated film, rather than play a game, I would have picked up a Disney movie. Games are about 
 doing things you normally couldn't do in real life, or providing an entertaining way of keep your 
 mind occupied.
  2. Gameplay is repetitive - It takes way too many hits to kill a lot of the creatures. Especially 
 when you get to the point when you have to fight Golems, or any abnormally large creature. After 
 a while, all you feel like you are doing is hitting RT over and over again. Picking up items, and 
 having to sell them to free up inventory space. Inventory was way too small, and I felt I spent 
 too much time traveling to shops to free up some space.
  3. No consistancy with criminal fines - Depending on how much you have in your pocket, will determine 
 how much money you will have to pay for committing any crime.
  4. Quest are extremely vague, and the map at times can be difficult to follow. Especially in some 
 of the larger underground dungeons.
  5. Requires you to constantly clear your cache. Otherwise you will experience some lagging, and 
 frequent loading. I mostly had loading issues.
  6. No autosave. This is terrible, because the game tends to freeze. Saving frequently, seemed to 
 bypass this problem for me. Anytime I didn't save, it always seemed to freeze.
  7. The ending isn't worth it, and is extremely disappointing.
  
  What rumors are False:
  
 1. There is a large number of differing types of creatures. Problem is, some are extremely rare 
 and don't seem to respawn. They also only frequent specific areas of the map. 2. I don't know if 
 this is the largest world I've ever seen. It's supposed to be bigger than Oblivion, but it didn't 
 feel like it was.
  
  3. The choices you make have very little, to no effect, on the world. The path is very linear, 
 with very few forks in road.
  
  Overall, if you aren't sure then you should rent the game. If you have gamefly, and you decide 
 that you like it, you can pay a couple extra bucks and keep it. If you've already played the game 
 and our going to tag recommendations on this review based on your own experience then go find something 
 better to do with your life. This is for those who aren't quite sure if they want to play the game, 
 and need some friendly advice to help sway their opinion.
  
  This game is by no means a 1, and by no means a 10. I think gamespot could have been a little more 
 conservative with their rating, but their review is the least biased out of those that you'll find 
 online from the major critics. This was a good game, that needed more time to work out the bugs. 
 If they did that this game could have been great. If they did the little things right also, like 
 voice casting to name one thing, this game could have been exceptional. In stead it's slightly 
 above average, and that's why it gets a 5.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jconwa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds 
  Where do I start? The game itself is pretty alright story is typical of this genre of game. Graphically 
 so so, the outside world is amazing, but the fight scenes not so much. The thing that sold me on 
 the game was the Classic RPG style of menus, and character development. I feel I have total control 
 of what, and how my character levels up through the game. In a side note this game is hard. I died 
 10 times in the first 4 hours of play, and this was on Med. I recommend killing wolves, then bears 
 to gain exp to level up with. When the game starts its extremely slow so bear with it. I promise 
 once you hit the 2 hour mark it gets fun. One thing I have found pretty fun is the use of the word 
 TAINT. I get a laugh out of it almost everytime its used, and its used quite a lot. Well all in 
 all I give it a 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i'm very sorry to say that i will never ever buy a game, or even rent one, from Southpeak 
 for the rest of my life. Everything about the game is terrible, except for the fact it is the first 
 360 game that is an online coop RPG.
  
  Gamplay-3. Horrible camera angle, animals aren't realistic, many other things. Smooth transition 
 between indoor and outdoors though. (Not amazing though)
  
  Graphics-2. Sucky. Blood is unrealistic and the NPC's look like my skinny @#$ friend steven on 
 steroids. (Big chest/shoulders and skinny everything else.)
  
  Sound-5. Decent. What else to say?
  
  Online-7. I'm being generous &gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tesalito
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  At first sight, this game sucks. I wasnt impressed at all. But after 1 or 2 hours of gameplay 
 everything changes. The world to explore is very BIG, weapons, armors, quest choices, everything 
 is catching and the graphics are enjoyable. The main plot is not the most important fact of this 
 game, the quest options and decision making in it is. I am glad to be playing the game and Im 
 enjoying it every single second, I will recommend it for any RPG fan out there. At least, It works 
 for me as I am waiting to play Fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VX_Man_18
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds looked to be a game that I would enjoy being the type of person that loves to play RPG 
 games. I was eagerly awaiting the release of this game to the land down under but was very disappointed 
 with every aspect of the game. I found this game to have a very poor story line for a game that 
 is supposed to have so much depth. Also I found the game to be very overwhelming at the beginning 
 I felt like I was thrown in to the game not knowing how to do anything in the terms of magic, potions, 
 weapons and a lot of other things. One of the major problems that I had with the game would be 
 the very boring style of combat I like games that allow you to fight using your head instead of 
 hitting the same button over and over. This was a highly anticipated for me and I really felt like 
 I should have saved my cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimi_man
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Even though im only 2 hours into the game, i am loving it. I cant really see why so many hate it 
 so much. It is very enjoyable, there is huge areas to explore, 1000's of items, and very good quests.
 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is impressive. The fighting may be a bit dissapointing but it is very satsifying 
 slashing a bear at level 1. The archery in this game is ok, but it doesn't realy let you choose 
 a target. It is auto aim. Leveling up, as in all RPGs, is a fun moment. You to obviously level 
 up your powers, but unlike other RPGS, you get to upgrade a special skill, like strong hand, and 
 you will become stronger with your right hand, so it would be good for a 2H weapon, or dual wield, 
 which makes you become better at obviously dual wielding.
  
  The horse controls are a little wonky, becouse the horse sometimes if you ride out into the wilderness 
 off a path, it goes its own path. Overall i really enjoyed the gameplay aspects of this game, and 
 RPG-ers should love this game.
  
  Sound - The sound, unfortunatley, is pretty standard. Especially the voice acting, but im not complaining 
 - it sometimes make me laugh, the sword attacks sound like your punching a bag. But the wildlife 
 in this game is brilliant. When walking through the forests the birds, wind and everything is good.
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics for Two Worlds isnt all that bad. Up super close the armour and such looks 
 fairly basic. But usually most the time you arnt so thats a good thing. And the view distance is 
 amazing, you see so far out it kinda looks like a painting.
  
  The multiplayer player, at the moment, is terrible. Huge lag and freezing problems should be fixed 
 soon. It would be great playing 8 player coop with close to no lag at all so i can actually get 
 something done.
  
  All in all, this game is that bad. I would give this i try before judging it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a game about an unnamed mercenary who must find his kidnapped sister that is being 
 held somewhere within the world of Antaloor. Eventually you uncover a plot that this dude Gandohar 
 has cooked up which involves placing the soul of a god into your sister and naturally you have 
 to save her thus stopping the end of the world... or do you?
  
  Its basically Oblivion for dummies. You run around a highly detailed world battling off monsters 
 such as various types of wolves, bears, boars, ghosts, orcs, groms (which are just goblins) , bandits, 
 and so on. Anyway, during said battles you can swing your weapon (which range from bows, axes, 
 maces, clubs, swords, etc) and even jump back in defense. This comes in handy when fighting numerous 
 enemies at once. Although the fighting system is pretty generic and basic - it gets the job done 
 providing entertainment.
  
  In Two Worlds you can buy lessons from trainers through out the world that teach you different 
 valuable moves for battle and other things. You can learn defensive attacks such as using your 
 shield as a weapon, or learning how to pick pockets or locks, learn to swim, fight on horseback, 
 learn how to shoot numerous arrows at once, and so much more. Better still is the fact that you 
 can learn 5 different types of magic, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, which are Fire, 
 Earth, Water, Air, and Necromancy.
  
  Leveling up was pretty cool too. You get a certain amount of points to level up your strength, 
 dexterity, mana, and health. After that, you get points to increase any of the lessons or magic 
 you have learned through out the game (which later on becomes VERY helpful)
  
  The weather changes from sunny to rainy, bright to cloudy, but it never becomes night - amazing. 
 Oddly, it never snows too or anything, not that its a big deal or anything but it would be interesting 
 to see. One thing that I thought was pretty cool was how different sides of the map were in different 
 climate regions. For instance, all the way to the south felt more like being in hell - I mean you 
 fight lava dragons, the area was all scorched, red sky and felt damning. To the east was a desert 
 filled with a blazing sun, white rich sand, random ruins scattered about, and even sand tribes. 
 Compared to the west where it was focused more on water and normal climates and north where its 
 really just mountains. I liked the different region idea.
  
  My only real gripe with the game was bad the map was. It did a TERRIBLE job telling where &amp; 
 what your objectives lay or are, doesnt label the names of cities, and it does a bad job telling 
 you which direction you are running. Additionally, sometimes the game will glitch making it near 
 impossible (and sometimes impossible indeed) to complete certain objectives.
  
  And the ending... atrocious. Depending on if you save or kill your sister (I saved her) , you get 
 a different ending. The ending I got was that your character must have fallen asleep because your 
 sister wakes you up telling you that you two need to move and find a real resting spot. The two 
 of you climb on a horse as your character says Don't worry Kira, we will find a spot soon enough 
 . They ride into the sunset........... CORNY!!! BOOOO!!!!
  
  The multiplayer is... odd at best. Its like an MMORPG gone dumb. Basically, you and 8 other people 
 an explore the map and complete missions. However, not only do you have to create a seperate character 
 for the online play but you only get certain chunks of the world. For instance, you chosoe to play 
 the level Koromin - Easy , Two Worlds will only allow you to play in the area around the city Koromin 
 and maybe a little bit more. Meh.
  
  Earing achievements are fairly easy on one hand, and on the other pretty challenging. Some are 
 easy to get like find 20 undergrounds, build a trap, or ride a horse. Others such as kill a dragon 
 or stone golem, or even find all the locations in Antaloor are pretty hard. However, its doable 
 and for once I felt pretty good when I earned my achievements. I felt... accomplished on a geeky 
 note haha.
  
  In conclusion, I think Two Worlds is getting judged too fast and placed on too high a pedestal 
 by being compared to Elder Scrolls. It will certainly not be an Oblivion killer to some (to me 
 it is, but whatever) , but if you sink enough time into it I bet you will have SOME fun with it. 
 An 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Q236
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Many people compare this game to Oblivion, saying it is no where near as good as Oblivion. Well, 
 everyone has their own opinions, but don't even try to compare Two Worlds to Oblivion. Two Worlds 
 is a free roaming RPG, much like the Elder Scrolls series, meaning you are given a little backstory, 
 given a goal you can choose to ignore, and then left to make your own story. You can roam the countryside, 
 go dungeon crawling, take on one of the many quests, and choose to join different guilds. There 
 are many things you choose to do.
  
  Gameplay:
  Unlike some RPGs with this style of gameplay, you are not hand led throughout the game. Someone 
 will ask you to do something and you are not specifically told how to do it, you have to figure 
 it out yourself. Some people may not like that type of gameplay. Some prefer the style where it 
 tells you where to go, what to do, and how to do it. Well, you won't see that in Two Worlds. Some 
 of things you will be doing actually require some thought.
  
  Two Worlds lets you customize your character many different ways. You don't choose a class at the 
 beginning like many RPGs. Every time you gain a level, or find something that give more skill points, 
 you can choose how to distribute them. There are fighting skills such as parrying and increasing 
 damage. Magic skills that grant access to fire, air, and necromancy spells. There are stealth skills 
 that allow you to sneak, pick locks, and set traps. Along with all these skills, there are hundreds 
 of weapons and armor to choose from. Each with their own pros and cons. You can create your own 
 potions and gems through alchemy, potions providing a temporary boost to stats, and gems permanently 
 increasing the strength of your equipment.
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  The graphics and sounds in Two Worlds aren't like Gears of War, but then there are few games right 
 now that you can even compare to it. The easiest way to describe graphics in games are by showing 
 images or comparing it to something else. Well, the graphics in Two Worlds are close to Oblivion 
 but not as good, hope that kind of gives you an idea of what it looks like. Some of the sounds 
 in Two Worlds are great, but in some moments the voice acting could use some work.
  
  Other:
  Two Worlds has some new things, and some things we haven't seen in RPGs for a long time, 
 here are a couple of them. One is that if you have two items that are the same thing, (two leather 
 helmets) you can combine them into one improving it. So, if they gave 9 slashing defense, after 
 you combine them into one item it might give 11 slashing defense. There are gems that you can find 
 or create through alchemy, that can improve your items. You could get one that has the effect add 
 10% fire damage if you put it on your weapon it will gain fire damage. You can add as many of them 
 as you want, you just can't have two different types at the same time like fire and cold.
  
  Problems:
  All games have some problems, even the great ones but no one wants to admit it. 
 One of the problems in Two Worlds deals with the horses you can ride. They are much faster than 
 walking, but at times it is difficult to control them. Occasionally the frame rate will get a little 
 choppy, but basically every game has that problem somewhere. There are many load times thoughout 
 the game. You could be running somewhere and then a disc will appear in the corner and the game 
 will pause. The load times are very short but sometimes it can get kind of annoying.
  
  Summary:
  Two Worlds is a very good game but it is not for everyone. Which is why I say you should 
 try it before you buy it ( thats something you should be doing with all games anyways, why buy 
 something if you don't know if you will like it.) It has the occasional problem like most games 
 but they shouldn't be enough to drive you away from it. Two Worlds has great gameplay for those 
 of us that don't like being hand led throughout a video game.
  
  
  If you don't agree with me thats fine. Everyone is free to their own opinions. Its impossible for 
 one person to rate a game for everyone. Everyone likes different things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ply74
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I have to say Two Worlds had potential to be very great, but it falls to just good. There are to 
 many load screens and the Quests are to hard to tell which direction to go or what exactly you 
 sould do. This needs to be adressed in the next attempt at an rpg of this calliber. If you could 
 just click on a quest and a dot appears to where you should go to complete this it would be great. 
 The game would be more fun and less frustrating! Also the online difficulty is to hard at the beginning 
 and the online matches for pvp lags tremendously and makes it hard to get into it. If those things 
 above were fixed and a new simular game comes out with these changes i'd change my rating from 
 7.5 to 9-9.5 easily. Overall it does keep me occupied till Halo3 and is fun until i get lost in 
 what I'm supposed to do. I avoid pvp to hard to attempt one. And the online rpg difficulty just 
 makes it not to fun especially since not many are online to play with in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTMETODOWORKxX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  In two worlds you can play a single player, or multiplayer RPG game. In the single player RPG there 
 is a main quest line involving saving your sister from the villains, as well as a ton of other 
 quests to do to gain experience points which go toward your character leveling up. The game has 
 alot of great weapons and enemies to fight, as well as a very detailed and large map to travel 
 around. In the multiplayer RPG you can travel around different sections of the map doing quests, 
 killing creatures, and overall leveling up your character. A downfall to the multiplayer is that 
 u cannot unlock achievments in any multiplayer. When you play together in multiplayer RPG there 
 is alot of lag, which makes the best feature of the game not all that fun. Still Two Worlds in 
 my opinion is a very good RPG, but oblivion still pwns it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDravan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Two World was set to be the next Oblivion killer, the Rpg to rule all Rpg's.............. right. 
 Well im afraid to say the game didn't quite live up to the hype that had latched on to Two Worlds. 
 South Peak promised us excellent game-play, graphics and a game that would last us months. I suppose 
 in a way they gave us a little of a lot. Lets start with the good points, the game-play provided 
 us with good character customisation, an imaginative combat system, and story line, plus the game 
 also boasted nice graphics and overall the basic Rpg, but even these elements felt a little unfinished 
 and with a little more work really could have produced what people were expecting with Two Worlds. 
 As for the bad points, well it was only really the frame rate and the constant stuttering and loading 
 times in the single player and that anticipated multi-player mode that let Two Worlds down, but 
 i suppose over all Two Worlds is a decent Rpg that is worth the purchase or at most a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChefGreen
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been great. It's filled with great ideas - I really think item stacking is 
 going to pop up in one form or another in pretty much every RPG from here on out. The alchemy system 
 is quick and easy. The variety of weapons and spells is very satisfying. The graphics aren't groundbreaking 
 by any means, but the game looks nice - especially water!
  
  So why does this game rate so poorly? Because Reality Pump seems to have missed the fact that the 
 devil is in the details. This game is so glitchy, even its glitches have glitches.
  
  The first and most annoying example was the way some skills trainers are simply broken. No matter 
 how many hundreds of thousands of gold pieces I had on me, if I tried to train in necromancy (for 
 10,000 gold) the ability to approve the training simply didn't exist. Same went for several stealth 
 and fighter skills.
  
  But that I could (and did) live with. Who needs spells when you can whip out your dual-wielding 
 swords and lay waste to every enemy who dares wander into your wheelhouse?
  
  What was most egregious and unforgivable was the moment when I had finished the main quest and 
 was moving on to the end game. At that point, the game basically skipped an unknown amount of time 
 and landed me in the middle of a cutscene which made no sense without the context of the previous 
 several minutes (or more) of story! It was at that point, after playing for 20+ hours, that I sighed, 
 ejected the disc, and took it back to the store.
  
  I gave Two Worlds every opportunity to win me over, but it disappointed me one too many times. 
 I can deal with yawn-inspiring graphics, poor voice acting, limited monsters, etc. I turned a blind 
 eye to many issues ( Seamless interaction between indoor and outdoor environments really means 
 loads new info from the disc every 30 seconds, stopping the game while you stare at a spinning 
 disc in the bottom right hand corner of the screen! ) , but in the end, the bungled attempt at a 
 solid RPG was simply too much to take.
  
  I only wish I could get my money back from Reality Pump. They should be ashamed for releasing a 
 product that is, at best, unpolished, and at worst, unfinished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtreme25
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Basically, just put all your attribute points into strength and use the buff skills of your choice 
 and it's game over, literally. Once I hit level 22, I could one hit kill everything except Dragons 
 &amp; Golems, but they only took 3 with out any buffs. These too could be killed with buffs in 
 1 hit. The skills and damage modifiers for this game are not balanced. Creatures are set levels 
 that make game non-challenging what-so-ever. To give a more detailed info on the different flawed 
 aspects of what I found about 2 Worlds I have added a written documentation that I am presenting 
 to the creator's of 2 Worlds from my single player assessment (this doesn't even touch the horrible 
 online play) . If I was you I would not get my hopes up about this game being fixed as it should 
 have been. Just an Oblivion wanna-be and couldn't even get that right other than semi-decent graphics.
 
  
  Two Worlds Assessment
  
  Game play
  
   Game Breaks-Between levels 20-25 the game breaks, all difficulties have no effect and the player 
 may easily over power all creatures in the game with melee attacks only. There have been many games 
 as such they do not last long in favor due to this aspect and quickly forgotten in time. True RPG 
 players do not like games that break at any point of the game. Creatures should be level oriented, 
 not set stats for the rest of the game. If there is any change in any of the creatures stats in 
 this game I am unable to distinguish the difference. Another approach would be area tier leveling, 
 which is simply that you have a focal point of origin and as you progress further from focal point 
 enemies become more difficult. Level orientation is the better choice of the two, but also depends 
 on what type of message you are trying to send to gamers. (At level 50, I am able to run the entire 
 game without any armor and one hit kill nearly everything except 2 creature classes [dragons &amp; 
 golems-takes 3 hits for these] without bonus modifiers like Blessing or Berserking, etc. I, also, 
 tested this briefly at around 35 and notice I did not require armor to survive.)
   Melee type characters are set to have the easiest ride in this game by far. They do not suffer 
 from mana draw backs as they do not need magic at all nor the need the use of items such as traps 
 and/or bombs, but may use them at their leisure. They are not required to invest into any magic 
 what-so-ever and are not restricted to any aspects of the game and at a certain level break the 
 game. Just put all all params points into strength and this character is set. (I did not put any 
 params points into other attributes until somewhere after level thirty because I was doing so much 
 damage and maxed my weight limit and did not need any more strength) Severely unbalanced versus 
 magic and archer types.
   Magic type characters versus mana usage are severely unbalanced. To even consider being a pure 
 magic user is not even an option in this game unless you practically play the game entirely as 
 a melee type and/or part magic user until you are able to acquire enough ingredients and/or params 
 points to get enough mana to maintain your magical spells. On top of the difficulty of being a 
 magical user you must also spend your majority of your income towards mana potions therefore decreasing 
 the magical users ability to obtain any robes or magical upgrades from merchants that would increase 
 their effectiveness. The counter this that was added to the game is spell enhancement cards that 
 is not effect enough to allow such freedom to the magic user still. These cards are rare as in 
 my full game experience (Level 55 and completed all except all locations which I am nearly finished) 
 I have only acquired seven mana savers in which you only allow up to five towards one spell.  
 Archer type characters must rely on a few circumstances to be effective, but are not even feasible 
 against large agro groups in this game. The interruption of the bow draw during combat is a severe 
 hindrance towards any damage dealing effectiveness both for character and enemy types. Traps and 
 bombs are a interesting twist in the game, but should base a known class type such as archer to 
 rely nearly solely on these to even have a chance in game play. Which this also is another flaw 
 as it forces character to begin with melee type in order to acquire skill points to be even have 
 some type of effectiveness of an archer.  Merchant prices are too inflated versus game gold drop 
 ratio and unbalanced. Robes are a prime example. Magic users practically have to cheat just to 
 get the robe that they would need or want. You have nearly a 300% gold value versus level requirement. 
 Why is this a balancing issue, because a melee type can spend a 100% gold value versus gold level 
 and get more benefits as far as from physical type damages and other bonuses that are available 
 to armors.  Item levels are not balanced in merchants, drops, and chests. (I have seen a 75 level 
 differential) What is the point of this? The item for instance a robe being severely inflated at 
 75k-100k or more in gold and if the player wanted acquire that particular item generation would 
 not be able to see that item and/or acquire it in the games entirety unless they had produce enough 
 gold during the small time frame before the merchant item generations change. The merchants, drops, 
 and chests should not generate more than five levels above the characters current level. Anything 
 past that is practically a waste. A ten level differential is nearly pushing it to the limits but 
 could be set for a very rare occurrence.
   Horse riding is moderately flawed due to it is difficult to control the horses turning ability. 
 At times turning ability is completely none responsive.
   Yamalin Town is inaccessible. If there is a way to access this I have been unable to find it. 
 Also, if a missed opportunity was indeed present. Not only do players will greatly despise the 
 fact they will have to start the game all over to obtain achievements on the Xbox 360, they may 
 also have the same view as me on this aspect of the game that will drastically reduce current and 
 future potential players. There should have been multiple instances or chances to gain access to 
 this area or make it available permanently without requirements.
   Beaver Kettle Cave- upon attempting to enter underground area it will warp the character to a 
 Maliel shrine to the Southeast across the Gon River.
   Enemies- archer types are not affected by terrain penalization, which make them an annoyance 
 to sword, axe, and bludgeon type weapons. Overall, enemy attack rates should be adjusted as the 
 player is able to overwhelm all creature types in this game in attack ratios. I would say the average 
 is 2:1 minimum if not 3:1 in some circumstances.  Dialogue- some word usage such as prithee and 
 pray are used in excess. I found this to be an annoyance. As I have read in online forums, I am 
 not the only one who is not fond of such dialogue.
   Hard mode- this is always a good addition to a game for hard core players, but the inability 
 to re-spawn is a big mistake. Not only do players have a chance to lose a considerable amount of 
 game play, but also, will discourage play as well. It did not take me long to quit hard and drop 
 to a lesser level so that I would not risk the waste of time that hard mode would cause in replay 
 time. What is even worst about this aspect in the PC version allows re-spawns in hard mode. Why 
 did you change this for Xbox 360?  Broken quest- A Problem with Scapulari from Mayor Verno in 
 Clovelly. After completing the chain quest for this, the quest does not update. Even after clearing 
 the Scapulari camp and returning did not solve this quest. The strategy guide even stats not even 
 bothering with the camp and complete the chain quest and it will automatically complete Mayor Vernos 
 quest as well.
  .
  Skills
  
   Berserking Skill- This skill is flawed in two ways: The damage modifier is too high for game 
 play balancing needs to be drastically reduced (even though the skill read 0 defense, at a the 
 break level of the game this skill will allow one hit kills to anything in the game on a correct 
 character build) to enable more realistic game play and difficulty. Also, the reduced probability 
 of a shielded opponent is not even applicable. Have tested this and experience no difference in 
 either single or dual wielding. This skill may be stacked with the 100% modifier from Stone Hand 
 that is a natural passive adds another level to game play that reduces the games replay value 
 and reputation. (This does not even tap into the power boost magic spells. The game already breaks 
 without all these damage bonuses.)
   Burn, Deadly Pirouette, Stun, Dirty Trick Skills- more skills that are too high in damage output. 
 These skills would be effective just as they are meant to be. The damage modifiers are completely 
 unnecessary and again add to the breaking of the game.  Death Strike Skill- is a near damage limit 
 in my opinion. The largest flaw of this skill is that it practically requires one maybe two enemies 
 maxed. Not effective what-so-ever for an assassin type and many enemies present.  Defensive Combat 
 Skill- the critical modifier is unnecessary and simply creates another avenue for breaking the 
 game. Even with the negative 50% damage status, it does not compare to 500% gained from Critical 
 Strike skill. So all you accomplished is reducing critical output by 250%. Strike interruptions 
 are not applicable as the hero character is able to attack faster than enemies. Easily 2:1 ratio.
 
   Unhorsing Strike- this skill does not even need to be in here, as I have played the entire game 
 (both PC and Xbox 360) and not once seen a horsed enemy. So, what is the point of this skill?
 
   Alchemy- this skill is not straight forward at all. The ingredients may say one thing and then 
 when combine with another could produce something that is not attributed to the ingredients used. 
 For example, if you combine two emeralds that have attributes of adding protection from cold by 
 100 for three minutes, instead you make a ripper trap. This logic makes no sense at all. Items 
 should produce what they state in their attributes not something that completely has nothing in 
 common with the ingredients attributes. An additional problem with alchemy is the fact I have 
 not found one method in order to make the spirit damage weapon enhancer. This skill is more a game 
 of chance rather than what alchemy is supposed to intended for. Really, just save some integrity 
 on this skill and rename it if you wish to keep it as is. This system was poorly constructed. Game 
 Cores
   Environmental effects- too many environmental effects overlapping is exceeding and overheating 
 graphics of both platforms. I would have to say that you have taken this step in graphical features 
 too soon. As it is currently has the ability to exceed Xbox 360s ability in performance. A decent 
 reduction of graphics and/or environmental effects needs to be modified in the Xbox 360 version 
 to improve overall game play.  Resource spiking- during battles with the use of weapons that have 
 weapon enhancers will cause latency until damage is registered by the weapon enhancers damage cause 
 approximately half to three second delay in game play in between each struck enemy. This portion 
 of graphical and damage initiation should have been alter for the Xbox 360 version. This problem 
 does not have to have very many enemies to be noticed. I have seen it with just two enemies present. 
 It appears as if they just duped PC version without any changes or minimum that would exceed or 
 stress Xbox 360's limitations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joealteri
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  You don't play the worst game I ever played for 40 hours. They must have done something right. 
 Pros:
  Game gets better the longer you play, just don't expect Oblivion. Plenty of character customization 
 and quests. Beautiful backgrounds. Nice re-spawning feature.
  Cons:
  Poor character models. Terrible mapping feature. Frequent load pauses. Main story could have been 
 stronger. There is a lot of fun to be had with Two Worlds. Have I played better RPGs? Definitely, 
 but it is by no means a bad game. There are plenty of level upgrades and new areas to keep the 
 game interesting. At no point did I feel the game had become stale or repetitive and always looked 
 forward to playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rx_Nightmare
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Alright ill make this short because frankly... this game doesnt deserve one of my normal reviews. 
 So its a WoW ripoff. You see the sad thing is this is on the 360 and WoW is for the PC, can you 
 do the math? What i was getting at was that the 360 has a somewhat better graphic system then an 
 average PC am i right? Notice how Two Worlds... DOESNT HAVE AS GOOD OF GRAPHICS AS WOW!!!!! Thats 
 sad.. anyway this game is choppy, laggy and everything else its like emerald is putting together 
 a crap stew. BAM a little chop there BAM lag spice (spike) and about 300 grams of FPS. Try jumping 
 in this game the animations are slow as molasses and have you swam yet? jesus its like youre tied 
 to an anchor. Ive not yet been able to soak in the high levels because well... i threw it away after 
 3 minuites of play. Id say more but i started wasting my time at So its a Wow ripoff 
  DONT BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advency
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Warning - This review may spoil what you think of the game. Or at least, that's what it's intended 
 to do.
  
  So let me start out by saying I love RPGs. I love the game I can spend weeks playing and finally 
 say Wow! after beating it, and then start over again. I enjoyed Oblivion for it's in-depth combat 
 system, you know, where you had to do more than repeatedly hit the attack button to kill something.
 
  
  But let's not start with Oblivion-Two Worlds comparisons, there are enough of those. Let's start 
 with three main points that are wrong with the game. Voice-acting, combat, and poor programming.
 
  
  When I started the game up and watched the 10-minutes of horrible dialogue, I was going to cry. 
 Mayhap if the main character's voice was more dynamic and less cheesy, I mayhap have enjoyed the 
 game more, pray that I am correct. Granted, there were a few moments where I laughed at what our 
 mercenary friend had to say, but 30 hours later it was just annoying. Especially whenever he made 
 climaxing grunts when he leveled up....
  
  As for combat, I thought I had hack and slash figured out when I played Fable. Combat in Two Worlds 
 involves whipping out a big sword and slashing repeatedly, unless it's a large enemy, then you 
 slash four times, hit B, slash four times, hit B, etc. The variety of enemies was refreshing, but 
 their attack and AI design was so poor that it made the game bearably easy. If you want to be fancy, 
 try using a bow. However, due to the necessary charge up time coupled with the poor camera control, 
 a wolf would typically run up behind me and attack me, forcing my character to drop his bow without 
 firing the arrow, and forcing me to slam my head into a wall repeatedly. What about magic? Magic, 
 surprisingly, was one of the few things they did right in this game. Easy to use, once you have 
 it figured out, and kinda pretty at times. Easily the most useful of the magics are the various 
 summons you get. My complaint with the magic system is how difficult is was to get all the fragging 
 spells. Enemy mages always carry the same Fireball or Poison Dart spell and traders often sold 
 identical spell cards. Now, onto my biggest complaint, the poor programming and quest design. Far 
 too many times did I accidentally end entire quest lines because I did this before that or because 
 I killed the supposedly unkillable (ie The Great White One) or because I picked up an item (it 
 was bright and shiny, how was I supposed to know it would kill the entire town?) . I don't know, 
 maybe I've grown to accustomed to being led by the nose by games like Oblivion, but there were 
 a few I just couldn't figure out. Perhaps the best example of the poor programming in the game 
 is that if you kill Gandohar (the dark robed messenger that starts the main quest) you will instantly 
 receive the 370 point achievement Killed the Great Enemy along with the ending cut scene.
  
  This is, mayhap, the worst game I have ever played. And please, take my word for it. Don't 
 buy it, don't let horrible games survive. Let those PC gamers have it, it was built for them.
 
  
  However, a few tips for those that would continue playing the game.
  
  Don't kill the Great White One in the Dra'Kar desert unless you're told to.
  
  Don't pick up 
 the Water Element in the underground temple area of Ashos, it's that Eye of Yatholen the villagers 
 keep blathering on about and by removing it, you destroy the town.
  
  Don't fight from horseback. The small damage increase is nothing when you can't dodge that demon's 
 attack. Looking for a horse? There's a nifty undead horse in those jagged spires spread throughout 
 the land.
  
  Save frequently, as in every hour. It's way to easy to screw up in the game.
  
  
  Have questions? 
 Complaints? (I love hate mail!) Drop me a message sometime at Advency@gmail. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorgealeca
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  **** it game A Total Waste of Time and Money, Don't Buy it it's the worse RPG game i ever played, 
 i can't believe they waste all that money in advertising and the game it's so bad but so bad that 
 you can't even play or try to play, a good RPG game it's Fable but this is a really bad bad game, 
 you can try it but the Grapics ar not level for the xbox 360, the sintaxys of the character, in 
 spanish i must say... NO SIRVE PARA NADA... NO LO COMPRES ... NO LO JUEGUES es una perdida de tiempo 
 TOTAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onimusho
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  During the weeks coming up to the release i was 100% sure this would be the next oblivion and i 
 suppose maybe this large reputation it had to live up to was something to do with why i found this 
 game so disappointing but in all fairness.. this game is rubbish.. simple as, heavy lag.. repetitive 
 unimaginative combat, the most annoying lead character ever and combined with one of the most mundane 
 plot in gaming history make this game an insult to the 360. Don't be fooled into buying this crap.... even 
 if you see it in a bargain bin in 10 yrs for &pound;5 I'd still consider it a rip-off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrincole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  This Game should be entered in the Video Game encyclopedia under the description of It will Grow 
 on you . Two Worlds is a late starter from the gates, but picks up speed as you progress through 
 a Huge, beautifully detailed world. It harkens back to the days of Morrowind where you had to work 
 for your meal, meaning that you had to actually set off and explore, looking for clues to meet 
 your mission quest as you go along. Thats the good. Now for the bad.
  
  The Frame rates can be a little choppy at times. But not so much as to ruin your experience. The 
 baddies that you face can get repetative after a while. And the map is pretty much useless for 
 anything other than a vague reference point to your location.
  
  To some this might be a big problem. The game Oblivion has catered to both hardcore gamer and casual 
 gamer alike. Holding your hand while you make your way to your mission. This game does not hold 
 your hand. It abandons you in the middle of a world and basically leaves you to your own devices. 
 This might be a little to much for some gamers, but thrilling to others. If you like your RPG's 
 old school, where you jot down notes on a sheet of paper, and have to spend hours exploring the 
 country side, than this is the game for you. If not, rent it, and play for few hours, you might 
 be suprised that this game has somehow grown on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perfektly_Dark
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I picked up Two Worlds yesterday which cost me &pound;40 from Game. I have now played it for roughly 
 two hours and in 1 hour of the game I was Dissapointed and in the other 1 hour I was shocked. With 
 this game, before you can make a fair review you will have to play it for at least an hour. The 
 game would of smoothed out within the first twenty minutes and most of the frame-rate issues fixed. 
 However even after that you still find yourself wondering where the hell am I? Where do I go? What 
 the hell is that little circle in the top right of the screen. Them questions will be answered 
 in the first hour or so, so if you have Just bought the game and played for 10 minutes then given 
 up. Get yourself back on Two Worlds and enjoy the experience. First of all the good
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is one of the best features in Two Worlds. The combat is extremely fun 
 as you hack and slash your way through the enemies. Im finding this very fun at the moment and 
 is more entertaining then the combat system in Oblivion. The menu is rather difficult at first 
 to navigate. People complain about the inventory but I found it easier to use and better then oblivions. 
 I remember having to scroll through the inventory trying to find the sword I wanted to equip or 
 the Varla Stone and wanted to use. However in Two Worlds you can quickly see al the items you obtain. 
 The menu is more professionaly laid out in oblivion but Two Worlds is still good if you spend some 
 time getting use to it. Im not going to lie... The map, mini-map and questlog are awful and extremely 
 hard to use. Ive played for two hours and Ive kind of got the hang of it but I still find it rather 
 difficult to find my quests. Hopefully it will get easier to understand further into the game. 
 Apparently the text in the menu is hard to see and you need to squint to see the text. I have a 
 19 HD Samsung which runs on 720p and I can see perfectly fine so thats not a problem to me. You 
 may need HD to see clearly but you dont need a Giant HD display! The stacking system where you 
 combine Items is an excellent apsect of Two Worlds and makes getting the same armour over and over 
 again useful rather then boring and tedious. The amount of items in two worlds surpasses oblivions. 
 When you get full daedric in oblivion I didnt feel the need to loot anymore bodies but in Two worlds 
 There are soo many different types you will never get bored and even If you do get the best armour 
 or sword you can always stack it to make it even better! The alchelmy is good and haven't really 
 looked into magic as I am creating a pure warrior. When I get bored of this Ill just find the NPC 
 which allows you to swap points around which gives you the freedom to be any character class throughout 
 the game. When you first start the game expect to be killed quite a bit by wolves and boars. When 
 you level up it becomes better because you can slice thorugh these enemies wihtout any trouble. 
 There is no level scaling so you actually feel good when you take down a dragon or cyclops and 
 feel a sense you need to get better rather then staying the same level and flying easily through 
 the main storyline and side quests. People who **** about horse riding havent noticed that theres 
 a skill you have to increase for horse riding. Im guessing thats why your so bad at horse riding 
 first and have to spend skill points to get better. Gameplay - 9.2/10
  
  Graphics+Audio - Why everyone ****es about the graphics I have no idea. I find the environments 
 to be very refreshing then from just seeing grass and trees all the time. The graphics are actually 
 pretty good but nothing special but whos expecting that on such a big game. The NPC character graphics 
 are bad and do look like xbox graphics but you get over that because the other parts of the games 
 are great. I thought the voice acting was going to be terrible after what everyone was saying about 
 it but its not too bad. Its actually pretty good. You dont really notice that sometimes the lip 
 sync isnt always right but you get over it. The weather effects are nice and are some of the best 
 Ive seen in a game. The soundtrack is good which plays throughout the menu and the lound bass sound 
 which plays when your health is low is extremely helpful because when your having fun hacking and 
 slashing at your enemies you forget to look at your healthbar. There are some technical issues 
 with Two Worlds so to improve performance I would Clear the memory cache ( go to system, then memory, 
 highlight Hard Drive and press y , then press X X LB RB X X. THIS DOESNT DELETE ANY GAMERPROFILES 
 OR DOWNLOADED CONTENT OR SAVED GAMES) and turn the HDR intensity on the settings screen to lowest. 
 I found it to help quite a bit. The Physics are not that good as you cant affect items aorund you 
 whereas in Oblivion you can not things of the table and other things.
  
  Story - Sister gets kidnapped at the beggining and you have to save her. Somehow you get caught 
 in the battle between Man and Orc. Looks so far like its going to be pretty coll but I cant say 
 much about it. There are alot of sidequests on the way which are quite hard to handle at first 
 seeing as the Quest log is poor. Hopefully I will understand it more but riht now its whats holding 
 Two Worlds from being perfect. This game will keep you entertained for 100+ hours.
  
  Conclusion - This Game is great so far and it looks like things can only get better. thats the 
 thing with Two Worlds... things only get better. I only started liking RPGs since fable and ever 
 since then they have been my favourite genre of game. I have no idea why people give this game 
 a 1 because they must have literally played it for 2 minutes then give up all hope. For anyone 
 whos thinking of buying this game and reading this review. BUY IT. If you are a RPG fan then get 
 this. I haven't played diablo but I like this game so its all good. Dont listen to these crazy 
 reviews. Buy it and Im sure you will like it. Just give it more than 1 hour before you give up 
 all hope or even 2. Its different for everyone but you will realize the greatness of Two Worlds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When Two Worlds was released it got many bad reviews and few good reviews from critics. I got my 
 copy expecting a nightmare of a game, but was suprised when I quickly rejected the false critiques.
 
  
  You start the game in a small dungeon where you learn the very basic controls of the game. It certainly 
 was a shock when the game experience latency issues early on in the game, but these stopped quickly. 
 It felt merely as if the console was just loading the game as it progressed. The controls of the 
 game are fairly simple and easy to get familiarized with. The triggers are basically the combat 
 mechanics, right trigger will allow your character to attack which in meele varies between two 
 handed weapons, staves and dual wielding. The left trigger is for magic attacks which comes in 
 an easy to use wheel of spells, which are easily acessed using the directional pad to assign and 
 then cast the spells. There are not only spells on the wheel there can also be skills such as that 
 of a rogue or a meele specialist.
  
  The main storyline is quick to get started, and follows the main character trying to find his kidnapped 
 sister. It quickly progresses towards his family's heritage and an old legend. You are not stuck 
 to a linear story, so you can easily go off and adventure as you will. The side quests are all 
 pretty simple and easily indicated on the map when you accept them. They can vary from slaying 
 dragons to delivering a message, as such there is a very large variety. If you don't follow the 
 main storyline you are simply the mercenary, following the odd jobs and getting benefits according 
 to the danger of the mission. This is probably the easiest way to get money in the game, next to 
 finding and selling items.
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing. It may not be right up there with some of the artworks we are 
 currently getting as games. But it is appealing to the eye, and for myself graphics aren't that 
 great of a deal. The game is mean't to be played in third person, but you may playing in first 
 person. The first person however is not that fleshed out and is simply the view zoomed in, so that 
 you can see as if through your characters eyes. Your weapon in first person is not displayed. The 
 design of the armor and weapons is actually quite amazing, they all look very good. In it's influence, 
 Oblivion. The armor is rarely pleasent looking, but in its pupil Two Worlds the armor looks stunning.
 
  
  There is very little music in the game, and is in my view a great disappointment. I actually got 
 so fed up with no music that I turned my own on and it made the game that much better. But considering 
 that this is a review of the game itself now how I manipulated it. The game does lack a soundtrack 
 and, therefore loses major points from me. Another problem with the audio aspect of the game is 
 the voice acting, at points it is absolutely terrible. There are a few people you can't bare to 
 talk to because they are simply so annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asdaprice2
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so technically I haven't had a proper long go at this game, but what I saw of it was enough. 
 My friend brought the game round to my house right after buying and we ended looking at each other 
 with very dishevelled looks every few seconds as the game started. Some dialogue begins between 
 the main character and some others and you would think that the sound guys had individually recorded 
 every single word in the dictionary and then pieced them together to make sentences, it was like 
 a bunch of stephen hawkins' having a conversation. Straight away you're thrown into a dungeon the 
 size of a hotel lobby and fight a couple goblins. Every time you attack someone it sounds like 
 you've just stepped on a hamster on helium and for the blood effects I think the developers used 
 microsoft paint. To top it off your main character says cheesy phrases like Haha, take that you 
 fiend throughout your battles. An extremely disappointing game for what was hyped to be a contender 
 for Oblivion's crown, far from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiberious11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for an Oblivion replacement this game falls way short. Once you get past all 
 the annoying little things this game is not to bad. The Bad: control layout, seamless loading (not) , 
 inventory control, small font size, mini map
  
  The Good: a lot to do, a lot of weapons, large number of skill sets
  
  This game could of been 
 a lot better. It had all the makings of a blockbuster but a bunch of little things got in the way 
 and it just was not put together well. I haven't tired the multi-player because of all the loading 
 problems with the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siteless_one
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I like this. Every one i talk to at work (game stop) says this game was a waste of time. A lot 
 of people are returning it saying it was the worst game they ever played. To me, i see Two Worlds 
 is a good start for the fans of massive RPGs. i like the horses. i like the lay out of the powers 
 and the simple way you level up. i even like the sometimes confusing map system that the game has. 
 very little complants with the character annimation and such. but Two Worlds is fun, interactive, 
 and most of all easy for a gamer like me to get into. Im not the biggest fan of massive RPGs, they 
 usually take a lot of time to do what normal RPGs have you doing in the first hour or so. but this 
 time around, its almost as if the developers didnt want you to spend hours and hours leveling up, 
 trying to find common ground with the on line players, or just the simple task of getting from 
 one place to another. Game Spot's score of 7.0 is fare. it takes alot for a game like this to stand 
 out among the greats, and yet Two Worlds dose an amazing job of bringing new players to the genre.
 
  My score of 7.5 is based on the simplicity of game play, the attractiveness of the graphics and 
 the games ability to make players think that they are playing an easier massive RPG. My words are 
 the Truth
  -siteless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigsp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  ok now southpeak have been ging on and on about how this game is oblivion on steriods (one quote 
 on the back of the box said that!) infact when you first get it it seems like a fresh lump of doggy 
 crap! But dont let the bad reviews and anti-two worlds talk pollute your mind. as you get further 
 into the game it gets better and better but for the first half-hour youl fine yourself thinking 
 why the f*ck you just bought this box O' turd.
  
  Alas have no fear! As i said it does grow on you! there inventry and leveling system is good theres 
 lots of skills to spend your points on theres also no charector classes so you could just switch 
 at any time to anything.
  
  But it aint all hashbrowns!!!! (mmmmm hashbrowns... and if you dont like hashbrowns just change 
 it to whatever you do!) As youve probaly heard the voice acting is a lovely hardworking LUMP OF 
 PURE SH*T!!! youl find emotionless voice-acting all in the same tone pronounced like the actor 
 hasnt slept in a week or so... but the huge varierty of voices might make it a little better and 
 you can just skip the talking.
  
  Now onto the graphics....... meh is the perfect word. Scenary although very realistic isavarage 
 last gen... maybe a little better. but the weapings and charector modles when in cutscenes and your 
 charecter is always looking very simaler to THP8 (tony hawks) witch if you havnt played has pretty 
 good visuals.
  But the blood is just red splats witch just flash for a few seconds then disapear.
  
  Ok now 
 onto thwe most importent thing.. Gameplay!!! The fighting is like your avarage hack n slash... not 
 deep but easy and fun. The amount of items spells armour ect. is huge and cool looking. theres 
 plenty of quests around but with no directions and often no map marker youl often finish thm by 
 luck.... thats the worst letdown in the entire game.. as it is an RPG.
  
  If your a kid and only by games when you gather up the money (like me) then give this one a wait 
 as its &pound;40 or $60 for all you americans just rent it to first to see if this is realy your 
 thing. But if you have the money to buy lots of expensive things.... or just a hardcore RPG-lover 
 get this game.
  
  This isnt The most Epic RPG of all time (as the trailer says) this is no 10 out of 10 and this 
 is no Oblivion killer . Infact like oblivion in no way imaganable... the only simalarity is that 
 its an RPG. The critics that wrote all the qoutes on the box and in the adverts must have been 
 bribed. I felt bribed wasnt a goo word to end on so um... yeah well... read the paragraph before 
 the last and well bye!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankynyny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Beautiful Rendered Graphics. But only looks good in 1080i resolution though. If not trees 
 look like X-box graphics.
  
  Control: Kind of crappy, but after awhile when playing, it gets better, and you get used to it.
 
  
  Gameplay: Crapload of spells, armor and weapons. I keep getting new armor that I have not seen 
 every 1 hour. And the best part is that you get to unlimited stack elemental stones. Like Lightning 
 Damage, I must have put on at least 20 stones on my weapon now is 1000 eletrical damage. DIE HARD 
 RPG FANS will like this game. Kind of like Morrowind Meets Diablo 2.
  
  Sound: Good sound, kind of crappy voice acting.
  
  Overall- Good game, played 15 hours and 
 still have not played the quest yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacallison
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Ok, it's not a masterpiece. At the same time, it's not the complete dog that others have rated 
 it. The gliches haven't bothered me so much. Heck, in terms of graphic spasms, I see more while 
 playing Madden 08. The world actually is more texture-rich, alive and varied than Oblivion. In 
 terms of population, it does seem a bit dense at times, but you can't really expect our ADD generation 
 to wander around for minutes at a time between fights. The combat is a bit tough at first, but 
 becomes more manageable when you level up, improve armor, and pick up a key weapon or two. The 
 only complaint early on is that you can too easily run past or run away from a fight. Honestly, 
 almost everything but the zombies and cyclops should be able to run me down (only the bleeping 
 Reapers seemed to do it with any regularity) . The story line is a bit overbearing, but no worse 
 than those we've seen before. Overall, I was happy to play for hours at a time, to come back until 
 finished, and didn't have the guilty subconscious feeling of completely wasting my time. The developers 
 should certainly take a crack at another generation of the world. BTW -- compared to others, I 
 don't see the reason for the M rating. The violence and gore are not nearly as explicit as other 
 games. Maybe a teen rating, but applying M to this is stretching the rating downwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beka13
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  So, the grapichs are very nice! But some of the character models look really ugly. The Voice acting 
 is just right, there is no (anti) heroes voiced like 'Kartos' from gow. Or villians like Darth Moul 
 in this game. The music... So, i loves the score of Warcraft, Bioshock, The Darkness, and all the other 
 games, but it feels like uninteresting as the gameplay. You hack n' slah, looting weapons, armors, item, spell 
 cards or something like that. In the first part of the the game, you feel like mindless massacre. But 
 when you're stronger is a bit more enjoying to kill things. The value, well, i prefer Bioshock for 
 the price. But its your choice! So, Two worlds is an 'Oblivion' clone, its wants to be like oblivion, and 
 makes few changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatspie
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  It obviously tried to copy oblivion. I was looking forward to this game ever since it was announced 
 and you know what despite all the hype it ended up a total letdown. I really tried to like this 
 game i went of my way trying to enjoy it but it dident work.
  
  Graphics- If you've ever played the free online game runescape you'd be used to this type of graphics. 
 Unless im in talk mode its hard if not impossible to make out the characters faces. There was completely 
 no detail or texture in this game. And the text is so small I have to move extremely close to the 
 screen to see it.
  
  Gameplay- This game is a simple beat em up combined with an rpg simply walk up to a bad guy and 
 tap the trigger button repeatedly. Also theres no character creation you had to be some white human 
 male no character customization at all. Also the online play is garbage I have to ask how the hell 
 are they gonna put death matches in an rpg it dosent make sense. Any experianced gamer can make 
 there character invinsible in 3 hours or less. Also lets face we spent more time being ambushed 
 by random monsters than having fun.
  
  Sound- Its either to loud or too soft no balance beetween the music or the sound effects. Also 
 whenever you swing your sword or shoot your arrow it makes the same sound. And the voice over actors 
 are pathetic I couldve done better.
  
  Overall- This Oblivion clone fails miserably I mean how hard is it to make a good rpg why must 
 they take out all the good elements why did they get us all excited for nothing and why did they 
 rush. I give two worlds a generous 3.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyhat999
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I actually convinced myself this was an Oblivion beater, I can't beleave how wrong i was. This 
 has to be one of the worst games I've played this year or at least the most dissapointing. Me and 
 my mate bought this game at the same time and took it back at the same time (which was about an 
 hour later) . The guy said to us this was the sixth copy we've had back today which didnt really 
 surprise us. Now on to the actual game after my mini paragraph of complaining lol.
  
  The main problem i found wiv it was the lag, having no loading screens meant it constantly having 
 to load the massive game world which half the time it coodnt do so a little loading icon would 
 pop up in the corner and even after it loaded it was still lagging (the guy where we bought it 
 from said it was the poor servers, errrrrrrrrrrrrrr we were playing it offline???) . The battle 
 system was uninspired, people complain about the button bashing Dynasty Warriors battle system, 
 If Two Worlds played anything near as good as DW it would have been a damn site better. I havent 
 seen this game being played on a PC but i assume the graphic are a lot better cause the 360s looked 
 as if they were of a Low-End PCs, I mean detail look rather impressive but as soon as you saw a 
 character face you'd forget about all things good about this game (which there is little) and think 
 to yourself am I playing a loud PS2? . I'm not a graphics whore it just annoyed me a little.
  Also the main characters constant narrating is awful and the voice acting is terrible, Aye...... 
 Lad...... T' would.... Be.... Good.... If..... This...... Be...... A....... Good....... Game.
 
  
  If you can put up with all its problems I'm sure there's a good game in there somewhere, if there 
 was no lag i would of probably kept it but i cant stand lag if i want lag i'd play games on my 
 laptop.
  
  Sorry for the long review of complaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  When you first start off in two worlds the only real problems are a few glitches, a choppy frame 
 rate, and a confusing system. However once you learn how to use the systems for your character 
 the game seems to become a lot better, you learn how to use combat which is actually fairly challenging, 
 and the story line is absolutely wonderful. After playing past the first hour you barely notice 
 the frame rate, and you are able to look past the few glitches. Once you get to this point there 
 is a great game to be played. The graphics, storyline, and customization is absolutely great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  So i can't help but hate this game i spent 11 hours of hell with it so lets start off the graphiscs 
 in this game arnt good for a next -gen consel i was so dissapointed and the enimie AI in this game 
 is so bad the combat is lame the magic is at least decent but it trys to be oblivion but it falls 
 short so they add a online compoinent witch is to lagy for any one to play im apologlogize for 
 this review its not a review its a ran't i just can't belive i bought this game and only got 30 
 $ store credit wast of time and money for the overall the sound is 6 graphics 4 gameplay 2 over 
 all its bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds was for me and my friends the next best RPG to come out since Oblivion (before Two Worlds 
 was released and we heard about it) . Not so much. I rented the game the other day, and at first 
 I was (and all my friends were) like WTF!?!?!? Anyone who plays this game for the first time will 
 say this out loud and to themselves. Two Worlds is definitely not better than Oblivion, and I will 
 state the bad things about Two Worlds to explain why. First off, voice acting is all over the place, 
 ranging from utterly hilarious to excellent. There are very few excellent voice actors in the game 
 though. When you mix bad voice acting with corny lines, again, it sounds hilarious, especially 
 the first time you hear your character say Say hello to death! Graphically, the environments look 
 better than the character models, as the models look terrible. Blood in the game looks as if it 
 was taken from DOOM and put in here. Animations in Two Worlds arent good either, as most are cut 
 short and sometimes choppy. Mounts (horses, lizards, ect.) are really hard to control. While fast, 
 the mounts need to be stopped in order to turn, which gets highly annoying. On any difficulty, 
 the game will be hard. You die really fast, and the fact that you cant block with a shield and 
 can only dodge attacks gets annoying. The worst thing about Two Worlds is lag. While it only occurs 
 in multiplayer, the game seems to have lag built in. Get ready for very slow games that will usually 
 lag out. Now, time for the good stuff. Even though Two Worlds has terrible lines and acting, its 
 so hilarious that it makes you want to come back for more. Plus, after a few good, solid hours 
 of playing, Two Worlds gets as addicting as WoW. The gameplay is fun and innovative, and there 
 is no Level Cap. You can level up all the way to 4600 if you played long enough. Two World's level-to-item 
 system is designed so that you can only aquire weapons and other items for your current level. 
 In other words, you cant get really nice armor at level 1. These nice items wont appear at all 
 until you get to the apropriate level. The online play, despite lag, is still fun if you can get 
 a match thats not laggy at all. Quests keep you going for a long time. Definitely rent Two Worlds 
 first to see if you like it, and then decide whether to buy it or not. Despite this long review, 
 it gives you a sense of what to expect from Two Worlds before you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacman1192
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  I could say i was overhyped for it but in the end it really isn't bad. i read alot of reviews about 
 it being horrible, if you say its horrible then u never played it. Sure i've seen better graphics 
 but i too thought it was horrible at first glance. After playing alot offline and playing with 
 my friends online it gets addicting. You always want to be better then your friends and you can 
 fight other players or team up with other players. The online was a much needed addition that oblivion 
 lacked. Before you say how it is you need to see all aspects of it not just online or not just 
 offline and you need to play them both for atleast 10 hours to get the full effect. There are a 
 few problems with the online play, like if you join a high level room they might just disarm you 
 then leave so i suggest playing with your friends till you get to a higher level online. Also, 
 there is a little bit of lag but when you get atleast 3-4 people in the room with really good connections 
 it all balances out. Say good bye to laggers too when you are host it will tell you who is lagging 
 and how bad it is. I bought it and if you are a true rpg fan then you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant_lotr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Well i bought the game on saturday the 8th September. I spent the best part of half the day on 
 it. The good things about the game is the detail of the water, the large scale of the whole game, 
 and the battling isnt as wooden as it is on oblivion. The only bad thing i can find about the game 
 so far is the item menu which is a gruelling task trying to find things. Also the animals on the 
 game actually act like animals: They travel in groups or packs (the larger the animal the less 
 in the pack) they fight each other when in close vicinity, and even sometimes the wolves call for 
 reinforcements when they are in deep trouble. My conclusion is a brilliant game with excellent 
 graphics and some very imaginative creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoonyPizzas
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Having seen so many different opinions and reviews, I would have to admit I wasn't hyped up about 
 Two Worlds. Which I thought could be a good thing and I would enjoy it more. I heard the post come 
 through the letterbox, I ran down, grabbed my parcel, unwrapped and low and behold, it was shining 
 in my hands... Two Worlds for the Xbox 360.
  
  I heard that it had a bad frame rate in some reviews so I did the maintenance on my hard disk. 
 --** -- goto system -&gt; memory - press Y - now press X, X, LB, RB, X, X. Click yes... and its 
 done. Whatever anyone tells you, it does NOT delete downloaded content and it does NOT delete save 
 games. Just deletes the patches/bug fixes the dev's upload before the game. -- ** --
  
  I was brought to the menu screen, which had some of the land in the background. It wasn't stunning 
 looking but considering how far the draw distance was it was pretty impressive.
  
  First Impressions
  ------------------------
  So I start a new game and enter the first cutscene. 
 ( I won't say what happens because some might consider it a spoiler) .
  
  The voice acting is hilariously bad. Mostly from your own character! Still, I knew and heard about 
 this already so it didn't surprise me but it did make me laugh.
  
  Once I gain control of my character, I realise I'm just outside a dungeon. The camera is awkward, 
 but not that bad to control (unless you enter a house but you can always go into first person) . 
 I talk to an NPC outside the dungeon, and again there's bad voice acting on both characters (but 
 at least there is speech and no need for subtitles!) . He tells me to go into this dungeon, so I 
 start moving my character and thought the frame rate isn't too bad. I enter the dungeon and the 
 layout is pretty poor. Oblivions dungeons... this is not. So I walked forward and the frame rate 
 dipped a bit and the character model was pretty bad to look at. I open a gate and slay two Groms. 
 Looting their bodies ala Oblivion style.
  
  The inventory was awkward to use at first but after about an hour it becomes a breeze.
  
  I'd 
 also like to point out I love the way items stack, which means you can have 2 of the same item, 
 join them together for more damage and bonuses.
  
  The good
  ------------------------
  
  Ok so my first impressions weren't good but having read numerous reviews and opinions I figured 
 it wasn't as bad as I was expecting.
  
  The frame rate sure does drop sometimes but usually when you first play the game, after about 20 
 minutes (once its loaded in all the details of trees, grass, etc) it runs slightly better. Probably 
 about 20FPS - 25FPS.
  
  A few things really amazed me: I could come back from a save game and go back to the very first 
 area when I first killed something and pick up his loot which I might have left behind, and the 
 bodies are still there!
  
  That is fantastic detail but probably why the frame rate dips.
  
  The way that if you stray 
 too far and your character isn't strong enough you can run into some impossible to kill monsters 
 who can take one giant swipe and kill you. Which is good because I wouldn't expect to kill a cyclopse 
 at level 5. It gives you a feel that you need training and thats a good thing.
  
  Another great thing is you can use whatever weaponry you want. What I mean by that, some games 
 require sword skill, axe skill, mace skill... so your stuck with one type of item for the whole 
 game, not this game though! I can switch between whatever weapons I want to deal with a certain 
 enemy.
  
  So if im fighting skeletons its pointless using something with piercing damage, so I might have 
 to use a mace or club, instead of my favourite halberd. Some weapons like the halberd have two 
 types of damage and its the way you press your right trigger. If I tap my right trigger once with 
 the halberd he will do a thrusting strike (which uses piercing damage) . If I keep tapping my right 
 trigger he will start swinging his halberd around hitting multiple enemies doing slashing damage.
 
  
  The variety in magic is good, lots and lots of spells! Although I didn't really train in magic 
 so its hard to say what it would be like.
  
  Which leads me to another point... If you get bored of playing your archer, fighter or mage, or 
 feel too weak being a jack of all trades... you can get your points changed from one of the NPC's 
 in town. So you can go from a fighter to a mage and vice versus just for the cost of in-game money.
 
  
  In this game you can dual wield, which is a great feature which Oblivion lacked, and you can do 
 it with a mix of weapons which can be useful. So maybe an axe and sword or mace and dagger. So 
 you get multiple damage types.
  
  I have to say I love the skills tree. Reminds me of Diablo, except with slightly more depth. Such 
 as kicking dirt in the enemies eyes which makes them blind for x amount of seconds (the more skill 
 points the more amount of seconds they are blind for) , or dehorse a rider when using a spear or 
 halberd or fire a burning arrow into an enemies face causing them to flee and do x amount of damage. 
 These are just a few of the skills in the skill tree.
  
  The bad
  -----------
  
  I already mentioned the voice acting was hilariously bad, but unless you really want to get into 
 the games story this shouldn't put you off. Some of the enemies voice acting isn't so bad at times 
 but its hit and miss.
  
  The frame rate when you first load the game up can be pretty bad, but after 20 minutes.. it seems 
 to sooth it out by loading in all the textures. Like I said try doing a maintenance on your xbox 
 360's memory.
  
  The controls and camera are slightly awkward. I already spoke of the camera issues, but the controls 
 are a bit odd and take a while to get familiar with. For example, to switch from your current weapon 
 to another weapon or spell... you need to use D pad to select the weapon/spell and then left trigger 
 to arm and then press X to draw your weapon, ready to fight. You can always use the inventory screen 
 but like I said before, its kind of sluggish and really misses a mouse and keyboard here. The graphics 
 are pretty bad but considering how much the game has to remember its pretty forgiveable, not a 
 great game to show off to your PS3 owning mates who will probably say OMG your Xbox 360 sucks, 
 look at those graphics! . I'm not sure whether to say this is a bad point as such but when you 
 kill something, late at night it can come back to haunt you literally! Ghosts appear and so far 
 im unable to do any damage... probably because I need magic which is realistic I suppose, and if 
 they touch me once I die... but death comes at no cost unless your playing on hard when there are 
 no respawns.
  
  Avoiding death can be pretty easy, because you have a dodge button and i've yet to see anything 
 run faster than my character... even wolves haha. You can strike and dodge and the enemy can't 
 hit you, if you get really good at this you'll start to feel invulnerable. Which leads me to another 
 bad thing... on numerous occassions in dungeons I have hit the dodge button and got locked into 
 the wall of the dungeon. I could still move out but the enemies couldn't hit me and nor could I 
 hit them, it would be easy not to mention this because its not like I've got stuck... yet!
  
  Loading times... I heard alot of people complain about these but they are no more common than 
 Oblivions loading times and they are quicker. At least you can enter a house without loading! However, 
 it must be said that while Oblivions loading actually paused gameplay... in Two Worlds the game 
 is still playing whilst your still loading. So if your running away from some giant monster and 
 it comes up with the loading disc sign, don't let go of that analogue stick because you'll probably 
 find your character dead or near death.
  
  The conclusion
  ----------------
  
  I'll tell you what this game reminds me of... Diablo in 3rd person, except with more spells, variety 
 and depth but at the cost of a slightly dodgy frame rate and some random load times. So far I have 
 enjoyed the game but I really have to be in the mood to put the disc in because I know what im 
 going to expect for the first few minutes of gameplay... which is a slightly bad frame rate, although 
 once im playing and got into the swing of things, its fun if your anything like me and love Diablo. 
 In my eyes its a treasure hunt and has the addictiveness of Diablo to keep playing and search for 
 that extra special item.
  
  My advice will be to rent it, get trained up (get a few extra skills such) so you can do all the 
 special moves and if your enjoying it and can handle the frame rate and graphics... buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MillenniumSword
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  this game failed to do the job i mean well frist things frist the character customizing really 
 dose not give u a chose of gender or if u wont any face hair and not only that u can't even chose 
 to be any other class's but this is only in the single player mode u have 2 go on to xbox live 
 to be able 2 be female or male and that witch takes a lot from the single player aspect of the 
 game the graphical bugs are a other thing that lets the game down like when ur trying to fight 
 a wolf on a hill or something u start to slade down it and the the dialog is not very impressive 
 at all the world of two wolds is impressive in the free roaming part of it but i think this is 
 like a vary bad fable. all in all this game could have been that much better then it is thay put 
 it back meany times to fix many things but looks like thay did not catch them all but i can say 
 that 4 an rpg it gets a little bit of prise in that respect of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoonsAndForks
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. This game is plagued with lag. It's hit so hard in the face with it, that even the 
 off-line part of it gets smacked with it. Online gets even worse if you try to play it with anything 
 over one player.
  
  Plenty of graphical and animation issues to make love to here. I love nothing more than looking 
 into the sky to see floating trees. Keep on walking forward and you'll find out that they are actually 
 attached to a mountain that jumps out of nowhere. For some reason while attacking the enemies, 
 your character tends to float across the land. Speaking of enemies, they are way to hard to defeat. 
 I watched a bear and 3 bandits attack each other for over 20 minutes before one of the bandits 
 gave up and died out of boredom. Yet one swing from a sheep's paw will land you in a closed casket. 
 For some reason the blood even looks like something out of a playstation one title. On the plus 
 side though, you do get to respawn. (And you will a lot) But they manage to screw that up by often 
 times spawning you into some town or part of the map you haven't even stepped foot in.
  
  Now you do get a horse to ride and it runs across the map pretty quickly but good luck trying to 
 get the stupid thing to move left or right while moving.
  
  Horrible voice acting everywhere. The characters eye's bounce around everywhere inside of their 
 head, often time going cross eyed. Before wasting any time or money on this, do yourself a favor 
 and wait for someone to patch it. They at least owe you that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  It's hard to enter this review on a positive note, especially after just playing Bioshock, and 
 after coming down off my high from Oblivion's fantastic expansion, Shivering Isles. I had a bit 
 of extra cash on me and thought I'd try it out, at least to hold me off until Halo 3. But I think 
 that's a bit of a stretch. It seemed like a good game, after seeing the commercials and hearing 
 critics, but it didn't feel like it lived up to everything. The plot seems like typical RPG-fare, 
 having to customize a character, and then setting out to save your sister who was kidnapped. Like 
 Oblivion, the quests are broken into categories. Some may have you killing, stealing, or delivering 
 things, for a variety of factions. Through these quests, you earn fame and/or infamy. More and 
 more people become aware of you, and you become renowned across the large game world. Luckily the 
 developers managed to nail the huge world on the head. The only problem is, aside from villages 
 and castles, the environments and terrain look kinda boring to me. Grass and foliage look decent, 
 but it all seems too similar, and look or feel organic and real. It's ironic, because Oblivion 
 had some of the most beautiful environments, rendering, and foliage. It was more varied, and even 
 had realistic lighting. None of this seems to be here too much in Two Worlds. I could easily forgive 
 this if that was the only problem, but it isn't, sadly. The graphics don't even come close to Oblivion 
 (which has already been out for more than a year) and the performance is quite unbalanced. This 
 doesn't make any sense to me at all. Oblivion has its occasional hitch in frame-rate, whether you 
 played the PC version or the 360/PS3... But, they were never that frequent, nor did they dip quite 
 as low as Two Worlds. And while Oblivion runs better, it doesn't even need to really compensate 
 with watered-down graphics (unless you're playing on a slower PC) . This isn't the case for Two 
 Worlds. Not that I've played Two Worlds on the PC, but I find it extremely annoying that the 360 
 version is slower than the PC counterpart, and I know I'm not the only one who thinks that. In 
 fact, gamers have stated that the PC version actually looks fairly nice, and plays quite smoothly 
 (even without the latest hardware) . It's true that there are PCs out there nowadays that are faster 
 than the 360 (which still remains one of the most advanced consoles) . And, while the 360 is more 
 than a couple years old, this just isn't acceptable, especially with so many great-looking games 
 already available for Microsoft's behemoth of a gaming system
  That isn't to say the 360 couldn't handle Two Worlds, because it can. In fact, the game had the 
 potential to look great on 360 (even more than Oblivion) , And I'm not saying the developers were 
 necessarily incompetent or untalented, it just feels like they rushed things too much when they 
 ported it to a console. I realize there is a lot of optimization processes, kinks to work out, 
 and bugs to patch when a game is ported, but it sometimes seems as though some corners were cut, 
 or the developers just didn't look close enough in these rough spots.
  Actually, the graphics irked me the most. And yes, I know quality graphics aren't nearly as important 
 as game-play... But when performance actually starts to deteriorate and slow down, this also affects 
 game-play. The game lags much like a typical MMORPG at peak times, when there a lot of people logged 
 on to a server... Can someone explain to me why the hell this happens in the offline single-player 
 mode? And when I said developers cut corners while porting this from the PC version to a console, 
 I forgot something else. The PC version doesn't seem to have the bugs that the 360 has. But there 
 WERE some things that stayed the same, namely the menus and inventories and such. The menus look 
 fine on PC, and it's obvious they were built for that reason, and for easy navigation. But it doesn't 
 seem to translate over to 360 all that well. Since you don't use a mouse for this, you can't just 
 click through the menus with no interference or annoyance. So you need to use the controller to 
 select stuff, and you have to scroll through everything slowly and tediously. It doesn't sound 
 like it wastes much time, but you may be surprised at the tedium. To do something simple (like 
 equipping a weapon) , you would bring up the menu and slowly scroll through your inventory until 
 you find what you want. Even that isn't too simple. If you happen to be carrying more than one 
 type of item (swords for example) , you might have a bit of trouble identifying each of your swords 
 right away. This is because many of these items look almost exactly the same in the inventory menu. 
 You might have a couple swords that look identical in the menu, but taking a closer look at the 
 weapon's stats may reveal one to be incredibly powerful, while the other one is a weak piece of 
 crap. And while you can vaguely figure out what some items are just by their inventory icon, some 
 are a lot less obvious, such as certain types of clothing, gloves, boots, armor, magic spells, 
 or arrows. Even text can seem hard to read sometimes. If this was simply a result of smaller, older 
 televisions, I'd cut it some slack. But I've been playing it on a 32' widescreen LCD television 
 with HD functionality, and it really doesn't help too much, even on 1080i, with 16 : 9 screen ratio.
 
  The audio is a bit of a let-down too, because there is almost no music throughout, except for 
 the occasional special event, or particular cutscene. The voice acting isn't the worst, but it's 
 certainly not spectacular. And I know I keep coming back to this and comparing it to Oblivion, 
 but it raised the bar by leaps and bounds. And nowadays, most gamers (like myself) have higher 
 standards, and we pretty much DEMAND new games to raise the bar even higher, if not at least come 
 close, or tie with their predecessors (such as Oblivion, Fable, KOTOR, or even Morrowind.
  Since I bought it and I don't have the receipt, I can't really return it for a refund or something. 
 I will say this though: the world is pretty huge and there are many quests and things to collect, 
 things to kill, or stuff to loot. If you needed to choose, I'd say get Oblivion and the expansion 
 set if you haven't already. You might even save a bit of money since it's been out over a year. 
 Oblivion is one of (if not) the most immersive gaming experiences in an RPG, so far. And after 
 seeing and playing similar games, it will probably stay that way for a long time, until someone 
 raises the bar again.
  I'm not gonna keep dragging this game through the mud (though some might) , but that's because most 
 of the game itself is reasonably decent and ambitious. While being similar to Oblivion in some 
 ways, it looks as though the developers spent some time trying to break away from it, and venture 
 into new, uncharted waters. I just wish more time and thought went into making the 360 port. If 
 you're a total RPG junkie, and just HAVE to play another one, you might want to try renting it, 
 and then buying it if you enjoy it. If you've just been playing games on an RPG binge and can't 
 really find anything else, and you ABSOLUTELY MUST have another role-playing game to fill this 
 big dark void (until something better comes out) , then Two Worlds should at least do the trick 
 for a while. And if you can get past the glitches, lag, mediocre graphics, and bad menus, you'll 
 find the game actually is quite lengthy with many quests to do and stuff to collect. And (like 
 me) , if the big lack of music discourages some folks, do what I do. Make a mixed disc and rip it, 
 or stream music from your PC, right to your 360. What music you play is up to you, but I recommend 
 using anything from games like Oblivion, Morrowind, Lord Of The Rings, or whatever else suits you.
 
  If you have more than one option, you should definitely get Two Worlds for the PC. While its not 
 the best RPG out there, the PC version isn't nearly as flawed, and you might be able to squeeze 
 out a bit more enjoyment. And if you absolutely MUST have an RPG to play, this might do the trick 
 (until something better comes out) .
  
  (+) Huge environments
  (+) Non-linear gameplay that lets players do what they want, when they want
  (+) Many places to 
 go
  (+) Tons of quests
  (+) Lots of things to collect
  (+) Lots of player customization
  (+) Plenty of enemies to hunt and kill
  (-) Some graphics seem decent, while others are pretty 
 average
  (-) Almost no music whatsoever
  (-) Performance on the 360 is flaky at best, even when there's not much action onscreen
  (-) Even 
 on HD, text and menus can be difficult to read
  (-) Tons of monsters to fight and get EXP and loot from, but since there isn't much variety, the 
 early portions of the game will have you stuck fighting countless waves of weaker enemies like 
 boars and wolfs for quite some time (at least until you've leveled up enough to take on the big 
 boys)
  (-) Combat system isn't as robust or exciting as it could be, making the controls and animation 
 seem a bit sloppy sometimes
  (-) While it has an online multiplayer mode similar to a conventional MMORPG, it just doesn't stand 
 up to real MMORPGs like WoW, Guild Wars, Everquest, or (IMO) even Final Fantasy XI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightinirish419
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  All in all, a horribly designed game. From the graphics to the dialogue, it was a total letdown 
 and disaster. First off, I was incredibly dissappointed to find out that I could only choose from 
 one race, and choose a bunch of details on him that you couldn't even see because of the horrible 
 graphics. The blood in the game looked like flying reddish purple goo, and I was extremely frustrated 
 when my character could hardly kill the most basic NPCs at the beginning of the game. Right when 
 I got out of the dungeon in the beginning, I was faced by someone who was supposed to have something 
 to do with the main quest, which I had no idea what it was to start off, and the dialogue sounded 
 like it was from Robin Hood: Men in Tights. It looked to me that if the producers had spent maybe 
 three more months polishing it off, then it might have been a decent game, but it seemed like they 
 were just too lazy. I love Oblivion, and after playing it, this game didn't come anywhere near 
 to being as good as it is. In the end, this was just a complete dissapointment. I really like RPGs, 
 but this just wasn't worth playing for more than 30 minutes, even though I tried to appreciate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzballace
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game must be a joke, because frankly, I want my six bucks back for renting it. Everything 
 about this game is appalling, graphics, frame rate, combat, even the story if you can call it that 
 is something a group of 10-year-olds could think of. Where should I start then? The customization? 
 Oh my god, are you kidding me?! Then the opening cut scene opens and wtf... that's not the character 
 I just made! I actually laughed quite hard at that. And then the voice acting sent me over the 
 edge, I actually kept playing because I could /not/ stop laughing. Every NPC looks like a beaten 
 dog with two legs missing. When I got my horse I find out I can't even control the demonic possessed 
 thing, it wanted to go anywhere but the direction I wanted! And everything seems to be able to 
 kill you with one shot, you get owned from animals for god sakes, that is just pathetic. And how 
 can you even complete quests when half of them don't work properly. Go here to retrieve this! (I 
 would if the map marker worked along with the map if I could read it!) This game looks like it 
 belongs on a cell phone, its that bad it may as well be renamed into something describing horse 
 sh**. After about three hours I couldn't take it anymore, and took it straight back to blockbuster, 
 thank god, I repeat thank god I did not buy this gutter trash. This is why, RPG's are left to those 
 who can actually make them, e. g. BioWare, Bethesda. In fact, how did this game even make it to 
 shelves? Honestly? My God... *Shakes head.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubermist
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  So I knew it wasn't going to be the greatest game I ever played but it was ok starting out. Early 
 levels you don't have anything and you can do side quests or follow the main quest or just go walk 
 around and fight and loot.
  
  I played to lvl 14 and had some nice armor and nice weapons, fight were getting easier etc. Even 
 started telling some friends ... ahh at least try it, its not horrible, their is at least some 
 lvl of enjoyment to it. 
  
  That was until tonight, I actually kinda like logging in and just doing lame stuff and relaxing 
 while I play... Well, three hours into it I get myself into a nice big boss battle and wouldn't 
 you know I get stuck in game behind a support beam in a dungeon. I can't do anything except hit 
 the power button. All game progress for the night is gone and not to mention on the first day I 
 played this game I got stuck behind a rock fighting a bear and had to log out as well. I have played 
 every RPG known to man, (well it feels that way) and some I have played for many years that require 
 many hours of development etc. so I know what this game is supposed to play like and I'm am going 
 to jump on the it's a pile of crap bandwagon and tell you to save your money.
  
  The map sucks the horse ride sucks, the weapon skills suck, aiming your bow sucks, the difficulties 
 are all jacked up. Easy is too easy and medium should be called plan on fighting at the healing 
 stone. 
  
  Junk, I'm trading this bad boy in first thing in the morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Two Worlds, well the main quest anyways as it would probably take me more than 
 the 60 hours I played the game to find and finish all the quests. Anyways, I walk away from this 
 game with mixed impressions, Two Worlds manages to do a lot of things right but probably does as 
 many things wrong. Its these mistakes that earned the game so many poor reviews and cost the game 
 a lot of players. Im not going to beat around the bush; Ill tell you everything that is messed 
 up with the game first.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Before the game even starts, you get to create your character from a limited amount of choices. 
 This isnt Oblivions character creation process but at least they give you some options. After 
 that youre greeted with a quite lengthy intro cutscene that begins the story and sets the stage 
 for the adventure to come. During this cutscene I noticed three things; 1. The character you design 
 isnt the character youll be seeing in the cutscenes, instead you will see a leather clad guy 
 with a goatee. 2. The voice acting ranges from pretty good to pretty laughable with your characters 
 voice being the clich&eacute; d deep raspy hero voice and 3. Your sisters name has two spellings 
 during the course of the game.
  
  So some people might give up on the game once they hear the cheesy voices, see the misspelled words 
 and the cutscene stuntman but I pressed on. When the actual gameplay begins, youre treated to 
 a very short tutorial and set on your very first mission. Its a quick and straightforward one 
 so its not until you get outside that you run into Two Worlds greatest problem Frequent loading 
 times. Its not like they are long loading times and the world would be seamless without them unless 
 you traverse to a dungeon, its just that they happen every minutes or so and they tend to pause 
 the game a little bit. Oh and this pause also happens when you deal the finishing blow on an enemy.
 
  
  Also this game is very console unfriendly. Its almost as if the developers of this game were so 
 pissed at how Oblivion catered to consoles that they decided to do the exact opposite. The menus 
 are horrid in both layout and use with a controller, and the map and quest log is an adventure 
 all itself. The map Is so small and killed with blurry little marks that its hard to tell whats 
 what and the quest log seems to have a mind of its own. It honestly took me a good 10  15 minutes 
 just to figure out how to navigate these menus to get a little bit of use out of them.
  
  The Bad:
  
  So are you still following me? Good, because I kept pressing on too. Heres where 
 the big mistakes end and my minor gripes come in. For the most part the game looked good. You can 
 see miles into the distance and the landscape is truly beautiful. The rain effects look like they 
 were done on the Xbox but the fog and thunderstorms are beautiful. The creature design is also 
 of this hit or miss sort. All the mundane animals look right and so do the humans, goblins and 
 things like that and I was kind of impressed by some of the other foes in the game. Zombies were 
 given their own treatment and there were even these headless bondage freaks that were somewhat 
 original. Reapers on the other hand were annoying and boring to look at. Its almost as if a kangaroo, 
 dinosaur and walrus were invited to an orgy.
  
  For the most part the game has pretty good graphics. Theyre not on par with Oblivion and the loading 
 may make it seem that the game has framerate drops on the other hand the world is much more populated 
 than Oblivions and the towns arent their own little loading worlds.
  Combat is all hack and slash which isnt too bad see as all the weapons and weapon combinations 
 there are in the game. Daggers, all kinds of swords, clubs, pole arms, axes, hammers flails, if 
 you can kill someone with it, its in this game. There is a manual dodge button that makes your 
 hero get out of harms way and this button is usually essential for survival. Finally there are 
 bows, bombs, traps and magic. Ill talk about bows and magic later because they are actually fun 
 to use.
  
  While combat seems simple, the game is unbelievably hard when you first start out. The world is 
 very unforgiving and a simple pack of wolves can have you resurrecting at the nearest shrine. I 
 didnt have a problem with the difficulty; it was the shrines that ended up being big flaws in 
 the combat. If ever you were up against a creature that could wipe you out easily, your best bet 
 would be to go to a magic shrine and just spam your most powerful spell while the shrine refills 
 your mana, or fight a baddie by the life shrine and constantly get healed; if you die, youll start 
 right in front of the guy. This system is easy to take advantage of and ensures that youre never 
 truly outgunned in this game.
  
  The last of the complaints is a lack of lore or background reading materials. The game is large 
 in scope and seems to have a rich history but most of that is untouched in the game. Youll come 
 across ruins filled with torture chambers and undead, yet no book or diary to say what the place 
 was. Maybe the Elder Scrolls series spoiled me with their dozens of books but I feel this was something 
 sorely missing from Two Worlds.
  
  The Good:
  
  With all the bad things out of the way now its on to the good things. Ive mentioned little blurbs 
 about them before but heres where Ill dedicate more time. The environment is vast and varied, 
 running the gamut of frozen wastes to burn down cursed forests. Life is everywhere whether it is 
 packs of wolves to woodcutter camps, bandit hideouts or orc war camps. Ive seen other reviews 
 complain about how wolves and bandits are everywhere but thats only if you spend a lot of time 
 in the north. The south has a race of insect creatures, golems, dragons wyverns, giants and reapers 
 roaming everywhere with rarely a wolf or bandit in site. Theres a ton of creature variety and 
 it youre tired of seeing the same sites and foes over again, simply venture out in a new direction.
 
  
  The classless character creation works well and gives you the freedom to create a character thats 
 great at combat or good at many things. While Im usually picking a stealthy characters and I admit 
 I cant seem to get stealth to work in this game, I did venture out of my comfort zone and make 
 a character that excels with a bow and necromancer magic. A very strange mix in RPGs that usually 
 doesnt work out but is totally fine in this world.
  
  Bow combat works in this game because of the speed and how versatile the modes of firing are. You 
 can charge a shot to full power, there are even talents that let you over charge your shot and 
 you can release for massive damage. The option is also there if you just want to fire off quick 
 rounds at approaching targets. Magic works just as well as you can pick the 3 spells you want to 
 use the most and then use upgrading cards to extend the spells duration, expand the power or reduce 
 mana costs.
  
  Speaking of customization, the things you can do to weapons and armor makes sure youll always 
 have a something nice equipped. If you find two of the same items, you can simply combine them 
 to form an item that is slightly better than the first. There are also gems you can find that attach 
 elemental damage to weapons. So in my case, I found two swords that I really liked that were pretty 
 powerful when I got them but would have become obsolete if I just kept them as is, but fortunately 
 I kept snagging the same swords over and over and attaching gems to them to make them something 
 that is useful 20 levels down the road.
  
  My favorite part of the game was the variety of quests. Two Worlds is full of rival factions and 
 while the reputation with these factions is never fully realized (the worst that happens if you 
 piss off a group is that they dont give you high level quests) the game sends you on a ton of 
 different adventures purposely and accidentally. Helping out the hunted necromancers usually has 
 surprising results as their seemingly simple missions turn into much more, these two warring families 
 often have you hunting down people and sabotaging their oppositions business or you can just clean 
 up trade routes for merchants.
  
  So the game is a no named developers first foray into the RPG world. As you can see it has a ton 
 of issues that would make most people say this game is complete and utter trash not worth your 
 time unfortunately its the best true RPG outing available on the 360 so I was able to find forgiveness 
 in my heart and devote time into this game. Its not a great game by any means but if you give 
 it a try, it might surprise you in some areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiruva
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  After reading the good reviews from gamespot and other sources I decided to buy the game. During 
 the 10 minutes which I played it I had already decided from the very slow frame rate, minute text, 
 bad voice acting and worst of all the extremely rubbish fighting which is similar to something 
 you find on mobile phones! Please do not buy this game especially after reading this review. I 
 was appalled at how Microsoft allowed such a poor quality game to ever be released for the 360. 
 The day Two worlds for the Xbox 360 came out is a dark and grim milestone in its history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walton31
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Okay so i wasnt to happy with the first impressions of this game, the graphics arnt the best and 
 the gameplay is a little stuttery.
  
  But all in all its actually really enjoyable. I prefer the fighting on this to Oblivion and also 
 the armour peices a whole lot better. The alchemy pot is a whole lot of fun and i enjoy tweaking 
 both my armour and wepons to get that little bit more protection or damage.
  
  The environments are also alot more varied to snow and ice to sandy, beachy areas.
  
  If you 
 are to buy this game trust me give it a good 3-4 hours and you will be hooked :) its a good game 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gho5ty
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Yea i know you people don't like this game because you only play for 30 min's and say is lame and 
 so on you need to give it a 3+ hour try befor saying it lame its worth the 60$$ you spend OR you 
 can rent it ive spent over 100 hours on this game trying out wich way too go class wise...
  
  The bad... yes this is lag points in the game nothing to big load times are ten times faster 
 then Oblivion...
  
  The Good... Lots of items 1. Magic- Air-Water-Fire-Earth and the dark Necromancy
  2. Can dual weld 
 - Set traps/Make traps
  3. You can be a thife /archer/mage/ranger/or dual weld/or use shield and sword or club.
  4. Can 
 Do Alchemy and make Permanent Potions.
  5. Music is good acting is good
  
  anyway i can go on and on but give this a try dont give up with 30 mins i say try it for 2-3 hours 
 and then u will see if the game is with the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quanloco
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  This game gives me a feeling of really being back in this gritty middle ages world where danger 
 is every place. I know to some it won't be a game that shows off what the 360 can do but it has 
 moments where it really does look great and the draw distance really adds to the feel of the game. 
 You can see towns from mountain tops and it gives me a sense of depth that you dont really see 
 in other games. The sense of size is really sweet as well you really feel small when coming up 
 to a castle or one of the gates that block you from going to the other side of the in game world. 
 Another aspect of the game is the amount of equipment that you can choose from. Armor, and weapons 
 oh my. I love the different choices you get to chose from it seems endless at times I love it. 
 I love this game and since the games release I have not put it down. It's very fun and I think 
 if you are going to give it a try go into it with an open mind really give it a chance. I know 
 the game does'nt have the flashy graphics that oblivion has but to me that one of the things that 
 i like about it, it looks older and feels more real that all the towns in oblivion. Don't get me 
 wrong I love oblivion but its kind of like a futuristic middle ages with these spectacular looking 
 towns that look almost to good for it to be a game that takes place in the renaissance time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pualio12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Well i've been tracking this game for quite sometime now. I was very impressed with what i saw 
 on the internet videos with the combat the visuals etc.. Then, i made the mistake of buying the 
 special edition. I blew 70$ on a game that i thought would be like oblivion. Wow was i wrong, so 
 i frist start the game off, the starting video is nothing special, kinda boring if you ask me. 
 So i watch the starting video for a good chunk of time, now comes the gameplay, so i start moving 
 and WOW this guy runs fast. i mean he runs so fast the game it self gets all choppy when you run 
 (and walking is boring as hell) . So i start jumping around running etc just disgusted by the framerate. 
 It seems like im playing online on some crap connection or something. So anyways, i get to the 
 first mission temple, fight a couple guys the fighting is pretty impressive in the game i like 
 how he handles his sword. The enemy damage, etc.. Looks like a dogs breakfast. you hit the guy and 
 this weird cloud of red comes out then fades away. Very disappointing. Then my last thing i wasn't 
 too happy with about the game, was the visuals. I mean come on, this almost looks like the first 
 xbox graphics, which is kind of sad considering Oblivion had AMAZING visuals, probably one of the 
 best graphically enhanced games of all time. I also forgot to mention within 5 minutes of playing 
 this. My xbox froze. My xbox, has custom intercooler, annd ive played gears, oblivion, etc... for 
 more than 15 hours. even after it froze its been on now for about 3 hours. Nothing wrong with it. 
 sooo yea if you plan on picking this game up for 70$ or 60$ whichever one you purchase. You might 
 be better off renting it and playing it for acievement points or whatsoever you want to do with 
 it, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maverickcoma
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is confusing at start if u skip single player because its real complicated how they 
 have it set up. but once u played atleast the first like 20 minutes of single player. the game 
 gets easier to understand how they set up the game player wise. The games ups: is the fact it actually 
 haves an online capability period. The downs: they could have put more effort into changing up the 
 attacks with weapons so they are not always the same attack over and over again. they also could 
 have done a little better with the graphics. But this is only my opinion on what they did good 
 and what they really should have worked on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  When i first played the game i thought it was ridiculous... im not gonna lie, however the more i 
 played it the better it got and the more entertained i got. The game does have its flaws but what 
 game doesnt... Two Worlds reminds me alot of Fable (Xbox game) and i think thats why i enjoy it, 
 however, the game does get boring and repetitve after awile and there is alot of walking. You could 
 take a horse, however, you can not ride it that well, unless you boost your stats. There are way 
 too many weapons and armor to choose from, making it difficult to allow your character to adapt 
 to what you want, and you spend more time dressing him than fighting with him. The game however, 
 isnt that bad, it is a very addiciting game. I like the fact you can stand on a hill or mountain 
 and see the entire area around and below you, its definately a first for that. I would have to 
 say that all in all... the game is not that bad.. however, rent it before you buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sublant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  from a dedicated Oblivion fan...
  
  Game Play is pretty darned good. Only very brief auto-load times while moving thru areas... It's 
 great to enter the many cities, castles, fortresses and outposts seamlessly without the long load 
 times of Oblivion. Being able to fight while mounted, use two weapons in combat, and create stronger 
 weapons (and the weapons and armor selection of Two Worlds far surpasses anything Oblivion offers) 
 all leave little to be desired in this game. Knowing some monsters may be far beyond my abilities 
 instead gauged just above my level to ensure Ill always be able to win makes for much more engaging 
 game play.
  
  Voice characterizations have been very well done (though the plot isnt necessarily the greatest) 
 with very little repetition in individual voice usage. So, hearing the same voices from different 
 characters isnt on the same monotonous scale as that of Oblivion.
  
  Game Graphics are not quite as good as Oblivion 'on the surface'.
  Some things, trees mainly, 
 aren't as finely tuned as those in Oblivion but overall the environs, characters, monsters, etc. 
 in Two Worlds have been very well rendered.
  
  On the down side; the excessive dialog can be tedious. The 'Quest Log' does not make identifying 
 and following given quests easy. Although there are virtually countless possibilities in building 
 a character and bringing him to life there is only one sex and one race to choose from.
  
  Overall, a very well done game which is deserving of at least a few nights rental... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xhsmx_minion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is finally out! A long awaited online Rpg that has done more then excite a few gamers. 
 So the question is, does it really live up to its expectations? Sadly no. The game is no oblivion 
 destroyer. Its actually nothing like oblivion at all. Save for the fact its a free roaming rpg 
 with a large world. Rather then mimic Oblivions concept. Two peaks have seen fit to create something 
 different. Almost to the point that the two are incomparable. This of course is a bad thing. Pending 
 how you wish to translate it. However, I will not stand here and bash the game for its Lag. Which 
 will be fixed in the upcoming months. Nor will I scoff at its attempt to over power a popular, 
 yet respected game in the Xbox 360 library. Rather I shall approach the game for what it is. Two 
 worlds, not Oblivion.
  
  Two worlds main campaign is all right. It lacked the necessary depth and innovation to blow you 
 away. However it did have a few keen moments which will excite you. Thus making the experience 
 you with extract from the story average. Now, lets ditch the story and step into the side quest 
 and gameplay features! This is where the real meat is. Though the story and graphics are ok and 
 have their moments. The gameplay will not disappoint you. The massive world itself has what feels 
 like hundred of alchemy items. Which can be used to make potions that will recover health, poison 
 or even temporarily and or permanently increase your stats. The alchemy portion of the game is 
 fun and enjoyable. It is also very hearty. The inventory system is decent. Sadly at first you might 
 find yourself confused or frustrated. But after a few hours you will grow to appreciate it somehow. 
 The ability to combine weapons and armor with similar weapons and armor is a nice touch. This means 
 your equipment will always be upgradable. In short this means you won't find yourself stuck with 
 a certain blade or armor. For all weapons and armor have the every real potential of becoming overwhelmingly 
 powerful.
  
  The combat system is your average run off the mill hack n' slash game. The duel wielding adds a 
 nice touch. One we would like oblivion to possess. The same goes for the vast number of weapon 
 types. You have spears, clubs, swords, daggers, bows, great swords, hand axes, axes, mace, staffs, 
 halberds and more. Each either have theyre own strength and weaknesses. Note that the strength 
 and weakness aren't exactly pronounced. However after using the weapon for a while. You will begin 
 to see the advantage of using a longer weapon like a spear or duel wielding swords. Plus the feature 
 which allows you to enchant your weapons via using stones is also a good feature. And just like 
 the combining weapon attribute. You can keep enchanting your blade to your hearts content. I have 
 a sword that deals 2000 lightning. And my friend has one of 4000 and some on Xbox live. Meaning 
 that a weapon which hits 10-40 can hit 4010-4040
  
  There is much more to the game. The only way you can hope to fully understand its strength and 
 weaknesses is by renting it or buying it. And just figuring out yourself. If you run into this 
 game thinking, This is gonna blow oblivion out of the water and own all other games. then expect 
 to get kicked in the nuts. But if you enter this video game with the mind set of, hey, I really 
 wanna play something fun thatll take me a while to beat and get bored of. Then two worlds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuadar
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  After playing for 7 hours and squinting thru the on screen map on my LCD TV . i have a huge headache. 
 The quest log is aweful . there is no sense of direction of questing i've been completing quests 
 just by luck more than by actually wanting to. having played oblivion and loving it . this game 
 needs patches to get to work on a console probably. Also the multiplayer is really annoying and 
 thus of no use. they should have just tried to work on the single player and made that work . the 
 graphics look nice but only sometimes. it is decent game i guess if you are really bored for an 
 rpg. i think people will forget this when mass effect hits the scene 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrosa
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The frame rate and lack of interface scaling at 1080 make this utterly unplayable, both on indoor 
 and outdoor maps. There are absolutely no controls for setting the draw distance, or any other 
 way to alleviate this unplayability. These clearly PC-based developers have no business on the 
 x360 platform -- as an avid player of RPGs on all platforms, I refuse to play this without some 
 emergency patches.
  
  The inventory system is likewise pathetic -- stolen straight from Diablo, but WITH weight restrictions. 
 The magic system is relatively useless (only THREE hotkeyed spells?) , but still intriguing.
  
  That's unfortunate, as the rest of this apparent Oblivion-meets-D&amp; Dv3 game seemed to have 
 content generally worth exploring.
  
  A sad disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Its too bad, that more time was not taken to sort out all the problems that surfaced while playing. 
 The potential is definitely there, but the voice overs were stinted actors, trying to act, to get 
 to the large map, you have to stop what you're doing and bring up the map. The controls for your 
 character were pretty smooth and worked well, but for getting to the hotbar was not an easy task, 
 therefore, dieing was a constant. I really think they rushed this game to get it on the market, 
 and its too bad, because as I stated above the potential is there. The graphics were reasonable 
 and the world was well layed out, but I can see the frustration of players overall. I plan to keep 
 on playing this game, just to see as time goes by, if it becomes more enjoyable. Now I see why 
 Blizzard takes years to accomplish their mission. They do not allow a game on the market until 
 it is polished for the public. Gamers, like myself, have seen the good, bad, and ugly. I rate this 
 game between good and bad, because there are aspects that are really fun, but on the bad side, 
 can be frustrating. When players are paying good money, they expect a good product. Hopefully, 
 they will come out with another RPG that has been beta tested to the umpteenth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonsbane97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Now i've been keeping a lot of track on plenty of reviews about this game. Some good and some bad. 
 So I figured I might try to put the disputes to rest.
  Two Worlds is one of the latest RPG's for the X-Box 360. Keep in mind that this is also a new company 
 that made this game. In Two Worlds you play as a mercenary (come on everyone loves a mercenary) . 
 Yeah you have your typical RPG style game where you start out killing wolves and Groms (goblin 
 like creatures) to get your first few levels and basic gear. This is the first hour or so where 
 you try and buff up your character until you feel confident enough with the controls. Now most 
 people have mentioned the hot key system and how it's kinda clunky. That much is true but it comes 
 to you fast so don't be afraid to play around with it.
  
  Nextly people have mentioned that the fighting is kinda repetitive but that's where the skills 
 come into play. With a sword and shield you get a skill called Feint if you learn it off the many 
 trainers in the game. Consider that another move. There's special moves like that for maces, Great 
 Axes/Swords/Clubs as well as a special move for spears. So if you want to pull off something flashy 
 start swinging and use one of those skills in mid combo. Bam you've discovered diversity in moves.
 
  
  Now I've heard little to nothing about the magic concept and i've tried it out myself. I've yet 
 to find a useless spell for the fact that there's so many and they do nice damage even if they're 
 not stacked.
  
  The story line is actually pretty solid and quite enjoyable. You end up exploring most of the map 
 in Two Worlds by doing the main quest. So you find the steady progression of the difficulty in 
 monsters as you push forward which is always a plus. And if at any chance you get stuck, just head 
 back to a town and finish off more quests. The main story's not going to run off without you which 
 once again leaves you at your own pace.
  
  Personally I think the graphics on this game isn't half bad. I mean yeah it's no Gears of War or 
 Morrowind: Oblivion but they're fairly decent.
  
  All in all for the companies first shot I think they hit the nail on the head. Yeah it'll take 
 ya about an hour or so to get used to the game but in that time you'll learn to love it. Every 
 hero needs their stories end no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herbalistic
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The storyline and quests for this game are more than adequate I would say. The voice acting needs 
 a lot of work. I love the leveling system though and the equipment is widely varied and quite customizable 
 to your needs. The game could use slightly more variety when it comes to baddies you face. Bug 
 wise it scores very low for me. There seem to be a number of bugs lingering out there. Everything 
 from a crash bug ,which with no auto-save can mean a lot of lost progress, to a random load for 
 no apparent reason. My number one headache with this game though is the camera control which all 
 the time seems to track on me when I don't want it to. I think the graphics are great. I especially 
 am impressed with how detailed everything is when you look out over the world. The gamespot review 
 commented that the default difficulty is to hard. Unless played an archer is much easier to do 
 I had no problem at any point in the game until later on when you hit the really nasty orcs. The 
 online play is a farce due to excessive lag. I must say it is a wonderful concept to have online 
 co-op as well as pvp game types. My brief experiences with the various game types always seem to 
 end in a laggy mess that turns something great into a waste of time. My finals thoughts on this 
 game are while it may not be as polished as oblivion I quite enjoy the differences in it. If the 
 lag is ever fixed the online play could be very enjoyable. I hope that if there is every a sequel 
 that they take the extra time necessary to perfect the game. If that is accomplished I see no reason 
 why this couldn't rival oblivion in the RPG universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solide
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Its very easy for a person to look at Two Worlds and see its beauty, however Two Worlds succeeds 
 in some places while it fails in others.
  
  The opening scene of Two Worlds puts you in the shoes of the main character with a sister on the 
 run, the sister seems ill and incapable of moving, put short she gets abducted and now you seek 
 a way to save her and bring her safely home.
  The opening cinematic is epic and already tells a lot of the story, so no investigation is necessary 
 the task at hand is simple, find your sister and kill whoever dared taking her.
  
  The game begins its epic adventure in a cave meant as the well known tutorial stage, showing you 
 the basics of what needs to be done, one of the things to put Two Worlds differently is its very 
 easy combat system, with the press of a button (or click on the PC) your character will unleash 
 a series of fiery attacks, upon its opponent, this system is easy and accessible, and does not 
 feel the way like the stiffness of the combat in the likes of Oblivion, where you find yourself 
 doing the majority of attacks over and over again.
  
  However the simplicity of the combat system can also be the down fall of Two Worlds for hardcore 
 RPG fans, since the combat is easy there is essentially almost no dept in combat, granted some 
 moves look fluid and sometimes astonishing, it doesnt remove the fact theres no depth and that 
 it would be better if the attacks were tied to a combination of direction + Attack, it would make 
 the combat that much more interesting, as it stand Two Worlds sometimes feels more like a generic 
 hack n slash game than a deep RPG experience.
  
  However where it lacks in combat it makes up for in character development, in the beginning of 
 the game you have the ability to create your own soon-to-be hero, from hairstyles to color, from 
 location of the eyes and thickness of lips.
  Its all-unnecessary but an interesting feat non the less.
  As in most RPGs killing enemies 
 and accomplishing quest nets you experience points, which can be spend on skills and attributes, 
 the basic attributes are present, such as strength and dexterity.
  
  But the depth of Two Worlds lies not in its attributes but in its feats and skills.
  At any 
 time while leveling up the player gets a certain amount of skill point to spend over skills, some 
 skills allow a player to ride a horse, and higher skills make them reel more damage to foot soldier 
 while riding horseback, and other skills allow a player to excel in the many different types of 
 weapons the game offers.
  For example any one player ken with bows can excel in archery allowing the character to hit critical 
 points on an enemy that deal massive damage, a higher level in this skill means a higher probability 
 of actually hitting a critical hit.
  So players have the ability to either grow with a certain type of weapon, or can be great at nothing 
 but good at everything.
  
  Apart from the basic steel and wooden weapons the game offers the game also allows you to wield 
 various types of magic, from fiery fire magic, to magic that allows oneself to heal.
  
  While character development is deep and engaging, Two Worlds does have its noticeable problems.
 
  One of these problems is frame rate, even in the beginning of the game the game suffers from an 
 occasional low frame rate, this doesnt necessarily destroy your game experience it does become 
 irritating that the game goes from a normal fluid frame rate to a lower frame rate and sometimes 
 for no apparent reason.
  The 360 version of the game also has an occasional loading disc appearing which will pause the 
 game a minor few seconds, but can sometimes be very annoying especially when fighting a group of 
 thugs.
  While it can be overlooked it certainly couldve been easily avoided.
  Especially since its PC counterpart can handle the game fairly well even on systems that are not 
 up-to-date anymore however that games show less problems than the 360 version playing the game 
 on older hardware could get you in some tricky and annoying frame rate hills when fighting large 
 groups of enemies.
  All in all these are minor problems, but can still damage your overall experience in the game, 
 especially since its not a issue that is sparse it happens, and it happens more than you really 
 like.
  One other minor issue which is more noticeable on the PC version than the console counterpart is 
 occasional pop-ups, sometimes though even the level is not entirely stretched out before you and 
 trees and even the road ahead of you seems to magically appear in front of you, occasionally reminding 
 you of the old times where this always happened with racing games on pre-last gen consoles.
  The 360 version seems to be more stable with this issue sometimes it may appear but certainly not 
 as much as the PC version, granted the PC has no loading times making the overall experience that 
 much more fluid.
  However when the games does work fluidly, its a vista to behold, the game world is excellently 
 visualized, trees pollute the world just enough to not make it empty, and shadows make the atmosphere 
 in the game that much better.
  Character models however often leave something to be desired, occasional weak textures and square 
 like heads seem out of place, but when your enough into the game its an aspect that can easily 
 be looked over.
  
  The sound in the game is nothing to worry about, theres noting noticeably excellent the sound 
 effects in the game are good enough to not bother you.
  However voice acting some times is a issue.
  The voice acting in the game sometimes feels clunky 
 and not always feels proper your character sometimes seems to be angry at a character and gradually 
 will start to be neutral, now this can be blamed on the script but some good voice acting could 
 camouflage this mistake.
  
  Overall Two Worlds succeeds in many places, but can fails at some critical areas as well, while 
 perfectly playable and sometimes enjoyable this is a perfect text-book example explaining that 
 a longer development time, and maybe a slightly larger budget could make this game that much better 
 and enjoyable even those loyal to Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dougie_Doright
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. It has a fun atmosphere and addicting game play. It feels more like Balders 
 Gate Dark Alliance than it does Oblivion but that is not exactly a bad thing here. Hunting for 
 better gear, doing quests, sight seeing or just battling monsters. It's a great time. The game 
 does stutter a bit when loading up an area or at the start of a big battle but nothing that is 
 really bothersome. Most of the NPC's are pretty generic but nothing worse than what we've seen 
 in Fable or Balders Gate.
  
  The story seems pretty neat and while the voice acting is a bit on the hokey side I think it fits 
 perfectly with the atmosphere of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBaldwin
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  It is pretty hard to describe my thoughts and feelings about SouthPeak and reality pumps game Two 
 Worlds. At the core of my being I'm a very big fan of anything that has to do with RPGs. I love 
 the idea of going on adventures and seeing new places and doing battle to save innocents or performing 
 a mass slaughter on a village. Just the ablity alone to make the decisions over a being to do good 
 or evil deeds is just endless hours of amusement to me. So giving Two Worlds a serious review is 
 pretty tough in my mind.
  
  Two Worlds achieves many things where many developers seem to forget to consider when it comes 
 down to what the gamer could actually want. Like a double edged sword the game also has many defects 
 as well. To begin with Two Worlds is a massively large free roam environment built on the belief 
 that the player has the soul control of what his hero could do in the game. Like many rpg games 
 of this day and age there is a center quest if followed helps the player level up his or her hero 
 easier and quickly. But sadly through the center quest which is suppose to be the icing so to speak 
 of the game isn't soo sweet but long and ardurious. After traveling for an hour by foot or horse 
 back u tend to get the feel that all that is bigger sometimes isn't better. Even through SouthPeak 
 did their best to limit the load times on my 360 verision I still seemed to have to wait many seconds 
 for the 360 to load a new area. On top of the slow traveling speeds the monster encounters seem 
 very far apart and at times too overwhelming for one player to handle themselves. Of course traps 
 can be laid or summon creatures can be used for aid but the summon creatures AI tended to be of 
 no help and if you weren't anything but a warrior carrying the traps could greatly reduce your 
 heros inventory size greatly. Sadly to go with all the other hickups with the game graphically 
 and musically Two Worlds seems unpolished compared to other games already out but still looks and 
 sounds slightly next generation. The things I think that impressed me the most had to be the weapons 
 and armor that you the hero were able to obtain or create. Being able to choose from a large array 
 of armor and weapons and then equiping them and seeing your characters appearence change with the 
 new gear always made me hungry to buy the next top priced weapon or armor....
  
  To conclude Two Worlds if gaven the chance can be a decent rpg but it doesn't fall anywhere near 
 some of the upcoming rpgs and current rpgs already out. My advise wait to buy until price drops 
 or just rent it before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klitsapp123
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Being a avid fan of rpgs and mmos, playing 200 + hours of morrowind , oblivion, world of warcraft, 
 baldurs gate and loads of others. I believe Two worlds is a mixture of Baldurs gate, Fable, and 
 morrowind/oblivion. I am not however saying it is the best out of all of those combining all of 
 the traits, I am just saying that it carries some good and bad traits from all of those games and 
 the game world in geneeral is a mixture of oblivion and baldurs gate but I wont go into that. It 
 has a slow low interest begginging, but it leads to a well though out turn of events and a wide 
 open interesting world, with very diverse envirorments. A avid rpg fan should pick this game up 
 for a great experience and a true hit for either pc and/or 360. A casual fan might want to try 
 out those others i mentioned above to see if they would like to experience with a broader more 
 technical version of those. All in all a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killyou44
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  It's a sad day when Gamespot can somehow give a broken game like Two Worlds a 7. You guys say the 
 Hour of Victory was pretty broken but even that was more playable then this turd. Two Words is 
 the worst game released so far this year. That pretty much sums it up. The game never for an instance 
 give you that it might be good. From the opening cutscene which introduces you to the worst voice 
 acting to grace a game in years. When you actually start playing things only get worse. The world 
 is vast but the environments don't look too bad but still nothing worth talking about. The character 
 models on the other hand are hilariously awful and look as if they were ripped straight out of 
 an old xbox game. That combined with the unbelievably awful voice acting makes for some hilarity. 
 Things really get sad when you start fighting. The slowdown that occurs when you enter combat is 
 simply out of this world. The framerate becomes non existent and you jam the attack button repeatedly 
 until the enemy dies. This occurs every time you fight no matter how many enemies there are on 
 screen. Even if the game didn't become an ugly slideshow when you attempted to fight things the 
 combat is painfully shallow and stupid. You just hack away and if you want you can use a magic 
 attack. You can upgrade your character and get new weapons and such but that would require you 
 to play the game and well I don't know about you but I prefer a game that functions properly. Oh 
 and I forget to mention the story for good reason though. It's just the usual cliqued crap involving 
 orcs warring with humans and some **** I was too busy laughing when the characters talking to remember 
 anything substantial. I didn't try the online co-op for obvious reasons. If the damn game is that 
 unplayable in bloody single player I don't even want to imagine how horrid it could be online. 
 So in summary stay far away from this miserable game. Calling it a rip off of Oblivion is giving 
 it too much credit. The developers should be ashamed of themselves for putting such a revolting 
 game on the shelf. And double shame on Gamespot for giving it the game 7 points too many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XandX2005
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Lots of stuff to do. Not much else to it. I hope the special olympics computer team can do better 
 next time. The game is huge, but the graphics are not what i expected. It looks like a game from 
 the late 90's, seriously. Id rather play demos, actually that is what I did after i played it for 
 20 mins.
  
  I did pick it up again and its starting to get interesting. Its hard to understand what you need 
 to do. The hotkeys are a pain to figure out. The manual isnt very helpful either. But Ill keep 
 playing, but not for long.
  
  Everything was extensive, but the voice overs are almost all monotone.
  
  The fighting needs 
 alot of work. The fighting in diablo was better. lol. Really.
  
  im tryin to figure out how come my club wont damage anyone when its supposed to do more than my 
 sword.... hmmmm.
  
  Id rent before you buy. Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouL-Tak3R
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is really awesome.
  It may be a love or hate game, but if you enjoyed Oblivion, you will enjoy this maybe even more.
 
  The first 20 minutes is what throws people off to say its bad, but once you get used to how to 
 play and learn the first few skills and things it becomes very addictive and fun.
  The map is not the best to understand, but once you do its great.
  It is not too easy, and not 
 too hard, the difficulty is just perfect and you arent perfectly leveled with every enemy like 
 in Oblivion.
  There are plenty of different types of enemies and plenty of quests to fulfill.
  There are loads 
 of different types of items and managing them and customizing your character is fun, this game 
 is awesome and the only thing I am a little disappointed in is the Current Gens graphics.
  But the amazing gameplay and few second very rare load screens make up for it.
  Online is great 
 fun with friends, and will be even better once there is a patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finalrobo101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in all are quite good. The environment is better then Oblivion in my own personal 
 opinion. The spell and skill system is very unique in the fact that you can use cards to upgrade 
 them. These 'cards' do a variety of effects such as Increase Damage, Increase Speed and Decreased 
 Mana Cost. These can come in quite handy throughout the game. The second things that everyone always 
 complains about is the graphics and the frame rate. They are not bad! Yes they are a little bit 
 glitchy but I have heard plans for them to fix it with an upcoming patch. I say give it a try and 
 see what you think about it.
  
  Another thing that I have people complain about is the voice overs. Yes they do talk in Old English 
 most games do. If you have a problem with that then read an old book sometime because they talk 
 exactly the same.
  
  Overall the game is very good. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeOweU1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: great graphics, open-end play, weapon customization, thousands of items, hours of side-quests, 
 virtually no load times
  
  The Bad: frame rate issues, lack of character design, multiplayer needs help, mini-map needs help, 
 horse riding controls suck.
  
  I have never played Oblivion for the 360, so I really cant compare it to it, in fact after reading 
 the reviews online  I almost didnt buy the game. Once I popped in the disc, I saw what some people 
 were talking about, but after the first hour of gaming, its one of the best RPGs Ive ever played 
 since Diablo2 for the PC. This game has made a lot of innovations to RPG gaming such as adding 
 mounts (horses, lizards, skeleton horses, etc) , open-end playing, no load times, stackable weapons, 
 alchemy pots, and no character class system. The visuals are stunning  trees sway back and forth, 
 fires in campsites and building looks real, distant cities look beautiful looking over a cliff, 
 and the city nightlife is illuminated with torches and the moonlight. The nice aspect of this game 
 is the no character class system  where you can decide to be anything you want to be and much 
 more. If you want to be a warrior with some magic skills, or a mage with some added hand-to-hand 
 combat, you can do that. The nice thing about this system is that during your questing you can 
 unlearn skills and move those spent skill points to another skill. There are also skill trainers 
 which, for a small price, can teach you specific skills. The magic of Two Worlds is the same as 
 any other RPG drawing from the schools of Earth, Wind, Water, Fire, and Necromancy. There are fireballs, 
 ice bolts, healing spells, lightning bolts, stone golems, and the ability to summon the undead 
  but what is nice is the addition of card boosters which help your spells by lowering the mana 
 it requires to cast it, or by adding 3 extra levels to a spell, or making the duration last longer. 
 Combat is pretty basic. You can have one-handed or two-handed weapons, or dual-wield (skill required 
 to do this) and you attack by using the Right Trigger. Now for some of the bad in Two Worlds: Yes, 
 the voice acting sucks and the main character has the habit of saying what do we have here? for 
 every body he sacks. Yes, when there is some load times (teleporting, entering a new city) , the 
 frame rate does suffer. Yes the multiplayer sucks and needs improvement (the developers said they 
 will release a patch) , and Yes, the horse riding controls suck. The quest log looks like it was 
 meant for a PC, and the writing is kind of hard to see. The quests arent specific  they tell 
 you where to go and who to see. As for how to get there and where to find them once you get there 
 is totally up to you. There is no alchemy tables or tooltip, so if you want to create your own 
 potions  SAVE FREQUENTLY. The hot key development is rather frustrating because the game uses 
 8 positions on the d-pad (the diagonal parts for those who cant figure this out) so make sure you 
 put your most important spells on the top, left, right, and down settings. This makes it a lot 
 easier to get your heal spell quickly instead of getting some other spell you hot keyed. In all, 
 this game has a lot of potential and innovations to the RPG style of play. Im sure once the patch 
 is released, most of these issures will be resolved  including multiplayer. Yes, there are some 
 issues with this game, but after the first couple of hours of playing, you will really appreciate 
 the gameplay and all Two Worlds has to offer. Rent it first  if you like it then buy it. If you 
 cant let go of Oblivion, then dont play it  its nothing like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare16
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to my collection will keep this game for a long time between this 
 and oblivion my time will all be used up .Love the weapon combining feature and the meny different 
 types of equipment you can have plus i like the different type of people in the game great fun 
 and great use of time . If your looking for alot of fun with great excitement . Go get this game 
 its worth it. I'm giving this game a 9 out of 10 great game but not oblivion close . Can't wait 
 to see there next install ment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krivera77381
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, especially after reading about the online multiplayer 
 and the fact that the world was bigger than oblivion's. I patiently waited despite the many delays 
 figuring that they were using the time to polish the game... wrong! I am so glad that I rented 
 it before purchasing it as that would have been a waste of $60. I could barely stand to play it 
 for more than 15 minutes but forced myself to so that I could give it a chance to grow on me, I 
 just couldn't stand it anymore and returned it the day I checked it out. What's wrong with it you 
 ask? Let's see, constant loading, horrible voice acting, choppy combat animations, broken and laggy 
 multiplayer, should I go on? The only reason I can think of for anyone to defend this game is if 
 they purchased and are trying to convince themselves that it's good and want to defend their purchase. 
 Do yourself a favor and avoid this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abulon99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Peoples should learn how to rate a game! To give 1 or a 10 to this game is absurd. There is always 
 something good in a game, even if you dont like it! Anyways, I was waiting for this game a long 
 time ago. But after the delaying and the bad review I was afraid to grab the game. But I did anyways 
 and Im glad that I didnt listen the critics. First, you should know that it is a long game! Very 
 Long! Its all about substance and not the flashing! So if you are a fan of FPS like Bioshock with 
 15 hours of gameplay, stay away from this title. This game is not for you. Im a fan of those long 
 games with a lot of things to do and a lot of places to visit. The story is good and the side quests 
 pretty fun.
  
  The music is awesome. The graphics are good for me, not perfect, but enough to be lost in this 
 beautiful world. The world is well design and bigger than Oblivion. I was a fan of Oblivion but 
 for others reasons. Two Worlds is more like a fantasy setting, while Oblivion more medievalish. 
 I think that the game should have been more polish, especially at the beginning. I think that most 
 of the bad reviews comes from people who didnt really play a long time. The first animation is 
 really bad, there are glitches and the world seems always be loading. The controls are not intuitive 
 and the map is really bad. But like any other games, after a couple of hours, and couple of missions 
 under the belt, the game is growing on you. You cant stop to play. So please, be realist when 
 you rate this game. Its not a perfect game but it is really fun if you give it time. (If you like 
 RPG) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGamerVII
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I have never gone through such a hassle with a game in my life. I work in a retail store and I 
 even tell my customers to completely avoid this game.
  
  THE BAD
  - The graphics are DECENT at most.
  - Saying the dialog is terrible is speaking too highly
 
  - Lag is terrible
  - I could not play the game more than 10 minutes without it locking up my system.
  
  THE GOOD
 
  - Good gameplay elements.
  - Cool concept.
  - Great level-up system.
  
  To sum it up, this is a cool concept of a game with great features. Only your system won't make 
 it (or your temper for the matter) 5 minutes without it locking up your system.
  
  I was really let down that it ran so poorly. My system is in top running condition, and it can 
 make it through a 12 hour session of oblivion. Microsoft figured it was the game, and that it was 
 poorly made.
  
  And the big question: What does this game play like?
  Plays like Champions of Norath, only it runs like Half-Life 2 on Windows 95. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife2381
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, THIS GAME IS NOT OBLIVION. It's more like the bastard son of Oblivion, if that helps 
 at all. The graphics aren't as bad as many have claimed, it's not as choppy as others have claimed, 
 and it's actually quite fun. It's alot easier than Oblivion, in the sense that monsters don't level 
 up as you do. In oblivion, i was lucky to kill two enemies at once, but on Two worlds i could easily 
 run through and decimate multiple enemies thank to the combo system. To set the record straight 
 once and for all, this game is good, and fun. Dont compare it to Oblivion so much and you'll love 
 it. If i had listened to all the idiots that gave it a bad score because they suck at video games, 
 i would have missed out on this great title. Go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknightelf2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds, an RPG by southpeak, ok we are far from bioware, those guys who give us two worlds 
 dont have big exp. in rpg, in fact its there first one. So i think its quite impressive to see what 
 they made so far.
  
  Ok there's some flaws of collision, the Npc look like football guys, the frame rate is really bad, 
 in fact its really sad to see this , but after an hour its much better, you can check on the forum 
 of two worlds for some command that make you able to turn off the grass and give the frame rate 
 a chance. After pressing start on your controler for a new game , you have to choos some little 
 thing, an important one is the possibility to select the difficulty of the game, dont go too hard 
 on your self because selecting normal or hard will make you run when your gonna see a single wolf 
 and this game isnt like oblivion , creature dont level up with you thanks god!!!! The easy way 
 is already challenging, so its up to you , but this game offert some real challenge to us. Yon 
 can customize your caracter, well... you can choose the color of the hair the eyes etc... nothing 
 much to do there.
  
  So there we go, ok the first hours are the ones that make most people haters of the game, the game 
 doesnt offer you a tutorial, you got to read the manuel book to know how to select your weapon 
 and make it appear on the D-pad so its much faster to take and switch between each weapon and spell. 
 In fact, theres a lot of things that your gonna miss if u dont read the book.
  
  I wont tell anything about the story first cuz i havent spend a lot of time on the main quest and 
 i dont want to spoil anything. but i must say its quite interesting. So starting , the first thing 
 we normally do is to see how the stats, and stuff work in the inventory. You gain level after killing 
 some creature , and each level you got 5 point to spare in str, will power, dexterity, and life, 
 after that you got 1 or 2 skill to spend in some skills, some are passive some active theres some 
 for the marksman, warrior, mage ... everything seem to look pretty simple to use except for the 
 maps and quest , and that is really sad that they havent improve this for the 360, cuz u got to 
 search in all the quest at your right side of the creen and when your looking its opening all the 
 other quest when your on the map and looking around for cities and location, so you see that thay 
 made this game for the pc first.
  
  Ok so for the gameplay, its quite easy its a mix between baldur gate dark alliance and diablo in 
 a world that look like big as oblivion , in fact its 25% bigger then oblivion. each weapon got 
 is own movement to swing but to make them its the same way, button smashing. the magic is casted 
 the same way , each magic is obtained by a card that you collect anywhere, on body, in house ..... 
 each spell got a differen animation, so no more bireball that look like birebolt (oblivion) or 
 spear of fire that lokk like ehh..... a firebolt again!! , after that lemme tell you that the spell 
 effect make you feel a lot stronger then in oblivion. The graphics are like the game love them 
 or hate them, some texture are really nice and some look so bad, but hey each thing that you equip 
 on you is visible , each details. Each armor is different and look the same as what you got in 
 your inventory , each sword is different and theres a lot of them ,just check what is the number 
 of the set item , some like sword is set 325 or 120 so that let you an idea on how many different 
 sword or armor there is . but walking in your new '' world'' will make you see why the frame rate 
 is quite bad some times , there so much texture on the screen , people telling that its look lot 
 worst than oblivion dont get it , its just 2 different style of art.
  
  So far im really glad to give a chance to southpeek first try, theres a lot of flaws but theres 
 already a patch on the way, and this game could become a real good challenger , because it got 
 a lot of things that some big name should have... like the FUN factor. And sorry about my english 
 im a french guy lolol so rent it to see and get pass de first 5 hour and you should see if you 
 still hate it or wont let it go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstclair1
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Sloppy controls, animations, and the menu system is terrible (very small text) . Multiplayer runs 
 about 5 frames a second often which makes it nearly unplayable. I was really looking forward to 
 the multiplayer section but it is a little bit false as your single player character can not be 
 used for muliplayer. The graphics look good outdoors (ala Oblivion) but animations on the enemies 
 and your character are incomplete.
  
  The game does get better in the single player mode if you last long enough to play it as the starting 
 difficulty is pretty steep.
  
  I only recommend this game to people who love RPGs and anyone else who feels like slapping $60 
 on an unfinished low budget game. If you must get it, wait for it to hit the bargain bin (which 
 shouldn't take long) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't so bad, well at first it was but ones u get further and further into the game 
 it isn't so bad the game play for some ppl may get old but i really didnt find at all boring u 
 also get to make items like potions and make ur weapons stronger and get customize ur character 
 and all dat stuff the story like all ppl say isnt really good and thats the 1 thing i agree with 
 them but u dont only do the story u also little quest kindve like oblivion. i will admit though 
 i thought this game would be better but w. e i still like it and its pretty fun for me oh and yea 
 and the graphics arent really good as well but i really dont i just look at the game play but this 
 is how i think since i am not much of game fan so that may disappoint u also if ur a huge gamer 
 the worst and i think they should have never added to this game was the online it sucks!!!!! it 
 is super laggy u cant move to pace without have to teleport like crazy and it just really sucks 
 the achievements are pretty easy well some of them are and over all this game isnt so bad but i 
 recommend to rent it first than see if u like well peaz and thank you for reading my review =) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuyOfCthulhu
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe it got such a high official review. I am a lover of RPGs and this is just terrible.
 
  
  Now for my hundred words........... l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoupLad
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this game hoping it would be another fantastic RPG like oblivion. The story was absurd, 
 uninteresting and poorly told, the graphics looked like those of a launch title and the game play 
 was stale and incredibly difficult. I could barely play 10 minutes. The script was also terrible. 
 Atmosphere consisted of the word Ye being used out of context every second line. Initial character 
 customization did not change the characters appearance. Overall a disappointing game, that hardly 
 seems finished, only for a die hard lover of all RPGs, anyone less should stick to oblivion or 
 wait for Fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberWarrior8
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I was greatly disappointed by Two Worlds , the whole game was an over hyped game, which did not 
 even come close to its expectations. The single-player is not even worth trying, or playing at 
 all, but the multiplayer might become better if they work on it alot more, and release lots of 
 good patches. Also the graphics where terrible for the 360, and i was blown away by how rough they 
 where. Overall has some good ideas but badly played out and used in the game. I hope this game 
 will someday be actually a game worth mentioning but so far im not seeing it in the near future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastmasterchief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  two worlds is a great game. sure the intro blew ass and didn't really give true depth to the game 
 but who cares! i can remember dozens of great timeless games that had the crappiest and corniest 
 storyline. ahem.... S. o. t. N. for instance. the voice acting in two worlds is actually very well 
 developed despite the obvious recurring voice overs. oblivion did the same thing if i can recall 
 and that didn't stop the casual gamer from purchasing it. really, the only thing i can really think 
 of, the reason why so many people find this game repulsive to their wallets is because two worlds 
 is meant for hardcore gamers. remember morrowind?!!! i bet most oblivion fans hardly know what 
 that game is and if they do they wouldn't play it because it is a hardcore players kinda game! 
 don't get me wrong though. i'm not saying just because you are a casual gamer that makes you wrong 
 to not accept two worlds. its just you really trivialize two worlds by comparing it to oblivion, 
 which in my opinion, even though both games are technically in the same genre, two worlds is in 
 a class with other hardcore games, unlike oblivion..... damnit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insight2k1
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  After waiting for the game to come out, i eagerly put the disc into my 360... only to be horribly 
 disapointed. Let's start with the bad. Because there are no load times, the game will randomly 
 freeze to load the area, not very well mind you because stuff still magically spawns out of the 
 ground in the distance. Next is the voice acting, there is alot, every character is voiced but 
 the acting is horrible, especially for the main character. Seriously, the acting was so bad it 
 made me want to kick a dog or something of the sort. The animations at times seemed rather choppy. 
 On the back of the box i read innovative combat control .... yeah real innovative, you pull the 
 right trigger until every thing dies. That's in no way similar to the Elder scrolls 4 : Oblivion, 
 witch is much better by the way. The map is hard to read and selecting a quest in your quest log 
 is almost impossible. Riding a horse... oh god.... let's just say i wound up running in a circle 
 for 2 minutes before i could even get of the stupid thing. The magic system is not worth talking 
 about, it's that unimpressive.
  
  Now for the good. The game world is huge and the detail on the armor is nice. That's all i can 
 really say...
  
  So in the end, if you have to play this game, play it on the pc, it's probably better. If you really 
 want a real time rpg for the 360, get oblivion, but if for some reason you have a grudge against 
 it then this game might be good enough for you, just don't get your hopes up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinthorell
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I only heard about this game a month or two ago, and it looked quite promising. The large areas 
 to explore, the creative enemies, the kick ass armor and weapons. It all looked great, and I couldn't 
 wait. In the first 10 minutes of playing the game, i realized i was going to be in for a LONG day. 
 The animations were dull, the environments were fairly blank except for a few bushes and trees, 
 and i don't remember hearing a whole lot of animals around At first i started at Medium, and it 
 was surprisingly hard. There was no block action, just a jump back one, which doesn't really help 
 much when you're surrounded. And the shield doesn't block either. I died a few times and then decided 
 to run passed them, and picked up a nice staff along the way (24-34 damage) and i saw a grizzly 
 bear and decided to attack it. Huge mistake.
  
  The grizzly bear had what seemed to be unlimited health. I kept attacking it and after 5 minutes 
 it finally had about 4/5 of its health left, so i decided to leave. A grizzly bear with more health 
 than 5 of the regular enemies combined? That's a bit odd.
  
  The combat system, as i already pointed out, doesn't have a block action. The spells aren't knew, 
 they're the boring old fire, water, earth, wind spells, and the weapons aren't that great looking 
 either.
  
  Now, i was playing this on a 60 HD Projection TV, and in the character creation screen, i couldn't 
 see ANYTHING. Why would they not add a zoom function? How are you supposed to see what colour the 
 eyes are when you can't even see how his hair looks?
  
  Since the single player was so dull, i thought i'd try multiplayer to see if it was any better. 
 It asked for me to create a new character, and since i only spent less than 2 hours in singleplayer, 
 my character wasn't that great anyways. But it was online, so you MUST get something to start with 
 that's actually good, right? Wrong. You have to start ALL over again. Same nooby character, with 
 low level weapons and armor 
  
  After playing games like The Elder Scrolls for years, i'm just not satisfied with this game. If 
 you're looking for something entertaining and something that'll keep you playing for a while, i 
 suggest you wait for Tabula Rasa or Hellgate: London before even THINKING about playing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliviongeek9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  While I was playing this game, I encountered a situation where i had to battle a scorpion, but 
 the problem was, every time i tried to lay down attacks with my sword on this scorpion, my attacks 
 had no effect. I checked in the manual and game guide and it said nothing of any special weapons 
 or power ups i had to use to defeat this scorpion, so i just sold the game. 2 Worlds is a completely 
 terrible game and i found that there were a lot of glitches and flaws that did not make it fun 
 for me to play. 2 worlds, one full of potential, and one that completely sucks. I pre ordered this 
 game hoping that it would be good, and I was very dissappointed when i got it. The Elder Scrolls 
 : Oblivion is a better game with better and smoother game play. Maybe in 2 worlds the second it 
 will fix some of the problems and live up to the potential of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbit93
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  oh my goodness where do i start.... I downloaded the PC demo for this game a week ago and was very 
 impressed... no frame rate issues... everything was smooth and the game was fairly fun
  
  Then i rent the actual game for the 360... then i realize i shouldnt have played the PC demo to 
 get my hopes up... it feels like im playing two different games
  
  The framerate dips to single digits most of the time and all the animations are laggy... and the 
 online is so horrible i nearly bled my eyes seeing how laggy and choppy everything was
  
  the game IS MASSIVE i will give it that... but the controls for the horse are very very annoying 
 and walking around takes hours and hours. the journal and quest system is also broken... im sure 
 the PC version is MUCH MUCH MUCH better... but i disregarded getting it after the 360 version left 
 a bad taste in my mouth...
  
  overall - NO RENT NO BUY UNLESS YOU WANT TO DIE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  When you load up this game you'll be confronted with a horrible framerate, terrible dialog, and 
 confusing menus. When I first started I was about to give up and not give the game another thought. 
 Well I didn't and now I can say I've enjoyed a full experience of the game and have come to appreciate 
 it.
  
  Good:
  The story in the game is pretty good, although you're limited to a human male character. There 
 are several missions. The leveling system is fun and you feel like you're always progressing. Bad:
 
  
  The graphics are poor, any review that says they are good is lying. Many effects, like the ones 
 for blood don't make sense. The framerate, like I said before, prevents you from enjoying the visuals 
 that are good. There are numerous technical glitches (if you walk through a tunnel while its raining 
 somehow it is still raining on you) . The voice acting is horrible and you will quite often just 
 skip through it to avoid listening to it.
  
  There are a couple of things this game tries that are unique, but most of them don't work. The 
 mounted combat is a good idea but poorly implemented due to horrible controls on your horse. Most 
 of the time you will find yourself stopping and getting of your horse to fight. The online multiplayer 
 was a big seller to me, but after playing it I'm disappointed. Online co-op is only fun if you 
 also have friends who play this game. The Player Vs Player has potential, but I doubt anyone will 
 really get into it.
  
  This game promises a lot a delivers an overall good game, unfortunately it is only good. The biggest 
 pluses are the fun story and character development. The worst parts are the graphics and the confusing 
 menus. If you can deal with the bad its worth it. If not then don't bother. Rent then buy, or buy 
 used if you think you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_H_3000
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  From the moment that you start this crap u can see that this gmae doesnt have what it takes. If 
 I was u I would just wait till Fable 2 comes out. People really need to stop supporting crap. The 
 intro alone made me want to stop playing this witht he terriblw looking glossy eyed characters 
 to the delayed stuter step jump.... it all garbage. This game is just as bad as overlord if not 
 worse... The 360 doesnt have any good games to fall on besides Bio Shock, GeOW and Halo 3 and even 
 that can be argued.... The bottom line is that this game is crap so dont waste your time and money 
 becaue u cant get any of them back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 90p0k35
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Yeah the story is about all that i liked on it, dialog not so much.... There is too much Forsooth 
 for thou art hindering thyself in unusual speaking ways yehh.. So first tip, turn off sound, read 
 sub titles much clearer. Perhaps i didn't play this game long, but i was easily turned off from 
 it. First off the auto targeting sucks, enough said. And they put too many hard monsters in the 
 beginning area, which is not right for someone new to any game, it frustrates you and causes you 
 to throw the controller threw the tv. If you can manage to stomach the graphic and control flaws 
 and actually get down to the game, then good for you, i on the other hand, would rather go play 
 some halo. In fact that was the only way i could get the horrible feel of this game out of my head. 
 That and a liter of crown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recurvebow_ak47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Heres the deal. People where expecting another oblivion out of this, but instead they got a somewhat 
 different rpg, so there like noobish quote OMGZ HORRIBLZZ . At first I didn't really care about 
 Two Worlds either, but I gave it a few hours, and then it started peeking my interest. As for how 
 you control your character, and play him through the game world, it does not go along as well as 
 it does in Oblivion, or for that matter the same way, but it still works okay. You can go third, 
 or first person with no weapons drawn, but you cant go first person with weapons drawn, which I 
 admit does suck. As for the games dialoge, its very well done. The letters on the screen are rather 
 small though, but I still can read them out fine. Character generation is not much though, all 
 you can do is change the body, face, hair color, and skin color selections. Either way your a human 
 male, with no certian class, but with the title of mercenary/bounty hunter. How you increase your 
 skills, and stats determine how well you make a spellcaster type, fighter type, or thief type. 
 This game has good length to it as well. Side quests at every turn, and plenty of terrain to go 
 over on foot, as well as on horseback. All in all I modestly give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noclover
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The glitches in this game are bad!!! I was lucky, I bought mine for $30 on amazon. com After all 
 the horrible reviews came in. I would probably be seriously pissed off if i spent $60 for it like 
 alot of people!!! The frame rate alone totally runes this game!! Game crashes.. the list goes on... 
 Are these guys even going to attempt to fix these major bugs and glitches?? Who ever is responsible 
 for bug testing and quality assurance of this game should be fired!! I hope these guys fix these 
 MAJOR problems for the xbox360 AND p. c. or I don't think anyone will buy there games again, and 
 they will loose alot of money and future customers!!! Southpeak alone has a bad rep anyways for 
 poor customer service and poor quality games. There commercials say the best RPG ever,... my ass!!!!! 
 If they fix all these glitches i'd give the game a 8.8 instead of a 5 out of 10!
  I was really looking forward to this game too!!! A real downer.... I wanted to like this game, 
 If they would fix the bugs and technical glitches it would be a good game. hello anybody their??? 
 MS, Reality pump??? Where is our 1.6 patch??? We have just been waiting for about 4 month's worth 
 of excuses why it's not here yet for a 2-3mb patch..... Eh... you don't care. Your rep is ruined 
 more then ever anyway, hey good luck selling more games in the future southpeak/reality pump-HAHAHAHA!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourLastDay86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I, like many others, was seriously excited about the release of this game. We loved Oblivion and 
 this in many ways was being hailed the Oblivion Killer . Sadly I and others were very disappointed. 
 However, this game is still pretty good in its own right.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the very cheesy, very over-the-top voice acting and cliche storyline. 
 Makes you almost feel like your stuck in the local Renaissance Fair or something. Actually, it 
 is funny and adds an element to the game. The next thing you know is basically no load times. However, 
 the lack of load times is taken up by the occasional pause and drop in frame rate. It isn't horrible, 
 but it does feel like it takes away something.
  
  As for game play itself, it is strangely addicting... in a good way. When you are playing the game 
 make sure you got the gamer's manual close by b/c you'll be referring to that often due to the 
 lack of any in game tutorial. The ability to stack items is amazing. Combat is fun and different 
 but does take some getting use to. And finally it is just a huge world to explore with tons of 
 variety when it comes to enemies.
  
  Finally, there is online play. Just to let you now this isn't a MMORPG so don't plan on it being 
 such. There is an online co-op questing short of thing and then there is PvP. Both you can create 
 characters for that level up and save the equipment you get for them. The downsides to online play 
 is the choppy and laggy game play. Basically, if you have 2+ in your party be prepared to have 
 some pretty choppy stuff while playing online. But rumor has it a patch is coming out soon to fix 
 it all. So who knows?
  
  With that being said I'd definitely say give it a try. If you try to compare it to Oblivion at 
 every turn you are gonna be surely disappointed. Take it for what it is and you'll have yourself 
 a very decent and very fun Fantasy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmproductions
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is an interesting sort of game. It tries to combine Fable and Oblivion into this big, 
 sort of, behemoth of a game, and in most aspects fails miserably. But it really isn't all bad. 
 In the fairly short while I played the game I pulled these things away from it.
  
  THE GOOD
  -Sense of scale Very large world, and you really feel like you're in it
  -Oddly satisfying, 
 button mashy combat Oddly satisfying in a DOA kind of way
  -Quest variety You're going to be doing a variety of different things
  
  THE BAD
  -Character 
 Animations In a word, awkward 
  -Graphics Seriously could have been on the PS1
  -Learning curve Will take you a long time to figure out how to do simple things
  -Lack of enemy 
 varitey Boar, wolf, bear, bandit, dragon thingy. THAT'S IT.
  -Lack of introduction/tutorial A la, learning curve
  
  In short, don't compare this to Oblivion. 
 They are two totally separate games, each with their own merits if you're willing to dig deep enough 
 to find them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8360
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of flaws and bugs but its ok with me what makes it good is the gameplay and 
 the deep content of this game it has alot of stuffs to do in it and its almost like gothic3 with 
 some diablo i actually like the game after playing it 2hours the start was really boring then later 
 its gets really cool
  
  I advise for the rpg gamers to rent this game first then if they liked it they buy it this game 
 doesn't suit to any1.
  
  Solid game it really could be better than Oblivion only if the makers of this game made it better 
 in graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rontor
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most horrible games ive played. I loaded this game up in GameStop (which 
 is where I work) . My co-workers and myself were almost laughing at the bad voice acting, the frame 
 rate stuttering, graphical glitches, and the horrible graphics. It starts off with two characters 
 speaking in old english and its almost too funny. It seems like this game was translated by some 
 bad foreign translator. This game has an uninspired story and I cannot believe that the GameSpot 
 editors gave this a 7.0 . It deserves to be in the trash bin of every gamer who owns it. Do not 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Dont be discouraged by bad player reviews. The only reason they gave it a bad rating was because 
 they played it less than 1 hour, the first hour you will hate the game. But, you have to pickup 
 the controller and keep playing for an amazing experiance.
  
  Pros: Very big area, good and iteractive story, More weapons and armor then you can play with and 
 they look good too, distant graphics are superb and the water rivals Bioshock's, Quest are varied, 
 one is not like the other, combat is simple yet fun after a while.
  
  Cons: Voice acting will seam very bad at first, but you get used to it and it doesnt bother you 
 later on, Close up textures are a little flat, the first hour is terrible (hence the bad player 
 reviews) .
  
  Dont be discouraged, Two Worlds is a great game. It is alot like Diablo, Gothic 3 and Baulders 
 Gate. I highly reccomend renting this game first, because I beat it within 40 hours. Its a great 
 game, I had lots of fun, dont listen to bad reviews, because they are not true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds had a lot going for it, the online, kick ass armour, etc. But what we got was laggy 
 online, kick ass armour, and some fake blood. Reality Pumps first game, two worlds will most likely 
 become a trilogy and will be up there with oblivion one day. What really made me mad was the framerate 
 and stuff like i would get hit by a monster and id glide back, not stumble, also no FP which makes 
 magic harder and un-fun and with it being hard as it is we don't need that aswell as the minimap 
 which is almost impossible to read Also the voice acting is terrible i mean like c'mon theres hardly 
 any emotion in the acting which keeps you from getting into the game. When i bought this game i 
 thought you had the choice to be orc, and all those other monsters but you couldn't even though 
 on the site it said you could. If your bored and you need something to play or your an RPG fanatic 
 then buy it but dont get it for the online its terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i2eaper0f5ouls
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Dispite early reviews that hailed this game as a next gen masterpiece, this game is truly horrible, 
 not only that, but it is far from next gen. any1 expecting different will be sorely dissappointed. 
 allthough features like the ability to make and name potions based on the ingredients you use makes 
 the game slightly more immersive, the controls are garbage, there are far too many glitches, and 
 the interface is damn near unusable, and they damn sure werent making it any easier on you by not 
 giving the player any kind of instructions on how to use any of it.
  
  my advice: spend the money on something more fun, like say a root canal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper_Wolf25
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  August 16, 2007: I feel excitement for Two Worlds, the game rumored to be an "Oblivion Killer," 
 which was moved back to the 24th instead of the 21st. Oh well, it will be good enough to make 3 
 days seem like nothing.
  August 24, 2007: I speed to GameCrazy after school to pick it up, and even pick up the strategy 
 guide for good measure.
  I take it home, plug it in and begin to play.
  Slightly disturbed by the character creation, but don't think much of it.
  Begin playing, watching 
 the opening sequence acted out by a character I DID NOT JUST CREATE
  Apparently, the character creation um... doesn't do anything.
  Watch the weak storyline play out 
 in poorly acted Old English.
  Still giving it a chance.
  Fight my first monster, gain my first level.
  Fight my second monster, turn off the game and 
 take it back to get a refund.
  
  This game is quite possibly the worst game I've ever purchased, and I bought Superman on the N64 
 on day one.
  Seriously, don't even consider RENTING this game; the horror that is playing this game is a completely 
 unsurpassed horror gaming experience.
  
  The character creation does not, despite the name, create a character at all. The battle system 
 could not be any worse. Since you die in two hits, your only option is to run around in circles 
 until you hit the guy enough to die. The voice over acting is akin to that of a 2nd grade Shakespeare 
 play.
  Do not buy this game. Never look at this section of Gamespot again. Kill anyone you see who likes 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benny88
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  -NO THIS IS NOT OBLIVION.. GET USED TO IT-
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Good-
  Large Scenic 
 World
  Meaningful Quests
  Fun Gameplay
  Challenge.. Even On Easy
  Weapon Combining Potion System
  Bad-
  Animals Don't Respawn
  Confusing Magic System
  Lacking 
 More Locations
  Missing A Few Features That Could Make It Better Ugly??-
  Title Music
  Hard To See Inventory and Journal Map System
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I've played better and worse games but i give this one an 8
  because it at least meets the modern criteria for a RPG.
  Games That Meet-
  Morrowind GOTY
 
  Oblivion GOTY
  Fable TLC
  Two Worlds
  Arx Fatalis
  Games That Suck-
  Marvel-Ultimate Alliance
  Enchanted Arms
  Jade Empire... dont get me started 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polarskill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  In oblivion as everyone compares to this game but hey you have to remember this game isnt called 
 oblivion 2 its two worlds. In oblivion their was what 4 different real types of voices and monsters 
 so bashing on this game for lacking in that is ignorant. True riding a horse is hard to do but 
 hey in real life its not easy too. All the complaints about the online portion are true its lag 
 is reminiscent of pressing the pause button as rapid as you can. I have played the game and killed 
 the last boss bla bla bla hell I didnt even do the main quest until I had gone into the orc city 
 and killed those basterds I love the free roam play the ability to kill any basterd you want and 
 pay off guards. Thiers so many different armors in this game I havent seen the same look on any 
 bandit or anything wearing it. The dragons are hard to kill unless if you got your handy dandy 
 trap.
  
  One last thing. QUIT PICKIN ON THE NEW KID THIS IS THEIR FIRST RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickyrich
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  My file is 24 hours long. 10 hours, at tops, has anything to do with the main quest story line. 
 The rest has been spent making videos for youtube, traveling to discover nothingness, or just doing 
 stupid stuff to break away from how awful the actual game is. Worst intro and ending to the worst 
 game i've ever played. Final boss died in 3 hits, c'mon u serious?!
  
  From the start, I barely got to customize my character, which by the way, I never saw again after 
 the character creation . I was forced to play as some goatee mercenary that looks like the original 
 vampire from Blade Trinity, but with a commercial voice. Watching the beginning cut scene made 
 me me laugh at how terrible it was, but on the inside i cried.. I've just been robbed of $65.00. 
 The graphics make PS2 games look next gen. From the spikey trees to the character appearance, it's 
 all unbearable to look that.
  
  Now, the game starts in a cave. Btw, his game doesn't tell you anything. You have to discover everything 
 bad about this game on your own. I was thinking the gameplay has to be better than the poorly crafted 
 cut scene I wish I never watched.. NO, the gameplay is JUST AS BAD. I attempted to strike the gate, 
 but the collision detection is lacking, it doesn't exist. I'm told to kill a few goblins, but left 
 with task of figuring out how. The fighting sounds like some cheap martial arts film, with every 
 slash sounding like a punch and the blood effects come straight out of Mortal Kombat for the Sega 
 Genesis.
  
  I was just about done after that, but having bought the game, I forced myself to play on. It was 
 kinda getting fun, but I think I was lying to myself the whole time. I needed to come back to reality 
 and cope with the fact that I did buy a PIECE OF CRAP game. It lags constantly, and with the weak 
 graphics, you can't help but wonder how. The dialogue is laughable, poorly done. When the main 
 character shouts I do not have sufficient time , i marveled at it's awfullness and knew i was in 
 for much more. I've played for 20 hours, and I don't even know what the hell is going on. Apparently 
 I work for money and everyone hates me, oh and to save my sister who apparently is one of the last 
 remaing females in this world. The text is so small it's almost unreadable. The menus are so poorly 
 contructed, they often overlap one another, blocking text. The horse, OMG, the horse. You can aim 
 a direction, and the horse will go there sometimes, but usually he'd rather go through trees and 
 up rocks. Fighting on a horse is done at the stand still, and you better hope the baddie is right 
 next to you. Having a big map is useless when there's nothing to explore, COMPLETELY POINTLESS. 
 And having a character spin a sword as he puts it away is not cool at all. Maybe if the programmers 
 spent more time on the MANY MANY technical failures of this game, it wouldn't be so awful. Everytime 
 I jump the game freezes and i'm doing the Trinity. It lags on every kill, and without showing my 
 attack, everyone is dead. I don't get it. How did Microsoft allow this game to market with their 
 logo? I'm ashamed of myself for buying this. Southpeak owes everyone a refund, in fact they need 
 to recall this product. It's broken. Don't be fooled by those who say this game is moderately entertaining. 
 I finished the game, and i'm completely unsatisfied. I don't even know why it's called Two Worlds. 
 There's only one world, and it sucks. I expect Gamespot to resubmit their Review as a much lower 
 rating, it doesn't deserve anything above a 3, and that's being generous. My suggestion is stay 
 away from this game, far away.
  
  To put it simple:
  
  Two Worlds = Baldur's Gate + Champions of Norath + Never Winter Nights + Oblivion + Fable + Diablo 
 + crap + bad german programming
  
  Imagine the WORST aspects of all the above mentioned games joined together to form the ultimate 
 piece of sh1t game on the planet. If that's what you like, go ahead and RENT it, but I strongly 
 suggest you look elsewhere for entertainment.
  
  DO NOT BUY!!!! FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, DO NOT BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  First if you have a PC download the demo and try it before you layout $60 for the 360 version. 
 So where to start, the textures look silly, there is no bump mapping. The HDR or the High Dynamic 
 Range lighting is one of the worst that I have ever seen. When you look at the sun you see a large 
 bright blooming octagon but it does really do what the effect was intended to do. HDR is supposed 
 to simulate instances in real life when you go from a dark room to a bright sunlit day. Second 
 voice acting is lame. Third when you kill something the blood splats look like they were taken 
 from double dragon. This game looks like it could have been made for the first Xbox or maybe PS2. 
 Dont waste your time or your money on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAM3BOY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Not many people have given this game a chance... Its aactually a great addictive game once you get 
 past the begining. It starts off very hard, mainly because packs of wolves and boars attack you 
 right off the bat. Survive that encounter, level up until you can kill them easily, then you'll 
 have a great gaming experience, mainly because the multiplayer RPG mode is awesome, even though 
 there is lag in big groups. I haven't played the deathmatch, but only because the RPG online is 
 enough fun. Single player is also good, even if there are some framerate issues. After a few hours, 
 you'll forget all about most little glitches and the framerate. Overall a great game, you just 
 need to give the game a chance.
  
  GRAPHICS: Not quite Oblivion, but not horrible either. I just don't like how almost every plant 
 is 2D (when you walk around the plants, you always see the same side, only bad if you take time 
 to view the scenery) . Also, the first person view is pretty pointless, mainly because you can't 
 use a weapon in it, only magic.
  
  CONTROLS: Pretty good controls make combat fun, even if you do attack the same way over and over 
 again. The camera, however, sucks, but only if you are controling it to try to aim. When you hit 
 up on the right thumbstick to look up, it will go up and to some random direction, making it very 
 tough to manually aim, or even slowly look around. Inexcusable.
  
  SOUND: Just like Oblivion, except for the HORRIBLE voice acting. I just skip all the talking.
 
  
  OVERALL: This is an extremely fun game that just needs more time put into it by the players so 
 they see that it really is a good game. Rent it, because you might hate it, like many of the other 
 reviewers here, but i loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jural
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  UPDATE: they've released the patch and the game is still broken... not worth 10 bucks!
  
  First off you cannot compare this game to Oblivion, it's more like a 3d version of Diablo. Visuals 
 are not bad, but to read the text you need to run your 360 on a monitor. The voice acting is not 
 bad sound quality wise but the dialog has a lot to be desired, unless you enjoy the whole "role 
 playing" aspect of games.
  
  What this game really suffers from is bad fps. Turning down the HDR will give you a few more but 
 your still looking at 15 to 20 fps, which is just not acceptable to enjoy a game. The reason for 
 the bad performance is quickly apparent, over kill on dynamic shadows and the amount of foliage 
 on the ground. Everything in this game has dynamic shadows, swaying trees, rocks even the grass.
 
  
  The Online RPG with 2 players is all I have tested and the net speed was pretty good, but it too 
 suffers from the fps issue, video lag.
  
  I would not play the solo game anytime soon, "tho art" drives me nuts, but the rpg multi-player 
 was fun... if you can get past the video lag (*note second map in rpg mode was much better fps 
 wise than the first) .
  
  Overall not a bad game... that is if they slap a patch out for reducing dynamic shadows and foliage 
 density, it could be a fun multi-player experience.
  
  Don't bother buying or renting until they release a patch to fix these issues. There is nothing 
 in this game you haven't seen b4 and better else where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drag000n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why people liked Oblivion more than Two Worlds. The only thing Oblivion was 
 better at was being smoother to run. Everything else is done better in two worlds. I especially 
 liked the traditional level up system and the character upgrades.
  The only thing I didn't like was the main character's voice acting and the horses. Both Oblivion 
 and Two Worlds had horrible horse riding systems. If they just made the things easier to ride instead 
 of realistic things would have been much better.
  I can't believe gamespy gave it such a low rating. Then again it gave Nexus: The Jupiter Incident 
 a low rating too, so I don't think they really know what they're talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootUUp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, here is my honest opinion and review of the long awaited and highly hyped up game, two worlds. 
 First off, i would like to say that this is NOT a game for those of you who cant stand getting 
 your a** handed to you for the first two hours. But, if you are paitient and can stick it out, 
 you may just find that this game will grow on you. With that said, here are some points to this 
 game.
  
  Character Customisation: The initial character creation screen is rather lackluster, with very 
 few customizable options, only the little things like Hair Color and Hair Style the sad thing is 
 that you cannot change into an elf, or dwarf, or anything but a male human, which is sad, but i 
 guess it makes sense due to the storyline. However, once you get into the game and begin learning 
 skills or becoming the warrior/archer/mage you've always wanted to be, you will find it rather 
 innovative.
  
  Inventory: I have a few quirks with the inventory, the BACK- Show instructions sign completely 
 covers up the bottom left of the screen, which makes it hard to see things like your encumbrance 
 level. Other than this, and the small hard to read text size, the inventory is quite innovative, 
 the on screen alchemy system is well designed, and the ability to combine weapons into better weapons 
 is great. i also like how you interact with merchants using the inventory.
  
  Combat: It is mostly a bit of mash the right trigger but a well timed back jump is absolutely necessary 
 for your survival. But this can be exploited as you can kill literally ANYTHING using the simple 
 jump back and attack method. In the early game, you will get mad, as wolves and other seemingly 
 'weak' enemies will kill you in a few hits, not only this, but the game will swarm you with packs 
 of them. Trap systems are usually useful and are neat tricks when used effectively. Magic is also 
 a great bit of fun, especially when using the trapping and summoning powers. if you choose to specialize 
 in only one magic type, you will struggle with some enemies.
  
  Graphics &amp; Framerate: Okay, first of all, for me, the framerate is not an issue, there is however 
 significant lag on the multiplayer modes. This will LIEKLY be patched in the next few weeks. The 
 graphics, while sometimes called last-gen or crappy are really not that bad. I think they are just 
 average, with minor hiccups, but i believe that the armor is rather good looking. The swords and 
 armor are absolutely excellent.
  
  Overall: This game is definately a love or hate affair. Some will find it excellent, others will 
 find it horrible. I will consider this a rent first game. though i actually love the game myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piche007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Aright, that game has some quirks, but it was the publishers first time at a RPG, and personally, 
 I think they put a lot of heart into it. The storyline is quite immersive if you play it the game 
 long enough, with stunning enviroment graphics to support the gameplay. Varied enemies are few 
 and far between, but usually if you start up a quest, and follow the objectives, you'll find excitement 
 in completing what you were supposed to do. However, this game is really only meant for fans of 
 RPG's, and if it's your first time getting a game in the role-playing genre, I suggest going with 
 Oblivion first. Come back to this game later, and you'll be surprised at how addictive it can be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxo
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the worst game I have ever played and Ive played games from atari through ps3. Nothing 
 can compare to this game. Its broken in every way. The graphics, voice acting gameplay, and story 
 all have massive amounts of suckage. I feel bad for who ever bought this game this should have 
 been delayed a few years or never released at all. Ive had more fun playing the burger king games 
 than thing garbage. Oh, and sadly I have to give this crap a 1 cause I can't give it a 0. This 
 game gets Uwe Bolls craptastic seal of approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiveUpTheToad18
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME BLOWWWWSSSSS..... much worse than any RPG game you'd expect from a 360.... even though 
 it's huge, it's gameplay is trash
  
  5 words..... DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! espcially for $70
  
  Go buy a game that you will enjoy 
 for a long time or even for a week at least. It will still be better than this game. I played it 
 for 5 minutes and had to stop. Don't get me wrong i really enjoy RPG's like Morrowind and Oblivion 
 they were great. But I'm returning Two Worlds tomorrow for Madden 08.
  
  The Bad: frame-rate, blood like arcade games, horrible dialogue, weird creature sounds, confusing, 
 and overall dissapointing.
  
  i feel like i wasted my money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_reglin
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it came out on Friday, I was pumped and then I was deflated! The game could 
 use some more development and a lot more polishing, ok more like one heck of a scrub job! I was 
 really hoping for and I quote from the back of the game case It's Oblivion on Steroids. But all 
 and all I know what a game should be and this just didn't do it for me! But many people do like 
 it which I'm not quite sure what to say but... I'm not here to judge other peoples point of views. 
 Rent first if possible or borrow from a friend like me who has the game but probably will not put 
 much time if any into it! p. s. I just wanted my guy to block the attacks with his shield... is 
 that so hard to ask? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roughan-
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Story mode = pointless if youre gonna play with your friends. Online mode (questing not battling) 
 = fun but laggy (still on european servers, no US servers yet)
  
  honestly the game sucks when you start off. You get killed easily in 2 hits and you getjack for 
 weapons. Also you'll get really frustrated because you think youre only fighting one enemy and 
 a second later 4 more of them pop up.
  
  Once you get the ball rolling though, it's actually good. I sat down and playeda couple days agowith 
 some friends. I got some good armor, weapons and magic and i just destroy things which rules. THE 
 BAD
  
  The menu set up is really bad and the controls dont feel very responsive while youre in menu. The 
 mini map sucks because it's hard to read because both ends of the arrows look the same so its hard 
 to tell which way youre going.
  
  the combat is atrocious. you have one combo and nothing more, through out the whole game.
  
 
  the game it's self is sort of laggy as well.
  
  game sounds are pretty weird too. Creatures make the strangest and most disturbing noises ive ever 
 heard, and not in a good way
  
  if youre swimming level is at one, you swim at a rate slower than someone who doesnt even know 
 how to swim (IRL)
  
  Voice acting is TERRIBLE. Just because they hired 200 actors to do voices dont mean that theyre 
 good voices.
  
  some other little things
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  magic is really cool. some very cool spell ideas with all of the spell types (you can even summon 
 the devil) .
  
  playing with friends is a blast. You can have a friend talk to an NPC to distract him/her while 
 another person walks up and steals from them. If youre caught though, literally the whole town 
 chases you down and kills you.
  
  looting is very helpful and you will find good stuff from it. (+/-, nothing happens to you if someone 
 sees you stealing from their house)
  
  Combining weapons/stacking magic cards to make the more powerful.
  
  the armor looks great 
 and that's always a plus to find cool looking armor.
  
  no penalty for death. Nothing is lossed and you get revived at the nearest shrine.
  
  back 
 jumping button
  
  having booster cards to power up spells
  
  VERDICT:
  
  if you have friends who play and some patience, it's actually a pretty good game. This game did 
 have a lot of potential though and didnt deliever like we all wanted it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethsesh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Like most people I played this game for a total of 15 minutes, threw my controller and said 'What 
 a waste of 60 dollars , and shut the game off. Only later when i decided to give it a second chance 
 did i realize how good the game really was. The story line is really fun to play, and there is 
 a ton of things to do in the huge world. There is a wide variety of weapons and armor as well as 
 5 spell schools, and great visuals and places to visit. Leveling up your character is very simple, 
 but it allows you alot of flexibility in character creation. The game is also really hard, so if 
 you like a challenge that is good.
  
  Some of the bad things about this game:
  -Horse riding sucks, and so does mounted combat.
  Its almost impossible to get your horse to 
 go where you want it, and just forget mounted combat even exists.
  
  -Terrible framerate
  Hopefully there will be a patch to fix this, but for now expect alot of stuttering while looking 
 around and fighting
  
  -Laughable voice acting
  Everyone speaks in monotone, really makes the game seem cheesey
  
  -Lack of character customization
 
  aside from changing your hair length or skin tone, your basically stuck with the generic face 
 they give you, no matter how hard you try to change his features he still looks the same
  
  Good things
  -Huge world
  -Lots of hours of gameplay
  -Plenty of people to battle
  -Online 
 play
  -Tons of weapons and armor
  
  If your skeptical about this game, rent it first and decide if you like it. This game isnt for 
 everyone and it requires alot of patience. if your expecting it to be like oblivion which for some 
 reason most people do, then prepare to be disappointed. If they patch the game, then this game 
 has the potential to be great. But as it is now, I expect only the hardcore RPG fans to really 
 get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flfocuspuller
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to state that I was looking forward to this game for quite some time. Right from the start 
 I was dissappointed. I kept playing hoping that things would get better. A few things improved, 
 but more things crept up that lowered the value. I guess it got such a good review because there 
 is really not much on the market like this. I am not comparing this to Oblivion, but am basing 
 my judgments on what Two Worlds wants to be.
  
  The good: Open world system with varied environments. Cool mounts the lets you carry stuff. Variety 
 of spells, good fighting animation. The bad: everything else. The good points above wear off quickly. 
 Where to start. Well, everyone has been saying that the voice acting is horrible. It is. But more 
 importantly, the writing is horrible. Everyone says mayhap and 'tis. It gets very annoying because 
 they're trying to emulate an Elizabethan dialogue but fail miserably. Some people find this amusing; 
 I find it distracting. Another result of the bad writing (and also bad programmingis the fact that 
 many of the quests are confusing. Information is skipped over in the dialogue that later shows 
 up in the quest journal. Or they throw lots of exposition at you that is disconnected and doesn't 
 impact a quest in any way. Sometimes I've completed quests just by talking to someone, but the 
 dialogue options don't let me chose whether or not I want to complete that quest. This results 
 in failed quest trees. This happens frequently.
  
  The main quest is a joke.
  
  ****Slight Spoiler****
  
  You have to get 5 things, then kill 1 of 5 guys, then on to the simple 
 finale. What a joke.
  
  ****Over****
  
  Questing is a main part of a game like this. It is what drives you to do things in the game rather 
 than just aimlessly wander around. I read in many of the previews that the main quest should take 
 up about 40-50 hours of gameplay and all the side quests around 100. This is flat out NOT true. 
 According to my save screen clock, I put in about 28 hours and finished the main quest as well 
 as almost all the side quests I could find, except for the more convoluted ones that had no idea 
 how to complete, like find character x and it doesn't tell me about where character x is. He could 
 be anywhere in the damn world, and I'm not going to traipse around everywhere to find him. And 
 I'm a slow player.
  
  The faction quests don't offer anything distinct or different from any other sort of quest except 
 for some merchant bonuses.
  
  While talking about the quests. Another important item comes up that plagues Two Worlds: balance. 
 Completing quests gives you tons of experience, yet fighting tough monsters don't. A simple quest 
 that could take 1 minute, like the retrieving undergarments mentioned in the GS review gives 475 
 xp (if I recall correctly) yet fighting flesh golems or other hard creatures gives out about 30-40 
 xp. Go into a town, complete all the quests, and you've gained 1-4 levels. Spend the same time 
 fighting tough monsters, and you're lucky if you gain 1 level. Another example of poor balance 
 is the game play itself. It seems that I spent more time looting corpses, managing my inventory, 
 and selling stuff that I found rather than fighting and completing quests. That is not what a game 
 like this should be about. When I finished the game, I had uber armor, weapons, over 400,000 in 
 gold, and about 75,000 worth of stuff in my inventory. What do I need all that gold for if i can 
 find everything I need from fallen foes? The one thing I couldn't find, and always searched every 
 corpse and frequently checked with the mage merchants, are the good spell cards. This balanced 
 the game greatly towards fighters.
  
  Armor Balance: Armor gives yo fantastic protection. I barley took a scratch later in the game, 
 especially with Adimantium shield spell, but a mages armor, robes, gives you no protection. What 
 the do give are extra magical effects, but these same effects can be found on armor, so why wear 
 robes? There is no reason.
  
  Weapons: The mage weapon is a staff, but the damage they inflict is miniscule compared to regular 
 weapons. There are magical bonuses compared to weapons, but again, all those values can be found 
 on reagular weapons except one: increase the skill level of a particular magic class. However, 
 if your skill level is at 15, then the bonus doesn't take you to 20, so that trait is ineffective 
 rendering staffs useless. Also, you can socket weapons with one type of elemental damage, making 
 them even more powerful, and you can't socket staffs. Spell vs. Weapon: Weapons beat out spells 
 no question. I played a mage build and put the minimums into dex and str. Considering the rarity 
 of spell cards, and the plethora of weapons, that already balances more towards fighters. Also, 
 spells use mana, while fighting doesn't require anything. I can't do a direct comparison to damage 
 (the game doesn't show total weapon damage) but it seams that weapons do more compared to the high 
 level spells, even with multiple stacking and booster cards. So even though I had about 50 str 
 and over 200 mana, I was still able to wield and deal out massive weapon damage.
  
  Thief: There is no use in the game for a thief build. You get so much stuff from looting corpses 
 that there is no reason to steal or pickpocket. There are no quests that require thievery (even 
 though there is a thieve guild, none of the quest require thieve skills) . You do get a massive 
 damage bonus to backstabbing, but how often are you going to be able to sneak up behind a pack 
 of orcs and backstab every one of them?
  
  Boy, this is getting long.
  
  Environment: Almost all of the northern part is wooded. This gets a little tedious. There are other 
 places that do offer different areas, like desert, bamboo woods, dead forest, icy places, barren 
 wastes, but you don't access these until later in the game or never at all (I never visited the 
 icy NE. Never had to) . So you don't get to enjoy them too much. The towns all look the same. There 
 are two types: major cities, and villages. All the village types look the same. I didn't visit 
 all the cities, but there were two varieties. There may be more if I explored. The underground 
 had two types. Caves that looked nice, and stone walled cellar/dungeon type. That's it. none of 
 them really had anything notable about them. There was a slight variation in the desert type, but 
 again, not impressive. There were also lots of dead wierd dead ends and walls that didn't seem 
 to belong in the cities. There were a few times I would explore only to get trapped and have to 
 restart from a previous save.
  
  A not on the mount: The collision detection was a pain it made it very difficult to navigate the 
 easiest of passes. Also, why can I just plow through a bamboo forest?
  
  I'll try to wrap this up.
  
  Interface: PAIN IN THE BUTT. First, in order to access the menus, 
 you press the back button. For me, it felt intuitive that in order to get out of that, I should 
 press the back button again, but no. That brings up the button help. I kept making this mistake 
 up until the end. Character screen was fine. I think there could have been more of a visual difference 
 between learned and unlearned skills.
  
  Inventory had its pros and cons. You can equip lots of stuff. 4 rings, that's nice. 2 weapons, 
 great, but you can't wear very good armor if dual wielding. Item stacking, nice. Cons: you have 
 to use the Left thumb stick to navigate around the screen. This is a pain considering how far you 
 have to push the stick, then have it recenter every time. It seems that it would be more natural 
 to use the D pad. I also would have like to have better stats on weapons: are they 1 or 2 handed. 
 What is the damage with my str bonus? What are the str and dex and lvl requirements. Unless you 
 don't fulfill those needs, it won't show you. Alchemy is very useful and easy. One flaw. If you 
 create a recipe, you can't delete it. Come on programmers, these are obvious things here.
  
  Spells: horrible. You've got this spell amulet that holds 3 spells with 3 spell booster slots 
 for each spell. You can only hotkey a spell from the amulet. This is why I spent the beginning 
 of the game thinking I could only have 3 hotkeyed. If you want to have more spells hotkeyed, you 
 have to replace the spell in the amulet from one from you book, then hotkey that one. BUT, if you 
 had booster cards for the previous spell, you loose those bonuses. WTF? This took me almost the 
 whole game to figure out. Also, you can only have 3 spells from a school on the D pad. Why not 
 just let me assign a spell from my spell book and use the amulet for boosted spells?? That would 
 have solved all the confusion.
  
  Map/Quests: Horrible. When navigating the map, the left stick is used to scroll through the closest 
 icon, and the D pad is used to move around the map. This seems intuitively opposite to me. There 
 are no names of towns, cities, locations, areas, on the map. in order to find the name of a location, 
 you have to highlight the icon on an area. This makes finding places a challenge and memory game. 
 There are icons for health and magic shrines, and teleporters. This makes your map quite jumbles. 
 You can filter some of these away, but it isn't that helpful. The right side is for quest descriptions. 
 They are organized by location. There is no other way to group them. Scrolling through locations 
 on the map changes the highlighted quest, and if you double click on a quest, it moves the map 
 to a relevant location for that quest, this can be useful to figure out where to go, but it mostly 
 just makes you angry, because it keeps changing the quest list or what you were looking at on the 
 map. The highlighter for the quest list was almost invisible. When zoomed in all the way, the map 
 was pixelated, and hard to figure out where you were. The arrow (also on the HUD minimap would 
 show you the camera direction, and also spin around to the direction your character was facing. 
 These really should have been separated into two screens. Stats: Hard to screw this up. The GS 
 review already mentioned this, but woe be to anyone whith a small TV. I have a 56 HD tv and I still 
 had a hard time reading certain menu items.
  
  Well, I could probably find many more flaws in Two Worlds (some more is immediately coming to mind) , 
 but I think I made the case that this game should not be rated a 7. I guess it should get its props 
 for making an open world, but with all the flaws, and there are a lot, I think that it brings the 
 score waaay down. To surmise: very short quest time, huge lack of balance, tedious gameplay, clunky 
 interface. These are the meat and potatoes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosthunter54
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I went by my always buy a fantasy rpg standard and popped it in my 
 360 the minute I got it home. My first impression was wtf is this? I was expecting a game so much 
 better I got disgusted and just put gears of war in and played that for a while. Then I took a 
 break and thought maybe I just need to give this game a chance. So after actually reading the manual 
 ( a once in a lifetime experience for games nowadays) I figured out how to use the map and inventory. 
 The time to learn the controls for this game in a very long time, but its good enough because it 
 *is* a fantasy rpg with a cool enough story. The biggest drawback is that it takes literally forever 
 to get anywhere. The horses are the dumbest creatures I have ever seen. While obviously the idea 
 was to give them ai so they don't run anyone down they horses are cowards. They don't go within 
 10 game feet of a character before curling away, nor can you get them to climb a steep hill or 
 go down a steep hill. You have to jump off your horse and jump down yourself (usually taking fall 
 damage for a 5 foot fall) . The skeleton horses are a little better because they don't make noise 
 which soon becomes annoying, and they only veer off from people about 5 game feet away. Start with 
 the easy difficulty or you'll want to go break your game disk. After you get used to this game 
 and realize it probably wasn't as good as you expected, you can enjoy it for what it is and you'll 
 like it enough to be glad you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lmneozoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok when i first played this game i thought it sucked. I played for 12 min. Then the next day not 
 wanting to wast 60 bucks i picked it up and gave it another try. once you get into it you will 
 love it, but not as much as oblivion. The online server is based in germany so if you have more 
 than 2 or 3 people you will experience an ass load of lag. dont worry they are trying to get a 
 server up in the us. The voice acting is funny to listen to because they try to pull off some old 
 english but they only use mayhap and tis. and all those peopel that are complaing about the map 
 and quest log you maybe should learn to read or get glasses cause i play on a 19'' Craptacular 
 tv and i can see it fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewillsmith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  I don't see how anyone could give this game less than a 6. Those who have rated it abysmal are 
 obviously not RPGers. The expectations of this game were set so high that I don't think any game 
 could have stepped into it fairly.
  
  This game has a slightly less confusing gameplay than ES: Morrowind. The mapping and quest log 
 interface is rediculously lousy. My biggest dissapointment was this.
  
  Graphics and voice acting are laughable. This is absolutely the worst attempt at smooth communication 
 in an RPG. The opening scene's voice acting could have atleast been decent. I mean come on, put 
 some time into the opening cut scene atleast!
  
  Overall, I love the game though. I don't put much weight on appearance, although it would be nice 
 to look a bit more polished. The story is pretty good and it is very addicting. Go rent it and 
 play for about 5 hours and then you'll know.
  
  Not Perfect, not Bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  As I took the small break from Bioshock, I realized that I should play something else; and since 
 there was nothing else I played Two Worlds and hated it after two minutes.
  
  Let's get started with the HUD, what the hell is going I cannot read the minimap, the health or 
 mana bar, or anything. Now to the actual game, it reaks of clone and its crap. The fighting system 
 is good for an hour until you realize that you fight the same enemies half the time and the other 
 half you avoid because of one hit kills. And most of the time you will use melee because its more 
 powerful because the bows are useless and magic has a small effect. Enemies will always have better 
 weapons when you kill them but you will sell them to make space in a horrible inventory system 
 which is filled with items never used because you don't exactly know when to use them, and also 
 because you are encumbered without knowing how much weight is there because information on how 
 to use items is planted right over the number of weight you have. The world is huge and running 
 is useless to get to places, so you get a horse which is worse because it cannot be controlled 
 well at all. The horse you have automatically turns around when it cannot go through certain places 
 and turning manually is tedious since the horse doesn't respond at first. Anyways, the gameplay 
 sucks.
  
  Story: Its really bad, enough said.
  
  Graphics: People complain that the graphics resemble that of a last gen system, and they do. Your 
 character looks like an idiot even after the worst character customization on the Xbox360. The 
 NPC's look stupid, and the voice acting, priceless. Everyone sounds horrible and your character 
 sounds worse than everyone combined. It cannot be defined unless you see it.
  
  Overall the game is pathetic, more so after I've seen the commercial claiming it to be a better 
 RPG than any other. Avoid at all cost people you can do so much better. This game is a waste of 
 money, people who buy it return it soon and get back half the amount they payed. Save your money 
 and get Bioshock if you do not have it. This reviewer will now go back to playing Bioshock. At 
 least I will enjoy myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonewall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Those giving the game a 1.0 have obviously not played it or not played it for long. If you an RPG 
 fan, especially of old-school RPGs, you owe it to yourself to check out the game.
  
  Two Worlds has a very in-depth skill/leveling, weapon upgrade and stacking, spell and alchemy systems. 
 I love going from getting killed by wolves to being godly and taking out a whole town over the 
 course of the game. That is was I've come to expect from am good RPG.
  
  I hope the developer can patch the laggy online code and possibly extend the game's online life 
 with downloadable maps, quest, loot, and spells. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1S25
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  this was one of the worst games i have ever played for the xbox 360. graphics were bad, the gameplay 
 was just not up to oblivion standards. i think that if you want a role playing game oblivion is 
 the way to go. nothing on the market today even is on the same level as oblivion, especially not 
 the likes of this game. i thought it was going to be a ten but it turned out to be a one. don't 
 waste you time on this excuse for a game. if you want a game that bad then go out and by bioshock, 
 and if you have oblivion than you would still be playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousPhoenix
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that the online play of this game sucks so bad because of the lag, you cant 
 play it at all... i tried doing a pvp match and just found my selft staring at the screen for about 
 5 minutes because it just completely froze up from lag... The single player is not all that bad 
 but still far far from good... the quest are alomst near impossible to figure out cause of the 
 horrible mini map layout and the quest log is by far the worst one i have ever seen.... They had 
 a really good idea with this game... but they just didnt do there homework long enough.... Do yourself 
 a favor and dont even bother with this one... just keep on playing oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinn932
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Starting off, this game is good underneath. If you only play for a couple minutes or even less 
 than a hour you will be disappointed easily. The opening cut scene would scare many people away. 
 Simply put, the graphics arn't as spectacular as we're used to. The voice acting is really bad 
 and they try to act old english a bit too much making it hard to believe.
  
  The controls for the menu interface are awkward and uses a lot of the right thumbstick, but when 
 you adjust to it, you'll find yourself flicking through the menus and items as fast as you can. 
 Which is really needed, there are tons of assorted armor, weapons. traps, bombs, spells, and what 
 not. I'll tell you this oblivion fans..
  
  You won't go around getting item sets like elven glass or whatever. Instead, you will get, well 
 your usual armors and then.. various specialized armor The Armor of Shadows The boots of the Assassin 
 and no, you won't have to do a special ritual for any of them, they're just monster drops. Hundreds 
 of items and you will need to keep your eyes peeled for the better loot. Of course it compared 
 the loot you have in your inventory with the one your wearing so it is easy to choose the better 
 pair. Now the weapons. You get your slashing damage, swords, spears, maces, etc. Then bludgeons 
 damage, clubs, staves, staffs, big ol sticks and more. Then your piercing damage, bows. The combat 
 is very different and you will die often if your not careful. You can't just sit there and rapidly 
 hit monsters, you'll end up dead. Instead, you have to hit and avoid. More realistic. More entertaining 
 and skillfull then raising your shield and then beating the crap out of them when they finally 
 strike. Yeah, there's no effective shield system... I think.
  
  Magic is this game is top par. Lots of skills to choose from and yes you can summon more than one 
 monster. You have your staple spells, and then your enhancements, damage over time, AOE (area of 
 effect) , healing, and more. Instead of just different spells by damage, area of effect, and over 
 time like in Oblivion (that was boooring) you get a bunch of assorted spells. Say something like 
 Fable. (Remember force push?? its back!!) You get magic schools to choose from and you level those 
 schools that correspond with those spells, easy enough. Then you have boosters, they can increase 
 and equipped spells damage, duration, and mana usage, and more. You can only equip 3 at a time, 
 but you can always hot key and switch easily. Online, is laggy. Stay away for awhile, until they 
 patch it a bit. Now they should be running on American Servers though which is a big relief, but 
 the online community is too crazy duping as of today 9-1-07. Enjoy singleplayer, the story isn't 
 gripping, but there are numerous side quests! And those are always fun, heck some of them are just 
 plain boring. If you've managed to read it this far, then I definitely recommend this to you. You 
 know why I put all the flaws at the start of the review? To scare away anyone who would just put 
 down a game in five minutes. Get in depth with the game and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shared
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  My first review ---a little long, but I try to hit most of the points that people have been bashing/praising 
 so hopefully it'll help some of you.
  
  I read many of the reviews that the first hour or two were just horrendous, but I must say that 
 I really enjoy the game. First of all, I've experienced almost zero frame rate issues. Many people 
 had stated that they had issues with it especially at the beginning, but I certainly did not. Even 
 when battling a number of enemies at once I have slowed down only once or twice.
  
  I really was hooked on Diablo II and the reason was the chance of getting a rare drop every time 
 I took down an enemy. I kept going back for more, and more and more..... And I find myself reliving 
 that so far with this game. One of the things I really enjoy is that your character changes (very 
 noticeably) with each new weapon or piece of armor that you come across. I'm only level 6 (or so) 
 and I've already changed 100%. The graphics of the different armors are really quite different, 
 and that makes me hungry for my next chest, or drop.
  
  I also thought I'd address the voice acting. I know I'll probably get flamed for this ---but I really 
 don't care all that much. I'm 33 years old, and grew up on Zork, Zelda, Diablo, Diablo II, etc. 
 and I play for fun. The best part of any game has always been (for me) looking forward to that 
 next upgrade or treasure. I really am not bothered by the voice acting at all. Maybe I'm missing 
 something, or maybe I just don't care ---but I don't see what the big deal is. Admittedly, it's 
 not something that impresses me, but I guess I just choose not to worry about it. I read the text 
 faster than they get it out of their mouth and pressing 'a' (xbox) skips to the next section so 
 I don't listen to it all anyway. For what it's worth ---It's not a big deal, at least to me.
  
  Another complaint I saw was the difficulty. I am playing the game on medium (because I heard 
 how often people were dying and how hard it was to kill even the most basic enemy) and I haven't 
 died yet. I'm sure it'll come, but with the ability to 'dodge' with the B button, you can escape 
 most attacks that come your way. I like the way the combat is done so far. I must admit that the 
 quest screen and map aren't that great. I've still figured out where things were and where I needed 
 to go but will admit it took some trial and error at times. But again, to me that wasn't all that 
 big of a deal. I have found everything so far, and with relatively little difficulty so I've just 
 taken it in as part of the experience. Ideally the map and quest log would have been better, but 
 it hasn't detracted from my enjoyment.
  
  Now, horse riding. I just got my first horse and yes, it really sucks. I rode into a pack of enemies 
 and couldn't get off the thing (still didn't die) . Eventually I figured it out and killed the enemies 
 and mounted back up. Controls are really pretty horrible on the horse. In games as old as Ocarina 
 of Time horse riding was done pretty well so I'm not sure why it's so bad here. The plus side is 
 that your horse holds an incredible amount of stuff so I just parked it by a teleporter (which 
 seem pretty plentiful) and use it for a bank. Could have been better, but again, isn't a make or 
 break for me. To address another complaint -- the inventory/talent/skill point/etc. screens. Again, 
 not very well done, but I've figured most everything out in the hour or two I've played and yes ---they 
 could have been improved, but it hasn't detracted from my enjoyment of the game. Item stacking 
 and adding gems, making potions and all those extras are really cool so far as well. I don't want 
 to get too much into that, but it's a great addition. Overall I'd say this. My enjoyment comes 
 from killing things, exploring, finding chests and treasures and the 'thrill' of that new upgrade. 
 So far this game has them around every corner, so I'm happy. Are the graphics the best I've ever 
 seen ---no. But I'm having fun. If you liked Diablo II (and other similar games) for those reasons 
 I think you'll be pleased here. I can't wait to get back in and find that next treasure. Sorry 
 for the length, but hopefully it'll help some of you out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1sexysixpack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  If u're patient enough to get past the interface, u'll love to explore &amp; enjoy the combat (use 
 the jump back button to avoid getting hit when u see your enemies winding up for an attack!) --tons 
 of items &amp; customization of items (treasure system like Diablo II) makes for a great &amp; 
 addictive game like Diablo with Oblivion's character development &amp; exploration!
  
  Give it a chance &amp; u'll grow to love it! Graphics: Excellent! Almost as good as Oblivion Gameplay: 
 Great.. action-rpg where u can dodge swings, jumping back or sideways, challenging monsters, HUGE 
 world, tons of stuff to do like Oblivion
  
  Sound: Funny, sarcastic hero
  
  Runs great on my AMD 2.3 ghz &amp; Nvidia 8800 GTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDN
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Definately not worth the money. The game felt rushed and unfinished. I had my hopes up for this 
 game but it was a total letdown. Two Worlds had the potential, but the makers of the game screwed 
 it up. They released it too soon and shoulda fixed a few things...
  
  Even though I didn't play it that much, I really don't wanna spend my time on a game that sucks 
 that much. The multiplayer was NOTHING like I expected it to be. It's alright, but it gets choppy 
 sometimes and there wasn't enough added to it. I think the combat sucks because you keep doing 
 the same thing over an over again, just like chop 'n slash, chop 'n slash.
  
  Anyway, take my advice on not spending sixty bucks on this game. Rent it if anything. The game 
 won't be like you expected it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperhare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This was a game I picked up after a quick conversation with my brother. He had been following it 
 online for awhile and said that it was a game we definately needed to have two copies of. I started 
 off in single player and played for about an hour before heading off to work. After I got back 
 he wanted to start online, so I made a character and joined up in the game with him. It wasn't 
 fun initially because we kept dying, but since it doesn't matter how much you die it wasn't so 
 bad.
  
  After a time, it became a blast and we started leveling up pretty quickly. We started customizing 
 weapons, and he started to get magic. Now in the days since launch i'm at lvl 37 and my bro's sittin 
 at a high 48. We've got hundreds of millions of dollars and many powerful weapons and awesome armour.
 
  
  All in all a fun game that is a blast to play if you like Diablo and Oblivion. I think online is 
 a better deal than single player, but I think they can both be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: db1977
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  this game sounds good at first but quickly becomes repeative, killing the same monster over and 
 over gets old fast. and why dont some of the people have faces. the hood man in blue then red then 
 purple, who are these guys. THIS GAME IS BAD it seems like they could of had somthing good but 
 ran out of money. as of right now two worlds is a 5 outta 10 dont through your money away. dont 
 buy dont buy dont buy dont buy
  
  wait for mass effect it might be better but dont get you hopes up two high. the last reviews have 
 gone over board include with bio shock that game should get an 8.5 not a 9.7 is good but nothing 
 amazing. still a fps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nyamkelmon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited for this game since the very beginning, so I came here and read some reviews 
 before it came out. After painfully looking at the number 1.0 over and over, I decided that I would 
 rent it first. It's sad that a game like this with all the hype could do so badly. I'm sorry to 
 all you who love the game, but its broken. It by no means is finished. I'll tell you what I mean
 
  
  First of all, you know that mounted combat they kept going on about? The horses can't turn right. 
 They literally can only turn left, if they decide to at all. Then those sneaky wolves come from 
 the bushes and, since you're stuck on a random object, you die. Sound like fun?
  
  Also, the combat isn't as hard as everyone has let on. When you first start out, it's not so bad. 
 But if you try to go anywhere else, let's say to another town, a horde of bandits, wolves, and 
 bears decide to work together to track you down. The only possible way i could find to fend them 
 off was to run to an ankh (resurrection spot) , which constantly heals you, so eventually you get 
 things done
  
  So just exactly how broken is this game? Well, I was bored, so I ran clear down the map to one 
 of the big cities down there. Dying about twenty times on the way, I finally reach the city and 
 start walking around a bit. I walk around a corner, only to find that my character's avatar seems 
 to pop out of existence for a few seconds. Ok, I think, At least I didn't implode or something 
 like that. So I talk to someone, and we talk for a while. Suddenly, it pans to the person I was 
 talking to. But hes gone. Gone, but still talking to me. I exit out of the conversation only to 
 find that every person in the town has disappeared, popping into existence randomly.
  
  I'm not trying to say this is a horrible game, it's just it needed a while longer to make. There 
 is good to this game. The character development is really solid, probably one of the best I've 
 seen. Combining items that you find quite often can lead to a pretty powerful weapon or piece of 
 armor pretty quickly. The skills and stats system is very effective, improving your character quite 
 a bit each level.
  
  All in all, this is a mediocre game that has a couple great things about it, but needs more time 
 and patches. If you don't believe me, rent it first. But please, please don't buy this for full 
 price. It's not worth the sixty, but it's your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northrnstorm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds in my opinion deserved a 7.5 . It was really dissapointing at first, but once you really 
 started getting into the meat of the game it was actually kinda good. Still the AI wasn't all it 
 was cracked up to be, and the graphics are still less than that of oblivion. Not to mention the 
 bad voice overs. (*shudders*) It still can provide at least a few hours of fun when you start to 
 reach the higher levels and are able to do more. The hype this game made wasn't really worth it, 
 but still an alright game in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I am not gonna lie this is a pooooorrr!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! excuse for a RPg let alone a game itshould 
 be in a bargain bin somehwere who ever buys this for sixty bucks has mental problems ,sure i could 
 look over the bad graphics but after swing your sword like a ten year old in a plastic sword fight 
 and magic power like it was a very B rate to be nice .The voice over work is crap and after maybe 
 walking about twenty step's then load then another load just god awful the opeing movie made qwith 
 the chick made it look like hey bad graphics but the story seems solid wrong !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 don't even rent it i mean it may be a few laughs on how bad it is but 8 bucks is to much to spend 
 way to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been reading about Two Worlds for the last couple of weeks, and it amazes how little information 
 is really available on it. Like many other people I bought it out of sheer curiosity and of course 
 because I wanted a good RPG; gotta find something to do until Mass Effect comes out, right?
  
  Anyway, Two Worlds isn't as bad as people claim. Yes, the frame rate stutters. Yes, the voice 
 overs are a little goofy. But you know what, it is far better than a lot of other games. And the 
 developers weren't content with cookie cutter characters, tinsel shops, Fed Ex quests, and a severely 
 flawed combat system (yes Oblivion, you are guilty of all those sins!) .
  
  As far as this being like Diablo, I can't say; I don't like anything Blizzard does. But not unlike 
 a lot of the classic American RPGs, and definitely like other European RPGs, Two Worlds provides 
 a flexible character development system, lots of loot, armor, weapons, and other stuff, and it's 
 fun. It really is a classic RPG in many ways, although it does have the open ended game play of 
 a game like Oblivion.
  
  I think the user interface is well designed, the game appears to be relatively bug free, at least 
 in the single player campaign, and the game has some legs on it. It will provide many hours of 
 fun. And unlike Oblivion, I don't feel as lost or disconnected. While Oblivion is a far better 
 game than Morrowind, in my opinion, and I put about 100 hours into it, I never finished it because 
 I found the side quests far more fun than anything in the main campaign.
  
  Two Worlds, on the other hand, seems more unified. It feels more like a cohesive world, one where 
 the various factions have some real relation to one another. The horse is actually a useful extension 
 of your character, and the inventory system is truly useful at allowing you to compare equipment 
 and make decisions.
  
  I can't say Two Worlds is the best game ever made, or that it is even better than Oblivion. It 
 definitely doesn't feel like a poorly designed game though, and I can't blame the developers for 
 poor graphics performance if in their minds that was less important than solid game play. On my 
 very humble 22 LCD monitor, the game looks fabulous and the frame rate never tanks completely. 
 It definitely looks like a High Definition, Next Generation Role Playing Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haukke
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  when i first got the game i was really dissappointed with it. after playing it for several hours 
 i really started to appreciate it. there is alot to offer if people stop complaining and put some 
 time into it. it unfortunately is not for the oblivion player out there. the game is not as simple 
 as that. it seems to be alot deeper once you figure out what exactly is going on. beside bioshock 
 which i beat in one sitting and no real replay this is the best game i bought this year. i played 
 for over 40 hours and still lots to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark_Datheen
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is only hard to play because of it's horrible frame rate, and listening to the voice 
 acting. The graphics are alright, I suppose, but the multiplayer is flawed, laggy, and added with 
 the horrible frame rate unplayable. To compare this game to Oblivion is a disgrace. If they were 
 to have finished this game up, fixed the frame rate, got some better voice actors, and... the list 
 goes on, this might be a good game. The character animations are dreadful as well. Don't pick this 
 game up, in fact, don't even rented it. It's a complete waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain524
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  When i played oblivion the graphics were just beyond anything else. But when i roam in Two worlds 
 i feel pretty much the same though if compared oblivion is superior. I'm a fan of free roaming 
 type of games and also a fan of devestating magic. So far i have used 2 of the magic schools and 
 i like how everything works. To me its easy to choose how to evolve your character. The quests 
 are good and finding everything is a cinch. I like the map system and icons and the weapon combining 
 is great too. There are some things that could have been better, like certain graphics. Not really 
 bad to me but how it flows. But If you like being a hero or just a powerful guy (which is what 
 i like) thats what you get. To me its like this; you can customize. You can become a powerful mage. 
 You can roam anywhere and explore and theres too much to do from side quests to simple (relative 
 term) alchemy. Its a great thing its an RPG that you can fight actionwise. You can use any weapon 
 from bows to bombs to stabbing and murdering from behind to just setting a half dozen enemies on 
 fire. I didn't like the magic system in oblivion and i love it here. Thats the most part of this 
 game that i like. It also has multiplayer. I feel well fed with this one. Excuse me while i burn 
 everyone in town and rob loot their pathetic little village. Or maybe i'll be a good guy. Maybe 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  after watching this game release for months, and finally hunting down a copy, i took it home......
 
  
  What you can expect when the game first loads, is something that you would expect from a playstation 
 3 release game. everything is extremely pixally, and distorted. all characters look pretty much 
 the same unless you have an amazing eye, to tell the small difference between the mobs running 
 around. initially, it is literally impossible to kill anything. you hit them, get killed, rez come 
 back, and continue. and you will do this for a long long time. The Ole English sounds like a Drug 
 addict after a week in De-Tox. while making enough sense to get the jyst of what they are trying 
 to spew out of thier mouth, you get to the point where you dont care any more. My wife, never says 
 anything about my games, but i could hear her from the kitchen yelling something about how horrible 
 it sounded. I was embarassed to even have it running in my system. When my wife makes fun of me, 
 there are issues. if you must play this horror of a game, rent it. I would rather get the Clap 
 then suffer the gameplay of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delgun82
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Honestly, everyone is entitled to their opinions, no matter what they're smokin'. This game blows 
 alot of RPG's out of the water. The story is great, the options are many, and the world is HUGE 
 in every way. With HDTV, the graphics are amazing, there is NO CONSTANT repetitive features such 
 as voice acting, weapons, fighting styles, ect... ( I don't want to mention names... Oblivion) 
 This is a very fun, unique game. The story is great, the character development is impressive ( I 
 find the main charactor quite humorous by the way ) , and there is many people offering voice talent ( 
 unlike a certain RPG we all know ) You can upgrade weapons, armour, skills, attributes... the list 
 goes on. One very impressive thing to me, is the fact you can make your own custom potions and 
 bombs. Just like the ratio breaks down on this forum, you're either gonna love this game or hate 
 it. My best advice is to bypass mine and every one else's opinion and just try it out for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeCJ2
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  My friend bought this game and after playing it for 10min, I think the game disc would be better 
 used for a coaster. It was absolutely horrible, not only did it have Xbox graphics, the interface 
 and combat system was hooorrriible. Fighting anything = instant death at the beginning cause all 
 you can do is swing your sword in a ninja-esque way and make enemies squirt out Mortal Kombat 2-like 
 blood. Yet they kill you in 2-3 hits while you have no idea what they're at. Really, dont get this 
 game in any way/shape/form, it's truly one of the suckiest games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nefarious13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Yes. It makes a horrible first impression but it is a really good game. If you thought Oblivion 
 was too easy then you will like Two Worlds. I almost fell for all the negativity here. The graphics 
 are not next gen but the gameplay is there. It's much deeper character building and the quests 
 are a little better than Oblivion. It could also use a patch or two but other than that I highly 
 recommend it. I understand the negative reviews here but these people needed to stick with it longer 
 than an hour. The game need an hour or so to find its legs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxSkankyxX
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, heres how it goes. This is a very buggy game, doesnt compete with oblivions amazing graphics 
 (it comes close... sorta) , but has the addicting power of diablo 2 and starcraft. This is one of 
 the few games that didnt try and go **** over the graphics, and focused more on the actual playing 
 of the game. Two Worlds is a game like non other iv played, and unlike oblivion enemies dont level 
 up with you, you have to go to harder and harder places. This is cool because u can go back to 
 the start when your super strong and just hack threw hoards of enimes, dispatching them with style, 
 and it makes u feel really cool (espicially with all those wicked-ass combos) .
  
  I hope you dont judge this game to oblivion, because it really is nothing like it in almost every 
 way, other than the fact that its an RPG. And also dont judge the first half hour, where the frame 
 rate is a smooth 20 fps (i think because it has to load the entire world cuz there is no load times) 
 but it picks up.
  
  Buy it, rent it, i dont care, just play this game for more than 30 minutes and it will be a must-have 
 for your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Seriously save your money this game isnt even worth the rental fee at blockbuster. I was waiting 
 for this game to come out and even after reading all the bad reviews i was like pshhh im still 
 going to go rent it maybe its not that bad.......
  
  Graphics = Bad
  Control = Worse
  Voice acting = Horrible Gamespot better give a review soon to save all these poor kids who are 
 even considering to buy this game. If you think im being harsh then by all means go and try it 
 for yourself just dont say i didnt warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingwwu
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Movie critics dont judge new releases by those films which have won academy awards, so why is 
 everyone so eager to compare Two Worlds to Oblivion? Just because Superbad wont be up for an 
 Oscar does not mean it isnt an entertaining experience - critics are raving about this non-Oscar-contender 
 comedy. People are forgetting to rate Two Worlds for its entertainment value and are instead rating 
 it according to its dissimilarities from Oblivion. If you were awaiting the next Elder Scrolls 
 installment, obviously youve come up a bit short by buying into Two Worlds. You might as well 
 wait until Bethesda announces Elder Scrolls V. But just because Two Worlds isnt a carbon copy 
 of Oblivion does not mean it is not an enjoyable game. After all, if it was largely similar, everyone 
 on this forum would be complaining that Topware Interactive should be liable for copyright infringement.
 
  
  Essentially, Two Worlds is Topwares take on the open-world RPG. While I believe Oblivion to be 
 one of the best RPGs to date, there are many things in Two Worlds which I enjoy a great deal more 
 than Oblivion and vice versa. Both companies could do a great deal of learning from one another. 
 While I agree that the voice acting at the beginning of Two Worlds is absolutely atrocious, I do 
 enjoy the fact that my character talks to me during the game and apprises me of environmental situations. 
 Hell let me know if there is an enemy nearby or if an interesting item is on a person I just slashed 
 in half with my saber. Aside from that, the commentary provides relief from the near-death quietness 
 of a lone adventurer walking through the woods. One of my chief complaints about Oblivion was the 
 abysmal amount of weaponry and armor available. In Two Worlds, these options seem almost endless. 
 Furthermore, I like the idea of being able to level up an item by combining an item you have in 
 your inventory with the same item you just picked off your latest killing. I felt the weaponry 
 system in Oblivion was flawed. Why should I have to wait five levels to use a particular sword? 
 Shouldnt I be able to choose which giver of death I want my character to be equipped with? And 
 why shouldnt that weapon level with me? The horse your character can ride on doesnt seem to have 
 a death wish like the stupid ones in Elder Scrolls. Why were NPCs attacking my horse in Oblivion 
 when I was 10 feet away from it? Pretty stupid when the Unicorn in Oblivion seems to live harmoniously 
 amongst the other creatures. In Two Worlds, at least the horse gets out of the way and isnt being 
 ravaged by every beast that passes by.
  
  The biggest disappointment for me was that I expected Two Worlds to look as environmentally polished 
 as Oblivion. Its not even close. And the on screen text is barely readable. Nevertheless, this 
 game still provides some fun open-ended game play, and I enjoy being able to roam the countryside 
 picking and choosing which side quest I will tackle next. There are some great ideas in Two Worlds 
 and it is a great experience so long as youre not comparing it every step of the way to Oblivion. 
 Games like Oblivion are like really, really great movies. They just dont happen that often. But, 
 if youre looking for an entertainment experience, Two Worlds is a great bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcb333
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good if you take it for what it is and not what everybody wanted it to be, ie.. 
 oblivion part deux. Yeah I was let down when I first played it, but the more I played the more 
 addicted I became. I would recomend to any rpg fan. It may not have all the flashy graphics but 
 it's still a good game. Anyone who just disdmissed the game was either looking to fail it or not 
 an rpg fan. I havn't tried the online part, not exactly what I was looking for. Would have been 
 cool if you could do the main quest online. Oblivion wasn, t online and it did very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pachacafe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a remarkable, if slightly flawed, achievement. Keep in mind this is an ambitious 
 game from a second tier publisher. The lack of development resources shows in the final product 
 that was not fully optimized for the 360 and can be a little buggy at times.
  
  With the above in mind I love this game. The fact that my character (and my horse (s) ) have personalities 
 distinct from my own is a plus. Its like playing out an epic action movie.
  
  The world in vast, lush, and much more populated that the big name (Bethesda) RPG which I invested 
 the better part of 100 hours playing. I will deduct for the pop-up effect on some terrain which 
 is my only real gripe with the game engine.
  
  Other pros: So much to do. So many BIG, cool looking, monsters to trap and slay. So much visual 
 variety in the world. And, best of all, no load times when entering most interiors or cities. Gates 
 and doors just open and let you in. This seamless aspect really draws me into the world when I 
 play.
  
  Cons: Pop-up. Poor Lip-syncing. The quest screen is very poorly organized. The map is confusing. 
 For these inexcusable mistakes I took away a point.
  
  Rent it. You may just like it. Its worthy of your time. Besides, what RPG are you going to play 
 until Mass Effect is released??? (unless, of course, youre a JRPG fan) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok... where to start....
  
  First of all I went into this game knowing some of the bad vibes its been getting but determined 
 to give it a good try as many things about the game looked appealing. Im not going to drag the 
 review out but I will make a few upfront things clear before giving my opinion.
  
  First of all I played the game on a 32' HD tv at 1080i. I also played it for about 3 hours. I just 
 wanted to make it clear how I was seeing and how long I gave it.
  
  This game is a huge disappointment. People may be able to twist it saying the game is great if 
 you give it time or that every game doesnt need to be perfect etc. But this game just smells of 
 a rushed and un-tested game. Ill just highlight the different issues I had with the game.
  
  - Voice acting as everyone has said is horrible. Its not funny horrible either. You know what 
 it sounds like? It sounds like some really bad theatre actors reading the lines for the first time 
 and they just said Perfect its a wrap! . The lines are delivered terrible and there are even mispronounced 
 lines. One line for instance a farmer says something about bandits wanting is Corral but the actor 
 pronounces it Coral . Just silly.
  
  - Graphics are only decent in presentation. Some nice lighting effects and a few decent animations 
 but not up to recent game standards.
  
  However.... I could have lived with the voice overs and I could have lived with the only decent 
 graphics. What I can live with is choppy performance. The game does that thing where every 5 seconds 
 it hitches almost like you would get in the old days when playing an online game on a bad connection. 
 It unacceptable.
  
  Plus on top of that..... it then loads and pauses for that every 100 yards it seems. The story line 
 is confusing and not interesting. Combat is barely interesting as well.
  
  This game is just a huge disappointment. It really smells of a game that needed about 3 months 
 in a GOOD QA company to fix all the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red1_1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok... so i got this game yesterday put it in and i had some fun playing around with the customization 
 to make my guy look just right.... Now lets get on with the review, oh yeah and i cant put the game 
 down cause its very addicting!!!!
  
  Pros:
  Very Addicting
  Good skill system
  Reminds me of diablo2
  Fun combat system (i cannot tell you how many times Dodge has saved my 
 ass from imminent doom)
  Lots!!!! of weapons and armor lots!!!!
  Lots of fighting
  Lots of fun dugeon crawling (good loot in there)
  Fun alchemy system
  Awesome magic
  Cool 
 looking swords/armor
  Horse combat
  Dragons :)
  FUN!!!!
  Decent storyline
  Lots of quests
  Online is fun
  Decent music
  
  Cons:
  Some bad voice acting (doesnt hinder 
 gameplay)
  Little hard at first
  Some frame issues (i havent encountered many
  Quest log is a bit difficult at first
  Getting killed is never fun : (
  Magic was confusing 
 at first (i understand it now)
  Some bad sound affects (doesnt hinder gameplay)
  
  Getting lost (i suck at navigation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgevo
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  pros: Alot of potential here it looked good after the HORRIBLE INTRO an i mean horrible they look 
 like a 1st time 3d max or maya user rendered his 1st project for class. i mean sometimes there 
 lips closed from left to right its like wtf.. but after that the textures and the talking actually 
 looked good (in game) I dont know why they would render that an then have the in game graphics 
 better
  
  addicting... no joke it reminds me of fable with oblivion.
  
  cons: ok well to start the intro wtf was that
  
  menu glitches and ugly... its annoying but 
 all they need to do is patch it
  
  bad voice overs... and lame ass sounds... but thats something u could live with
  
  but my biggest 
 deal was the frames ... i am serious offline its horrible an online its even worse... after a few 
 hours of play i brought this back to gamestop an they gave me a full refund because the manager 
 said the game is soo bad that no one should have to deal with it so they are refunding everyone. 
 i heard that it plays alot better on 720 and SD tvs i got a 1080 so i am not sure if thats true 
 but i seriously couldn't take it i mean yea oblivion had some frame rate problems but this is crazy...
 
  
  basically if u want a game like oblivion with the looks of fable and u can handle the frame rate 
 then get it even with all the bad it seemed good but i couldn't handle it. Hopefully they will 
 patch the frame rate an the menu an i would surely buy this game again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffstl
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Go play Sacred for the PC. This game is exactly like Sacred. Except Sacred was a much much better 
 game. So what's wrong with this game?
  
  The voice acting is funny at first, then you just turn off the sound and read the text boxes. Fighting 
 is fun once you figure it out, however a block button instead of a jump back button would have 
 been a really simple addition to make it way more fun. The map system is terrible and hard to navigate. 
 I had to play for about 5 hours before I figured out that it's easier to do one quest at a time 
 (and who wants to do one at a time?) . If you only do one quest at a time it is much easier to tell 
 what is going on and where you are supposed to go. The mini map is so pointless they shouldn't 
 have even added it. The camera is also terrible. You will be fighting a pack of wolves and all 
 the sudden your jumping one way and turning the camera another way, you can't tell what is up and 
 what is down and then you die. The character creation system is terrible. The inventory is not 
 only hard to navigate, but also very hard to read (I have a 56 LCD) . The stacking system sounds 
 cool, but rarely do you stack items together. When you do stack items, they are still worthless. 
 It's not like a sword that does 8-11 damage becomes a sword that does 11-15 damage. It just says 
 you have a lvl 2 sword that does 8-11 damage. What's the point? Your better off to drop both crappy 
 items and pick up one better one. Every character you come across highlights in red so you have 
 no idea who is friend or foe. So if you want to hit someone from afar with an archer..... to bad, 
 you better go up and make sure it's an enemy. The horse riding system is awful. Absolutely awful!!!!!! 
 it is way easier to walk, and I mean WAY easier. If you jump on the horse get ready to have no 
 control of how fast or where you go. You can also expect to run right into a tree at the same time 
 10 wolves sneak up on you. Don't worry, it will be impossible to jump off the horse and you will 
 die. The good thing about this game is that it is an open world action RPG, and that's pretty much 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunkel25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I was a little unsure of Two Worlds when I first got it, mainly because of the poor user reviews 
 it was getting here on Gamespot. However, I was really looking forward to it based on the previews 
 and had already purchased it, so figured I'd give it a chance. I'm glad I ignored the naysayers 
 and put some time into it. This is a great game and if you pass it up because of a few bad reviews, 
 it's your loss.
  
  I understand that a lot of people were upset for two reasons...1) the multiplayer is not working 
 and 2) this isn't Oblivion 2. Yes, the mp needs help... it really is unplayable. This is something 
 that will get fixed, however, so don't let it scare you off. When it gets working, it will basically 
 be a modern version of Diablo, which is definitely a good thing. And even the great Oblivion needed 
 some work after it was released, so, while frustrating, this is hardly a fatal flaw. Now, the inevitable 
 comparisons to Oblivion... if some of you will recall, Oblivion took a beating wtih a lot of fans 
 because it was not Morrowind 2. Get over it... it is a different game. Lashing out with ridiculous 
 attacks on Two Worlds because it is not Oblivion is childish and immature, just as the attacks 
 on Oblivion because it was not Morrowind. Even more so, actually, since this is a totally seperate 
 game and not a sequel. But, just for the record, let's see how it does stack up to the great TES 
 IV: Oblivion:
  
  Graphics: perhaps not as polished, but hardly PS1 or PS2-like. To make these claims is just ridiculous. 
 The game looks fine. There are slight framerate issues and some of the menus have smaller than 
 I would have liked items, but it's hardly gamebreaking. The characters looks great, the views are 
 amazing, and the landscapes really do look almost photo-realistic at times. They perhaps are not 
 bleeding edge state of the art, but they do nothing to detract from the game. Yes, Oblivion looks 
 great, but if OB graphics are a 10, TW isn't anything less than an 8 or 9.
  
  Combat system: Take your pick, neither is significantly better or worse. Both are basically button 
 mashers, although TW does have a dodge button, which is nice. Magic system: Eh, have to give the 
 nod to Oblivion... the TW system is a little clunky and not nearly as customizable as OB. You can 
 tweak your spells a bit, and there are a bunch of them spread out over 5 different schools, but 
 you can't truly create your own spells. Still, it's a solid system, and works once you get used 
 to it.
  
  Levelling system: TW is more of a traditional RPG system, driven by XP and spreading out your earned 
 attribute and skill points in the areas that you would like to improve. There are no classes, per 
 se, but the skill points are somewhat limited, so you do need to pick an area to specialize in 
 or you will be in trouble later in the game. Even if you mess up, though, there are special mages 
 that can make you forget your skills and allow you re-allocate them if you decide you'd rather 
 specialize in water instead of fire magic, for example. OB, of course, has a use-based levelling 
 system, which works just fine, as well. It's a matter of preference. I will point out that there 
 is level scaling in both games, but it's to a very minor extent in TW... the available armor gets 
 better as you level up and some of the enemies get a little tougher, and some of the rewards for 
 quests seem to improve if you do them as a level 20 as opposed to a level 5 or so. However, whereas 
 in OB, it's nearly gamebreaking and it took the player modding community to fix it, it works just 
 fine in TW.
  
  Story: Both games have standard fantasy fare. Personally, I think Morrowind beats both games in 
 terms of story, but whatever... it's how the story is told that's important, not what the story 
 is, exactly. Multiplayer: Um... even if TW mp isn't quite working right now, it soon will be, and 
 it's something that Oblivion has no counter to.
  
  Overall impression: Two Worlds is not as poslished as Oblivion, granted. However, OB was polished 
 almost to the point where it lost a lot of personality and originality. They tried to hard to appeal 
 to the mainstream, that they lost a lot of what made Morrowind great. Two Worlds manages to capture 
 solid, traditional RPG action, while being accessible enough to casual games to go mainstream, 
 if people give it a chance.
  
  Is Two Worlds perfect? Of course not... it has flaws, as does any game, including Oblivion and Morrowind 
 (one of my top 5 games of all time, btw) , but honestly, there are no flaws that prevent me from 
 having fun with the game, which is really the point, isn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_Sentry
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting a new and rejuvenating look at action adventure RPGs. How wrong was 
 I? Immediately after starting up the game, the character set up was very lack lustre, having very 
 limited hair style choices and body modifications. Worse off yet, was the fact that you couldn't 
 even be a female character. The graphics slashed my eyes and made them burn with the horrid and 
 blockish look. Once in town, the characters that spoke, seemed as though they had their voices 
 blasting from an unknown location and blabbed their mouths around unaware of the terrible voice 
 syncing. After the beginning cut scenes, I was only hoping that the gameplay would blow me away. 
 Again... wrong. Immediately after taking a few steps, the frame rate proved to be disastrous. The 
 combat style is sluggish and lacks any imagination. After 10 minutes of playing I had to turn it 
 off and deal with a huge headache that the game had given me. Do not deal with this rot. The develops 
 rushed this game, regardless of how long it was in progress for, it was rushed. The overall outcome 
 of this game will result in headaches and eye glass prescriptions for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimstoned
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  At first , I'll admit I was like wtf! Because the opening cutseen was terrible and the the voice 
 acting for the first few hours was weak. The menus and things felt hard to use. I was thinking 
 this game wasn't that great . But I did not give up on it. And I'm glad I didn't.
  
  Once you get deeper into the game the voice acting gets better. The menus and options are actually 
 great. The gameplay is fun. The stories are interesting. This is now one of my altime favorite 
 games. And thats saying something. check my gamer card. ( I play allot of friggen games) . I would 
 recommend this game to anyone. but your first impression well prolly not be good. This game takes 
 time. But i find it hard to believe anyone that does give it a chance would give this game a low 
 score. Its a really great game. There is just so much to it. So many things to do and try. If you 
 like rpgs its up there with the very best in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfxarts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  You've all heard how horrible Two Worlds is. I rented the game instead of buying it because of 
 all these opinions. Now I've played the game for a solid 8 hours in the single player story and 
 I have to talk about it.
  
  First of all the game is so fun. I can't stop playing it. I'm so addicted I skipped class today. 
 I'll tell you why in a second, but first I have to tell you why people don't like it???
  
  If you don't read anything else.. read this!!! Graphix Graphics GFX!! People out there with their 
 HD TV's are just having a hard time believing that these kind of gfx are coming out of their 360. 
 Now, dont get me wrong. Screenshots and stills look great in this game. The problem is the framerate 
 and animation quality. They got a bit caught up trying to prevent you from having to experience 
 loading time that they sacraficed framerate. The result is that the game just doesn't look smooth. 
 Even when you slowly pan the camera around it seems choppy. I swear it hurt my eyes the first 10 
 minutes. I'm not kidding. Also, the characters faces are not all that great. So how can I even 
 like this game?
  
  It has the elements of an OPEN RPG that really keep me coming back. Fun leveling/loot system.. 
 good story.. huge open world. The main element that is lacking is that character creation is very 
 limited.
  
  The leveling system is a lot like Elder Scrolls. You get XP for lock picking, defeating enemies 
 and such. However, you're not getting xp every single time you hit something. It's more traditional 
 in that the enemy has to be defeated. It's really not THAT hard. I only died a handfull of times 
 so far and that's because I didn't know how to use the jump back button. Trust me.. it's like the 
 parry for Oblivion. If you don't know how to jump back you'll get beat down pretty hard. Just watch 
 for your enemy to start it's attack and then jump back.. even if you're in the middle of an attack.
 
  
  The attack system isn't quite as advanced as oblivion. However, it's really not THAT different. 
 You pull the right trigger to attack with your equiped weapon and pull the left trigger for the 
 hotkeys. Remember that you set your hotkey by finding the item, spell or whatever in your menu 
 and holding down the D PAD and pulling the left trigger. The main difference is that you can't 
 control how hard you swing with a melee weapon.. AND shooting is 3rd person autotargeting instead 
 of first person aiming. Falling down happens some times.. you have disarming.. stunning.. blinding.. 
 all that. One aspect that Two Worlds is BEtter than Oblivion is that you can hit more than one 
 enemy with a swing! I've hit like 5 skeletons with a single swipe of a longsword before. There 
 are so many creative spells and traps that you can use too.. I saw one spell that was something 
 like, puts a wall of fire between you and your enemy. I need to try some of that stuff. You also 
 have a lot of skills that you can develop like in Oblivion. Extras that go on top of your effectiveness. 
 FOr instance you can learn to pull back farther on a bow .. develop combat on your horse.. put 
 points into critical strike for a melee weapon.. each type of attack has many different skills 
 to choose from. Magic users have to be trained in a certain school and then they can raise up that 
 school with skill points.. They learn spells buy buying cards instead of scrolls . Another cool 
 thing is that you can buy these spell boosting cards.. you have empty slots in the menu next to 
 each school of magic that you've learned.. and you can pick which school of magic you want the 
 cards to boost. Say you like to heal yourself but don't want it to cost as much mana.. you can 
 put a mana cost reduction card in that slot. The game also makes you specialize by forcing you 
 to wear armor that is restricted by your style of play. For instance.. if you've put points in 
 Strength and not will power.. there are robes you can't wear. The magic robes are sometimes even 
 specialized by the school of magic that you know. Anyway, I'm just saying that the items/combat 
 system is a bit more complexed than people are suggesting. I'm playing an archer btw.
  
  The story is still mysterious to me right now. I have lots of unanswered questions. The dialog 
 isn't that bad either. I think it's just so easy to make fun of voice acting so everybody does 
 it. Yeah, it's not cool.. people talking in a video game is always cheesy.. but I don't mind the 
 old english style they employed. At least it's not boring English. The characters use some funny 
 words.
  
  I'm level 18 or so.. and it's kinda like MOrrowind in that I feel like I can kill anything, but 
 every once in a while you'll run into a group of new enemies that suprised me. I've been exploring 
 deeper today to try to find some things that are too hard. I have no idea what the online is like. 
 I'll have to try it soon. I'm just enjoying the single player so much.
  
  Don't expect Oblivion smooth graphix and tons of minigames. This is an old style RPG that's much 
 more like Morrowind than Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torino113
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Bought it yesterday, played about 4 hours last night.
  
  (Edit: Further review at the bottom)
  
  I'm not sure where to begin, this game is such a mixed 
 bag. Guess I'll do the ol' good/bad routine:
  
  Many of the various components appear to be strongly influenced by past games. For example, the 
 inventory system has a strong Diablo II influence, particularly the items, and the way those items 
 can be modified.
  
  The magic system appears to have a strong collectible trading-card game influence. You appear to 
 have several catagories of magic spell cards (Air, Fire, etc etc) and several slots for active 
 spell cards. There also appears to be several slot for modifier cards to be played off said active 
 spells.
  
  There's an alchemy system reminiscent of Morrowind or Oblivion. Basically you put several potion 
 ingredients in the pot and click the button. If you make a potion, you have to option to save that 
 combination as a recipe, in a list below the pot.
  
  There are shrines in-game where a dead player is automagically resurrected. These appear to have 
 been directly ripped from an alternate dimension's Ultima game (that our universe never got to 
 see) .
  
  Not only that, but the 'you're about to die' incidental music is strongly reminiscent of one of 
 Ultima VII's 'danger' themes.
  
  The graphics are fair to good, but to coin a phrase, the game doesn't do the screenshots justice. 
 
  
  The environment is typically beautiful. Appears to be a fair variety of wildlife to abuse.
  
 
  The gameplay when out in the wilds, exploring, fighting and whatnot, is fun and I can see it becoming 
 addictive.
  
  Lockpicking appears simplistic, click a locked container, and your skill is checked against the 
 lock's rating, provided you have lockpicks.
  
  Merchant interaction's pretty good, but I would have appreciated a sales confirmation dialog before 
 I accidentally sold something.
  
  Now for the bad:
  
  If I had to name one thing, just one thing, that keeps me questioning my purchase, it would be 
 the voice acting.
  
  Bad isn't a strong enough word. Nor is Horrible or Atrocious .
  How about Torturous ?
  
  I mean, come on! Were Phyllis Diller, Bill Shatner and Gary Coleman 
 busy that day? The automated attendant on most large company's phone systems could have done a 
 better job. The closest analogy I can think of is The Cerebral Injury Players rendition of Hamlet 
 , as performed by Animatronic Mimes.
  
  My character would deliver his monotonic monologue, while crossing his eyes and doing 'the robot'. 
 This is made doubly worse by how seriously the game takes itself. Methinks Forsooth etc etc... 
 I think you get the picture, so I'm going to stop while I'm ahead.
  
  Your character will also make random commentary during gameplay, for example it starts raining, 
 your character might say great.... or lovely weather... which would be ok but again the horrible 
 voicing. Or a misplaced Wow, this looks interesting! when you just looted something decidedly un-interesting.
 
  
  Interface is a little clunky, but survivable. The manual is of limited help, many of the screens 
 features aren't explained at all, and one has to resort to common-sense guesswork on some of the 
 stats/icons mean.
  
  The overall feel is that I just payed for a beta or proof-of-concept product.
  
  I would agree 
 with a previous reviewer to rent first, and see if you can survive the voice acting, as the rest 
 of the game appears to me to be between ok and good.
  
  I'm giving this one a seven for a decent gameplay experience, but subtracting two for the voice 
 acting. Tarzan could have loaned Cheetah to South Peak, and the voiceovers would have been better.
 
  
  (Edit: After another 4 hour session, I want to add that as another reviewer noted, the voice acting 
 does appear to get a LITTLE better, on the part of the other characters, but the player&acute; s 
 character continues to deliver his lines like a marionette. The gameplay gets more addicting as 
 you go along, and I&acute; ll stand by my opinion that someone interested in this game should rent 
 it first, to make sure the misc. issues aren&acute; t going to put them off.
  
  This game does have some frame rate issues, lousy acting, and a somewhat clunky interface.
  
 
  Overall, I&acute; d say it&acute; s release was premature, it could have stood as much as another 
 year to iron out the issues.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablomarques
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I loved oblivion (its hard not to instantaneously associate both games) and I wanted something 
 else to play after I had finished almost all quests of the Scrolls and the Shivering Islands.
 
  
  Needless to say it was a long wait for me on Two Worlds, I read all the previews and news and was 
 really tracking this one. After the latest preview (very favorable to the game) from Gamespot I 
 thought the wait was not in vein. So the first day the game was out I made sure I got my collectors 
 edition. And here is where the nightmare starts.
  
  One of the things I love the most is the ritual of opening a new game, going to trough the print 
 material (manuals, booklets and so forth) and watching the intros. Two Worlds CE (75 bucks) comes 
 in a decently well finished packaging but the content of the booklets sacred me right away, poorly 
 drawn stuff, a logo that looks a lot like the WOW logo, a shallow and arguably useless table top 
 rpg and a second disc I haven't had the courage to watch yet.
  
  Oh well, they don't know the first thing about game companions I thought, But well, f*** it, lets 
 see what the game looks like 
  
  Again, the worst first impression possible. The character creator is deceptively shallow. You are 
 restrict to a male human, you can't use a Black hair color, you cant have black skin and everything 
 else is just meant to give you the illusion that you are creating something when you are actually 
 just customizing to a very limited extent the pre existing main character. Not to talk about the 
 interface, which I will skip because this one deserved a review of its own. Lets just say that 
 not having confirmation points and overlaping transparent help menus that hides whatever you want 
 to read is not a very user friendly way of designing a interface.
  
  So after all the struggle to create a character, I start the darned game. (believe me, at this 
 point i was already disappointed but still believing that the game was worth the problems) .
  
  Wait. Come one. Are you serious?! You are kidding me right? - Those were my thoughts and possibly 
 words to my own after realizing that after the whole problematic experience I had to customize 
 my character... the Intro movie (not cinematic, but rather using the real time game engine) does 
 not consider my customization and uses the generic main guy avatar who suddenly transforms into 
 your version of the guy once you start playing. Confusing right? Yeah, it was confusing for me 
 too.
  
  Well, from there on it was pure downhill. And here is a list of laughable things about this game:
 
  
  - Horrible animation. Really laughable. (lips movement are a joke) . A single face of one single 
 character in Oblivion shows more talent then this whole game. And believe me, I dont think oblivion 
 is a very well animated game.
  
  - Graphics looks like PS1 or like very bad PS2 game.
  
  - Interface design is a real MESS. I wonder if the person who design this interfaces have ever 
 done anything like this in the past.
  
  - The blood. Oh man. Seriously. Shame on you. - The story and dialogues. I dont know what to say 
 about this one. Seeing is believing.
  
  - The frameHATE. Come on. Does south peak at least have a QA department?
  
  Well, I could go 
 on and on and on and on... But my advice for you is, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. You will regret deeply.
 
  
  I never wrote a game review before and i believe that the above text clearly shows. But do not 
 let my poorly written review deceive you. This game is really a very awful game. It has no business 
 in being on the shelves right now and its definitely not worth your time neither your money.
  
  Stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migi1688
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  this game was a complete letdown dont buy it for the xbox360 the lag is way too much u wont play 
 it for more then 20 mins complete waiste of time, u wont even have the ergue to keep playing with 
 so many other games out there.
  
  The game starts off good leading you up to maybe this game is going to be good,
  
  IT felt 
 like a midevil grandtheftauto sounds good,
  
  BUt the lag in this game ruins it make u get back turning every corner And with that dont buy this 
 game dont even rent it, its not worth it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedgem
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  First off the frame-rate. The frame rate is horrible, and is only comparable to Oblivion like this: 
 the times when it would skip in Oblivion every now and then happen all the time, and are followed 
 by even longer skips that are more frequent than in Oblivion.
  
  Graphics. Looks pretty, and if all you want to do is stop your character and look at the scenery, 
 then that's great. The character models are ugly, and the detail on stuff when you get close up 
 is blurry. The character 'customization' is a joke. What shade of white would you like your character 
 to be?
  
  Sound. I found that the music was kind of muted and the voicework is crap. I'm sorry but every 
 person I talked to and especially the main character sounded as robotic as they looked. Controls. 
 Awful. You can't even walk backwards. If you can then I don't know how because there is no in-game 
 tutorial to speak of.
  
  The map and inventory systems are convoluted and not user friendly and this is not helped the aforementioned 
 lack of tutorial. This game should have been awesome. You put it on and you think it will be, for 
 some they can overlook the over unfinishedness of this game, and good for them, but I just did 
 not have the patience. I may have spent more time with it if it weren't for the horrible horrible 
 skipping. That was what made me give up on it completely. Do not buy this game without renting 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gawain07
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  What a disappoinment!! I had such big hopes for this game and bought it the day it arrived in the 
 store. From the first screen my expectations began to crash. I can't stress enough how terrible 
 the acting and dialogue is. Then I tried to kill a boar. The camera angles are so bad you can't 
 even tell where you are swinging. So then I tried to equip items.... I couldn't even read, much 
 less understand the menu interface. Before I bought it, I kept hearing wonderful things about the 
 graphics. Maybe there great compared to my old Atari but this just doesn't live up to a 360 game. 
 Seriously I tried to like it -- for $60 I felt I HAD to like it -- but gameplay is just plain painful!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyKrivan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Sure there are some people that hate this game. That is because they didn't give it a real chance. 
 They were thinking they would be getting Oblivion but this isn't any of the Elder Scrolls. It is 
 a much more expansive game and uses everything Oblivion wished it did. You can customize how you 
 fight much easier than in Oblivion. You aren't locked into a label. You actually have a choice. 
 Sure you can't make your character look exactly like you but you can make it fight like you want 
 to. The on-line is great you can lvl up and get better weapons and armor with other people. They 
 can help you out or you can all go your own way. It is all up to you. When people actually sit 
 down and play this I think they will be surprised because it is all that Oblivion promised except 
 for how customized you want your character to look. So if you are in the middle on whether or not 
 you want to buy this game you should rent it and actually put time into it and not pop it in and 
 play for two minutes and say that it sucks because that isn't playing the game that is just pretending. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game was always highly anticpated because it was a rpg for the xbox 360 and it just doesnt 
 have enough of those these days. It was called the oblivion killer yet sadlyon its release date 
 it became a dead game. The developer southpeak seems to be new to the whole gaming unvierise as 
 ive never played or seen a game made by them. This game shows that they were on a low budget as 
 there seems to be alot of frame rate problems, lag problems, and just sme plain freezing going 
 on in this game. IF you can get past all that then the game isnt bad. You play as a guy who you 
 can customize btw but not as much custominzation as in games like oblivion. The game starts you 
 off in a cave where yu learn to fight and open stuff ECT. The action in the game isnt great either 
 but then again i never expected it to be. Dodging, parrying, blocking seems sort of dificult to 
 do which makes the game really hard. You will find when you go up against three wolves after every 
 battle you will have to use one of your potions. The grafics of the characters and the beasts in 
 the world are horrible, yet the landscape is beautiful. I find the enviroments graffics are truly 
 fantastic for a sand box game. The whole inventory, switching spells, switching weapons system 
 is good and the variety of weapons also makes this game ok. The story isnt great but it isnt terrible. 
 The horse riding is what brings down this game alot as well as its really choopy and you horse 
 just doesnt seem to want to do what you want it to do like turn left or right. All in all this 
 game is ok for rpg lovers yet isnt great for anyone else. It is a rent before you buy type of game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musashi82
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Personally I believe this game is growing on me. I have a friend that already has a high level 
 toon on this game and he has shown me the ropes and helped me with some gold issues =P. At first 
 I didn't like the game. From the horrid lag to the crashing and having to re-level a toon from 
 scratch b/c the game froze before I could save it = (. Even with those problems you're talking to 
 a guy who started playing WoW back in the day when loosing toon info and IF lag were a common everyday 
 issues. ( I've been 2 months sober from WoW.. thank God im getting my life back... till halo 3 anyway 
 =P )
  To me this game seems to be like Morrowind more than Oblivion. My reason are these below:
  I 
 was killed by a rat at the beginning of Morrowind when trying to get to the striders lol and in 
 two worlds i found myself getting one shooted by Groms near the starting city in the easy multi-player 
 map (like most real RPGs a booger from a rabbit's nose can kill you) While in oblivion i believe 
 its an everygamer RPG easy to get into by non-RPGers but deep enough to grab real RPGers ( but 
 thats already a known fact)
  At the beginning of two worlds you can't kill hardly anything besides the rabbits outside some 
 of the towns so when i finally was able to kill a whole group of Groms solo I felt a sense of accomplishment 
 while in Oblivion I really didn't feel that... until i did the higher Dark Brotherhood quests ( 
 but thats b/c i love assassinating people =P )
  
  So in other words if you liked Morrowind more than Oblivion ( and I know some people who do) You'd 
 probably like Two worlds but if you expected the Just like Oblivion but with multi-player hype 
 then I'm sorry to disapoint you but its far from that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnumber03
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I am posting this review to have you all avoid spending your hard earned money.
  
  I was very excited to pickup a copy of Two Worlds. I actually found a used copy for purchase, which 
 at the time I questioned since it had only been released the day before. I asked the store clerk 
 why he had a used copy so quickly. He said a couple of kids purchased the game and brought it back 
 within 2 hours. Well, not thinking they had given the game enough time, I went with the purchase. 
 What a HUGE disappointment! I had read articles about the load times in the game and the developers 
 were supposed to have fixed this issue. Apparently not, since simply walking down a path you would 
 have a delay due to loading. The graphics and dialogue are terrible, I thought I was playing a 
 game from 5 years ago, not next gen. The developers tried to copy ideas from the Baldours Gate 
 platform but fell short with the difficult control and the need for a microscope to see the details 
 on the screen and I have a large HDTV so it can't be my TV. The battle is difficult and confusing. 
 No tutorial. What a total set back for an RPG! I am amazed this was sent to production with the 
 glitches.
  
  If you do decide to take a chance on this game, purchase a used copy so it can be returned. Mine 
 has already been returned for a full refund.
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trowa85
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  No part of this game was ready to ship and i have no idea why some one thought is was. Here is 
 a list detailing what is so soooo wrong with this game. And please don't believe this GROWS ON 
 YOU garbage that allot of the other reviews are touting i wasted my one day off last week trying 
 to get into this game and still got nothing good for my time spent. 1) Graphics- The only good point 
 here is the environment which has been from what i can tell, lifted right from elderscrolls and 
 that is where the likeness to oblivion stops. Character models are very jagged and poorly drawn 
 and enemy models a just as poorly detailed, the towns you go into are very plain looking just you 
 run of the mill wooden or stone house you have seen in any B rated fantasy movie or game. None 
 of the building are marked and thus you have no idea if you are going into a shop or a home. And 
 last and certainly least the eye and mouth movements are total random when you are having a dialog 
 with and npc character , its like a spastic extra from a Godzilla move the words don't match to 
 the mouth at all and their eyes drat back and forth.
  
  2) Sound- Again run of the mill. a metal sword makes a clanging sound if it hits something but it 
 hardly does and it would frequently cut out . The constant commentary from your player while in 
 battle is just plain stupid and cheesy and the sound track is very ho-hum. The voice acting while 
 a valiant effort just comes of as overdone too much old English makes the game sound like a lack 
 luster high-school performance of a Shakespearean play
  
  3) Gameplay- The main mechanics like combat, stealth, and magic again are totally stunted the motion 
 capture is the only cool part of the combat and quickly grows old. No variation on swing one combo 
 does it all. And to add the combat feels very disconnected when you land a blow sometimes there's 
 blood sometimes not so it hard to even tell if you are hitting them at all, while your enemies 
 have no problem in laying the ancient smack down on you in a matter of seconds. Now lets talk about 
 casting magic sound fun right and it should be but with Two worlds most convoluted quick select 
 (which by the way not so quick) has u fumbling around to try and find the right spell for what 
 you may be trying to do. Now the stealth is sooooo poor its sad, while shivving someone in the 
 back is well OK its not a novel idea but its still cool none the less. The stealth system is again 
 broken half the time you cant tell if the person you are trying to shiv is at all aware of you 
 because the icon loves to randomly pull its own stealth move by vanishing .About the only cool 
 thing i can say for this game is the item stacking one can do but that is just a flash in the pan 
 compared to this whole debacle of a game.
  
  4) Overall- This game was spun up I think purposely to ride the coat tails of oblivion but unfortunately 
 for them not even oblivions coattails can pull this piece of dead weight. This game overall needs 
 a few more years in development at a minimum to Polish up allot of its faulty mechanics and graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldsoulco
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Good: better combat system than oblivion, ONLINE PLAY! (it makes the game) , large world to explore, 
 fog of war effect on the map so you know where you have been and where you have not, unique leveling 
 system where you dont choose the class at the character creation screen ( allows a broader range 
 for customization) , Detailed character creation, easy controls, Nice soundtrack, some skill required
 
  
  Bad: most graphics are way out of date for the 360, some animations are jumpy and ridged, cut scenes 
 are boring, voice overs are bland, story is general
  
  Conclusion: this game just has to be tried. Its single player is lacking but it has an 8 player 
 online mode that defiantly saves this game. online will be fun when you go monster hunting with 
 a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofselling
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  if u resist the awful first 2 hours or so it becomes something better, all the negative reviews 
 were from when it FIRST came out, u might not be used to the old language of thouse must' learnt 
 thy ways... to some this must be tourcher... but overall i wouldnt base the game on one rental time... enless 
 u rent it and play for many hours... its a game that gives u plenty to do and many classes u create 
 in doing it... for instance i liked the movie 300... my guy looks like a spartan and has skill points 
 in using spears better... the replay will be exciting as well as u can choose an archer mage... etc 
 so yes suffer through a few hours and see the games real potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastRenshai
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  When you fire up your 360 and first begin the game you might think that this game is sort of weird. 
 I thought so at least. But first impressions can be changed and this game succeeds in doing so. 
 Once you start to learn how to use your inventory, stack weapons, and use skill points wisely you 
 really start to get into character developement. You're like What skill should i raise next time 
 i level?? Lock picking? Fire Magic? or should i save my points up and use them on new skills i 
 learn from a trainer?? Does character developement stop at spending points on skills? No. You start 
 to think about that next badass weapon you can get your hands on. You're a mercenary right? It's 
 only natural that you want to have a badass weapon. But wait you want some awesome armor along 
 with the weapons. You head over to one of the big towns. Whoa 10 shop keepers?? Hell yeah!! More 
 shops. More options. This game offers many quests to complete as well (Story line and side quests) 
 that vary from go kill this group of bandits to go retrieve this item. Options is what this game 
 offers and options is what i was looking for. 9/10 -LastRenshai- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetailGamer
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I think that most will agree you either love it or hate it. After spending time 
 in a store and listening to people berate or praise this game I decided to purchase this one and 
 give it a chance. I must say that if you only play this game for 30 minutes you will most certainly 
 not enjoy it. However if you are at all like myself then you will give it a chance. After about 
 an hour and a half this game is quite enjoyable, despite what I am reading from a lot of my fellow 
 gamers. Unfortunately the industry must cater to everyone and not just one particular gamer. This 
 is not a game that you can simply pick up and play for 20 minutes, you must spend some quality 
 time with it, much like a child. You will get much, much more out of the game.
  I will admit I was a bit frustrated with the frame rate issues and some controls but after using 
 the controls and adapting to the frame rate I can honestly say that anyone who likes the Elder 
 Scroll series will enjoy this game. The Hotkeying is very similar, 8 hotkeys in which you access 
 with your directional pad (360 of course) makes accessing items such as traps and spells very easy. 
 The adventuring is fun as well, much to explore and much to steal, just dont get caught, the city 
 guards are not as forgiving as in Oblivion. The world you are in is very large and there are a 
 ton of weapons and armorwell over 400 pieces of each, this makes for some great game play. With 
 all that being said, at least rent Two Worlds and form your own opinion or buy it used somewhere 
 you can return if you just can not bare it! Play this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coolgamer
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I must say that I didn't enjoy playing Two worlds. The load times even with a hard drive are too 
 frequently. The game seem rushed. I wouldn't want to pay 60 for a game the is only worth 30 at 
 the most. THe voice work is very bad to say the least. I hope the next time they make a Two worlds 
 game they take the time out to work out the bugs before they sell it to the public. Maybe next 
 time they will get it right until then I would not give Two Worlds any thing higher then a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raopferk
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought Two Worlds because it was hyped up to be an instant classic and give Oblivion a run for 
 its money, but just does not stack up. I would say it plays much like a cross between Oblivion 
 and Fable for the original Xbox  unfortunately, it doesnt improve on any features of these game 
 styles, and tanks on its delivery.
  
  CONS
  1. The character-creation screen is a joke. There is no reason to fiddle with your characters 
 appearance at all. You are limited to only a male bounty-hunter. Your selections are few, and what 
 sliders are there dont do much. For example, when changing your eye color, you can pick from 6 
 shades of brown.
  2. The voice-overs and script are very poorly done. I hate to use the word cheesy, but I will. 
 You will tire of hearing alas and pray in every sentence used by your main character. I found 
 myself laughing at the script instead of being drawn into the main story.
  3. The battle system is a joke. All you do is press the right trigger. There is no block button. 
 There really isnt a great way to strategize your attacks on your enemies, and no combos or special 
 attacks. Just hit and run. Its a bitter disappointment. Dying is common in the game, and it warps 
 you to a spot to revive, sometimes quite far from where you were in a region you havent explored 
 yet. 4. Leveling up only allows you to improve on four major attributes. Not that this is bad in 
 and of itself, but compared to Oblivion, the game its trying to be, its a joke.
  5. The inventory screen is confusing and clumsy. You can run out of space before having too much 
 weight on your character. A sorted list of your items, easily categorized, would have been much 
 better and more practical. 6. The map is tricky to use, and the navigating the quest log requires 
 an advanced degree. They are not done well, and hard to navigate and use.
  7. The graphics aren't bad, but they dont seem next-generation. I would compare them to an Xbox 
 or late generation PS2 game. I expected better with the Xbox 360 technology.
  8. The frame-rate isnt good. Though you can move seamlessly into and out of different environments, 
 the game pauses and freezes too often when doing so.
  9. Story seemed choppy and hard to get into. Hard to know what to do next and where to go. See 
 #6.
  10. Items in the inventory all look the same. Its easy to come across new gear very early in 
 the game and money is too easy to come by.
  11. The text is ridiculously small and difficult to see, especially if you dont have HD. 12. Is 
 there a reason to play it online? The 1P game isnt that fun, so why share in it with others?
 
  
  PROS
  1. Decent magic system and cool use of spell cards. Spell creation a good idea.
  2. Good background music and soundtrack. 3. Combining weapons is a cool feature  this should be 
 hashed out more.
  4. Fighting on horseback is another cool feature.
  5. Reputation is another decent feature and affects the world around you.
  6. Huge world to explore, 
 cool environments, lots of weapon and armor varieties.
  
  Two Worlds wants to do what Oblivion did, but didnt innovate enough nor build on what Elder Scrolls 
 accomplished  it took a huge step backwards in both design, practicality and fun-factor. Basically, 
 it attempts a lot of things but does none of them well. Overall, I give the game a generous score 
 of 4.0. Its playable, but not addicting enough to urge you to keep going and finish the game, 
 and if you manage to that, I find it hard to believe there would be any replay value. It does not 
 set a new standard for RPGs, and its not Oblivion on steroids as the box says. I would call 
 it Oblivions disabled baby-brother.
  
  If you are fan of RPGs and MUST have an RPG for the 360, rent it first. Otherwise, leave this on 
 the shelf and save your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Cruxis_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I heard all of the complaints about how 'bad' this game is, but I still played it. I can see where 
 people are coming from, especially if they had high expectation. Personally, I haven't had any 
 framerate issues, just the typical wolf running on a cave ceiling, or a hovering rabbit. I was 
 disappointed with the customizable options of your characters physical features, but I found myself 
 in so much armor that it didn't matter after awhile. There are a ton of armor, weapons, spells, 
 etc. I do like stacking items atop each other to improve their stats. So if you have two heavy 
 grom sheilds, you can combine them to make a new and improved heavy grom sheild. Adding elemnts 
 to items are helpful as well. The stoyline is pretty basic, but I definately don't care about it. 
 I find myself solving hilarious or challening sidequest more than progressing the storyline. Exploring 
 the world is entertaining enough for me. It's a huge world, containing more creatures than the 
 Elder Scrolls game. Personally, I prefer this game over Oblivion. I know I will probably get bored 
 with Two Worlds after awhile, just like I do with the Elder Scrolls games, but I find Two Worlds 
 to be more entertaining than Oblivion. So far I haven't had a good experience with the multiplayer. 
 I find it hard to stay connected to the server, granted I don't have a superior internet connection. 
 I see really good potential for the multiplayer if the connectivity issues can be resolved. Two 
 Worlds doesn't really bring anything mind blowing to the table, but it still satisfies the hunger 
 in my stomach. Overall, I believe this game to be something that is underappreciated for what it 
 is. If you feel like playing this game, but don't want a long term relationship, at least rent 
 it. I feel it is worth playing for any rpg fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChainsawChief
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when the TWO WORLDS came out for the 360. I popped it in had fun creating potions 
 going to different cities and killing monsters. Then i started playing multiplayer and had fun 
 for about six hours. Hears the Goods and bads.
  
  GOOD: It's fun killing your enemies with up to eight friends online. The story starts off nicely 
 and keeps you going for a day or two. Plenty of customization for your character. Plenty of room 
 for killing monsters and exploring new cities and locations.
  
  BAD: It is hard to notice the lagging and glitches online. Some of the WORST voice acting ever. 
 But the big bad for me was that they made it to big, If you don't follow the roads and explore 
 the wilderness you're only going to find lots of wolves, trees, grass, and a lot empty space. If 
 you are a fan of OBLIVION then you will most likely hate this game, fans of DIABLO 2 might enjoy 
 this or might not enjoy it. So I conclude that if you are interested in playing this game rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanlyger
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Like many, I had the highest of hopes for 'Two Worlds'.
  
  Yet, I quickly found myself thanking my lucky stars that I only rented the game.
  
  'Two Worlds' 
 has some good things in it, but you have to wade through a choppy framerate, ugly visuals, terrible 
 voice acting and dialogue, and lame horseriding controls to get to it.
  
  Granted the game has some cool environmental effects, the reputation system works well and there 
 are hundreds of weapons, spells, and armors to chose from.
  
  The saving grace for the title is that it is strangely addictive.
  
  It seems that people are 
 willing to overlook it's obvious shortcomings and keep playing.
  
  To each his own, I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This games IS indeed good. Not 10 good, I just said that to get your attention. But it is good. 
 I've played it for a few hours and I completely expected it to suck after reading all these bad 
 reviews... but, to my surprise, but not dismay, this game is pretty good.
  The graphics aren't 360 quality... they're regular-Xbox-ish. Not so great, but, who ever bought 
 a game for graphics? No big deal.
  The voice acting... it sucks. I mean, it's pathetic. But, again, who ever bought a game for voices? 
 They're bad, yes, but sometimes it's funny to hear them suck so much.
  
  People dislike this game because of the crappy graphics, poor voices, and wierd framerate. I experienced 
 some jumps for the first ten minutes and I've been fine ever since, the graphics aren't too bad, 
 they're just not perfect, and the voices suck enough that they're entertaining.
  
  The game isn't as complex as people say, though I was befuddled by the back-show instructions thing 
 until I realized Hey! There's a back button on my controller. I felt stupid. The controls are simple, 
 and so is the level-system, so there really is no need for a thorough tutorial.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer because THE AMERICAN SERVER ISN'T UP... Which means it's bound 
 to suck now.
  
  The character-making was the only thing I hated.... It's really too simple... and you can't really 
 change much.
  
  What I liked: The games enormous!!! Everything else is just what you'd expect from a normal RPG. 
 It's not Oblivion, it's just standard. There are some messed up things, but not much, and the good 
 balances it out.
  
  THE GAME IS NOT PERFECT! THE GAME IS NOT CRAP!
  People who say it sucks haven't played it for more than an hour and expected it to be the god of 
 all games. Which is pretty stupid.
  
  I like the game because I played it for more than a half-minute... I like the game because I expected 
 it to be a regular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OperatorBen
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased Two Worlds, I expected it to be a fun game, and almost as good as Oblivion. I 
 turned out to be wrong in both of my expectations- it is a boring game and doesn't even come close 
 to touching oblivion. I will outline a few key reasons for my opinion below. The graphics suck. 
 The thing that struck me was that the blood looks like two-dimensional flying paint. Also, the 
 anti-aliasing was horrible. The terrain and buildings look as if they were created under the limitations 
 of the old Xbox.
  
  The dialogue in the game was the cheesiest I have ever seen. It completely distracted me from the 
 main plot, which I never understood to begin with.
  
  In most games, combat is something I look forward to. This is not true in Two Worlds. With no block 
 button, all combat was governed by one button for attack, the right trigger. This made for extremely 
 boring and one-dimensional combat.
  
  The only good aspect of the game is the fact that there are no load screens, but before you get 
 too excited, the game commonly freezes. In conclusion, if you like animation-quality graphics, 
 boring combat, uninspiring A. I., and a bad plot, Two Worlds is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggerpance
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first put the game in, i was really disappointed. Then I forced myself to play it again 
 and I'm hooked. It plays a lot like Diablo and I think my original problem with it was that I just 
 havent seen many games like this on consoles. I'm so used to everything being first person, I forgot 
 what it was that made me love Diablo and games of that ilk. Its the RPG element of it. Once you 
 start leveling or improving weapons you ant to see what the next level will be like. This game 
 isn't gonna blow you away with its graphics or storytelling. But it you give it a chance, it's 
 pretty good. But i do keep losing my horse. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edclerk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and slowdown are one of the main problems with the game. It loads a lot and has some 
 glitchy areas. The story is pretty forgettable and the voice acting is horrible. Some of the elements 
 are pretty well done. I like the fighting system a slight bit better than oblivion and i like the 
 fact that i actually have enough mana to cast spells. The stacking of items is pretty neat, but 
 don't get to carried away especially if its something you are gonna sell don't stack it because 
 it lessens the value. The horse riding is pretty terrible so i haven't even bothered with that 
 much. I don't know if you level the skill up a lot is it gets better. This game isn't terrible 
 but it isn't the best either, but i will say that i am having some fun playing it. Kind of like 
 a guilty pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wishkatana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  When I heard all of the bad things about this game, I was skeptic of getting it. But, I have been 
 tracking this game for a long time, and I really wanted to play it even though everyone was saying 
 how horrible it is. Well, to me, this game is SO MUCH FUN! I especially love the skill tree in 
 this game; it makes you feel like each point earned really makes ur character more and more uber. 
 As for the gameplay, I really didn't find that to bad either. sure, it may be simple, but its really 
 fun. I dont get how people could say its so bad... its pretty addicting too. so dont let everyone's 
 bad reviews let them stop you from buying this game, because you will regret no ATLEAST renting 
 it. P. S. there are a lot of bugs in this game though, which is why I gave it a 8.5 instead of a 
 9... also because of the voices, which are GOD AWEFUL. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc741
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll give any game a shot. I tried, I really did, but this game is a monumental failure on every 
 level. It is so bad, I'm sure it has set an industry standard for crappy gaming. Everything is 
 wrong with this game: PS2 graphics, horrible framerate, just plain awful voiceacting, bland environments 
 and every other aspect of the game. Why anyone would ever publish a game like this in this high-def 
 gaming world is beyond me. Do they not have QA people there? If they do, what kind of drugs were 
 they ingesting to give this piece of filth the green light to be shipped? Congrats. You have just 
 created what is sure to be a milestone for bad games. This game is such a waste of resources, I 
 gave it a ranking of 1.0 because the disc spins when you put it in your Xbox. Enjoy the 1.0, Two 
 Worlds, I'm a giver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redt_man
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Ok people this is basically the same review that I wrote before only with a few come-backs to all 
 those ppl that are saying that you should have been expecting a decent game not a remarkable game............ 
 for one --I played this game for a good 5-6 hours before I returned it for a full refund... ya 
 that bad.... the guy at gamespot felt so sorry for causing such a hipe about the game that he gave 
 me a full refund and apologized VERY sincerely... the voice acting is indeed NOT so bad its funny, 
 its pathetic... very pathetic... if you would have recieved as much hype about this game as i did, 
 then you would have been expecting the worlds greatest game as well... i mean come on, didn't the 
 back of the game say oblivion on steroids? and the best rpg since something ? bull.... thats just 
 bull.... ppl, if ppl are giving a game bad reviews, leave it at that, everyone has there own opinions... 
 but its set in stone now.... two worlds is one of the worst games out right now... total disappointment... 
 you have to be a HARD CORE baulders gate fan for this one to be semi- inticing i mean H-A-R-D C-O-R-E 
 !!!!!! Anyways, I' done i rest my case until this game gets any more good reviews...... later ppl!!!
 
  
  below is my original review-
  
  CONS ---- I mean, come on... this game had so much hipe and I paidd for it as soon as I knew that 
 I could put a reserve on it. Four and a half months later........ I get the game, pop it in and 
 start playing so to speak. From the start I knew that this was going to be a disappointment due 
 to the cheezy voice-acting, horribly created characters, and the storyline that gave no history 
 what-so-ever from the start. But, I proceeded on thinking maybe it would be an ok game at the least. 
 Then came the character development.... god what happened here.... you can't read half the writing, 
 you can't see the different eye colors, the characters face stays the same regardless of how big 
 or how small you make him, the hair cuts are just a way to add three or four different looks to 
 the same looking character. Ok, now, after all this horrid custimization if you want to call it 
 that, I proceeded yet again, thinking I might get something out of it. WRONG!!! Who said that this 
 is Oblivion on steriods?! God oblivion knocks this out of the water from the start!!! You only 
 have four stats to upgrade as time goes by when you level up, your charcter comes fully equip from 
 the start, and you can do anything you want to without ANY consequences!!! The battle style of 
 the game absolutely SUCKS!!! Its basically a baulders gate wanna-be to wrap it up softly. I played 
 this game for a good five or six hours wishing and praying that my time waiting for this title 
 would be worth it to SOME extent, so all you people out there that are saying that I haven't given 
 the game a chance... well there you have it. Now to continue with ALL the negatives... when you 
 die, you lose NOTHING and you are almost always transported to nowhere near to where you died. 
 If your like me and like the challenge of playing all games in hard, then you know what its like 
 when you die every once in a while due to a stupid mistake. On this game, you die wether or not 
 you come in with a hour planned strategy, or a hack-n-slash mind set. Money isn't an issue in this 
 game because you get items that are worth hundreds of gps from the start. This def takes away from 
 the way your character is built. An hour into the game I had everything my player could wear and 
 more at his current level. Not fun, and not very realistic. I'm just going to stop now bc I'm getting 
 tired of typing and noting how seriously HORRIBLE this game is. To all you game developers out 
 there- please make a sequel to oblivion PLEASE. But wait one sec, I need to point out one more 
 flaw in this game... There is nearly no emotion in any of the voice-acting throughout all of it. 
 You'd be better off if you would just turn the volume off and try to read the extremely-hard-to-read 
 script to make your own voices for the characters. Ok.... I'm not done with the cons. I just don't 
 feel like typing anymore. You guys can comment on the rest to add to the non-stop dung-trail that 
 this game leaves behind.
  
  PRO's...
  -The magic isn't overpowered in this game as it usually is in most rpgs.
  - (I got this one from 
 a previous review) You have a choice to buy this title from the store. And if I can do anything 
 to stop you from doing it, please contact me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerShock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is Two Different Games.
  
  Game 1: Your first hour with Two Worlds (Also known as the WTF, this isn't Oblivion... hour ) . a. k. a 
 Wait a minute that super hot babe at the beginning is my sister! You Suck! 
  
  Game 2: The rest of your time with Two Worlds.
  
  Two Worlds has a one hour Love it or Hate 
 it timeframe. During which you will be maimed, bit, stabbed, bludgeoned, friedin essence brought 
 to a fast and untimely death, by anything that so much as sneezes on you. Which actually isn't 
 too bad as you immediately respawn close to where you were killed, no penalties. (Semi SPOILER: 
 Unless you follow the Main Quest line to the Cave in which there is a chest with a decent pair 
 of armor in it. There is also a Grom Village nearby that you grab a decent spear from, after you 
 kill about 10 of them.)
  
  Now during this one hour affair with the dark side of Oblivion, pay close attention to the voice 
 acting. If after 15 minutes youre laughing at everything they say, keep playing. On the other 
 hand if you start clawing your face and begin speaking in tongues return game immediately (Neosporin 
 helps with the scratches) .
  
  Next, during your hour, if you have played Oblivion, you will remember the combat system, attack, 
 attack, attack, wash rinse repeat. You will get killed quickly in 2W if you do this. There is a 
 Jump Back button (B) which you use to avoid oncoming attacks. Do this, or die.
  
  Then there is the unforgivable quest screen. All your quests are there on the right hand toolbar, 
 but good luck getting any decent navigation from the minimap. Use your main map to find the general 
 location of the quest and then use a General North, East, South, West direction to get close. Once 
 you've completed a quest, thank god, the quest giver will start flashing Green on the mini map.
 
  
  And then there was a whinny...
  Horse riding is kind of like, horse whispering. If you don't have it, your horse will make direction 
 changes without you asking, stop on a dime if it runs into the cement like human beings running 
 around, completely change direction for no apparent reason, and my favorite, as a joke, stop you 
 right in the middle of a camp of mobs. Just remember you are the boss! You arent going let glue 
 treat you like that! Take Control!
  
  Your first hour complete....
  Now we can get into the good and the Bad:
  
  The Bad:
  If you survived your fist hour, that's 
 when you will start making the Oblivion comparison's. The texture detail and overall appearance 
 is not nearly as polished as Oblivion. The voice acting is bad, yes, but hilarious: Forsooth! You 
 can't Arrange your inventory into different Item groups, which isn't so bad as you can't carry 
 a whole lot. The quest screen is HARD to get used too, you just have to be a little smarter then 
 the average gamer, as it doesn't do quest organization for you.
  
  The Good:
  Combat:
  Is lot more fun then Oblivion, for a few reasons, different weapons have actual, understandable, 
 different affects on monsters. Don't even bother using the slashing/piercing weapon on a skeleton, 
 you will barely do any damage, you need to bludgeoning weapon to crack bone! Oh and if it's a ghost 
 do you really think that sword, axe, or mace is going to do anything to it? Fry up some ectoplasm 
 by breaking out the Spells! This combat system brings a whole new element into the game without 
 it being distracting to the overall flow of the game.
  
  And then there was B . One button makes combat totally different from Oblivion. In Oblivion you 
 used a Shield to block attacks (did anyone every use the shield? I sure didn't, except to level.) . 
 In Two Worlds you attack until you see the Mob Attack Tell and hit the (B) button, swish the attack 
 misses as you adeptly feint back from the blow. This is actually a lot of fun, and makes combat 
 much more immersive then Oblivion.
  
  There are also other Accents (like the ability to kick dirt in your enemies face to confuse them) 
 that add a lot more depth to combat.
  
  Everything Else:
  When you are past the beginning, I guarantee you will have a lot of fun the rest of the time. The 
 side quests and story line quests are enjoyable and for the most part interesting (again, you must 
 think bad voice acting is funny) .
  
  Overall, Two Worlds is an enjoyable, laugh out loud kind of game.
  
  For all those that played 
 and loved Oblivion, it's not Oblivion, which ends up being a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomchaser23
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  When i started following this game people said this game was just going to be a copy of oblivion, 
 but i do not like to listen to post game speculation, they were right. This game had a decent story 
 line. Although the story line is rather used if its not broke do not fix it. So this was not too 
 disappointing. My main complaint about the story line is the lack of ability to keep playing after 
 the core storyline has been completed. The combat system although very simplistic it isn't bad. 
 i wish that the magic system was a little more forgiving and allowed more than the use of 3 spells. 
 For any major fight you just end up using 3 summons due to the inability to take any damage without 
 dying from many of the foes. When im at the correct level to fight a boss they should not one hit 
 kill me every time they touch me it is kind of ridiculous.
  Lastly there is some lag problems that break up the gameplay. The loading gets really annoying 
 when the game decides to load in the middle of a fight pausing the action when you are trying to 
 dodge boss hits. Its not a bad game not a great game two worlds is just kind of there in the middle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awalters17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  To be Honest i really did not like this game when i first played it i thought it was really hard 
 but after i while. I got better weapons and went up a few levels some of the common enemys where 
 really easy to beat after that. i also like this game because of all the weapons and armor and 
 all the skills u can have the weapons are way better then oblivions and that game the swords all 
 looked the same just had differnt names and in two worlds the weapons and armour are BA I know 
 i lot of people hate this game mostley because of the lag but u just got to see threw all that 
 i think this game plays like and feels like morrowind and feels in what obivion was missing. Please 
 give this game a chance im sure they will fix the lag and the bugs but please give this game a 
 chance because if u are a rpg fan and u love oblivion or morrowind u will love this game after 
 a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airman20012001
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Dont belive the jaded. This game is alot of fun. Unlike oblivion in this rpg you will actually 
 want to get involved in the main story.
  The graphics are great they arent like oblivions smooth texture but more like fable, giveing off 
 more of a fantasy feel. the world is huge but you will always be finding new places. Navigation 
 is not great but after about an hour of fiddllling with the map and quests youll figure it out. 
 combat is animated much better than in oblivion you can string 4 hit combo's with swords that you 
 can trick out with elements and power. and after a huge campaign you still have online which is 
 alot of fun to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FanaticFirearm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  2 wrlds is a massive game. the world you can explore is 25% bigger than oblivion and the the graphics 
 are insanely good. Climing the black tower is the simplest way to see the massive scale of the 
 game. You can see for what seems like miles and it hits you how big the game is. Combat is easy 
 and very fun. And there are endless quests and areas to explore. It also has online multiplayer. 
 You can even change your skills at any point in the game using a skill changer. I cant believe 
 the people who dis on this game. they just dont see a great rpg when it stares them in the face. 
 or they havent even played it for themselves. I reccomend this game for someone who loved oblivion, 
 but wanted something better and bigger (with online multiplayer) . Two worlds is a huge scale game 
 with a lot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds shipped in the third week of August, late in the summer, after a number of fairly highly 
 publicized delays. For the moment, it's playable only on PC and the 360, but there's at least some 
 rumor, supported by reps from Topware Interactive, that the game will eventually make its way to 
 the PS3. The main story in the game centers on a mysterious bounty hunter whose sister has disappeared 
 - presumably kidnapped. A lengthy, in-engine cut scene at the beginning of the game introduces 
 you to this mysterious figure and establishes the game's conceit pretty effectively. At this point, 
 however, one of the game's failings is exposed. It's the dialogue, which can be a painfully over-the-top. 
 Over-use of words like 'mayhap' and 'forsooth', meant to reinforce a sense of medieval fantasy, 
 have just the opposite effect and may challenge the willingness of your suspension of disbelief. 
 Unfortunately, the voice actors don't do much to compensate; they're not often convincing and the 
 dead-pan tone adds little to the game-play experience. On the plus side, though, the game's dialogue 
 has been voiced-over in its entirety, which adds a lot to the next-gen experience.
  
  The player character in the game's story-mode is fixed only in-so-far as he's a male and human. 
 The bounty hunter class you play as is malleable, based on skills a player elects to advance, skills 
 purchased as the game progresses, and the style of play (stealth, tank, magic) preferred. Game-play 
 in Two Worlds has frequently been compared to Bethesda's Elder Scrolls IV. The comparison is a 
 sound one, though, only in that the game offers a free-roaming RPG in a fantasy environment. Yes, 
 Two Worlds is, in its visual style, reminiscent of Oblivion, but while Bethesda's game is best 
 experienced from a first-person perspective, Two Worlds simply is not. A first-person mode exists, 
 but is not combat-enabled. The hybrid third-person and true third person perspectives are where 
 game-play works. Players of TESIV: O know that that game is optimized for first-person play. Two 
 Worlds draws on a number of RPGs for its experience, but to my mind, the best single comparison, 
 in terms of game-play proper, is made with Diabolo II. Character advancement and item drops (what 
 rare will I find this time?) are particularly Diabolo-esque. In addition to the story mode, Two 
 Worlds offers players an online experience that many will find compelling. There are both PvE and 
 PvP game-play modes and in both players can create their own character and class. The PvE allows 
 players to experience the RPG with friends or random players. (In the 360 version, achievements 
 are turned off.) PvP, on the other hand, is simply a competitive variation of this and feels tacked-on. 
 Two Worlds has been criticized for being buggy and, in particular, for issues with frame-rate. 
 I have seen bugs: two trees that seem to fizzle in and out of existence, and a boulder in the middle 
 of a field whose physical properties were clearly defined, but whose graphical presence hadn't 
 been rendered. On one occasion, as well, a horse I was riding got caught, literally, between a 
 rock and a hard place and, unable to turn around or move out, I was forced to reset. The frame 
 rate I've noticed lagging at times, but typically only when a lot was going on (eight or ten monsters 
 chasing me, rain falling, etc.) . The biggest frustration I have is the load times that are necessary 
 when moving great, long distances across the map, but this is forgivable and, I think, inevitable. 
 Two Worlds is enormous - easily as big as TESIV: O, and with an extensive underground world, as 
 well. I can't imagine the 360's cache being able to hold it all and still perform acceptably. Two 
 Worlds looks good, it sounds good, and it plays well. The sandbox environment in which players 
 can freely roam is enormous, full of interesting things to see and full of quests to take on. A 
 great deal of effort has clearly been put into making the environment varied: caves, forests, lakes, 
 settlements large and small, mysterious towers, cities of the walking dead, graveyards, encampments, 
 and places of magic and ritual are all here to find and explore. The story-line, too, if a player 
 chooses to follow it, is interesting in its own right. Item stacking and potion creation add an 
 element to game-play that many will find interesting and useful, but for those who prefer a more 
 straight-forward action RPG, that experience is here, as well. Two Worlds has a lot to offer to 
 just about any RPG fan. There are many haters out there: what this game needs, though, is players 
 willing to take the time to learn it. Those who do will be rewarded with dozens of hours of addictive 
 RPG fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagewarrior
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  this game has been the most disappointing thing in xbox or possibly gaming history, graphics are 
 horrid, voices are worse, gameplay so retarded and nausiating, only a schizophrenic could enjoy. 
 Im playing this on a elite system hooked up to a 65inch 1080p tv as well, the sad part is i bought 
 the hype and went out and got as soon as it hit the self. what a fool I was. It is like the creators 
 took a copy of the elder scrolls oblivion and fable, crushed them together, dunked it in the toilet 
 after a fatman just got done releasing a load. then they wiped it off and set it on fire, stomped 
 it out, and made a deal with the devil to sale this wanna be peice of crap game to public. the 
 creators should be banned from all access to anything video game related, tarred and feathered 
 and be beaten with a board with a rusty nail in it. just so they get a taste of what it feels like 
 to sit down and try to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostnoz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Ok so you know this game for me was a slow starter but once you start leveling a bit and explore 
 2 or 3 hours worth of world it starts to pick up a bit. My biggest issue with the game right now 
 is the lag online. There are not many but a few flaws with the graphics. The spell creating is 
 cool but I don't like the light gray cursor bar for looking at spell details. The mounted combat 
 is cool and is much preferred to hoofing it as walking on foot take forever from one spread out 
 place to the next. Overall Two Worlds is a very playable game with redeeming qualities in the sound, 
 environment and controls areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equin
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME IS POPING. only down side it the dame on-line. BUT that will be fix, so it is giving the 
 top RPG a run. an i luv me some RPG'S. I know that the PC got some updates so it time will only 
 tell whe 360 get it an i hope it some big thing being moved arown. on-line when ever it feels like 
 not laging is xbox live funn all the way. I just wish there was an option for friendly fire, I 
 BE KILLING MY BOYS WITH CROS FIRE. LMAO. But when ever the servers for the U. S. A. is up an runing 
 like is shud. then its on an poping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaterPD
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This Oblivion clone gone online has more bugs than game quality, hands down. With such bad frame 
 rate issues, even offline feels completely laggy. The graphics are abysmal at best, the game looks 
 like a low-end, dated PC title rather than next gen. At first the idea of being online sounded 
 fun, but in the end, it's rather boring. The controls are pretty bad as well. And the text, not 
 only is it small, but it is extremely difficult to read seeing as to most of the menus look like 
 they were stolen right from Diablo. Menus from viewing inside chests look like a 4 year old drew 
 them out and slapped them in. I work in at a GameStop in Houston Texas, and on the launch day of 
 the game we had 3 trade ins. The game is only worth 25 dollars credit but the customers didn't 
 seem to care, most just claimed they wanted to get rid of it. Everyday since it's launch we have 
 had customers come into the store and complain about a horrible buy and how they wasted their money 
 on this title. I was one who was looking forward to this game, and now I find myself extremely 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfriedmonke92x
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  at 1st when i read the bad reviews i thougth it wasntet gona be as good as i thoght but i still 
 got it .. at 1st it was weird and diddnt understand all that **** but now i played about 3 hours 
 and it is one of the best games i played.. i still liked oblivian better but this game is rite 
 behind it. so if you play alittle and get past the hard learnng how to play and stuff after about 
 an hour you will love this game. And if you liked oblivian get this game and dont give up on it 
 and you will then begin to love it like me,, and all the bad reviews are by thos **** that played 
 like 10 mins and suck at like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gummy3500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Well everybody has pretty much said the samething. terrible voice acting, which is true but its 
 funny at first but then if you get really into the game u dont mind it as much. after pklaying 
 this game for so long i have founda respect for it. it is very fun to play cause there is so much 
 to do, unfortunately you do it slowly cause walking is slow. Now, you may say well there is horses, 
 well horse riding sucks the big one. i tried to understand it but i just can't so after a while 
 i decided to just run around and activate all of the transporters. this game is alot of fun because 
 of all the little things u can do. I personally love the way my guy looks so i love changing what 
 he looks like and finding better and better armour. Also there is a potion pot which i haven't 
 really played with much but i plan to soon. I also like the game because the quests are sometimes 
 clever and u enjoy them. sometimes there are three sides to quests and you may lie to one person 
 and do the other persons wishes instead, its a lot of fun. This game is also bvery rewarding because 
 the fighting is fun and difficult at the sametime so when u finally kill that gang of bandits you 
 search them and find some really cool stuff. Now that i have told you all the good things here 
 are the bad things besides horse back riding. The map system is crap although i have figured it, m 
 it still stinks. The questlog isn't that hgreat it just tells you what you already know. Also it 
 doesnt tell you where to find people so you have to go looking for them and sometimes it's blind 
 luck that u find them.
  all in all this game is a lot of fun and gets you hooked. i think that if they decide to make a 
 three worlds that should improve on a lot of things. i have to say that if ur wanting to get it 
 but not sure u should hope one of ur friends has it and play it there.... but give it a chance dont 
 say it suckls right away cause it does, but it gets better... if that ,makes sense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonder_dtl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is very fun except for the fact the the mini map as way to cluttered and small and the 
 online play has HORRIBLE lag. I played by myself very smoothly but as soon as I had one buddy in 
 the lag was horrible and frustrating. It has nothing to do with my internet because my computers 
 were off and I jumped on to Halo 2 online with no lag at all. The Xbox live game play by myself 
 was pretty fun but if the online play is going to lag this bad i'll just stick to the single player. 
 I REALLY hope they fix this or I will be disappointed in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trust_nobody
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to review this game and say, it's terrible, or it's wonderful, or something extreme 
 like that. For myself, however, this game was more of a disappointment. It has enjoyable moments 
 and features but it's truly not what I thought it would be. The graphics aren't too terrible, neither 
 noteworthy. You've read reviews saying the voiceovers are too frequent and almost humorous. These 
 are true statements, but the voice acting isn't the worst I've heard. I think the most enjoyable 
 part of the game for me is collecting the different items, enchanting weapons, cooking potions, 
 and bartering. The most frustrating sections for me are the questlog/map which is so vague and 
 misguiding it's almost more of a neussance than a tool; and the worst, which is the combat in the 
 game. Maybe I am playing the game wrong but whenever I encounter an enemy it is always more than 
 one, and I can hardly ever beat them. And I am the type of person who always sets the difficulty 
 on the highest possible because I believe that's the only real way to play. So I won't say either 
 the map or the combat is bad, because you may be able to decipher it better than I could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkarl
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  So I finally had time today to invest in to Two Worlds and what a day it was. Though technical 
 problems abound, I can honestly say that I haven't had this much out right FUN while playing a 
 game in ages. The game starts off with you creating a male only character from an insanely limited 
 selection hair styles, colors, and a few other things I cant recall. Once I realized how shallow 
 the characters aesthetic customizations were going to be, I just blew right through the creation 
 process so that I could actually start the game. You start off in a goofy cutscene where your characters 
 sister is abducted by some unknown fools for some unknown reasons. Its here that I realized that 
 Two Worlds is about as pleasing to the eyes as a nude photo of M. Emmet Walsh. There are plenty 
 of bland, low res textures, dull colors, downright awful animations, and even a horrifying framerate. 
 What a way to open a game. It continues on and the actual gameplay graphics get somewhat better, 
 but never quite good. The colors come out much better during the actual game, and things start 
 to look a bit more crisp, but the framerate is consistently choppy. The sound suffers a similar 
 fate. The music is fitting, though there isnt too much at least in the 8 hours or so Ive played 
 so far. The voice acting is completely rotten and sounds about as enthusiastic as an old folks 
 home on New Years Eve. Though I have to give them credit, they did use a lot of different voice 
 actors so we dont have to hear the same 4 voices throughout our entire 20  40 hour journey&gt;&lt; 
 (Im looking at you Oblivion) . So by now youre probably thinking why the heck is this guy giving 
 this a legit score?!!?!1! Oh, Ill tell you why. I honestly have had an amazingly good time playing 
 this gem. All the glitches actually make for a painfully fun experience that reminds me so much 
 of my old NES days. I feel like I could go for hours just laughing at the voice acting, being completely 
 mauled by enemies, and exploring new places and messing new things up. For instance; I stumbled 
 upon a big old grizzly bear just chilling behind some bandit hideout. I drew my bow and was ready 
 to unleash a world of pain on him, when my auto-targeting reticle decided to target the bandits 
 inside of the cave instead. This is where the fun kicked in to full throttle. I shot an arrow through 
 a giant boulder which somehow hit the bandit Before I realized this though, I fired another arrow 
 at the bear thinking that I had just missed the first shot. The second shot hit the bear, and I 
 realize hes going to give me a whomping, so I turn to run away and there is the bandit I shot 
 along with 2 of his buddies also wanting to give me a whomping. I fled the scene and swam to a 
 little island to heal up before going in to try again. When I got back, guess what? Guess! The 
 bear was kicking the bandits collective asses for me. It was a beautiful sight. Many other amazingly 
 uber things happened to me on my quest today, but I recommend you stick with the game for a while 
 and just mess around with it. Theres a lot to explore, lots of action, and lots of laughs if you 
 have an open mind about it and a ridiculous sense of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffydoom1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  well, i dont know why ppl are saying its really bad its ok yea its not like oblivion but its not 
 to buggy to me i think its a great rpg the online experince is pretty good thats kinda buggy sometimes. 
 theres a pvp and rpg server i think thats pretty cool i think u might want to rent it first some 
 ppl dont like but i think its pretty good . i think the graphics are pretty good to i admit baddddd 
 voice overs but overall a good game reamber rent first 7/10 just ur typical rpg game so stop talking 
 crap about it!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkdrum
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game does have potential but lacks next gen graphic and character choices . If anyone liked 
 Diablo II ,you would fell welcome to this Two Worlds . I felt this game is Diablo II in 3D world 
 . I just hope they will fix the online lagging problem and then it should be a pretty cool game 
 .Othewise , I just wasted my 60 dollars and would never buy any game from the same developer again 
 . By the way ,whats with the small text in quest log ??? So if you loved Oblivion so much ,dont 
 waste your money just play Oblivion again and again . If you do like Diable kind of game and dont 
 mind the graphic too much ,get this then . Lets just cross our finger and hope they come out with 
 a patch or a better server before we sold this game on ebay . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrb45
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I will tell you right of the bat. When i first loaded this game i thought it was someones idea 
 of a bad joke. The presentation is terrible. I have'nt seen characters as ugly as these in a game 
 since the mid 90s when 3d was just coming out. Not to mention the huge frame rate problems. The 
 voice acting is bad. I was praying for the past when all you had was text to read. Combat is kind 
 of a button masher. Not much depth or strategy. It would have helped it you could lock on to one 
 enemy at a time. Horses are about as useful as men having nipples. I also ran into a glitch where 
 is sold an item and went to the map screen. When i exited the map my character had the item back 
 again. So i kept doing it and racking up the gold. I strangely still find myself enjoying the game. 
 Ive been trying to put a finger on the reason and i think i know. Even with all its flaws i get 
 a thrill out of hacking through enemies trying to find new loot. the game has lots of skills, armor 
 types, weapons and magic items. Ill be wading in trying to find that better sword for months. This 
 game will not be for everyone. If you are like me and are willing to overlook the flaws. finding 
 new weapons, armor and spells is a pretty good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow was this game horrible the graphics sucked, but when graphics suck at least the game is smooth... i 
 dont even know how this game was so choppy with such horrible graphics. The framerate was like 
 20 fps i swear to god its not even playable. Aside from that the voice acting was terrible the 
 mouths were so off sync its unimaginable. The starting sword looks retarded when you're swinging 
 it (because the framerate is so slow) and if you dont go through with the whole swing animation 
 it just cuts off and stops real abruptly which looks really stupid. And finally if that wasnt bad 
 enough the game is super hard super BORING and super unplayable... this is one of the biggest let 
 downs EVER dont rent it dont buy it its a waste of your time and money!!!
  
  0/10
  0/100
  0 stars out of 5
  IT JUST SUCKS!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteraan
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for this game to come out. I was looking forward to a multiplayer Oblivion experience, 
 but I never even made it into multiplayer mode. My review goes right along with the other negative 
 reviews here.
  
  All the things I read about this game prior to release sound like broken promises: Spectacular, 
 complex combat! - not at all. Stunning graphics! - not really. A brilliant user interface! - negative, 
 ghost rider.
  
  As mentioned before, the frame rate is horribly inconsistent and the gazillion animal death squads 
 roaming everywhere, a truly brutal quest log system and subpar graphics and combat make me glad 
 I didn't blindly purchase. There are FAR too many great games coming out in the coming weeks, not 
 to mention 4Q to waste time with this. It doesn't even have a tutorial to speak of.
  
  Bottom line: If this game grows on you , as I keep seeing in reviews, maybe you should have a doctor 
 look at it. Penicillin goes a long way, baby (but it still won't save you from the packs of wolves) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybotffej
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Since when were RPGs rated based on oblivion. it is still fun and addicting even though its not 
 oblivion. it borrowed some stuff from oblivion but it also brought back some classic RPG elements. 
 and the combat is allot more tactful and enjoyable anyway. at least two worlds offers more of a 
 challenge in combat makes it important to move up the food chain before you go out and about. in 
 oblivion unless you are leveling down by the time you see your first creature bigger than you you'll 
 be able to drop it dead without getting hit once. two worlds is very enjoyable but if you find 
 it so hard to move past oblivion you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IGDetail
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Granted, this game isn't perfect... but even the big budget titles can't give me over 100 hours 
 of enjoyable play. Most great games only last me 10 hours of play-time at most. Now, of course 
 this isn't why I enjoy Two Worlds and for some reason I keep coming back to it.
  
  Let's first count out the flaws... and there are many. Horses will tick you off if you use them 
 for their intended purpose. At full speed they will steer away from open doors and wind up going 
 in the opposite direction. I have much rather preferred to run everywhere I go even if it's clear 
 across a map. In the end, it hasn't mattered much seeing as how there are teleports everywhere 
 close to major action areas. Horses are also terrible and almost useless in combat unless you prefer 
 to stand still and hope to hit enemies with your sword (etc) . I have found one use for horses however: 
 they make great banks! :P. Yup, fill 'em up and park 'em in the city. I was wondering why this 
 game didn't include some kind of repository for good equipment, it's because they have four feet 
 and walk around!
  
  The graphics are very jittery but they seem to smooth out after about 30 minutes. I'm not sure 
 why this is so, but it happens in more games than you would think. I've always loved cave fighting 
 anyways and graphics there are crystal clear (tip: you get more loot in caves, but you knew that) . 
 Character models are almost ugly and for some reason remind of 80's style game creatures. Maybe 
 this is an attempt at rehashing the good old days of Dungeon and Dragons? In any case, it barely 
 works here but at least there aren't thousands of rats scurrying around. I'll take a 'Hell Lord' 
 over regular beasties anyday. I think the funniest thing are the asians in the game. I mean, couldn't 
 they find a REAL asian to do the voiceover? It's almost stereotypical-bad to look and listen to 
 these characters. Still, it's a nice change from the normal european characters and scenery associated 
 with this genre.
  
  The combat is an exercise in button-mashing and sore fingers. Every hit requires a button press, 
 which seemed tedious at first, but has become second nature now in my 20+ hours of play. It's also 
 good to know that you can turn around mid-swing to attack another enemy (and makes for cool looking 
 combos - especially when dual wielding level 11+ sabers) . There's also a nifty dodge button which 
 is great for taking on larger enemies. Within the first fifteen levels I was taking on enemies 
 I had no right to even approach, yet here I was patiently taking them down. Heal and mana points 
 are also a great feature for power-leveling a character and players don't have to worry about losing 
 experience either. Being able to double-up equipment and add bonuses by melding them with stones 
 is a very cool idea... I like having a totally customized armory even if I only get to impress 
 myself. I haven't played around with spells much as I would mcuh rather hack'n'slash. My fire spell, 
 however, seems somewhat underpowered but maybe I'm missing out on upgrades somewhere (I'm sure 
 to discover all this later) . There are also card options that allow you to change spell settings. 
 This might seem like too much to tag on, but it makes for an easy way to level these up versus 
 expending skill points.
  
  As for the story, I really haven't delved into it much. I kind of skipped the main story after 
 the character creation (forgetting that I had a lost sister) and headed right into combat. This 
 may seem a little off from the norm, but I've been having so much fun developing my character skills 
 and slashing at bizarre creatures that I haven't cared much. For those having problems with the 
 story, just flip through the conversations... it's more fun to treat this game as an action title 
 than a serious RPG.
  
  With all the major flaws with Two Worlds, I still found a lot of fun in it. The game was open enough 
 that even if I didn't enjoy some parts, there was something else to take my mind off of it. If 
 you're looking for something fun and action-packed, then give this title a few hours to settle 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwah_bwah
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Ive read the player reviews for Two Worlds for 5 days now and am really dissapointed with the narrow 
 mindedness of todays generation of gamers.
  Two worlds is an excellent role playing game, while it has its obvious flaws it still holds strong 
 to the rpg genre while combining traditional layouts and features with innovative gameplay and 
 next gen ideals.
  
  the multiplayer of the game has been slightly dissapointing but not enough to make it a terrible 
 unplayable game, the game is hosted by german servers afterall, just wait till the north american 
 servers are up. also while the pvp does not allow your custom character to fight in the versus 
 modes, you still have a generic character from each class to use, so there is no direct advantage 
 for players who have put a lot of time into the game and makes the pvp more about the player and 
 less about repetitive leveling.
  
  and while oblivion is still among the greatest rpg's of our time, it should only be used as a unbiased 
 comparison rather than it being put in direct competition with two worlds. as an example i had 
 a young gamer send me his review on rainbow six: vegas and scored it a 3.5 based on the fact that 
 it doesnt play like gears of war. if you are even going to take the time to write a review for 
 a game. please make sure its a review on that game and not a ignorant complaint that the game isnt 
 like another game youve played. about 60% of gamers want everything to play like halo, gears of 
 war and oblivion, and these are good games but get real when writing these reviews and dont waste 
 peoples time by posting reviews complaining about things you were expecting but didnt get, write 
 it about the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insert_Clip
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I had pretty good hopes for this, especially since I was looking for a good RPG that was online 
 capable. The thoughts in my head leading up to this purchase went something like Ok... It's like 
 Oblivion, but it has multiplayer! . Well it does have multiplayer, has maybe some similarities 
 to Oblivion, but I really just can't get over the unenthusiastic feeling I get playing this game. 
 Perhaps I should have given the game more time, as I only played it for a day, but I have never 
 in my 11 years of gaming (I am 21) , felt that after just one day of playing a game I had no desire 
 to play it again. If that isn't enough of a gut feeling to trade this game in and getting something 
 else right away, I don't what is.
  
  That being said... I am going to be as fair as I can, and I know maybe some of you will discredit 
 me for perhaps not giving it a chance. As I mentioned, though, if a game doesn't draw you in and 
 it makes you feel like you've been there, done that, and just leaves a bad taste in your mouth, 
 why put yourself through any more? It's video gaming, not a sport or a skill where it takes time 
 to make things better. Video games are like good books in that sense, they need to draw you in 
 from the beginning or it's just not going to sit well if you even decide to stick with it.
  
  The graphics are alright, and better then some might think at some points in this game, but 
 they definitely aren't up to 360 standards. If they were, this game would probably even run slower 
 then it already does (more on that later) . Graphics = 7.5
  
  The gameplay is a mixture between borderline boring and cumbersome. Your player moves oddly, and 
 the animations are extremely rigid on multiplayer mode (which is also plagued with network code 
 problems) . The magic system is uninviting, and there is no real specialization in this game. It 
 tried to do a catch-all strategy where you can be a warrior and a wizard at the same time, which 
 in my opinion just makes everyone ultimately the same character in the end. When I went online, 
 this prediction held up to be true, as I saw players in very cool looking armor, fighting like 
 warriors, but then casting the same spells as the wizards... Not very dynamic if everyone is the 
 same character essentially.
  
  The fighting is hard to put into words, but the feeling you get from it isn't fun or exhilarating, 
 nor does it take any kind of strategy or logic to defeat your enemies. Something about the combat 
 just makes the game feel like a virtual rendition of a 5 year old making his toy warrior and toy 
 dragon fight. The inventory and magic system is cumbersome, and largely borrowed from the Diablo 
 series, although somehow not as efficient. The quests are mundane, and a lot are run of the mill 
 mailman quests (quests in which you go to get something, probably fight something, get the item, 
 then go back and get your reward) .
  
  Gameplay = 6.0
  
  The sound is just horrible. The voice acting probably would have been cheaper if they just hired 
 high school students, because that's the quality it has anyway. The fighting sounds are cheesy, 
 and the ambient sounds are either non-existent or sound like they belong on console system from 
 8 or 10 years ago. The worst is the random comments your avatar makes anytime you come across an 
 item of interest or enemy. It's like Duke Nukem's awesome one liners... except they are horrible 
 and aren't funny or good at all. Sound = 2.0
  
  Replay value is half and half really. It does have the multiplayer feature, which definitely adds 
 on, and the open ended gameplay with the large maps adds for a lot to be done and seen. The game 
 definitely doesn't falter on the quality of the world, and credit must be due to a job well done 
 there. The problem is, as I have said earlier, every character eventually becomes the same, with 
 you having all the skills and capabilities as the next random joe next to you Replay = 6.0
  
  So that's about it. I wanted to keep giving this game a chance, but if something doesn't feel 
 right sometimes you just gotta go with your gut and cut your losses. If you feel compelled to play 
 this, or an RPG in general, I suggest either renting it, buying Oblivion, or considering an RPG 
 for another platform . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxes
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I played Two Worlds for about three hours before finally admitting to myself that I had been ripped 
 off. Everything about this game is terrible; I can't even begin to comprehend how people like it. 
 I am a huge oblivion fan - I have over two hundred hours of play and have gotten all but one of 
 the achievements (including shivering isles) , so perhaps I had a different idea in mind, but there's 
 still no excuse for this. Horrible framerate, atrocious voice acting, and balance issues would 
 be my three main complaints, but there's plenty more. To put it bluntly - don't buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilin_vilan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all, anyone coming into this game thinking oblivion online is going to be disappointed. 
 You have to start this game knowing it's going to have great graphics and online play. Yes there 
 are a lot of lag issues, but name one other reason you get frustrated with this game I bought the 
 game after a few of my clan members bought it. One of them said dont get get it cause of all the 
 lag issues. You can play online, but I recommend only playing with one or possibly two friends. 
 Also, no-one seems to get the point of online patches and updates. Seriously, in a month or two 
 all the lag issues could be gone and your going to miss out. The games mechanics are good and will 
 be excellent with an update. It's literally all the rpg's put into one. My main description is 
 Diablo on steroids. But all in all, this is a must get. If you give it a chance and actually get 
 to level 8 or so, i guarantee you'll love it. And if you don't..... you apparently have no taste 
 in rpgs
  
  
  - 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAballer73
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  after spending countless ours on both morrwind and oblivion and hearing this game ws going to be 
 an oblivion killer with mounted combat, dragons to fight and online play, i bought the game as 
 soon as i can. what a mistake i made. to start though you have already probably heard this, the 
 charcter custimization is terrible. only a couple hairstyles face models and you can only be human. 
 after a weird cutscene that made no sense with some of the worst voice acting i have seen in a 
 loooong time, i found my self playing the game with no effing idea of what to do and how to do 
 it. i had to read the manual since it offered basically no tutorial and when i got in my first 
 fight i died in 4 hits. lame. after this i tried the online play but wow was it terrible. it had 
 a good idea but the framrate is so bad it usualy freezes for minutes t a time. since i spent 60$ 
 on the game an was too lazy to return it, i continued to play for around 14 hours. the game does 
 get better but the framerate and graphics were really bad. the voiceacting is ridiculous and the 
 combat could have been better. riding on horses is much harder than oblivion due to te fact that 
 the horse takes time to do your command. overall this is a game that could have been very good 
 if it hadnt been rushed. definitely not an oblivion killer but if you have patience to wait for 
 14 hours until it gets a little better i would sugget rent it. i wouldnt recommend to buy it, but 
 that is your money so do whatever you want.
  
  gameplay: 4.5 couldve better than just simple button smashing. the horses also look like they are 
 skating at times. boring and tidious fighting gets very repetative.
  
  graphics: 3.5 (crappy thanks to the framerate and player models)
  
  sound: 3.0 (the voice acting 
 deserves -99.8 but the ambient sounds are mildy good)
  
  value 5.5 (if you have the patience online play could be fun)
  
  tilt: 3.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingchunstudent
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds has gotten a terrible reception from the gaming world. The so-called Oblivionesque online 
 multiplayer has been touted as being bland, boring and downright broken.
  
  So, what did I do after reading review after review saying such things? I rented it. And after 
 two days of playing it, I kinda like it. Granted, it is no Oblivion, but this game has a little 
 bit of charm. I am forgoing the offline portion of the game all together and just playing online. 
 So far, it is most comparible to Diablo in the way the menus and skills work. Navigating the menus 
 can be a bit tricky as both sticks are required for each panel. One to change panels, and one to 
 navigate the one you are on. This is cumbersome and feels from time to time like it is just no 
 responding.
  
  There are however an enormous amount of weapons for every class. From swords to staves, bow to 
 traps, this game is bound to have a weapon you like using. So far I've played an Earth Mage, an 
 Air Mage and a Sword Dancer. The mages play pretty much the same, except for their starting school 
 of magic. But you can learn any school at any time from trainers. Another great feature of the 
 weapons is stacking and enchanting. It is simple. If you have 2 of the same weapon then you can 
 combine then and make a more powerful version of the one you have. It's as easy as that. Want an 
 element on your weapon? Stick an elemental stone onto it. No chance of failure and no hassle.
 
  
  The online lobby is great. You can browse games depending on level and join any open game you wish. 
 You can also host a game and invite your friends with great ease. The worlds come in easy, medium 
 and hard and have varying level of creatures, quests and weapons in each.
  
  There is a rudamentary alchemy system in the game, as well as lockpicking, horse riding and a fair 
 amount of dungeon diving. I'm enjoying my rental and I would recommend this game as a rental to 
 anyone who wants to play a fairly decent RPG on the Xbox 360.
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) Quests are easy to do and find, but finishing a quest is not. You have to find the person who 
 gave you the quest in the first place and report back to them. This is aided by a glowing dot on 
 your map, but with so many dots on the map, it is hard to remember which one.
  
  2) Starting out. Starting out, you are incredibly weak. Everything kills you and it gets frustrating. 
 But thankfully you are not punished for dying and resurrect to the nearest shrine ready to continue 
 on your way with everything you had at the time of your death. About level 6 you really see a spike 
 in your ability to do damage and at 10, it is fair to see you should move to a medium world.
  
  3) Graphics. This is NOT Oblivion. That being said, this game passes for looking as good as 
 Diablo. Characters are pretty much alike, aside from clothing and your customization options for 
 you online character are lax.
  
  4) Character creation online. You have 3 hair styles, 5 colours for your hair and 4 colours for 
 your eyes. And unless you have a 50 + plus screen, you are NOT going to be seeing much of a difference 
 between any of them
  
  Positives:
  
  1) There are alot of weapons, alot! And upgrading is simple. Stack weapons, stick on elemental 
 damage and you have fairly decent weapons even at low levels.
  
  2) Skills. Everything you do causes you to improve in some way just like in Oblivion. Swimming 
 and lockpicking to name a few. Lock picking although is not a minigame and is instead based on 
 a roll like it was in Morrowind.
  
  3) Quests. In a matter of 30 minutes I had found 7 quests and completed 1. Everyone has something 
 for you to do and doing them is very rewarding. After clearing out a graveyard of 3 ghouls I made 
 600 gold! Granted, this was pretty difficult for my level 3 at the time, but doing harder quests 
 allowed me to get some extra gold to buy upgrades I greatly needed.
  
  4) Actions. Whether its swinging your sword, duel wielding or casting spells the actions all look 
 pretty nice. The spell animations are cool and it is nice to have more than just your basic swipe.
 
  
  Bottom Line.
  
  This game is NOT Oblivion and anyone thinking this is will be greatly disappointed. But, this game 
 albeit quirky as it is, is rather enjoyable. Especially if you have some friends online to play 
 with. Give it a rent!
  
  -wing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaiser26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is letdown got it last nite wish i would have got bio shock
  but like a dumb butt i didnt some one please shoot me now this game is
  like a hot girl that 
 dont put out. lag is crazy and im talking offline they didn't, even get the lip sync right like 
 watching ashlee simpson for 2 hours live.
  Combat is weak as water the visuals are not good Artificial Intelligence be nice if there was some 
 i could go on and on.
  Th e only good thing about this game is the weather system and its just ok multiplayer mode well 
 you got it sucks just like the rest of it .
  update its starting to be ok not great but ok im like 30 hours in and its picking up thing about 
 this game it is not easy to get used to but when you get used to it its not that bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AviticusDSS
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This is an honest review and my thoughts on the game. If you aren't sure about buying the game 
 and are kind of skeptical, read this and then decide.
  
  At first I was skeptical reading the reviews on the forums, about people saying the game sucks 
 and I decided to take a chance and purchase the game. I played it for a little bit. Quit. Spent 
 a few hours deciding whether to take it back, then told myself to try it again. It was the best 
 thing I ever did.
  
  The good:
  
  Graphics are amazing. The draw distance is further than Oblivion. You can see over mountains. The 
 land is georgous, and really feels alive. The images and textures are more sharp and not like a 
 bloom/soft feel like oblivion. I personally, think the graphics are better.
  
  Combat is fun to say the least. It can be somewhat repetative but really what combat isnt? You 
 can do quite a few different moves and setting hotkeys is pretty easy, although you only get about 
 10 or so hotkeys. You really have to set up hotkeys to different spells and skills a lot depending 
 on your play style. I would have liked to see a couple different wheels where you could make presets, 
 but no big deal really. Archery is fun as well especially if you get the skill where you fire multiple 
 arrows. I also like the death animations. It's really quite entertaining when you smack a bandit 
 with a heavy bardiche and he goes flying down the hill. Let us not forget that if you like to dungeon 
 crawl, and don't happen to have a mace, you might as well give up. This is the first game I have 
 come across that has real realism based on maces and undead. The things you hear about in D&amp; D 
 but never really see it. Swords/halberds/bows/ do very little damage, which makes you want to carry 
 around a mace for those just incase situations.
  
  The amount of weapons and armor in this game is ridiculous. Lots of different looks and features 
 to each. If you add cold/spirit/fire/etc. damage onto a weapon, the weapon starts to glow that 
 color. One cool feature is that each piece of armor has a specific armor ID. This means that if 
 you get the same exact piece of armor, say as an example Leggings of Terror ID 545 that gives you 
 200 in slashing, piercing and bludgeoning resist and combine it with your current Leggings of Terror 
 which gives you say 189 slashing, piercing, bludgeoning resist; you will notice how the stats increase 
 and the class level of the item goes from lvl 1 to lvl 2. Combine another exact piece and the armor 
 class goes to level 3 with even better stats. Lots of options here. You can spend hours running 
 around buying armor pieces and combining them.
  
  The best part about the game for me is the customization and skills you can learn. You can learn 
 lots of different skills, can untrain them at any time (for some gold) and try something new. The 
 spells look especially good and there are lots of options to choose from. Each class you could 
 potentially spend 15 points in. So you won't be able to be the best in everything, you will have 
 to pick and choose, which really helps out the replay value. There's a great deal of variety between 
 the spells. I think all spell classes give have a couple different creatures you can summon.
  
  Alchemy is actually fun to fool around with. You can make any kind of potions you want and 
 can experiment with any combination. Its really quite amazing what you can come up with. If you 
 add enough ingredients you basically increase the strength of the potion. You can also increase 
 your permanent stats by mixing ingredients that only affect permanent stats. (you don't want to 
 mix permanent stat changing ingredients with temporary ingredients even though you can make some 
 pretty cool potions by doing that) .
  
  Last but not least, realism. This game feels and acts real. I told a bandit to get out of the road 
 and leave and he didn't just dissapear. He walked down the mountain and I found him again later 
 where he setup camp a ways down from the road. I got a quest that was to make a suit of armor. 
 The armor cost was higher depending on the size of my character. So if I had made a smaller character 
 at the beginning of the game, I would have been able to pay less. Lots of cool quests and different 
 quests and definately something new.
  
  As far as the story I have no idea, I haven't done any quests for it. Seems to be somewhat interesting 
 though.
  
  The bad:
  
  The worst part of the game in my opinion would have to be your horse/pet. The game has obvious 
 clipping and pathfinding bugs. Some mountains you can't go up on your horse and some areas of land 
 your horse gets stuck and stops. Then you have to turn it around and go back the same way you came 
 in to get out of the stuck terrain . Sometimes you even get stuck to a point where you have to 
 dismount, walk down a ways, and then whistle to have your horse come to you. Also sometimes your 
 horse goes left when you want it to go right which only only seems to happen in clipping bugs mentioned 
 above when the horse gets somewhat stuck) . When you are not experiencing these bugs, the horses/pets 
 are beautiful and move like they should in life.
  
  Horse combat is lacking. However powerful in the game, horse combat is somewhat degrading due to 
 the fact that you can't have your horse set at a nice running pace and swing at your opponents. 
 Your horse or whatever has to be going somewhat at a slow trot where you can swing at them, but 
 that also means your opponents (like multiple bandits) surround you and your horse, and if it is 
 early in the game, you will get owned really fast. I haven't found any new animals to ride on since 
 this review so I cannot say if it is any different on those animals/creatures.
  
  Voice acting which has been mentioned lots of times, isn't that great. A lot of the characters 
 do sound alike, there is some differences, but their tones all have that duke nukem feel. Some 
 of the girl voices sound nice though.
  
  Lip synching does not match up to characters mouths on some portions of text. Again, no big deal 
 on this one.
  
  The controls are somewhat weird at first but you get used to it after a while. Not really a bad 
 thing.
  
  If you have any of the elemental damage on your weapon, the effect looks pretty cheezy when it 
 hits an opponent. Fire seems to look the coolest out of the bunch where as lightning looks the 
 worst.
  
  The bottom line: You have to play this game for a couple hours before you start to get into it. 
 If you play for an hour or two and feel yourself not really liking it, keep playing. I was the 
 same way until I started to understand the game, how the controls work. After you figure out the 
 issue with the mounts and know why it happens and how to avoid it (when you can) , it makes the 
 game so much better. In my opinion, if you like RPGs and have patience, you won't regret buying 
 this game. After you get into it, believe me you won't stop thinking about playing it for quite 
 a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: championskill
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  yea basically if you get over the technical problems of this game, it is actually a pretty indepth 
 game. The gameplay is actually pretty fun and addicting making the game feel like a free mmorpg. 
 Those who gave it a low review most likely never got over that steep hill full of technical problems. 
 I would give this a 7.5 simply because it is fun, but the technical problems just makes it not 
 a pickup and play game but rather a game where you have to endure until it becomes fun. It is a 
 pretty competitive game and if played with friends would make an unforgettable experience. I think 
 I hear rumors that the lag is because they play on german servers and it will eventually be fixed. 
 I hope that is true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  To sum up this game as briefly as I can:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Superb, as it should be. This is next gen, so even if its not Bio-Shock, there is still some lovely 
 sights to see. Armor is detailed weapons look wicked. Could have used a better character editor 
 though
  
  Sound:
  Dead on, sword clangs, spider feet, wolves howling at the moon, creaking water. The mood is set 
 very well in this game. I believe that it will go a long way, especially if there is any downlodable 
 content to be had. The music fits wit the landscape without making it to over dramatic.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is the meat and potatoes, vast country side to explorer, wild animals along 
 ever road on the moors in dungeons. There is no where other than towns and even there, that you 
 will not find peril. Being able to combine weapons, armor, and the like is awesome. Teleporting 
 around to the differnt sites is welcome. The horseback fighting is ground breaking! Why did others 
 not think of this? Character interaction is wonderful and not ardous, you actually want to talk 
 to the differnt town folk. Quest gathering is easy and automatic. You want to gather as many as 
 you can and then explorer. 9 times out of 10 you will find a way to complete the quest just on 
 your general travels. Alchemy can become as pastime in itself. However instead of just making potions 
 you can make gems and the like to attach to your weapons. The skill system is a welcomed sight. 
 You can generally make the character a blend of the old D&amp; D fighter mage thief. Or you can 
 specialize. The choice is yours. If you want to change this find a skill changer and reorganize.
 
  
  Train with differnt teachers to learn new skills, enhance your rep by doing quests. Kill, steal 
 from anyone anywhere.
  
  Yes it looks like the RPG genre is in full effect and if they will contiue down the path set by 
 Elder Scrolls and games like this Two Worlds, RPG buff's like myself and many others will enjoy 
 the line up offered by XBox360 and PS3. Great going folks, we want more!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosXing
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I'm going to cut to the chase immediately: do not waste your money or time on Two Worlds. We all 
 should have known not to buy this game the minute that it kept on getting delayed, delayed, delayed. 
 However, if you're a sucker like me, you went out and picked it up anyway. So I'm here to help 
 those who haven't bought this yet learn from my mistakes.
  
  This game is completely broken and full of stolen formulas from other great games. Even with ideas 
 ripped straight from Diablo, Oblivion, World of Warcraft, and however many other great RPGs, they've 
 still managed to muck up Two Worlds. From the very beginning you know theres going to be problems. 
 The character creation at the start of the game barely lets you customize your character. The only 
 feature that seemed to change was if you wanted your character to have a gargantuan forehead or 
 eyebrows. Once past the uninspired character creation you arrive at the first uninspired cut scene. 
 Oops, your injured sister has disappeared while you conveniently had your back turned. You better 
 go find her. To the map!
  
  You'll just get more confused here. The map and quest interface lacks any sort of cohesion and 
 ease of use. It's hard to tell where you are and where you need to go to get anything accomplished. 
 There's a small arrow in the world map to point you in the general direction youre heading, but 
 none on the HUD, which is ridiculous in a large world. In the character interface the text that 
 tells you what to press if you need help is constantly blocking the lower half of the screen. This 
 is where it shows your gold and other features that I dont know about because I cant read them 
 past the help text line which never goes away. If the interface isn't enough to frustrate you, 
 then the simplistic one click attack combat will surely begin to grate on your nerves.
  
  Even the mounted combat system that SouthPeak touted so much is worthless. Every time you think 
 you've gotten the hang of the controls, you wind up steering your horse into a tree or bush and 
 voila, you're stuck. (I spent many minutes marveling at each horse-tree hybrid I created.) Trying 
 to aim and hit enemies from horseback without getting your legs bitten or hacked upon until you 
 die or ride away? Also impossible. I also enjoyed watching the doors that my character opened swing 
 straight through him as if he was a specter.
  
  Confused and lost, I turned to the game manual, but the manual is just as convoluted as the game. 
 It constantly starts to explain a concept on one page, only to tell you to turn to page X to learn 
 more about this particular feature of the game. Its like a Choose Your Own Adventure game manual. 
 Nothing is straightforward. The whole thing is cobbled together like a fourth grader's book report 
 on a book that the kid didn't read past page five.
  
  Oh, before I forget, the frame rate is horrendous and the graphics look like a hackneyed attempt 
 to make a release on the original XBox. The only positive thing I have to say about Two Worlds 
 is at least they invested in more than a few people to do the voice acting. You rarely hear the 
 same voice twice. But with the idiotic dialogue that sounds like it was ripped from a Regency Romance 
 novel ( Forsooth! I will travel yonder to see what hath this maiden for I, verily, mayhap, bosom, 
 forsooth!) you just won't give a damn.
  
  SouthPeak should be ashamed that they rushed this piece of trash out. It should be impossible to 
 make games this bad. However, Two Worlds is here to prove that it's still possible to talk to the 
 talk and be unable to walk the walk. This game is a shameful waste of the talent that SouthPeak 
 must employ somewhere in their development team. And thats giving them the benefit of the doubt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAlford
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Yes the game starts out bad, yes it rips off oblivion completly, and yes it is a good game. Despite 
 all the greatness that is oblivion, i didnt like it. Lvls didnt mean enough in the game and loot 
 just sucked and there wasnt enough. This isnt so in TW, every lvl brings more power, every kill 
 brings better gear. At the 3-5 hoor point, the game really opens up and you can see the sheer scope 
 of the game. Its HUGE. And for once, it dosnt froce me into one single class. Right now im playing 
 a hybrid melee/caster class and i am destroying my targets like they are children.
  
  The only thing i can figure to why people are knocking the game is that they are reveiwing it off 
 the first 2-3 hours.... which suck. Your character is not very strong, the starting abilites arent 
 great, and the graphics dont hold up to oblivion. But once you start to get new weapons, abiliteis, 
 and magic, combat really opens up and you dont miss the fact that you cant block.... cause you ust 
 dodge out f the way. Its very nice to know i can pound a skellies head in with a mace, and still 
 heal my self with a spell more than once without running out of mana ala oblivion. Anyway, stick 
 with the game for more than a few hours and you will become hooked like me. Graphics arent everything 
 folks and look past the few bugs and the bad horse riding and enjoy the character development. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonedFox324
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Now I could rant the entire review about everything the game does wrong, but lets start on a lighter 
 note shall we? Two Worlds does some things right, alot of things right actually.
  
  First of all, I found the combat to be slightly more satisfying than Oblivion 's and the spell 
 casting gave a bit more flavor. I also liked the inclusion of specific skills such as Dirty Trick 
 (kicking dirt in someones eyes) and Overdrawing your bow. The fact that your Healing and Mana potions 
 are always mapped to the Bumpers really helps too. The inclusions of things like Traps are also 
 a fun little addition that really helps set this game apart from Oblivion, but inevitably makes 
 it more like World of Warcraft.
  
  Uhh... thats about it. Now for the unpleasant parts of this game...
  
  The camera control is 
 shoddy at best, with its traditional Third Person giving you very little view of your surroundings, 
 and the first person (which I'm only able to access sometimes for some odd reason) is abysmal. 
 The navigation system is HORRENDOUS. I can't tell you how many times ive got turned around using 
 the crappy map, with a tiny cursor that you can barely tell where it's even pointing. Horse riding 
 is hard to control and frankly, not worth the trouble. The simple fact that you can't even access 
 a skill until you find trainer for it, irked me as well.
  
  As for the aesthetics of the game, the art and graphics are acceptable but we've seen most of it 
 before (at least in the opening areas) in Oblivion. The map and quest logs were difficult to work 
 and badly designed. The Inventory had the organization of a crozz between Nox and Diablo meaning 
 that although it's weight based, bigger items show up as bigger items onscreen. Even though the 
 inventory does feature a handy Organize button, it still doesn't rid the game of the feeling of 
 clutter. Music is unremarkable and often nonexistent.
  
  Some Miscellaneous problems included the sheer lack of customability for your character other than 
 clothes (aside from skin color and slight size differences, everyone essentially playing as the 
 same guy) . The voice acting is kinda weak, as is the plot. The part that annoyed me the most was 
 the fact that your weight level on your inventory is constantly blocked by the text Back: Show 
 Instructions . It was handy to know I could get instructions with the back button at first, but 
 GO AWAY!
  
  All in all, Two Worlds isn't the worst game on the planet. If they had taken the things they had 
 done right and built a better game around it, I can see a pretty exceptional adventure just waiting 
 there. Unfortunately the uninteresting, hard to work experience we got is a big disappointment. 
 Two Worlds is destined to sit in the realm of mediocrity for now, but maybe we'll see more of this 
 (these hehe) World (s) in the future... you know, only good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdhall1313
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I'm surprised at all the negative reviews. Did you guys play for more than 15 minutes?
  
  Two Worlds is a little slow starting out and does have more of a learning curve than Oblivion. 
 Read the manual before you start.
  
  The outside world graphics are very good on a large HDTV screen. The facial graphics could have 
 used a little more work. The outside world is more colorful than Oblivion.
  
  I haven't tried multi-player yet so this is based on single player:
  
  I haven't noticed any 
 frame-rate issues, just a slight pause moving into a new area, similar to Oblivion.
  
  The voice acting is not bad. I think some people here are put off by the Shakespeare style speech. 
 At least they didn't use the same 3 or 4 voices for all the characters like they did in Oblivion.
 
  
  For fighting, to swing a sword in Oblivion, you used the right trigger. To hit a little harder, 
 you hold the trigger a little longer. In Two worlds, to swing your sword, you use the right trigger. 
 To do a combo attack, you click the right trigger twice. I don't see a big difference.
  
  Leveling up and assigning your talent and skill points makes sense. I like this system better than 
 the one in Oblivion. I like being able to combine weapons to make a better weapon or combining 
 armor pieces to make better armor.
  
  Health and mana potions work as expected.
  
  I'd give Oblivion a 9.5 and Two Worlds a 9.0. Two Worlds reminds me more of Morrowind (with better 
 graphics) than Oblivion.
  
  This is a great game and well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twin_Beredaz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  ok, to all yall suckers who played this for like 5 minutes and said ahhh this game sux compared 
 to Oblivion!!'
  
  remember genius, THIS AINT OBLIVION!
  
  PLUS, most of yall are basing your opinons on the multi-player which Oblivion couldn't even pull 
 off!!
  
  I must agree the lag is pissin me off alot. however, BIG talk of a patch to destroy most of that 
 D*** Lag is in the worx.
  
  now, for the single player, after I was taught the basic mechanics of this games gameplay, I actually 
 started getting into this game!!
  
  seriously, my opinion went from a 4.5 to a 8.5-9.0 in less than an hour!
  
  i mean, there is 
 a bit of repetitivness as far as battles go, yet I don't get tired of killing things to level up. 
 there ARE alot more skills to learn so u can alomost always keep s*** fresh:)
  
  so all in all so far this game isn't so bad: p
  
  that's why I'm changin my score to a straight 
 up 9.0
  
  Layter// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewhinshaw
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  At first I thought the company who made this game thought they could play a joke on all interested 
 in purchasing it. At least, this is what went through my head for the first 1/2 hour of playtime. 
 I was in pure shock. I kept thinking, this can't be the game. It just cant. . I have to say I'm 
 amazed at how lousy this game was. If I were in any way associated with that company I would be 
 wearing a hoody with sunglasses when I went in public in fear of being beaten on the streets. This 
 game quite possibly sets the baseline for the word abhorrent when it comes to reviewing games. 
 This game does not deserve the 1.0 rating I gave it. Terrible, terrible, terrible. This game was 
 so bad it made me angry and embarrassed at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razoredge13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds.. the semi-hyped RPG from Southpeak. While many of the low-score reviewers here hit 
 the nail on the head, i'll try to expand.
  
  First, the game IS decent. The voice acting could be greatly improved as they try to imitate old 
 style english, but overall it's a playable experience. The graphics do look nice, and you can see 
 shadows on just about anything, BUT that causes another problem; Frame Rate issues. The minute 
 you step out of the beginning area (Which offers no tutorial at all: It has you kill a group of 
 3 guys and then you have to find your own way out) the FPS takes some hits. It's definately playable, 
 but it's VERY noticable and your characters movements become quite jerky. If you look at the ground 
 or sky, or use console commands to disable grass / shadows, it does have a fairly solid frame rate.
 
  
  The combat. This is an area where they went wrong. There is NO way to block, even if you have a 
 shield. Your character doesn't block, the blows just go through the shield like they would normally. 
 You can press the B button to jump back and avoid being hit, but when fighting more than 1 or 2 
 enemies it gets very annoying - It's hard to take on multiple enemies, even on the medium setting. 
 Expect to die to groups of animals, although their health doesn't reset once you die. Humanoids 
 are slightly easier.
  
  You cannot move when using the bow, either. Once you pull your string / arrow back, you are stuck 
 there (Who can't move when shooting a bow?) until you either get hit or fire the arrow. The story 
 is.. quite bad. This game has a LOT of potential if they only took time to polish all the bugs.
 
  
  Oh! One more thing; The interface is quite hard to figure out how to use sometimes. The text seems 
 like font size 5, and the Press back for instructions text often covers up critical details like 
 weight, item stats, and so forth.
  
  This is definately a rent first game; If you can make it past the first hour or two of learning 
 the quirks, you'll find a decently enjoyable experience, albeit seeming like a unfinished product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradsnet
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I want to make a confession. I didn't get very far into the game. I'm writing this review having 
 only played for a few hours.
  
  I understand many people are saying that if you give the game a chance it grows on you... based 
 on what I've seen I think the proper word might be fester. 
  
  This game is terrible.
  
  The first thing I noticed was the voice acting. Every second a character was speaking my ears 
 were on fire. With voices this bad, just text would have been better.
  
  The next thing I noticed was the storytelling. The presentation is disjointed and silly. Mixed 
 with the bad voice acting I felt like I was watching a flash animation parody of a real game.
 
  
  Once I got passed the opening deluge of story I thought maybe at least I would get to experience 
 some of this interesting combat I've been hearing about. Boy was I wrong.
  
  Combat consists of button mashing... the button in question being the right trigger, so I suppose 
 it's more like button squeezing but whatever. The combat feels devoid of feedback. When you take 
 damage your character doesn't really do anything different so you have to keep an eye on your health 
 bar... which sort of breaks you out of the interesting stuff. Beyond that there is no indication 
 of what enemies you will be able to handle, and since there is no scaling (which I'm not saying 
 is a bad thing, had it been done right) you can get killed by a small woodland animal after defeating 
 the highly skilled bandits who have been terrorizing the countryside.
  
  Which brings up the question... how do the bandits get by the woodland critters to terrorize anything? 
 I mean, I handily defeated them, and even I couldn't defeat the critters in the woods... so what 
 did they do?
  
  At this point I think it's worst mentioning one of the most crippling defects I've seen in a game 
 upon it's release. During combat the frame rate occasionally slows down or stutters to the point 
 that it is nearly unplayable.
  
  The worst thing about it is that there doesn't seem to be a pattern to it. I fought 3 enemies at 
 once without an issue at one point, then while I was the only entity on the screen took a few swings 
 and the problem occurred. It's so random, and that makes it even more frustrating. If it was only 
 when there was a lot of enemies on the screen I would be able to understand. As it is, I have to 
 ask, did the developers play the gold copy at all?
  
  I design software for a living, and if I let a bug like that out of the door... I would be fired, 
 and that is the best way I can think of to summarize how I feel about whomever is responsible for 
 releasing this game to the public in it's current state. They should be fired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codeman3D
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when I heard another RPG was coming out for the 360. I finished Oblivion and 
 Shivering Isle, and was ready to embark on another adventure.
  
  Because I do watch the buzz on a game, i was confused by the extremes this game was getting. It 
 was ususally a 1 or 9. LOL how could this be. Well instead of plunking down $60 of hard earned 
 cash, I rented it for $9 at Blockbuster. Man, I wish I could get my nine bucks back.
  
  This has truly got to be the WRST game ever released on the 360. Talk about absolutely no fun to 
 play. Yikes, this thing wouldn't have been cutting edge back in the Gothic 2 days (still one of 
 my favorite)
  
  The inventory is so bad i new this was going to s_ck! , so I made a list...
  1. Worse Voice acting 
 EVER!
  2. Did somebody hire monkeys to write the opening?
  3. Combat - oh that is what clicking the trigger 8,000 times means.
  4. Graphics - The most hideous 
 facial animation in x360 history.
  5. Character Customization - mis labeled, should read: Less Chernobyl ----V-- More Chernobyl.
  
 
  I could go on, but after 30 minutes I realized I'm not into excrutiating pain - anymore... ;)
 
  
  Seriously - this game would be ok for $1.99, but even then you might feel cheated. AVOID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellblazerUSA
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Why do developers release broken games? Numerous reasons- sometimes they have a deadline, sometimes 
 they never have a Q/A period and sometimes, just occasionally, they're lazy and incompetent.
  When you get your first view of the game, you'll rush to judgement and go straight to lazy and 
 incompetent. But you need to remember that this game has already been released on the PC and comes 
 to the 360 with all the bugs patched! Seriously.
  Some of us like to take different approaches to wandering around sand-box games. Two Worlds has 
 decided to give everyone the same method of transportation- stuttering. Sure, some of the vistas 
 are impeccable- but they also cause the game to develop a severe case of Parkinson's.
  Combat is all dealt with by one button- the right trigger. Hitting said trigger causes your character 
 to turn into a whirling dervish, flailing his arms like a retarded Bruce Lee in armor. Luckily, 
 the AI is so thick, said combat is a breeze- even if your character is barely smarter than his 
 enemies.
  Voicework in this game was seemingly handed off to an amateur dramatic society to do in their spare 
 time. Verily, it sucketh and there's no option (that I can find) to switch it off.
  
  I'd continue, but it's early morning for me and so much negativity will ruin my day- but probably 
 no more than playing this game would achieve.
  
  Don't buy it. Don't ask for it as a gift. And if someone gives it to you, then you know they hate 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyoung
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I like the game. For the ones who haven't played it. Its not like oblivion. Some of the graphics 
 look good. The water areas in the game look really bad. Thats the worst water graphics I've seen 
 in any 360 game. The map is hard to navigate. Sometimes you don't really know where you are at. 
 It took me awhile to understand this. If you played a lot of rpg games it probably won't bother 
 you. But if you are not use to playing this type of game, its going to be confusing at first. To 
 me the best graphics are the trees and plants. But I play on a HDTV, I don't know about a regular 
 TV. If I had to rate this game I would give it a 7.5. I think this game could of been a 9 or above 
 if they would of spent more time developing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishrosebud59
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  Alright... here it goes. Two Worlds is that RPG that could of been but failed to be. The potential 
 was definitely there but South Peak failed to deliver an end product that offered a true RPG experience. 
 When playing an RPG I like to become immersed in a world and forget that I am actually siting in 
 my living room staring at a TV screen playing a game, but hard as I tried Two Worlds pulled me 
 right back into reality time and time again. From the clunky controls to the poor voice work, Two 
 Worlds kept me asking; what in the world where they thinking? Now, I'll be the first one to say 
 that graphics are not all that matters in a game, but when you find yourself playing a next-gen 
 game that, by all rights, could have been easily mistaken for a last-gen game, then you are not 
 playing a next-gen game. The combat system felt all too rushed and unpolished and the character 
 models where boring and down right ugly. The fluidity of the game felt like a wounded animal trying 
 to make it across the highway and the mechanics felt just as bad if not worse. Passing this game 
 off as a leap forward in next-gen RPG's is like saying that Paris Hilton is a role model to all 
 teenage girls across the globe. I think this game needed to cook longer in the oven before SouthPeak 
 decided to pull it out and serve it to the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob3nelson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is nowhere near as good as Obliviion is (or even Morrowind for that matter) . 
 But, if you have Oblivion and have played it enough to be bored with it and don't want to wait 
 to play an RPG until Bethesda puts out another masterpiece, you might want to give this game a 
 look. This is not a game for RPG novices. They will be lost in it and not know what to do. If you've 
 played a lot of RPGs like Diablo and Dungeon Siege, you should feel at home with Two Worlds. A 
 lot of the reviewers are complaining about how horrible the graphics are. They are by no means 
 as good as Oblivion - so don't expect them to be - but they are serviceable. In any case, these 
 are the same people who claim graphics aren't everything and it's the gameplay that counts. Well, 
 the gameplay in Two Worlds is what makes it worthwhile in spite of the graphics. The way you can 
 mix any plant ingredients to make an infinite variety of potions, for example, is actually an improvement 
 over Oblivion and is highly entertaining in itself. You also don't need to lug around a mortar 
 or a pestle either to make potions. A lot of this game is derivative of Oblivion, but so what? 
 The game is not trying to be another Oblivion, but you can tell that it is made by people who really 
 like playing RPGs and are willing to incorporate what works in other games into theirs. In conclusion, 
 this game is geared toward more hardcore RPG players than novices, and at the beginning, you'll 
 be spending some time grasping what all the icons in the inventory system mean, as well as how 
 to level up and use your spells. The game takes it for granted that you're already familiar with 
 the inventory systems of other RPGs and so need no help. While not nearly as good as Oblivion, 
 for what it is - an RPG to play while waiting for the next one put out by Bethesda - it's adequate. 
 I got exactly what I expected and a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffdaAlien
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Well I rented this game and it's not bad at all.
  
  Graphics- A little outdated but not like ps1. More like xbox graphics. The lagging is highly blown 
 out of proportion by most people but there are a few loading times.
  
  Gameplay- The hack and slash mechanics in this game work well but there is a lack of combos. Controlling 
 horses can be a pain but you'll get use to it.
  
  Sound- okay not great though. the title screen music is way overdone and annoying. Combat sounds 
 okay but the voice acting sucks.
  
  Overall- A fun game with bd voice acting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  two worlds is a really good rpg if you give it the time and the patience. the first 2-3 hours of 
 the game is really crappy but after that it starts to get really good and show its true potential. 
 the game is about the main character who loses his sister to evil forces trying to summon the god 
 of war and you gotta safe her and stop them. there are many different sub quest in the game and 
 they are really fun. you can also collect ingredients and create your own potions, bombs, weapon 
 enchancers and etc. the fighting system is a little choppy but you will get use to it after playing 
 it for a while. leveling up is actually very easy as well so the game isnt very hard at all. the 
 graphics arent the best for the 360 but they arent the worst either just a little choppy but it 
 really wont bother you. it isnt better than oblivion but it is close to it. considering that there 
 are many different magic attacks int he game that are very unique and will make the game a whole 
 lot easier for you. plus if you the kind of person who loves getting achievements like me then 
 this game will defintly be a game for you. you also get to play online with up to 8 players either 
 fighting eachother or fighting together which is something that oblivion doesnt have. if your a 
 big rpg fan then i recommend you go out and at least rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brittish
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  After looking at the reviews posted here, nly two things are possible. Either South Peak are trying 
 to scew the score by posting fake reviews (Gamespot you might want to sniff some IP's) . Or 50% 
 of you hate the guts of a game that the other 50% love. For me that doesnt make sense, I am inclined 
 to believe the group who hate the game, and I also think Gamespot should heck up on who is giving 
 the game a high score. It isnt an uncommon phenomenon but I hope GameSpot check the reviewers enough 
 to see if they are faking it or actual reviewers.
  
  Anyway if any game is worth a play right now it is BioShock! Go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toms_85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I think that everyone who has played diablo 2 or maybe even dungeon siege can agree with me on 
 this one, two worlds was never supposed to be like oblivion, yes they are both rpgs, but i would 
 consider oblivion an adventure game and two worlds a hack and slash rpg just like diablo and diablo 
 2. This is exactly the kind of game i was hopeing for from this and i am having a lot of fun with 
 it, i was disapointed a little bit at first from the small lag, (and no its not nearly as bad as 
 everyone says it is) after about 10 minutes of playing i got really into it, unlike oblivion which 
 only has limited armor and weapons, like the best kind without expansions being daedric, in two 
 worlds you are constantly getting better and better armor weapons. what im trying to say is that 
 this game is more diablo 2 and and dungeon siege then oblivion and that you should play it for 
 you self before automaticly asuming that its bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboboklashaur
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  So lets get down to business. Two Worlds right off the bat in the trailer says that it's the most 
 epic RPG ever. Well that's a big fat lie. Two Worlds is a game that should've been made just for 
 a PC because on the 360 this game not only looks horrible but the control is horrible also. Think 
 Diablo + Oblivion + Fable + a lot of crap.
  
  The frame rate on this game is pretty bad. It's passable, but not by much. The graphics aren't 
 as great as people are making them out to be. Better than Oblivion? I think not. It's a little 
 better looking than Diablo 2 maybe. Maybe. I wasn't expecting good graphics though so I'm not too 
 far off my guess on that fact.
  
  The gameplay is about as fun as stabbing yourself in the eye with a spoon for 12 hours in a row. 
 It has a horrible level up system, and really really weird cards that give you abilities. Not a 
 good call. It reminds me of Summoner in that fact, and actually has a sort of Summoner look to 
 it. Again, not a good thing.
  
  I'm trying not to compare this to Oblivion so much because it's not really similar, but the fact 
 that everyone is comparing it to Oblivion is making me be the voice of reason here. The only positive 
 to this game is the loading isn't as frequent or as long as it is in Oblivion, but I'd gladly trade 
 the quicker loading times in for an actual good game.
  
  The voice acting. Wow. Everyone has a different voice? Try maybe four different people, trying 
 to change the pitch of their voice to make it sound like more, and doing a horrible job in the 
 process. The character models when they talk look like something seen in a PS1 game, and the dialog 
 alone is horrendous. There's absolutely no enthusiasm in anyones voice, and the story isn't even 
 good.
  
  If you're one of the people that is basing this game on Oblivion, let me help you: Get Oblivion, 
 send SouthPeak Interactive a message by not buying this sorry excuse for a video game and play 
 a real game, called Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyasian2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Yeah its TW1STED F4TE here, and I'm editing my previous review... I gave this game a 9.0 when i 
 first played it, i apologize if i mislead you, this game is a piece of steaming garbage and is 
 a total let down, i sold it within the first 4 days of the game's release. The graphics are mediocre 
 compared to next-gen and look like an Xbox game. The fighting system is embarrassing because he 
 does the same damn thing over and over and gets incredibly repetitive. Ok I'll admit they have 
 a lot more creatures than Oblivion but none of them have any special moves that make them unique 
 to one another. I was excited for this game, hoped it was the new Oblivion because no one wanted 
 to wait for Elder Scrolls 5 (if they make one) I mean this game had huge potential to become great, 
 it had online play, but that ended up being a huge lag-fest even with the patch. The story line 
 was retarded and so was the main character, who was the biggest tool that it was hard not to burst 
 out in laughter every time he opened his mouth a crap out awful Old English phrases. Don't not 
 buy this game, it is a huge mistake and you WILL regret it.
  
  Oh and don't wait for the expansion pack because South Peak Interactive is just gonna screw that 
 up too, look at their list of games on their website, theres only like two games on there that 
 got a decent score, Gamespot your review was messed up too, 7 out of 10 is not was this crap deserves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theducksfan
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for two worlds, i mean the thought of a oblivion like game online, on a console. 
 Sweet. Umm not sweet. Look the game is in depth and can be sorta amusing maybe, wait not! And is 
 no where near the quality of a game like oblivion, or Bioshock witch was realeased the same week. 
 The frame rate and graphics are unbelievably horrible. There were times, especially when looking 
 at the rain or trees, when i thought i was playing cool borders 2 for the ps1. If your looking 
 for a quality game even a solid game where things like gameplay, graphics, and the biggest thing 
 to me if the game is fun or not, then dont even look at this games cover, in fact stop reading 
 this review and forget this game even exsists. Only if your a complete die hard rpg gamer is this 
 even worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluevolutions
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  After playing 2 worlds for 20 plus hours, my only remaining gripe is the Back for instructions 
 box that covers the bottom of the menus, Why can that not be taken off, It is stupid and blocks 
 needed info. Playing all weekend and I do not know how much weight I can carry or am carrying.
 
  
  That said, Oblivion is a masterpeice, after one gets over that this game is not oblivion, it is 
 a good game. The weapon upgrade system shames oblivion, especially when your inventory is full 
 and you can combine most of what you have and make more room. There are merchants out the u know 
 what in the larger cities and their inventories rotate frequently.
  
  the battle system works well, for melee, for ranged attacks first person would be nice but isn't 
 there. The rangeed attacks can be set to auto aim and there are skills to improve the auto aim. 
 the Hot key set up is klunky and hard to use, the stupid torch is hard to get rid of too.
  
  the travel system lacks a fast travel that was majorly nice in oblivion, the horse riding is 
 better than oblivion, also the quest system lacks direction. I recommend the strategy guide for 
 completing quests.
  
  the voice acting is better and worse than oblivion, the dialect is a mix of old and modern english 
 with no english accent. some characters sound real but most sound like poorly read scripts, there 
 is variety though, over 200 voice actors, compared to oblivions 5 voices spread over 1200 npc, 
 in a nutshell, if you enjoyed the Oblivion sstyle gameplay and don't want to wait 10 yeasrs for 
 the next elder scrolls game, 2 Worlds is a nice fix, just don't expect it to be as supreme as Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgh0lx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Now I'll admit like many others when I first started this game I didn't like it. Probably because 
 all I did was compare it to oblivion and be like, why didn't they do this like oblivion does? After 
 getting some more time in with it though I'm happy to report that the game is very good and very 
 engrousing, it's not quiet as good as oblivion, but it's pretty close.
  
  Like in oblivion there's a lot to figure out and the game really doesn't teach you anything, you 
 have to read the instructions before going into. Though if you're an adept gamer you'll figure 
 it all out soon enough. The game looks great, there are a few graphical glitches, like walking 
 through trees or just the occasionally twitchy movement, but that is more from the slowdown that 
 the game suffers a little from. Don't worry though, if you dealt with oblivions slowdown you will 
 do the same here.
  
  The combat is showy and flashly but a little lacking, you'll quickly discover that the easiest 
 way to take on any enemy, or the multiple enemies as they seem to travel in packs all the time, 
 is to use your combo, which starts as a three set and gets larger as you level up, and then hit 
 the B button to jump back before they strike. This pretty much works with every fight, though it 
 gets harder when there are multiple enemies. There are many special moves that you get as well, 
 kicking dirt into peoples eyes, using a spear to dismount someone from their horse, using a defensive 
 stance to take less damage and block more, and so on. There are a few problems with it that bother 
 me, you can't aim your spells or bow for one. The game automatically locks onto the nearest enemy, 
 which would be fine if they at least allowed you to choose who you locked onto. Also, as soon as 
 you draw the bow the camera freezes, so if your opponent walks off of your veiw you will continue 
 to aim at him, but you can no longer actually see him. This is annoying and I hope they will fix 
 this with a patch at some point. There is also the problem of blocking, mainly, you can't. There 
 is a parry ability but it's automatic and despite my beefing it up to level four right away and 
 having a 70&amp; chance of blocking, I've never seen my character actually block an attack.
  
  The world is huge and more traditional that Oblivion, it has ogres, orcs, DRAGONS!, cyclops, 
 etc, nice locals and it has a few new that it does better than oblivion. Like the ability to level 
 up your armor and weapons, you can combine two of the same item to make it more effective. If you 
 do this alot you can keep your first dagger and keep it very useful throughout! I also like the 
 ability to assassinate people, where it is an automatic take down. The game allows you to play 
 in first person, but only when exploring, combat is in the third person, fortunately though the 
 character animation is much more smooth than oblivions was and the game looks fine while doing 
 everything.
  
  The one thing I found odd is that you can't create your own character, you can customize his look, 
 but not create one. They said this was for story purposes but they could easily have let you make 
 your own character and changed the few minor things they needed. There is however online play, 
 not only PVP stuff but the ability to make a guy and quest and dungeon loot with 7 other people, 
 while I haven't checked it out yet if it's half as good as the regular game it'll keep me playing 
 for some time after I finish the main story.
  
  If you like RPGs like oblivion I recommend you check this game out. There is a bit of a learning 
 curve and it'll take you like an hour or so to figure everything out, but once you do you'll find 
 a great game that you can sink many hours into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dionysus0915
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been great but falls short on many levels. First of all the graphics and textures 
 are terrible. It is especially prevelent when your character is standing near a torch or a ray 
 of light in the caves. I dont know how the developers of the game thought these graphic were revolutionary!! 
 The official website says, Wide range of beautifully rendered terrains: from high mountains to 
 seashores and deep caves with all of the locations featuring ultra sharp texturing and stunning 
 design... Extensive usage of Pixel Shader 2.0 and 3.0, HDR, multiple materials and unique shadow 
 engine to ensure the best visuals possible. This is not the case at all. Perhaps they just dont 
 know how to use the technology. I know graphics dont make the game so maybe the fighting and gameplay 
 will make up for this. Whatever the case, the graphics fall short.
  Next is general fighting and gameplay. Again this game falls short!! Ever heard of hit detection?? 
 Perhaps these developers haven't because it is terrible. Another quote from their official website 
 is , Spectacular and dynamically choreographed fights. The combat system combines intuitive steering, 
 tactical challenges and movie-like visual experiences. Now this is a blatant lie. Your character 
 can do a sequence of about 4 swings then stops then does the same sequence again if u hit the attack 
 button 4 more times. Anyone that has watched anything with Spectacular a nd dynamically choreographed 
 fights... knows that usually there is a great variety of moves and movement in these fights... 
 These have none. Terrible!!! So i thought mounts may be fun to ride... again the mechanics are terrible... it 
 is nearly impossible to tell where you will be heading while riding.
  The website also states that this game offers more character development than any of its competitors. 
 Again this is a lie this game offers nothing revolutionary or different then many of its competitors!!
 
  The audio in this game is a mixed bag the theme music isn't particularly what I like but it isn't 
 terrible. What is terrible is the voice acting and the sound effects. How annoying is it to hear 
 your character say the same things over and over for 100+ hours?? Also the sound of your sword 
 swinging just is ridiculous. What I liked about the game is the huge assortment of equipment you 
 can get throughout your journey. Makes up for the lack of character individualization you get at 
 the character creation screen. Also the story from what I have seen isn't bad. Could be great if 
 the voice acting was better. The bad acting takes away from the immersion into the story. That's 
 about it. I could have written more. If you do decide to buy the game mayhap u give it a change 
 because there is some enjoyment to mete from this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommanderTWiCE
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game for months, when the release date got pushed back I was upset 
 but figured that it just meant they were adding polish. Sadly there is NO polish on this game. 
 The first training dungeon in one room with two enemies in it, the tutorial tells you to go kill 
 them; you run up, take a swing and miss, and then you get killed with one hit! Upon re-spawning 
 [at the front of the room with all your stuff and no worse for wear] you run up again, maybe land 
 a blow, and get killed with one hit again. This is on the medium difficulty! After you finally 
 manage to kill the foes [probably with your bow] you leave and on your way back to town you get 
 attacked by three more guys who kill you with one hit. There's no way to block, you can't move 
 while shooting, any skills you have are useless at this point because they only have a 2%-4% chance 
 of even working. Everywhere you go you get attacked by packs of enemies who are nearly impossible 
 to kill one on one. When you die you re-spawn about 30ft from where you died [these re-spawn points 
 are placed about every 100ft 'cause the developers knew you were just gonna die every time you 
 got in a fight] . So many things in this game are broken. The controls are floaty, the graphics 
 are pixely [not to mention just plane ugly] , you have to be touching from your foe to hit them, 
 the menu system in clunky and you can't even read everything [like how much weight you're carrying] 
 because of a poorly placed Back for instructions overlay [and sadly you need instruction every 
 time you use the menus] , the dialog sounds like it was written by some Ren-fair reject and voice 
 acting isn't just awful - they mis-pronounce simple words. You can only have three spells equipped 
 at a time which makes it pointless to try and be a mage, especially since the spells aren't even 
 that cool to begin with. The map is horribly designed [even on the HUD's mini-map everything is 
 brown so you can't tell a forest form a desert, and the arrow that shows you which way you're going 
 in impossible to interpret. When you try to use the world map to figure out where you're supposed 
 to be going it zooms in on the quest location and you have to move around at full zoom to figure 
 out where you are - not to mention the fact that every quest you get has a beacon even if you select 
 just one active quest. The journal interface is probably the worst part of this disaster, 1/4 of 
 the map screen is dedicated to your journal and you use the right analog to navigate it. The main 
 problem here is the box you move around to select an entry is about 1 shade different from the 
 background of your journal so you can hardly even see it. The only way this game was even playable 
 was on Easy which is insulting to any self-respecting gamer [the default difficulty is Hard for 
 some reason, too] , but not only are the enemies easier you get more stuff so you become overpowered 
 too quickly and the game gets boring. It's no wonder that South Peak never submitted this game 
 for review, it's like the role-playing equivalent of Narc. Sadly for us it costs way more than 
 $20. Especially sad if you bought the Collectors Edition since the Tabletop Role-playing book that 
 comes with it isn't even worth the paper it's printed on [gee, every race but humans have night 
 vision, real imaginative] . The only cool thing about this game is the fact that you can save your 
 alchemy formulas, but that hardly matters since the alchemy system itself is pretty lame. The only 
 reason I even give this game a 1 is because I did actually have fun for a few hours on Easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamzrsweet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  like i said when i first started playin my reaction was this sux just like evey1 else well all 
 i have to say is im lvl 36 and lovin it and the graphics to me are really nice i thibk they did 
 a damn good job with this game despite some flaws but hopeful; ly they will send out a patch for 
 some of them, once u get into the quest they are actualy fun believe me guys my reaction was the 
 same as most of u when i started playin but i gave it a chance and man im glad i did i woulkd have 
 missed very sweet game, all in all the game is fun and addictive as well once u get past the initial 
 boring start ....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjohnstonjr123
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The acting is horrible and the Graphics are sub Oblivion, but the new additions and fighting make 
 up for it! I guess now it is the struggle of content vs graphics, along with a combination of other 
 things. Overall I am pleased with the new game play, but I do agree with other reviewers that the 
 graphics and acting could have been cleaned up- a lot.... On the good side, Two Worlds offers a 
 new play style that is a mix of many R. P. G. elements. A breath of fresh air from Gears, G. R. A. W. 
 and all the shooters. Yea, whats with the dry spell then the bombardment of games all the sudden. 
 Someone up the food chain needs to get it together with release dates and patches! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChudWarrior
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I am ashamed to say I pre-ordered the special edition copy of this game. I was legitimately very 
 excited to play it. I played Oblivion and loved it, and I thought this would be a nice change of 
 pace... Oblivion starts off wonderfully with great music and a Picard narrative.
  Two Worlds opener is like turning the channel to a movie Dungeons and Dragons 15 minutes in. It 
 looks deplorable and you have NO IDEA what the heck is going on. You have to read about it in the 
 manual before you play to understand what you are watching.
  
  This game is not even in the same league as Oblivion. This game was not even meant to played on 
 a 360 for the controls are atrocious. The very second you are able to move your character it becomes 
 apparent that this game was meant to be played with a MOUSE on Windows 95 not on a 360. Your character 
 controls are sluggish and awkward. He moves way too fast, and he glides as if he was on a surf 
 board not running. You cannot walk by the way, only run. The graphics are pitiful. Did anyone else 
 find the Mortal Kombat blood effects amusing? You need a magnifying glass to navigate through the 
 magic and weapons menu screen. The characters and enemies in the game should have looked awesome, 
 but they of course did not. Every one and everything looked like they were missing quite a few 
 layers. All in all this game is a huge letdown. It Grows on you like a malignant TUMOR. Once you 
 realize what it is, you immediately try to get rid of it. Then you find out you can only get 25$ 
 store credit for an item you spent 74.00$ on. Distaste reigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMarl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up because Bioshock was sold out. At first (the first ten minutes or so) I thought 
 it was terrible when compared to Oblivion which is smooth and polished, but as I immersed into 
 it more and more, I realized how much BETTER it is than Oblivion. Yes the voice acting is horrible, 
 yes there are graphical glitches and its not quite so pretty, but the world is not cardboard like 
 in Oblivion. There are actually layers to personality. It's not stuck with Oblivions broken leveling 
 system and uninspiring level up of chests, monsters and dungeons -- the main reason why I left 
 Oblivion on the shelf uncompleted... it just got boring. It's fun to go back to monsters that kicked 
 your butt before and get even with them. Certainly Oblivion is a dumbed down RPG for the masses 
 and Two Worlds is for more die-hard. This game is really the best elements of Oblivion combined 
 with the best elements of Baldur's Gate and I expect it will only get better as more patches are 
 updated... they don't have the budget of Bethesda and its remarkable what they were able to accomplish 
 considering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennAa
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you can get threw the very bad voice acting, and the hordes of creatures that attack you from 
 everywhere, it's not that bad of a game. Multiplayer sucks bad because of the lag it gets. But 
 everything else I like about the game. The best thing that I like about the game is that you can 
 combine items that are the same exact thing to make a better item. The game would be alot better 
 if the creatures in the game didnt always come in groups of 3 when playing single player mode. 
 Hopefully they make some updates so that multiplayer is fully functional so I can enjoy the 2-8 
 co-op mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acooley79
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Umm, Im just gonna give it a few more hours. Right now I'm undecided. The character creation is 
 garbage, and the battle sequences is pretty shotty. The blood animation is lame as hell, Sega Genisis 
 Mortal Kombat Style. I don't mind the voice acting and the graphics, ehhhh, ok, good, but not like 
 I expected. The main reason I will keep the game is because Im not going to quit so early into 
 it. It definately serves its purpose for a game of its genre since 360 isn't putting out any good 
 RPGs as of late.
  
  The story is cool so far, it seems like their are many roads on the path of good vs. evil you can 
 take and the story will develop around you in that manner. I don't mind the freaky dialect, makes 
 you feel like your playing something in the 16th century as opposed to a game thats in the 20th, 
 which doesn't make sense when you are riding around on horses and shooting bows and arrows still. 
 Iron Age dialect, makes it more real.
  
  At this point I'm mildly disappointed but not upset as I did have higher hopes for it. I do believe 
 it can grow on you but the people that are all pissed off about it are the people that had their 
 expectations way too high. It didn't even get that much hype so I don't know why it was so hyped 
 up! It's just a another Oblivion type game with its flaws that I believe some will get patched. 
 If you want to play another game like Oblivion or need an RPG, get this game, but give it a chance 
 and don't get all freakin excited like some loser gamer and just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roland745
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  The flaws in Two Worlds hit you from the very begining. The difficulties in playability, gfx blunders, 
 and lack of engaging storyline make it hard to stomach even the first few hours of gameplay. Things 
 like inventory and maps are difficult to use and certainly not intuitive. Fights w/ enemies are 
 repetitive and boring. And the voice acting is horrific. The attempt at language that is more medival 
 comes across as comical at best. It's hard to not be dissappointed after seeing some of the previews 
 of the game, which appeared beautiful. In the game, however, the graphics are jerky.
  
  If you're thinking of buying, I would recommend renting first. The screenshots are misleading and 
 you'll be happy to save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris875
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is a game with many mixed reviews, so along with my review score youll learn exactly 
 what youre getting into should you decide to try this game. First off, its not half as bad as 
 those who didnt like it say it is, and those who liked it seem to offer a little too much praise. 
 Its really somewhere in between. Oblivion set the standard for this genre pretty high so its 
 easy to see the shortcomings of this game. Its not as pretty as ES 4 by far and the frame rate 
 is noticeably low. You dont have the level of customization over your characters appearance either. 
 There is a lot of LENGTHY voice acting-but with the subtitles on you can skip most of it after 
 you finish reading it. Its also a pretty hard game at first with a pretty steep learning curve 
 even if you have played a lot of RPGs. Another thing is the combat- its third person action but 
 its also stat based so some obvious sprite collisions dont register because your characters skill 
 is too low or the enemys is too high.
  However the game deserves credit for what it does well. The over world is big and everything is 
 spread out. I always felt that things were too close together in Oblivion- take five steps forward 
 and you have discovered another cave or ruin, not so in Two Worlds which makes this world seem 
 more realistic. Theres also no loading from the outside to any interior dwelling, its completely 
 seamless (except for entering the under world areas) . What loading does exist is pretty short. 
 Lastly there are lots of cool thing you can do in this game that you cant do in others like riding 
 a mount- not just horses either. They all have there own stats for speed and strength ( which governs 
 how much stuff they can carry for you) and there own A. I. which means they know better than to 
 run straight off a cliff you didnt see coming. Unfortunately that also means they dont always 
 do what there told, but they will answer your whistle if there close enough too hear it. Theres 
 lots of ways to build your character from the basic attributes and skills to making your own weapons 
 by combine like ones, and the magic system is very different from most RPGs like this, opting 
 for a card based magic system. Oh yeah and there is an online MP mode with both co-op and PvP modes. 
 Its a little laggy (depending on when you play) but you can save your online characters and continue 
 playing in the future and there is a lot of maps for co-op as well as many modes for PvP. Its 
 not going to dethrone Gears or Halo for online dominance, but its not that bad considering its 
 packed in with a lengthy RPG and that its free- PSO online game play is not MUCH different and 
 it costs $10 a month. So there it is- most of the pros and cons of what is ultimately a decent 
 game that RPG fans with enough patience to learn the details of it will enjoy if they take it for 
 what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pachatad
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Honestly please do not buy this game. I played through Oblivion and that was a good game. This 
 is not. It's very glitchy, the graphics are terrible, the combat is some of the worst I have ever 
 encountered, the voice acting is terrible, I almost broke the disc over my knee after the opening 
 cinematic which is the most boring poorly written **** I have ever watched in my entire life. I 
 had to stop playing because I felt like there honestly was nothing else I could do that would waste 
 my time anymore. Please, please, please do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamwrath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Let me take a breath before I start this thing... I will also admit that at this point I am only 
 approximately 25% through the game.
  
  First, this is a very good rpg. It will be unfairly under-rated by many reviewers because Oblivion 
 came out first. And since everyone wants to compare the two I will follow suit, hopefully you will 
 be surprised.
  
  This is a hardcore rpg, not meant for new comers or casuals. Oblivion appealed to new comers because 
 of its accessibility since if you chose to, you didn't have to do anything other than swing a sword. 
 In Two Worlds the stat system, items, spells and pretty much everything else is much deeper and 
 will be a turn off to those new rpg-ers (thus the early reviews) .
  
  The stat system is points based. There are two types of stats, I'll call one vitals (health, strength, 
 dexterity and willpower/mana) and the other magic/skills (schools of magic, lock-picking, combat, 
 archery, and many more) . When you level up you get some points to apply to vitals and some points 
 to apply to magic/skills all to your choosing. This way you are not locked into one skill set like 
 Oblivion. By using this system you can truly create a character that you choose more along the 
 lines of some classic rpgs.
  
  There are tons of items to be found (no more empty chests, thanks Oblivion) . Non-plot items are 
 randomly generated throughout the game world and no more npc leveling. This means that you could 
 go find the Super Duper Sword right at the beginning of the game, which also means that you would 
 have to somehow figure out how to beat the Super Duper Hard Enemy that has the sword (no more level 
 50 wolves with 10,000 HPs, thanks again Oblivion) . Another bonus is that all of the items look 
 different, even enchanted items show off their power (gotta love the red glow of fire enchantment) .
 
  
  Magic is great in this game. All of the spells have different animations and look really cool. 
 Fire will burn grass and small plants. And best of all, all of the spells are useful and effective.
 
  
  The graphics are very nice to look at. The shadows are perfect and the day/night cycle is very 
 nice, actually giving nighttime a very eerie feeling. The lightning is just amazing and will make 
 you jump with the clap of thunder that follows. This game boasts HDR (high dynamic range) lighting, 
 which is the lighting of choice for games these days. Though, I feel it is responsible for a few 
 of the slow downs that this game experiences. It does hop a little while on horseback (Oblivion 
 was much worse) , and a few hops here and there while on foot. The game world is huge and full of 
 life. The trees are much different in the low hills and valleys than the ones in the mountains. 
 The groves also look much better and not like a bunch of randomly placed trees.
  
  A few more things for the Oblivion comparison, no load times to enter cities, buildings, houses, 
 etc. The only load times are while teleporting and entering underground areas and they are very 
 short (look down and you will miss it) . No more superman jumps those ridiculous leaps in Oblivion 
 were so cheesy. Ok, Oblivion has much better voice acting but I give credit to Two Worlds for trying 
 to spice it up ( It's raining, it's pouring, the old man is snoring. - main character during... yep 
 a rain storm and Looks like my in-laws - when zombies and ogres come into view) . Music isn't bad 
 but I was never a fan of the short repeating track on 50+ hour games anyway, I usually end up playing 
 my own music (I heard someone complain about the start menu music, come on) . Your decisions have 
 much more lasting effect, rob or kill someone and the whole village will come after you and will 
 never forget, meaning that if you go back expect the same hostility (you sometimes have an initial 
 chance to pay a fine but if you don't, that's it) . Yes some items are slow to render but they both 
 had that. Best of all... No freezing!!
  
  I am very interested in the multiplayer portion of this game but the servers were having issues 
 that made it unplayable. Hopefully I will report on that in the future.
  
  I recommend this game to hardcore rpg fans who aren't afraid to put a little effort into the experience. 
 It is well rounded and much deeper than a previously mentioned title to which it will be compared 
 relentlessly. While it does have some flaws (what game doesn't) , I think it shines through those 
 to provide a very enjoyable game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric7233
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Ive noticed most people that give this game a bad review have played it for less than 10 hours. 
 I completely understand why. There isnt a detailed tuturial to really get you used to all the things 
 that are different about this game as compared to other rpgs. BUT REST ASSURED... if you give the 
 game a chance and spend some time learning how everything works and experiment with some of the 
 gameplay features, you suddenly will realize you are enjoying yourself and are into the game. Its 
 hard to make a game this massive perfect. But they made it really good. They took some chances 
 and some of those chances paid off in spades and a couple fell flat. ( ill get into detail on my 
 main review after playing some more since im still seeing how well it all ties together for now)
 
  
  Good so far... has an interesting story , looks great ( at least with an hdtv) has lots of fun gameplay 
 mechanics. Gives rpg lovers what they want ( a long enganging adventure that centers them at the 
 story and gives them the freedom to control events and make choices ( good or bad) that will effect 
 the world around them all the while growing more powerful and aquiring better gear.
  
  Bad so far.. The turotrial could have been much more helpful and the quest log isnt that great. 
 And as mentioned by others the voice acting is sub par.
  
  Detailed review to come in about a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds is from a not-so-common developer called Southpeak. Now, I've never heard of them before, 
 but I think the main thing they could have done was amp up the cutscenes, which means voice acting 
 AND character models. Especially the voice acting. Sounds like a cheesy fighting game announcer 
 from a ps one game or something. Anywho, the voice acting sucks. Point blank. And the other main 
 complaint I had was the half-assed character Creation system. The only thing you can change about 
 your character is 4 skin colors, 4 hair styles, and the lengths of his arms, legs, and body. That 
 is not at all even close to the amazing character creation system found in Oblivion. It just doesn't 
 compare. So anyway, you play as a male character, who you can't name. And that's that for your 
 playable character I guess.
  
  Besides those two problems, the game is actually a pretty good time. The hack n' slash combat is 
 tried and true, and seems very fitting for the game. There are tons of in game items like clothing, 
 armors, weapons, potions, etc. So that does help customize the character a little bit. But the 
 game is surprisingly deep, allowing you to complete tons of random side quests, explore the massive 
 and quite beautiful world, make, buy and sell items, and so on. It's basically like Oblivion, only 
 no first person combat. You can walk around in first person all you want, but you can't fight within 
 that view.
  
  But it's definitely open ended, free form, whatever you want to call it, it's that. You can take 
 on your main quests whenever you feel, but as for me, I like exploring dungeons, fighting beasts 
 and looting their corpses. It's a lot of fun because the monster drops are very random, and there's 
 tons of items to be collected in this game, so it's always a surprise. Leveling up works pretty 
 much like Oblivion's. Kill things, gain experience towards your main level. Whenever you raise 
 one main level, you get a few points to change your strength attributes, etc., and some points 
 for other random smaller skills like security, sneak, and more.
  
  The graphics, seriously, are not all that bad. They're definitely next-gen, just not quite up to 
 par with some others. The game does have it's moments when overlooking the game world from great 
 heights. It can be amazingly beautiful sometimes.
  
  All in all, if you're just looking for some RPG fun, Two Worlds should satisfy you as long as you 
 can look past some of the stupid problems like voice acting and character creation. The game is 
 definitely entertaining, and you could play for hours before realizing what time it is. It will 
 last you a long time, clocking in at 100+ hours of gameplay. The game is for sure a love it or 
 hate it situation though, so be cautious. I recommend, if you're looking for an open ended RPG 
 that you rent this or buy it used to make sure it's your thing. It should be your thing if you're 
 into stuff like The Elder Scrolls, but just to be safe, make a quick rental first. Wouldn't want 
 to blow 60 bucks on something that isn't your cup of tea.
  
  Hope you found this review helpful! If you're planning on buying the game or already bought it, 
 enjoy it! It's one of the better 360 RPGs on the market as of today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duvtljnt
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game is Oblivion, done a year later, with worse graphics and poorer control. The combat is 
 uninspired and button mashing. The 'tutorial' as you begin play leaves far too many questions unanswered. 
 Menu navigation is clunky and overly complicated. I haven't checked out the online aspect, nor 
 do I plan on it. If I wanted an MMO, I'd play an MMO. There is no explanation of stats or abilities, 
 or ever how to spend points when you level up. There doesn't seem to be any way to track 'experience'. 
 Mounted combat is more difficult than it's worth.
  
  The graphics have glitched out multiple times, flashing large pink blocks across my screen. This 
 game should never have been released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Good: You aren't forced to buy or play it.
  
  The Bad: It is super glitchy and laggy for a single player game, the graphics are very subpar, 
 the voice acting and diolog is awful, it's a very cheaply made Oblivion clone.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ok, this might not be one of my finest reviews, because I played Two Worlds only for about a half 
 an hour. Why? Because I simply couldn't stand playing it. When I first saw Two Worlds, I thought 
 it would be an enjoyable Diablo style action game with online multiplayer. I was gravely mistaken. 
 This game almost makes the worst 360 games look good. Heck, I can honestly say I would wrather 
 play Hour of Victory than this. You start the game by creating a character with a fairly in depth 
 character customization mode. After you finish your character, you watch a somewhat lengthy cutscene 
 that involves a pretty lame looking character and his sister, who is apparently hurt. This is when 
 you get a taste of the horrable diolog and voice acting of Two Worlds. The characters sound very 
 fake and wooden, having almost no emotion in their voices. Not only that, but the diolog is a very 
 poor mixture of modern lingo and old english, which really doesn't work. The voice acting is very 
 poor, and the diolog makes the whole thing seem like a joke, when it isn't suppose to be taken 
 as such. After this cutscene, which features this generic hero doing stuff that really doesn't 
 set up the story well, you are thrust into a dungeon, where you begin taking control of this hero, 
 who seems not to have any of the customizable features you added at the begining of the game (what's 
 the point, then?) The gameplay really makes you regret even setting you eyes on this game. Basically, 
 it lags every few steps you take, and during combat. During one of the first fights, I had most 
 of my health bar intact, then it lagged and I died instantly. Yeah, that's how laggy and glitchy 
 this is. Not only is the game laggy and buggy, but it just isn't much fun even if it wasn't buggy 
 and laggy. It's basically a third person Oblivion clone with very bland gameplay. The combat is 
 simply unentertaining button mashing and feels like very little thought was put into it. You can 
 collect items by walking over a corpse and holding the A button to go into a menu, then struggle 
 to move a curser using the D-pad to get the items to your inventory, which doesn't hold much at 
 all. When you get out of the dungeon, you enter a village filled with uninteresting, generic fantasy 
 characters and lots of poorly written and voice acted diolog, then you get to wonder around, getting 
 killed by bandits and wolves. You respawn at random points that are often nowhere near where you 
 died, and you have no loss for dieing, which almost makes the game feel pointless. I spent 20 minutes 
 of my half an hour of playing time wondering around, getting killed a billion times and getting 
 lost. The world may be epic, but there is virtually no way of finding your way around. I didn't 
 even try the multiplayer, because I knew if the single player was this laggy and buggy, I didn't 
 even want to think about the online...
  
  The fact is, whoever tested this game should be fired. It is a buggy, glitchy mess on top of being 
 an average, bland RPG. If you baught the game, try to return it as soon as possable. If you were 
 thinking about getting it, don't get close. I wouldn't touch this game again with a 10 ft poll. 
 Two Worlds is garbage and should be thrown out. Please don't play this game!
  
  Gameplay: It's a buggy, glitchy mess, but it's also nothing special.
  
  Graphics: Ok, but nothing 
 special. Poor character models don't help, though...
  
  Sound: Very, very bad voice acting and diolog. Decent music, though.
  
  Value: Don't play this 
 game at all. Don't even rent it.
  
  Final Thoughs: This game thouist shouldith not playith, dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperion886
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  At first, the game can be a bit frustrating and seem weak and broken. True, there are some flaws 
 that can keep gamers away from the game, but most true RPG fans will give it enough time to realize 
 that it is a pretty decent game. As for an Oblivion killer, i'm not quite sure about that. It is 
 very fun to explore the different areas of the world, which looks to be massive (about 20% larger 
 than Oblivion, I believe) . Combining weapons and armor is a very interesting concept, and can give 
 new players a chance to stand up against some tougher opponents (given you have some health potions 
 or a healing spell) . There is no death penalty when you die, too. Also, when you die, there is 
 no game over, you just get respawned back at a healing point that you discover while exploring. 
 (it seems like there are quite a few of them too!) . Getting around the world isn't bad at all, 
 you can opt to run and explore, or take the fast track on a mount. Players can get a horse pretty 
 early in the game, and you can even fight from horseback! Also, if you talk to the right person, 
 you can even get the ability to teleport from different ancient sites to help you in your travels. 
 Overall, the game seems a bit weak and rushed at first, but if you give it some time, the game 
 will definitely grow on you and will be a great adventuring game for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger_tyler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Caveat: I havent played the MP.
  
  I honestly think that most people will dislike this game because of it's flaws, but I enjoy it.
 
  
  It is not for the casual gamer, however. It's much closer to a gothic/morrowind than Oblivion:
 
  
  -It does have quite a few technical glitches
  -The character models are not the best
  -I haven't really picked up on the story
  -The combat is less tactical than Oblivion, but more 
 than Morrowind, slightly
  
  Things I like:
  -Nice (but not gorgeous) open world
  -Weapon/armor upgrading/stacking
  -Some of the animations are tasty, as are some of the vistas
 
  -Finding new things is rewarding (you can earn achievements by just exploring)
  
  As far as things go with the frame-rate, there are many possible culprits when it comes to what 
 could be bogging it down. While the first to pop into gamers minds is bad programming/lack of 
 optimizations, I dont know if these are the main issue in Two Worlds (though they certainly have 
 their place) . The immediate area surrounding your character is filled with vegetation while outdoors, 
 and whenever youre not (either on barren land or indoors) the game seems to run much smoother. 
 Luckily, the frame-rate rarely hinders gameplay; its simply annoying most of the time.
  
  Most people know that there is no level scaling in Two Worlds, meaning that if a creature is level 
 24, and youre level 4 - youre dead. Where in Oblivion, if you were level 4, youd never run into 
 a level 24 creature - everything was around your level. Two Worlds version has its pluses and 
 minuses:
  
  Good:
  -You can become that God-Like character that nothing in the game world can touch
  -Killing something 
 that is way above your level is rewarding
  -You can find great loot early on
  
  Bad:
  -If you venture too far from certain areas, death will find you fast
  -Some of the creatures 
 are one-hit-killers if you arent strong enough
  -You can become over-powered and God-Like, killing the balance.
  
  Aside from the exploration, 
 one of the best features of this game is the customization of the inventory: You can stack like 
 items together to make a stronger/better item. Finding another awesome set of armor like the one 
 you are wearing is no longer just junk to sell: you can add it into what youre wearing, for an 
 even larger bonus. This ability is not limited to armor, but includes weapons, rings, helmets, 
 shields - anything you can wear on your character.
  
  I havent tried the magic yet, however - Ive been focusing on the combat-sword and bow. My girlfriend 
 was over while I played it (she's a gamer, but prefers JRPGs to DND based ones) thought it was 
 a lot like Oblivion. While superficially it is (the open world, the mediaeval setting) it levels 
 more like Diablo, and fights are a bit more kinetic than Diablo, mostly because of the animations, 
 camera.
  
  The pluses outweigh the minuses for me, but it won't be true for everyone. If nothing else, it 
 a nice little package of escapism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popper
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  they should of delayd it a little longer till they can fix the multiplayer and added more combos 
 for the melee fighters its kind of lame also the maps r to easy theres no real challenge once u 
 hit lvl 20 and up , they should of made some instances where u have to really multiplay to get 
 some awesome items but i guess u can kill some time with this one till something better comes out 
 o and it would of been better if there were more races and skins some bad guys would of been nice 
 like a wow dont want to compare but this is wath gamers want now a day so get with the program 
 ppl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkkoik
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Two Worlds, the so called Oblivion killer, in my opinion, suceeded in it's goal. This game reminds 
 a lot like WoW, and Oblivion, but i like it better for many reasons. First, the combat is really 
 smooth and a lot better than Oblivion, it sort of reminds me of Prince of Persia type fighting. 
 Second, the Mounted Combat/riding is unique, and instead of controlling the Horse, you control 
 the human, who is controlling the horse. Last but not least, is the magic system, a card based 
 system that uses booster cards and the five classes of magic : Earth Fire wind water and Necromancy. 
 The biginning hour and a half to two hours feels really wierd after just being tossed into this 
 game. But after that, the game provides a long, fun, and adventurous journey.
  
  8.5/10
  
  100% Accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxBIRDman23xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Its stuff like that is why noobs give this game a bad score you have to play the game longer than 
 10 hours thats for sure. The achievements are not hard but challenging. The game online only is 
 really laggy because they haven't gotten the US servers on DUHHHH! The game just came out so give 
 it a break , heck BIOSHOCK glitches too. IM sure they will give this game a patch. MOst of the 
 time the game lags so it can load new land. This game is really fun and very addictive, sure you 
 die a lot in the begining but it gets a lot easier once you get stronger weapons, armor, and magic. 
 You can even combine two weapons that are the same to make a stronger weapon. You can do RPG and 
 PVP online with friends or strangers its all good. I have to say if you dont buy this game your 
 missing a great game, and your missing a good time waster until HALO 3 comes out or even GOTY Edition 
 OBLIVION comes out. This game is so good I had to go to 3 different stores to get. PS please people 
 play the game longer than 10 hours and wait till the US servers are up so we dont have to play 
 on the Euro servers!
  I just killed my first sand dragon yesterday and it was huge and did I say the map is giant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamionNickolai1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  this game has some really good aspects, far more than the few problems most ppl complain about... the 
 fighting is really fun and the magic is really cool to do and watch... multiplayer is actually really 
 fun but just needs to get an update to work without the lag... the story seems really good to from 
 what i've seen so far... at first i didn't like the part where ur main character just talks about 
 random stuff while ur doing what u do, but then it just grew on me cause he says funny stuff or 
 gives off a evil laugh sometimes when he kills people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CidIII
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Really bad.
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirusXI
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Didn't meet my expectations, I thought it would be better than Oblivion.
  Go rent it, it is worth playing, but if you're a semi-hardcore gamer like myself, you'll beat the 
 main storyline and most of additional side-quests in about 3-4 days. The graphics are better than 
 Oblivion, I love the armor. The world itself is a bit better than Oblivion's, and bigger. The quest 
 log system is horrid, not easy to use at all. All in all, after about 30 hours of gameplay, lvl 
 50+ and nothing left to do, I felt like going back to my 200+ hour file in Oblivion, because there's 
 just so much more to do. Oblivion's ending didn't suck either. An Open Ended RPG shouldn't stop 
 you from playing after you beat the game. Go get Morrowind for the Xbox, it's the best open ended 
 RPG to date in my opinion. It's world is bigger than both Oblivion's and Two World's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemushroomed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Let me first tell you that this game is not for people expecting really deep and interesting characters 
 or a very unique story. Just like Oblivion the quality here is.. something different. So what's 
 positive about this game then? Well, the game world itself is extremely large (it feels like 3x 
 the size of Oblivion, perhaps much due to the world being MUCH more varied) . There are lots of 
 cities and camps throughout the game, much more than most RPG's i've seen. Exploring is very fun 
 and satisfying. Looting is very fun as well since there are so many weapons and armors, rings and 
 gems, and if that's not enough you can even merge weapons/armors if they are of the same type to 
 make them better. This makes looting a lot more satisfying than other RPG's (i've played RPG's 
 since the Commodore64, Bard's Tale being my first. Yes, im that old :P ) .
  
  The AI, while not incredible it's much better then Oblivion. You cant jump up on some large rock 
 and the stupid AI will try to walk against the rock to get up to you - you kill it / them will 
 they try. In this game the AI will get to you so you cant exploit it like that.
  
  The combat is fun, its nothing like Oblivion where you often just face 1-3 enemies, here you often 
 face hordes of enemies. It's difficult to begin with and some people might get frustrated here, 
 but while the character gets better the combat also gets a lot better and becomes a lot more fun. 
 The NPC voices are a bit lacking or sometimes even very lacking and the language used is sometimes 
 a bit lame to say the least. But what's new? Most RPG's are lacking here!
  
  The graphics are great, the view distance is incredible, the landscape is dense with plants and 
 trees, and like i said before, the landscape is also very varied (not like Oblivion which basicly 
 feelt like a huge forest) .
  
  Animations arent that great though, depends on what you compare to though, compared to Oblivion 
 it isnt that bad really. The fighting stance looks bad. The NPC will sometimes turn their body 
 in a rather unnatural way while you pass them.
  
  If you like exploring, combat, looting and dont care THAT much for a deep and truly unique story 
 with unique characters, then this is a must buy. I wish there were more non-linear RPG's like this 
 but with a really deep/UNIQUE story and interesting characters. It would've gotten a lower score 
 if there was. But to be honest there isnt! The closest we have is Oblivion (cant really compare 
 it to KOTOR or other linear RPG's) . I'm comparing this game to what exist and what is similiar 
 (non-linear RPG's with a large world to explore that is) and not to what COULD have existed - and 
 that's how you got to review games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyte_spede
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow where to begin. Well I did kind of have my hopes up for this game, mainly because of the multiplayer 
 aspect. I was at the mall and happened to stop into the game store and noticed it on the shelf, 
 I didn't know it had come out yet, haven't really been following games too much lately. So I bought 
 it. CRAP. I'm returning it tomorrow.
  
  If you have read any other review thus far then you have heard of the abysmal framerate. It's true. 
 The game is so choppy its rediculous. I'm not sure why it is because the graphics certainly aren't 
 making the 360 break a sweat by any means, the graphics look bad. Making a character is more of 
 a burden than a pleasure, the creation system is just not very deep. You can see your guy on the 
 left side of the screen in a strange overbearing light that blocks out most of the features you 
 are trying to customize. Only thing you can do is zoom in on his face where then you can kind of 
 see the hairdo before picking it, but if you rotate left or right half of your character is out 
 of frame. You just can't view from any angle except far away or only the front of the face. Cutscenes 
 are very low quality. Not just because the voice acting is awful and uninspired.
  
  Only saving grace left could be the combat, but that fails too. The controls are simple enough 
 but you can't do any action without standing still. You have to stand still before you can attack, 
 use magic, or heal. Very annoying since you have to look directly at an enemy and be right up against 
 them to be able to hit them. Don't bother with a bow either, it takes 5 seconds just to draw the 
 string back. You have to stop and be facing in the direction of your enemy before you can push 
 the attack button or it won't respond. How nimble. Animations seem to be missing, everything is 
 very clunky.
  
  I couldn't bear the game any more after 20 minutes. I really tried to give it a chance but it just 
 feels like the game is only 60% completed. I'd like to think that a patch could fix the frame rate 
 and graphics issues to help the game out, but my copy will be out of my hands long before that 
 happens. I wouldn't say the game is overhyped, it's just dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay this is my 2nd review for this game because i just Beat it!
  
  I gave it sometime to sink in now i will let loose my anger! lol j/k
  
  Okay.
  
  The graphics 
 are hard to get used to especially when you're hitting creatures from behind because they have 
 a special time place when they can turn around instantaneously. Then your dead.. Not really. Ok 
 out of the 40+ hours i put into this game I've realized that every cave/dungeon looks different 
 from each other. Which gets a big thumbs up from me. You can tell the developers really spent time 
 on layouts and every inch of this world has a different layout so you can tell if you've been in 
 that dungeon before because of the map also.. Different Looking Caves/Dungeons? I think someone 
 in Oblivion world is getting angry! lol Anyways.
  Even the tiniest is so noticeable which is probably why the tiny lag occurs during game play Plus 
 I have noticed the way the trees move when its raining and how they sway back and forth. ohh yea 
 pluss! PLUSSSSSSSS!.. The way the creatures spawn.. Anywhere! You never know whats infront of you.. 
 It could be alive creatures.. or creatures you recently killed that are now ghosts coming back 
 for revenge!
  
  The game play to this game is actually pretty good Better then what i put in my last review.. Once 
 you get the hang of those horses with there wide turn abilities it doesn't become hard at all to 
 ride them almost anywhere. It actually becomes more fun when you go full speed to a cliff then 
 it suddenly stops like FXCK THIS SHXT! I think its pretty funny. But since i am talking about gameplay 
 i have found it more difficult to fight humans/orcs/dwarves and whatnot then it is to fight a dragon. 
 Because humans and orcs always run in a pack of 3 and more. a dragon is always by himself .. poor 
 little lonely dragon need a hug? .Not! How about a sword in your face! lol Anyways i am having 
 too much fun with this..
  
  Boss Fights.
  Honestly.. they should have the bosses in the game level with you.. lets say Your a level 71 :) 
 you can dominate this game. even at level 52+.. Once you get past that 50 mark its on.. 1 hit kills, prices 
 go up on everything.. Anyways..
  All in all its a great game with a few bugs here and there that can be patched. They should make 
 the bosses ALOT Harder. The Last Boss was Dead in 2 Hits.. Thanx to stacking those weapons!
  
  THIS LAGGY PIECE OF CRAP GAME GETS A 10 IN MY BOOK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaggs4Life
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Great game all around....... great audio......... graphics are good enough so the game does not lag 
 out like oblivion does......... fighting is great........ awesome weather effects..... and i still 
 have yet to play the multi play part of the  
 game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game 
 go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy 
 it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now 
 boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys 
 great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great 
 game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game 
 go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy 
 it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now 
 boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys 
 great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great 
 game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game 
 go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy 
 it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now boys great game go buy it now 
 boys great game go buy it now boys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eljeff123
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  It just plain sucks, from the crappy voice overs, horrible plability and half-ass visuals and red 
 paint smere blood. Don't waist a second on this game... From the begining you find yourself dropped 
 into an outdated, poorly built world. The controls, voice overs and combat feel clunkly and just 
 plain stupid... The menus feel like they were hastily built and the character upgrading does not 
 give you any drive to play for another second... The game itself would be great if it was released 
 on the PC five years ago and has a very outdated and underachieved feel all around... In the book 
 for the game they even refer to the right trigger as the left mouse button! If they could not even 
 catch a mistake like this, then who knows what the hell they let loose in this game!?.... And the 
 online sounds so great... It might be if nine out of ten games didn't lag out... You would think 
 there using dial-up on their severs... But overall this game is garbage and not even worth looking 
 at, even if your a fan of genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetp24
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm very shocked and disappointed with this game. I definitely expected a lot more than what I 
 saw in the first 10 minutes of playing the game, especially after viewing the trailers and gameplay 
 videos. I can honestly say that everything, I mean everything, is wrong with this game! From the 
 opening cinematics to the combat system, the whole thing sucks. I would overlook the frame rate 
 issue and graphics if the gameplay was even worth it, but after dying 20 times in the first hour, 
 this game is not worth the frustration. Why did they even design it where you can't defend yourself 
 against any enemy until you level up/upgrade weapon/spells up to God mode? I found myself laughing 
 at one point when a character said It's dangerous to travel these woods alone after which all five 
 guys killed me. I was at level 7 at this point. Also, it's a little tricky to get used to the controls, 
 which I found a little odd. I definitely did not like using the RT to use my weapon. I just bought 
 this game today and if the store wasn't closed right now I would return it immediately. Wished 
 they had a demo of the game, so I didn't waste my trip to Gamestop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitelandballer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The thought of multiplayer on an rpg is a wonderful idea, the offline game mode is spetacular with 
 new armour , weapons, fighting system, and more, but they dont focus on the guilds and skills in 
 depth like oblivion, but the combat is actually more realistic, yes you will Die on this Game. 
 Like i said, multiplayer is good could be awesome if they could get some american servers up and 
 going so there would be minimal lag and not lag every 3 seconds. Super idea, now they just need 
 to work out the kinks in multiplayer. That is why i give this brilliant game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRChristman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that when I started playing this game I was let down, seeing as they said it would 
 blow Oblivion out of the water. After plaing it for several hours instead of giving it a five minute 
 glance I couldn't put it down.
  Will I buy it? maybe maybe not but it definitely is worth trying. Don't go in thinking it will 
 have the graphics of oblivion or the gameplay it is toatally different rpg. Its more like an everquest 
 game. With that in mind its pretty good game Plus the blood graphics are supernintendo Knights 
 of the Round Table esqe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombiePants
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet. Two Worlds isn't a game for the hack and slash-happy type of gamer. 
 It's a fun, immersive RPG that is worth trying out. You get to customize your own character, choose 
 your favorite profession, and learn new skills as you get further in playing. You'll spend hours 
 traveling the different maps, killing enemies, stealing treasure, completing quests, customizing 
 weapons... everything you'd imagine a good RPG would have. Of course, this isn't Oblivion -- so don't 
 expect that kind of quality. The voice acting stinks, the game freezes a bit too often, and the 
 characters don't move very fluidly. The reason this game is such a smash is the fact you can grab 
 a few good friends and multiplay. All you have to do is create your RPG character and get in a 
 xbox live room. All in all, this game is worth renting at the very least. Don't bash it until you 
 try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BooBakerBrown
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I was excited &amp; bought the game. Then I thought What do the critics think of it? When I looked 
 on-line there were no reviews yet (at around 6:00 CST Friday) . Then I thought What do my fellow 
 gamers think? Boy, oh boy, it would've been better if I had just opened the game without reading 
 user reviews. I wouldn't have had preconceived notions about the games short comings. I reluctantly 
 cracked the box open &amp; stuck it in the 360 with hesitation and doubt. The opening sequence 
 was a bit drab &amp; retarded. I quickly compared it to TES: Oblivion's opening sequence, hearing 
 Patrick Stewart (aka: Cpt. Jean Luc Picard/aka: Professor X) . I thought What a piece of decrepit, 
 color changing crap!!! I then decided I had some free time Friday so I would suffer through the 
 misery of $65 down the toilette. After the 1st hour I was like O. K... maybe another 30 minutes. 
 30 minutes turned into an hour, an hour turned into 6 hours before I fell asleep with the controller 
 in my hand. I woke up &amp; went straight to the 360 with the thought I'm gonna hate this game 
 no matter how much I love it. I tried soo hard to conform with the rest of the populace and rip 
 the crap out of this game. Boy was I wrong... &amp; so are all the people who never gave this game 
 a chance with excuses like this:
  
  1) The graphics suck... it's soo dark. It's not next gen quality
  
  If you guys have been folowing 
 this game you would know that the weather changes in game. From day to night, clear to foggy, or 
 rainy. When I began the game it was a cloud of smog &amp; I thought the game totally blew until 
 it cleared up &amp; was as vibrant as Oblivion.
  
  2) The voice acting suck
  
  Well... got me there... it does, but all the ambient sounds around you really makes the game stand 
 out &amp; you forget how not good the voice acting is.
  
  3) It's an Oblivion clone
  
  No it's not. It's better. You don't have to waist time finding repair hammers to fix the armor 
 your gonna sell once you get some better. Then you have to be a master weapon smith before you 
 don't need a repair hammer but you still have to repair your armor.
  
  4) Character customization is lacking or non-existent
  
  It is... but, they can always create 
 XBL down-loadable expansion content that introduces more character models, races, &amp; even female 
 characters. Every game has to start somewhere. Not all games can be perfect (like X-Com: UFO Defense 
 or Final Fantasy 7) .
  
  By the way, there are no penalties if your character dies in the game like losing all your armor, 
 items, or gold. You just re-spawn. The game does keep a tally of deaths but you don't have to re-collect 
 all the items you lost or have to load a previously saved game. And also... you can use your horse 
 as a pack mule allowing you to carry an additional 500+ weight in equipment.
  
  That's just a few &amp; if you're reading this I'm sure you think this thread is waay too long. 
 But, if you have read it you'll know that, just like Two Worlds, you may get something out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Good lord where to start. Take a little bit of everything from Gothic, Elder Scrolls, Baldurs, 
 etc. and mash it all together until you've got a pretty subpar game. It's got the bad graphics 
 of Gothic 3 (not to mention the same wildlife) . Your area isn't even loaded until after you've 
 passed it by and sometimes I was running in an open field and suddenly I was being attacked. The 
 game seems to glitch anytime you unlock an acheivement. Nothing major - but enough to be annoying. The 
 character models are so below the standards of the time you've got to wonder why this didn't come 
 out on the original xbox. The voice acting is wooden and the writing is worse. The map/mission 
 menu makes me long for the unmoded Oblivion interface. It's almost impossible to navigate it. After 
 a couple of hours I just had to give up. The inventory from Norath/Baldurs Gate and is fairly easy 
 to deal with if not a little cumbersome. The alchemy portion is annoying and cumbersome. The combat 
 was just poorly done and the magic seems almost impossible to use in combat. You can't cast while 
 moving. You can't whistle for your horse while running. I couldn't seem to attack from horseback 
 either - which was a big selling point. Running around was tedious. I couldn't teleport with my 
 horse. So much went wrong here, it's not funny. I failed to run into a single female character 
 the entire time I was giving this game a try. The main quest is apprently an attempt at saving 
 the last living woman in the world. Everything just felt so pointless in this game. And I tried 
 to like it. Because I want a game like this. And I want it to succeed. But I guess I'll have to 
 wait for the next company to try an RPG set in olden times.
  
  I can't stress how disappointed I was in this game enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gleb2006
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, It may be having issues right now but its not as bad as Oblivion was when 
 it came out, Now its on its third patch and its doing fine, Two worlds will have a couple patches 
 and it'll surpass it. Its one of those games that has both Single and MMO but they are seperate 
 so you can do both. The story line for Single player is great, Bears take a while to kill, Voice 
 acting was rushed but other then that after a couple patches it'll be The game to have. I have 
 collectors edition just got it and i am already hooked. Go and get your copy right now PC or 360 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Usefulidiot038
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  When i first got Two Worlds i was really excited because if this game was everything it was supposed 
 to be it could have been the best game ever, but the developers seemed to focus on giving the players 
 a lot to do in a massive world and leaving out some major details. First of all the voice acting 
 will make you laugh everytime you hear it, everyone has pretty much the same voice, and the main 
 villian sounds like a comedian trying to be frightening but can't pull it off. There is a ton of 
 things to do in this game and once you get into the later stages and you're character is a high 
 level with skills it gets pretty fun, but the early part of the game sucks. i was so bored and 
 angry that i excited for this game and i felt like i had been violated because of all the broken 
 promises. But now Two Worlds is turning out to be a pretty decent RPG with some serious potential 
 to eat away hours of your life. in my opinion get this game if you ran out of things to do in a 
 oblivion or rent it and see how you like it after the initial two or so hours of playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlr
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  WTF is all I have to say about this game. I can hardly get past the opening sequence. I know everyone 
 is going to compare this game to Oblivion, and some people are going to say that they shouldn't, 
 but why not. I just finished the shivering isles and was looking to another good RPG to move onto. 
 From all the previews Two Worlds looking like it might be it, however it is far from it.
  
  I was not expecting a better game then Oblivion, but I was expecting something better then this. 
 This game features bad voice acting and everyones lips are not even synced right. The game also 
 features bad graphics that are far below the capability of the 360. On top of that the game play 
 is nothing more then button mashing so far. I am going to play this a little bit longer to see 
 how it plays out, but I am glad I got it from gamefly so I can return it and not feel like I wasted 
 my money.
  
  I do not recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phate999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  heck of a fun game. However, after I instantly died from a single hit from a grizzly bear early 
 on in the game, I wondered what I was getting myself into. The camera system was a bit hard to 
 control and the buttons were shaky for me. I would often swing at nothing because of the camera 
 and jump back towards the enemy on accident, leading to my swift destruction. However, as I began 
 learning the knicks and knacks of the game, I found myself immersed in one of the funnest, most 
 compelling, and opportunity packed classics of the genre. What makes Two Worlds different from 
 say, Oblivion? First off, the two games are similar. Both use alchemy as a powerful tool, the graphics 
 are both amazing, the voices and acting are both good, and worlds are equally vast. However, the 
 alchemy in TW has a much larger amount of perks than Oblivion. You can make bombs, traps, weapon/armor 
 enhancements, and of course potions. This is much easier to do in TW and has a better outcome for 
 the player if they utilize the skill. The graphics in Oblivion are better, hands down. But we should 
 all know by now that graphics do not make a good game; they are like icing on the cake so to speak. 
 But TW does have good graphics, and I like the zoomed out 3rd-person camera a lot better than 1st 
 person. You can see more stuff on the screen... like creatures coming behind you. The voice acting 
 has to go to TW. Every interaction with NPC's are spoken instead of read. This makes you really 
 feel like you are in the world, talking to all the people yourself... this is cool and must have 
 taken some time to do. The worlds are also equally huge in both games. I find that TW has a funner 
 map to explore, though. You find quests more often and run into more interesting bad guys than 
 in Oblivion. Speaking of which, the creatures set TW way ahead of Oblivion as far as the amount 
 of different ones, the uniqueness of each one, and the fun-factor that is involved with taking 
 each of them out. One other thing that is cool is that the bow system is much better in TW. I love 
 the way that it auto aims for you and that each bow has a range, time of pull, and that the quivers 
 are also involved in the amount of damage that you can do, in a better way than Oblivion had. The 
 skills are also cool. There are a huge variety of them and most of them have to be used with specific 
 weapons. While this seems a let down, it really makes you have to be diverse in what you do with 
 your character, something that most warrior made classes never really had to do. Also the quick 
 way in which you can switch from bow, spell, skill, axe, sword, and many other weapons is equally 
 cool. It is hard to explain, but just trust that it is leagues better than all the sifting that 
 you had to do in Oblivion to get to the right weapon. All of this makes Two Worlds stand out in 
 the action RPG genre. It is fun, addicting, and clever in the way the quests work out. The story 
 line is solid. The gameplay is rough at first, but shines once you get the hang of it. What more 
 could you want from a game? If you liked Oblivion, Two Worlds will definitely please you. Give 
 it a shot and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stracqualursi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Gr8t once you get into it even better when they will update it. Story mode a not as good as oblivion 
 but somethin different. Multiplayer is amazing if you get a good conection and then can be fixed 
 with a little patch! Something to play when you get bored of oblivion. This is from someone who 
 is not a fanboy i picked this up at my locale gamestop after trading in some games this was completley 
 off my radar and i was pretty impressed and dissapointed in myself for not hearing about this earlier. 
 All in all a good purchase if you can have a little patients and if don't agree thats fine because 
 your are deffinitly missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APflopsy
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for Two Worlds, and I'm disappointed. If I could sum up my experience so 
 far in a single word, the word would be boring. This game is designed in a fashion to appeal to 
 fans of Oblivion, but instead of expanding on Oblivion's excellent achievements, Two Worlds feels 
 more like a bad copy in every respect. Online multiplayer may be a draw at some point in the future, 
 but currently is severely crippled. Graphics: The visuals are decent, but ultimately sub-par. The 
 animations are unclean and fail to crisply capture motion, speech or combat. Many of the environments 
 look very good, not as detailed or fleshed out as the clarity of Oblivion. Oblivion's graphics 
 constantly give a clear sense of place and direction, while in Two Worlds even the short range 
 visuals can be confusing and boring. The dialog screens show a far dumbed-down version of speech 
 than Oblivion's clear, motion captured conversations.
  
  Combat: I'll stop short of calling the combat broken. It's not quite broken, but it is poor. It 
 does not give you the direct control over the moves like Oblivion, which inserts your own control 
 with your governing stats, bonuses and drawbacks. This alone is not enough to damn the combat of 
 Two Worlds, for instance, KOTOR does not give direct control over every move, but programs moves 
 into a queue. KOTOR's system worked, and gave a good feeling of combat between two opponents affected 
 by weapons, stats and selected moves. Two Worlds seems like it attempted to cross these two types 
 of systems into a hybrid, and ended up missing the mark entirely. Every fight (yes EVERY) in the 
 15 hours or so I've spent was reduced to constantly running away, turning to button mash, running 
 away, turning to button mash, repeated over and over until either I or the opponents were dead. 
 More often, I was the one dying, except one frustrating and ridiculous battle where I ran laps 
 around a magic regenerator for a half hour constantly throwing dinky fireballs at a whole village 
 full of groms until they were all dead. Also, half the time I didn't even know that bandits or 
 wolves or little evil munchkin things were attacking me until I got nailed with an attack that 
 kicked half my ass. The clear feeling of being in a place and engaging in a fight is missing. This 
 brings me to the next point. Character progress: In the first 15 hours, it has been exceptionally 
 difficult to win any fights at all (except the incredibly stupid battle aforementioned, running 
 back and forth about 30 feet so I couldn't be caught by a whole village of monster things, using 
 my one crappy spell for a half hour. Not fun.) Even the most constantly encountered enemies - wolves, 
 bears, and bunnies - I cannot kill without doing the run-laps-and-throw-fireballs trick. When I'd 
 encounter yet another band of wolves every other minute, I'd find myself yelling NOT AGAIN rather 
 than happily gearing up for another fight. Oblivion, of course, uses a leveled system of opponents, 
 so the challenge was usually an appropriate level of difficulty which you would need to devise 
 an appropriate series of spells, weaponry and tactics to overcome - how to accomplish your goal 
 would be up to you, and overcoming the challenges gives you options to improve your character's 
 skills to aim for higher challenges as you progress. In the 15 hours I've spent on Two Worlds, 
 I've been able to distribute a handful of new skill points on a variety of skills and attributes 
 (like my stupid fireball!) , which has increased the numeric value of things like the level of damage 
 I can do with a sword or a staff. However, even though I see the number going up, every battle 
 is still an exercise in repeated frustration. Maybe after a full 30 hours I would be able to finally 
 take on those packs of wild boars which now tear me apart in 10 seconds flat, but I don't think 
 I have the patience. Story: I don't know, something about my sister getting kidnapped and guys 
 in hoods blackmailing me into running errands for them under threat of harming her. The whole thing 
 is laid out in such awkward and silly dialog that it was hard not to laugh. I take that back - 
 I'm pretty sure I did laugh. I almost want to hit the next little node on the map, which I have 
 a hard time navigating, to advance the story but so far it's been so lame that it's hard to get 
 motivated to do so. And the side quests so far are so lame (resulting in my ridiculous lap-running 
 trick at the grom village) that there's no diversion. Obligatory comparison to Oblivion: Oblivion's 
 story draws you in from the first moment with a conspiracy and the king's assassination right in 
 front of you, interrupting your quiet time in jail with a secret mission to tell the king's bastard 
 illegitimate son about his lineage and duty to start making plans to keep the hell dimension from 
 spewing out any more murdering demons. THAT is a story. Map/menu interface: Clumsy, bordering on 
 broken. The hotkey system was confusing, which is hard to believe. Some hotkeys can't be equipped 
 together, and they're complimentary to one another, so they can't be on the same series of hotkeys 
 together but if you equip one or a weapon that negates a certain hotkeyed ability, the other ability 
 or weapon or spell or whatever will automatically appear in that slot. So you have to know what 
 is complimentary to the other and what setup precludes what abilities. If that sounds to you like 
 it sucks, you're right. Also, the inventory is just a big blob of pictures in a big window, with 
 no names or anything on them. (Is this the right quiver of arrows? No, you need to use the big 
 red one. No, the OTHER big red one.) The interface is counterintuitive, spell creation is not truly 
 modular, and the quest screen/map is incredibly clumsy. Oblivion's map and quest menu make it clear 
 what you could do, should do to accomplish whatever goal you're working on and what you've done 
 and have accomplished. Two Worlds made it very confusing which goal would advance which storyline, 
 and for me at least, using the map to try to figure out where I should go to accomplish any particular 
 plot point was beyond frustrating. Sometimes I could figure out where to go to get something done 
 (hopefully I won't encounter too many wolves or bears or, God forbid, evil bunnies on the way there) 
 and other times I could only guess what the bizarrely shifting map screen was trying to tell me. 
 Usually I was wrong. Multiplayer: The online multiplayer was what really attracted me to this game. 
 These days, I usually won't buy a game if it doesn't have multiplayer because it won't hold its 
 value or interest over a long period of time. Oblivion of course was the exception to this, and 
 I thought a similar came that INCLUDES multiplayer was something promising. So far, the multiplayer 
 has been entirely unplayable. Literally, one hit from another live player killed me instantly. 
 He'd been playing constantly for a day and a half to level up. I have no idea how he managed to 
 do that, because the lag has been crippling in every single game. Hitting my trigger to swing my 
 staff resulted in a 3-second lag, every time I tried to swing it. Clearly, that makes it impossible 
 to compete in any sort of combat, and even impossible to catch a damn bunny to even begin accumulating 
 any experience to improve the character's chances. I've heard from other players that the problem 
 is that all Live servers are currently in Europe, and it will be several days before an American 
 server goes online. Because of this I will not write the multiplayer's epitaph quite yet; there 
 still may be something promising in the future for this aspect, but I'm not optimistic. If the 
 overall gaming experience is similar at all to the single player, I doubt it will be enough to 
 make this game a keeper. Bottom line: I viewed this game as Oblivion with multiplayer, and that's 
 why I bought it. I was dead wrong. This game is not an utter failure if you have the time and money, 
 and you don't mind passing some time exploring a game world with a new story, different characters 
 and new places (though I do find exploring to be frustrating when I get mauled by wolves every 
 10 seconds) . If you haven't experienced Oblivion, buy that instead as it is a far better game in 
 every respect. If you do have Oblivion, I think you'll have much more fun going back and tying 
 up some uncompleted side quests or buying an expansion pack. With so many good looking games coming 
 out in the next few weeks, this one will be the first one I sell back, and probably very soon. 
 -Flopsy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangeitt
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has faults up the yin yang. Was the very first game I ever bought on 360 that I was actually 
 tempted to go and sell back to the store same day. And I bought Super Man. =)
  
  However, I gave it a second chance, I poped the disk back in, and after about 45 minutes.. I had 
 a strange feeling. Enjoyment. The game was actually very addictive to find new items, always upgrading 
 and tweeking, and I found the combat no longer horrid, but remonicent of Diablo or Diablo 2. Yes 
 there is the same few animations over and over. But as far as I can tell, more you level up more 
 swings get added the animation cycle. Add in that there is a HUGE variaty of weapons, and you get 
 alot of options.
  
  Once I stoped trying to compare it to Oblivion, it became sooo much better. It has problems, all 
 solveable with patches. But the core gameplay is something I don't feel you will find in any other 
 game for 360 right now. Diablo-isc hack and slash with B rated acting/voice.
  
  I really believe this is going to be a love or hate game. So I recommend renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawhaw
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Possibly the worst game on the 360 yet. Terrible graphics and voice. Gameplay feels like im mentally 
 ill. The game graphics are terrible and the combat system is absolutely impossible to fight more 
 than one enemy at a time, terrible launch and terrible game in my opinion. Crappy tutorial, teaches 
 you how to walk, unsheath your weapon and open a gate. Oh and attack. This game feels rushed and 
 makes me sick to my stomach from just thinking about the possiblity it had and how it turned out. 
 The characters talk out of sync with the dialouge and the game itself is like closin gyour eyes 
 and jamming the right trigger to hope and kill something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger_gone_wil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  So if you are one of the hundreds of people whining about how this game is horrible then you don't 
 like good RPG's. Yes, the voice acting is horrible , but it grows on you. I have also heard the quest 
 system was horrible if you say that then you are as smart as a retarded infant. The quest system 
 is great and comes in varieties whether you're getting staves from Grom's or killing an orc warchief 
 its all good. Overall I love this game huge map good quest and if you have a higher education than 
 a third grader you would like it to. Final word is if you like RPG's get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hootin313
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  So whats up with the blood graphics? Those are the worst I have ever seen. I mean seriously it 
 looks like I was playing marathon on the xbox live arcade. They could have easily done better on 
 that. Also wtf is up with no autosave, they could have at least warned us about that, I played 
 for 4 hours straight the other day just to have it all deleted b/c of no autosave. Yes I understand 
 it is partially my fault for not saving at all but seriously this is a next-gen console. I first 
 started playing on medium and got my @$$ kicked by two groms at the very begining of the game i 
 died twice trying to kill them both and then I decided to try it on easy I have to say if your 
 going to play start on easy YOU WILL REGRET IT if you don't . Not to mention riding a horse is 
 frustrating you try and turn left and the horse goes right and so you have to stop and let him 
 rest and get something to eat or whatever and its so annoying. So I was so pissed off I tryed to 
 kill him and he ran off. So as you move along in the story line and get over the blood and no auto-save 
 and the horse its actually a pretty good and addicting game. But I would definately say rent it 
 before you buy no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daleerin24
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, I wish I had not went and purchased this miserably dull title. It is about as exciting as 
 a herd of turtles or watching the wall paper peal. The voice is terrible and overdone. Well that 
 is about all that I want to say at the moment,
  
  So anyways This title is seriously lacking in all the ways that it counts. The graphics are sub 
 par . The game looks to crappy compared to oblivion. The game was supposed to be the rival for 
 oblivion and it turned out to be the greatest waste of money for all those unfortunates that actually 
 spent time and money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artaxx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth your time. I know, as a RPG lover myself, that most of you out there who 
 share my love for this genre are going to want to play this game if you have a Xbox 360. I for 
 one pre ordered this game a few months before its release. Might I just recommend that you rent 
 this title rater than buy it as to minimize the amount of money you are actually throwing away. 
 This game looks like something that would have been released on the original xbox. The draw distance 
 is the worst I have ever seen in a open end RPG, the fight system has bugs and is not very well 
 built. The list of problems with this game are almost too numerous to name in the space that this 
 site has allotted me. Take it from me guys, this advice is defiantly worth more than you have just 
 paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tankbob_006
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is a total knock off of Oblivion. Nothing wrong with stealing the thunder from the best 
 games out there, but if you plan on doing that, MAKE THE GAME GOOD! Only thing I can say about 
 this game that is good, graphically its nice to look at. Again, not nearly as good as Oblivion 
 though. Dont buy or rent this game. You will not like it. Those people that are giving this game 
 a high score must work or are friends of the people that made this game. One of the worst 360 games. 
 Horrid, horrid, horrid. Stay away from it, cant stress that enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phiznat
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game really reminds me of GTA. Not so much Oblivion or any other game that I can think of. 
 Sure there are some similarities - (or rip offs IMO) - but more or less, its like a fantasy GTA. 
 Anyways.... here are my unbiased points to be made with this game. Single Player mode anyways. The 
 Pros: I actually have come to enjoy several things after playing for about five hours at this point. 
 Once I got a grip on the gameplay, I took off to explore the world. This game is HUGE! Lots of 
 places to see. Comparing to Oblivion, its much bigger to me. So thats always a plus, being that 
 you will most likely want to see everything eventually. Which would take you a long time. The land 
 is vast and detailed, and theres plenty of environment changes. So you wont be seeing the same 
 style of land from region to region. You've got everything from dense forest, to high mountain 
 ranges, to rocky badlands. And thats just to name a few. As you travel through-out these regions 
 you'll encounter numerous villages, castles, wizard towers, or mysterious/undead coves that are 
 fog filled and errie. The bottom line here is, if you like to explore and check out the sceneary... theres 
 plenty for ya.
  
  One of my fav. things about Two Worlds are the variety of beasts and enemies that are scattered 
 about the game. Everytime you enter a new or unseen area you're bound to encounter a new best. 
 Some of these monsters are small and quick, others (suchs as dragons) are HUGE... and although fun 
 to amuse yourself by endlessly attacking them... early on they are pretty much invincible to any 
 such attempts. The creatures also make some pretty disturbing sounds. Which make them sound as 
 mean as they look. Speaking of which, I was really impressed by the art they chose to use for most 
 of these beasts. Gives you a real sense of accomplishment if take one of the uglies down. The gameplay 
 is more or less simple. Nothing new or great... each button has its own function. You have special 
 skills you can alternate between by using the D-pad. One thing that does give you an advantage 
 once you get your timing right... you can do a backwards jump/hop that will allow you to dodge enemey 
 attacks. Or at least melee attacks. If you use this right, you can jump back to dodge, then immediately 
 run in and get a few hits off before the enemy can swing at you again. This makes combat a lot 
 more balanced, especially if you are still fairly new in the game. Magic is cool too. Some of the 
 effects look cool, some are just ok... but the spells and the fact that you can summon monsters 
 early in the game makes it an enjoyable attribute to have. At first its more like having a BB gun, 
 because the spells are mostly weak. You'll hurl 30 fireballs at a single wolf to take him down. 
 But I guess thats the emphasis on leveling up and spending your points wisely. Other things like 
 Alchemy are about the same as it is in Oblivion. The only difference is you can put more than one 
 of the same item in the pot, AS WELL as the other items. To get stronger or longer lasting potions. 
 They also give you a receipe book which memorizes which ingredients you used to get a certain potion. 
 Then you can name it whatever you want. So thats kinda nice. Horse Riding.... well honestly... I 
 dont like horses... Id rather truck it on foot. But ive tried the horse riding out. Im not really 
 a huge fan of the controls. Once you accelerate your horse, he keeps running... put your controller 
 down and hes on auto pilot. So you literally have to stop him a bit before the spot you were REALLY 
 wanting to stop at. So theres kind of a delay thing. (The game manual actually mentions this delay 
 - so it was a purposeful thing) Anyways.... I will say this, there are some COOL looking horses. 
 Like the undead ones. The Cons: Ok.... so there are some issues with this game that are pretty noticeable. 
 I would say that for the most part they probably should have worked a bit longer on this game before 
 releasing it. For several reasons... but hopefully they will release some updates to fix it. First 
 off... this game could have been run on the regular Xbox. The graphics are by no means next-generation. 
 They are Xbox graphics. A lot of people say there are frame rate issues. To say the least the game 
 can be a little jumpy at times. I'll describe it the best I can. The idea here is that they wanted 
 the environment to be seamless without any load time. Which is a wonderful concept... but poorly 
 executed. Essentially the game loads a certain ammount of the detailed terrain arround the spot 
 you stand in. This may extend so far from your characters view, or line of sight... before the detail 
 kinda drops off and you are just seeing the general landscape, out to the horizon. As long as you 
 are running around in the small field of view that has the detail loaded... you essentially have 
 no lags or jumps. Once you start running in a certain direction, the game starts to load the detail 
 for the landscape as you go. This is where the issue lies... its not a HUGE issue. Its just not 
 seamlessly smooth. And in some cases the game actually DOES have to load, but only for a few seconds. 
 None the less I can see why this would upset most folks. It is SUPPOSED to be a next gen game. 
 But for me, I can live with it. Another issue with the landscape is that you can often see through 
 things, or they appear instantly out of thin air right before you run up to it. So there are some 
 buggy spots. The weather and night and day changes also seem to happen in a strange way thats un-natural. 
 Sometimes its daylight for a few minutes, then it takes only a few seconds to become night. Then 
 sometimes you wonder if there ever is a night time. Its like the timing isnt right or something. 
 Again, not a HUGE issue for me... but also makes the game seem like it was let loose to early. Other 
 issues would be NPC's. They all look the same and the voice acting is like a dubbed kung fu movie. 
 All the statements are over-exagerated, or not exagerated at all. The NPC's look like they were 
 all victims of radioactive fall out. They just look like the goonies monster . During dialogue 
 anyways. When you enter into towns and cities, they feel lifeless. Even with all the NPC's around. 
 And going into houses or rooms is boring. They are dull and non-detailed. If you wanted to play 
 as a thief.... you are going to be dissapointed. This area of the game should have deffinently been 
 worked over. The developers could have done a lot more here to make living quarters more luring. 
 I dont even go into homes or doors unless I HAVE to talk to someone inside. I think some of the 
 worst graphics in the game are presented inside homes and what not. And when you open doors, they 
 swing through your body. No law of physics there. All in all my main complaints would be that we 
 are virtually playing an unfinished Xbox game. Not a next-gen 360 game. So its hard justifying 
 the $60 spent. That doesnt mean this game is not fun or enjoyable. Because im hooked to be honest. 
 This game has a lot to enjoy, and the issues that are present are not SO bad that you cant like 
 this game. Its just unsatisfying as a consumer to play a game that is basically a Beta. Not a final 
 product. If they ever work all the bugs out, this game could easily be a 10 for me. Some may want 
 to rent it or find used ones to buy. If you dont really care about the issues above, go ahead and 
 buy the game. You will enjoy it. My review is based off of five hours of play, I havent really 
 scratched the surface of what all is involved in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorporateHammer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  OK I had mixed feelings about the game at first but after 12 hours of play I cant stop playing 
 and see no end in sight. First the poor reviews by some people is due to the game really starting 
 slowly. It seems you cant even kill the wolves let alone the bear but once you start leveling up 
 and exploring you soon realize the game has only just begun. If you like games like oblivion you 
 will like this game. Tons of weapons, Armor, ability to enhance weapons and armor seems almost 
 endless. Graphics are great at times and ok at others. Battle system is ok it seems really dumb 
 at first but once you start increasing your skills it evolves. All in all I love the game and is 
 a nice change of pace from FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coyote2k3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  how can everybody bash this game so hard and yet love oblivon so much? Oblivion was horrible.... 
 the entire system of the game is just painful. when you level the entire world levels... seriously 
 what is the point of that. it makes it so you have to spend more time watching your skill progressions 
 so they all advance perfectly, so you don't get owned later on, rather than actually enjoying the 
 game and kicking some butt.
  
  i'm not supporting two worlds as being a perfect game in any way and it obvioulsy has it's faults 
 also but i really can't believe all these oblivion fanboys. seriously oblivion was not all that. 
 it had video lag just the same and many other errors too. quit being so blind and open your eyes 
 to actually see them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neolink6
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I think they didn't try hard on the blood but if you look the game is pretty cool once you get 
 into it if you compare to oblivion you'll think its not that good but what you will think is that 
 holy crap there's a lot of weapons and you will think OMG this map is freaken huge now if you compare 
 it to fable its a really good game. so if anyone agrees otherwise just say but you are an idiot 
 my freind so dont count your chickens before they hatched ok. this game is a really cool game just 
 look and play it you will like it a bunch because there are so many weapons that is what i like 
 about the game everyone yes that is what i like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballpimp13
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  WoW there is so much bad about this game. From the glitches to the Controls, from the voice acting 
 to the menu screens, its ALL bad. I played the demo on PC and said it was horrible but though tot 
 myself, maybe it is better in game... WRONG! I played for maybe and hour or so until i couldnt play 
 any longer. The quests are so damn hard to navigate through. I had no idea where to go. There is 
 nothing that keeps this game interesting. The graphics are like a good Xbox game nothing more. 
 Horse riding was so damn horrible i had to laugh. Im a hardcore gamer and when i cant get the controls 
 right or navigate a menu, theres a problem with the game. Maybe it takes more time for it to get 
 better but thats time i dont have. lol maybe i missed something but it doesnt even show the right 
 character face when the game starts, it shows some dude that looks nothing like the guy i created, 
 then it changes after the first 5 mins. The Mouths dont move correctly, and everyone speaks in 
 that deep monotone voice. This game is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon_Optics
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  I must say that when I first started playing this game I thought it was going to be lame. However, 
 after about an hour of play the fun stuff really kicks in and you figure out how everything works 
 it is a really good game. I believe that most of the disappointment with this game was generated 
 by people who did not either 1. get past the first quest, 2. just looked at the online play, or 
 3. did not take the time to realize the full potential of this game. Also another thing I saw was 
 that people are bashing the graphics of this game stating that they are not next-gen quality. From 
 what I have seen, everything in this game is high quality and you can really tell that the development 
 team spent a ton of time getting everything the way they wanted. For those of you that do not think 
 this is a great game, I believe that you are seriously mistaken and due to all the bad reviews 
 from people that were just disappointed by the online play, the entire game is getting bad hype 
 now that it does not deserve. As this is the first Two Worlds game I would say they did a wonderful 
 job. Of course there are going to be some problems with the gameplay, but all in all I would have 
 to say that the content is better than that of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whisper88
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  this game is worth the money. The single player mode is fun multiplayer is laggy but still enjoyable. 
 the game starts of slow and when i say slow i mean boring. first quest is pretty dumb and doesnt 
 teach u how to play ( most games with have some type of tutorial quest for a start) . it does explain 
 a little but most will have to be picked up by the user ( the book is to general and doesnt go 
 into detail) . so when i said that the game deserves a 10 in the long run i meant u would have to 
 play for like an hour or two before true enjoyment kicks in. Learning curve is about an hour Most 
 ppl have been complaining crazy strength of the npc enemies and allies ( town folk) . so let me 
 explain, yes the npc's are powerfull maybe even supremely powerful but that should make u want 
 to play it more. when the wolf killed me ( tiny wolf should not be underestimated because it will 
 pwn u) i couldnt wait to kill it, took a while but i got strong enough to kill it. town folk will 
 kick ur butt ( one hit kills ) so dont mess with them. overall the fighting is fun and enimies 
 are challenging .
  
  So after 1hr of game play u should really start seeing why this game was rated a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisisadodge
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I was really excited for this game before it came out. Online (PVP) , 8 player online 
 questing, its like oblivion on steroids, mounted combat!!?? WOW DOESN'T THAT SOUND AWESOME!! Man, 
 its gonna make Oblivion look like a joke... EEEEEEEEHHHH!!! WRONG!!! The Game is BROKEN, has some 
 of the ugliest graphics I have ever seen on the 360.. and ps2, the online multi-player is broken, 
 the Frame rate is so Choppy that I cant even see whats going on. Its like a slide show for god 
 sakes!! I tried the single player for about an hour which was .. painful to look at. All the problems 
 I listed above were present, and the voice acting/diologue was just as bad. Its like the diologue 
 from a bad low budget sci-fi channel fantasy movie. ello sir, what have thy to do widths me in 
 this fine fort night? . Thats not an exact line from the game, but it's also not far from how the 
 characters actually talk, and when your character loots a corpse, he has to say something, like, 
 oh what do we have here! Wow shut up main character!!! Multi-player!! Multi-player in two worlds 
 is not multi-player at all. You freeze in about 9 outta 10 matches that you join and the only thing 
 people actually do in the matches (while frozen) is talk about how much they hate this game, all 
 the problems it has, how their only gonna get 25 dollars when they trade it back in to gamestop, 
 and that they should have bought bioshock. I am by no means a Oblivion fanboy. I mean, I played 
 and enjoyed it, and I also play other rpgs, but this rpg is one you shouldn't buy. PLZ GO TO GAMESTOP 
 AND BUY A USED COPY JUST TO PLAY IT FOR YOURSELF, ITS A MUST SEE RPG ABOMINATION!! Gamestop/ebgames 
 return policy will let you return it within 7 days after the purchase of a full refund, so your 
 really not losing any money . In closing. South Peak should be ashamed of themselves, because they 
 have made a HOW NOT TO MAKE AN RPG GAME list. This game is unplayable. - BL00DLINES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_mann_117
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I really do enjoy the game apart from all the bashing alot of others have been doing on the game. 
 Its complicated at first but after a few hours of gameplay you'll get down the controls and how 
 to set things up and learn how to do mostly everything you need to know to survive in the game. 
 I enjoy how its not so easy. They only thing that I have been getting really frustrated at is the 
 fact on multiplayer campaign online and the Player Vs. Player, completly lags out, Hopefully really 
 really really soon there will be a patch for this. It is a fun game if you enjoyed elder scrolls 
 you will most likely enjoy this game. If you enjoy RPG'S I suggest you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the biggest disappointment I think I have ever laid my hands on. I reserved this game 7 
 months ago and couldn't wait to get my hands on it, thinking that it would be a good RPG to hold 
 me over until Mass Effect. So needless to say when it did FINALLY come out, I was thrilled and 
 gladly dropped $60 on what I thougt would be a great game. How horribly mistaken I was......
  
  Let me get one thing straight, I played and LOVED Oblivion. Logged over 200 hours with it by 
 the time I got bored. I did not expect Two Worlds to live up to that standard. Oblivion, in my 
 mind, is one of the greatest games ever made, and it just isn't fair to expect a game to live up 
 to that,, regardless of the hype. I did not, however, expect to find that Two Worlds is a worthless, 
 barely playable piece of garbage that is a sad, sad attempt for the publisher to cash in on the 
 hype surrounding the game. The graphics are TERRIBLE and the frame rate is RIDICULOUS. How the 
 hell did they allow a game with a frame rate this bad to hit the market? It is near impossible 
 to look around without the camera jumping and moving around looks you have a strobe light above 
 your head. Normally frame rate issues can be overlooked, but these are literally so bad that they 
 will make your head hurt and ruin the entire experience. Between that and the horrendous pop-up 
 (whole fields of flowers will just appear at your feet) and the laughable enemy character models 
 that look like they were taken straight from a PS1 game, you have a game that is nearly unplayable. 
 The animations are laughable and the much lauded weather effects looks like they are running on 
 a PC from the 90s. So much for that department. But hey, I thought, who cares if the graphics suck 
 if the gameplay is great. But Two Worlds fails miserably here, too. Your character is so weak in 
 the beginning that you cant even defend yourself from basic enemies like wolves (which, by the 
 way, kill you with two hits) . This is a major problem since the game offers you no alternative 
 to walking through the forest to complete you first quests. Basically I ended up having to run 
 two miles back to the closet village every time I was attacked (which was every thirty seconds 
 or so) so that the guards would kill the enemies for me and I could avoid being killed. However, 
 finding the nearest village proved to be highly difficult thanks to the completely unintuitive 
 and clunky User Interface and useless, good-for-nothing map. When I did find my way back, I bought 
 a couple of new weapons...... still got killed. Leveled up...... still got killed. It was at this 
 point, running through the forest being jarred by the horrendous frame rate with a pack of 12 wolves 
 chasing me that I realized that I had been had by South Peak. The sound is no gem, either. The 
 voice acting is AWFUL, truly right up there with some of the worst I have ever heard. Do you remember 
 in grade school when you had to read aloud and you did it in a monotone, unenthusiastic voice? 
 That is what the main character sounds like ALL THE TIME. In fact, I think the main character is 
 the worst actor in the game, and that is saying something because in the several hours I spent 
 wandering around I didn't find one person who didn't sound like they were reading a script for 
 the first time in their lives. Combine that with the ludicrous implementation of poorly used old 
 english (done with entirely American accents mind you) , and you have a very sad situation indeed. 
 Imagine someone from the midwest saying Mayhaps it twas a friend . Now imagine hearing that or 
 someting like it every time you talk to someone. Now imagine that it is said with absolutely no 
 inflection whatsoever. That's what the acting in this game is like. I eventually just turned off 
 the voices and read the text. It was that bad. Really. It was. I know this is a long review, but 
 I just feel so cheated by this game. It had so much potential and it failed so, so miserably. I 
 will never, ever buy another product developed by this studio, nor one published by South Peak. 
 This is a shameless, pathetic excuse for a game that should be ripped from th shelves and burned. 
 It is by far the worst 360 game on the market, and possibly one of the worst I have ever played. 
 To call this a next-gen game is a joke unless you happen to be living in the time period where 
 Sega reigned supreme. So please, for the love of God, SAVE YOURSELF!!! Don't let these two greedy 
 companies get your money in exchange for a pile of garbage they only pretend is a game. I just 
 hope EB will still take mine back. I guess I better get back to Bioshock now.........
  
  *****I do feel compelled now, several days after writing this review to modify my score by 3.5 
 points, bringing the overall score to a 6.5 The reason for this is that I gave this game another 
 chance because I really, really wanted to like it, and it actually has improved quite a bit. I 
 changed the difficulty to easy, which eased y frustrations quite a bit. The framerate is still 
 not fantastic, but it does improve as the game caches the areas where you have been and the voice 
 acting actually gets gradually better to the point of being almost decent. The weapon and armor 
 system is quite entertaining as well, and once you level up enough to defend yourself there are 
 actually some reasonably fun quests to undertake. The world is also HUGE, which is a nice plus. 
 Basically I am saying I was a little unfair here. All the technical issues with graphics and sound 
 and everything still stand, but the gameplay does get fun enough for you to overlook those things 
 if you just give it a chance. However, if you do not like RPGs this one won't be the one to change 
 your mind. Hardcors RPG fans willing to deal with the issues here are the only ones who should 
 pick this one up. Hope this helps you decide whether this game is for you or not. Message me with 
 any other questions.********** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr8-GamR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I have always been one with seeing the good in games. I thought predator was pretty good, True 
 Crime had amazing graphics and funny gameplay to make up for it's spreadshot bugs and glitches. 
 Spiderman-3 is fun if you know how to play it right, and this is no exception. I start the game 
 uot with small text on the main menu, which obviously means that this game was designed for HD 
 sets, probably 720p with the resolution. I click new game, and begin to customize my character. 
 The level of customization isn't huge, due to the fact that you only play as a human male. So I 
 finish customizing his look, and press A.... wait... what happened to customizing skills? Oh I think 
 I had to press RT to flip pages (maybe not, I never attempted a second try) . So the first thing 
 I see is I hooded man, who I assume to be evil, and a girl riding on horseback, who falls. It turns 
 out the man is me. Then the voice acting comes in. Honestly, Southpeak could definately have buffered 
 this game up a notch by increasing the quality of the voice actors. It was overdramatic, but it 
 was funny to hear their serious voices, which have no definite difference from their comedy voices. 
 I see my self in a cavern after skipping the badly voiced cutscene. I started to.. run.. realizing 
 that I cannot walk, which I find to be a bit dissapointing, that means that they could have rush 
 some animations. then I unsheath my sword... and begin walking. Animations aren't put together well, 
 so I just end up running with my sword in my hand. I see a young grom, and begin to attack. Even 
 though you can jump back to avoid damage, you cannot block. Watch out for this. So I kill them, 
 take there stuff, while all the while straining my eyes to see everything the inventory screen 
 has to offer (too much) . I then continued my quest to find myself knowing a dream - There is lots 
 of stuff in this game to be had. Much of it is named, but there are a lot of weapons and armor 
 to choose from, ranging from color, to type. I also found myself liking the combine system. I got 
 a horse, and that confused me. Warning: Do not attempt to run the horse into a wall. I don't know 
 if this is weird AI, or just to avoid clipping, but the horse will end up turning in a direction 
 you do not want it to go. So you must back up, and try it again, Try using a horse in a small entrance. 
 The enemies are near impossible in numbers due to the fact that you can get heavily damaged if 
 you don't jump back at the right time, and if you're surrounded, you're screwed. Don't be fooled, 
 this game can be fun. I sometimes managed to sweep my ragdolled adversaries aside like dolls when 
 I fight, and the effect is quite humorous. The quests are hard to get to, though, due to the world 
 being huge and there being no teleport system unless you activate it. There is a lot of bugs in 
 this game, and swimming plain sucks. This is the only thin I hate. Swimming. Sucks. If you're swimming 
 toward the camera you can actually see the ripples behind the hero... through him as if he was transparent 
 only to the ripples. The combat isn't bad, Although it can get repetetive. Oblivion Killer? Not 
 a chance. give Oblivion a better 3rd person gameplay system, and it blows Two Worlds out of the 
 water. However, this won't happen to Oblivion at least, so we must wait until Elder Scrolls V in 
 5 years or so. This game gets a 7.5 because it has real potential behind it's various bugs glitches, 
 and total burnouts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vxsubx
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  damn this game really sucks right out of the box. it's sad too was really hope it would have less 
 technical issues. for one no one has even been able to play the multiplayer yet online. y i do 
 not know. the graphics are ok. it runs real choppy in single player and the blood is somthing to 
 laugh at. terriable. it reminds me of the old mortal combat. it really sucks. and the over voices 
 were not very pleasing. they were down right awfull. u can play single player at a choppy leval. 
 but u can't play xboxlive till they release a patch for the game. thats sad. brand new and doesn't 
 even work. i. e. u can connect and talk to people but every time u lag out. so i call it a 65 dollar 
 chat room software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeJones767
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Just don't waste your time with oblivion fanboys reviews posted here trashing whats really a fun, 
 exciting adventure... I've played oblivion so trust me on this, its not all that fun that these 
 fanboys hype it up to sound like. For example all the quest are boring, the underground areas such 
 as caves and dungeons all look EXACTLY THE SAME! Same freakin greenish look to every thing. Whats 
 even more hilarious is you can hit a rock golem with your axe and get blood splattering every where... 
 Thats so stupid. Any ways this game has much more area to explore and the variety of creatures 
 and monsters I've encountered are real kewl. The drops are random and you'll never know what you 
 might find. The caves and dungeons are varied so far and look nothing alike each other which puts 
 this game a few spots ahead of oblivion in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudocp
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for endless hours and I must say its terrible, but wait, It gets better, 
 really better! After 5-10 hours of gameplay, the game shows its real potential, and you discover 
 that this game is no better than oblivion, but dufferent. You cant play as a first person, thing 
 that I prefer. Enemies are easier to kill, instead of fighting them half an hour like in oblivion. 
 Expresions of characters are bad, but graphics in the xbox 360 are amazing. This game needs time 
 to show its potential and now that I have discovered it, i cant stop playing. THIS GAME HAS 5-10 
 HOURS OF A TERRIBLE AND BORRING BEGINING, BUT LATER ON ITS AN EXCELLENT GAME. Play it and dont 
 hear to all those negative comments, they just love oblivion so much, that they hate two worlds, 
 + they havent played long enough.
  
  RENT IT FIRST, ITS NOT BETTER THAN OBLIVION BUT DIFFERENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBaller299375
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds gives a nice change and advancement to RPG games with great combat. unlike Oblivion 
 the player can use weapons from on a horse, use two weapons at once, and the Choreographed fights 
 are fun to go around and kill things. The flaws THE MAP IS HUGE why in the world your only transportation 
 is a horse that will refuse to turn in the right direction. Pull it left, keeps walking straight 
 and vice versa. the graphics are not as good as oblivion so stop talking about it. In general Two 
 Worlds is a nice change with a couple new ideas in it. Pick it up about a month or two from now 
 because this game is worth about $35 tops so wait for price slashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pina187
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Immediately after popping in the disc I was filled with anticipation, hoping that this game could 
 deliver a similar experience that Bethesda gave us with Oblivion. Unfortunately the stale story 
 and lackluster graphics didnt help me give this game a warm reception. After fiddling around with 
 the create a player option I soon realized how Robust Oblivions create a player was. One could 
 literally spend hours just creating a character and not even touch the game yet. On this one you 
 get to be a human only and get very generic options for your Avatar, you soon find yourself having 
 to do generic fetch quests with no real depth, the frustrating battle system makes gameplay more 
 of a chore than anything you could consider fun. I think the developers could have taken more time 
 to polish this one up, the bar that has been set by Oblivion is indeed very high, but not impossible 
 to match or even just come close. Unfortunately I will be sending this one back to gamefly sooner 
 than later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert_Dillon
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  There were many comparisons to Oblivion in the previews. However, this game is more of a contrast. 
 For one, combat is a hit and miss. It's not truly player controled. You control the swing of the 
 sword or pull of the bow, but whether the hit connects or misses is percentage based on stats. 
 Blocking, on the other hand, is not controled at all. In every instance of combat the game is plagued 
 with camera issues. The camera wants to swing to a birds eye view like it's an RTS. Also, the animations 
 are ugly, to say the least, in every instance of the game. And when the developers connect that 
 to overly cliche' insulting dialogue, I almost want to press mute and turn my head. Rent this first! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds is not one of the games that one would call up to par. I have been playing this game 
 for about ten hours now and I have slowly been drawn more into the game. At first the game looks, 
 seems, and sounds like one has wasted their time with probably the worst game for the XBox 360. 
 Although at first one may feel this way just give it time and you are going to find it isn't that 
 horrible of a game at all.
  
  I first began the game with these feelings and every step of the way I found myself comparing it 
 to TES: Oblivion and once I got over the fact that this game is not up there with Oblivion I found 
 it easier to play. The storyline is cliched badly. The main character has his one liners that he 
 constantly says but all this can be overcame.
  
  The game has a huge explorable envrionment for the user to conquer a variance of enemies. The weapons 
 and inventory are laid out in such a way you know the game was developed for PC first but once 
 you get the hang of it there is no problem navigating the screens. To mention the weapons and inventory 
 you can stack weapons and magic which allows for a more powerful character.
  
  So before buying this game give it a try by renting it and let yourself get over the snuffed graphics 
 and sounds and just play. DO NOT CATCH YOURSELF COMPARING THIS TO OBLIVION. It will only make you 
 become more dissapointed with it. All in all I think it is a game worth purchasing and have enjoyed 
 mostly every minute I have played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imshoasian
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is crap..
  i was excited about.. i wanted it .. i got it. my brother and i got it e. e
  less than an hour 
 later we brought it back to Eb
  
  i paid off metroid and put the rest on halo 3 dont waste your time or money
  
  controls are 
 to loose and you cant adjust them
  if you attack one creature.. at least 3 will chase after you
  attacks do very little to no damage
 
  ive seen better looking games on wii (vivlarevolution.. e. e)
  frame rate is a joke
  the interface is dark and uninviting
  voice over.. if thats what you call people trying to read 
 a script
  character editing is slim to none..
  this game.. has so many faults
  
  im sorry, i wanted this game.. it looked Rad
  but eh we all see how that turned out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when I first put this game in and saw the character creation screen, I was disappointed. 
 That was it; 2 minutes into the game and I knew it was going to be a waste of money. I created 
 my stupid character and then the worst cutscene I've ever seen on the 360 besides maybe Eragon 
 showed up on my HDTV. It looked like Morrowind for the Xbox! I got passed the cutscene, saved it, 
 and told myself that this was going to be trade-in for something like Bioshock or Skate. After 
 venting and cursing, I put it back in and started to play it. Now, this game is no Oblivion, but 
 it does have some qualities that Oblivion did not that makes Two Worlds appealing and enjoyable. 
 The graphics will disappoint you, but they're not bad, they're just not up to par. Forget about 
 the voices and sound, it all sucks; the footsteps, environment, monsters, and character voices. 
 I turned them down and read what they had to say. The bears sound like sick dogs and the main hero 
 says stupid one liners that make you want to turn your system off so do yourself a favor and turn 
 the volume down or listen to some custom soundtracks off your harddrive. The combat is repetitive 
 and sometimes slow. It's hard to see if your hitting your target when some PS2 blood effects come 
 straight in front of your view. You're probably thinking now that this game is as worse as Bomberman 
 for the 360, but wait, there is some light at the end of the tunnel. Now the good qualities of 
 Two Worlds. You can stack same weapons and armor to make them stronger and make more money off 
 of them too. The quantity of items in this game is astounding. It feels like a MMO when you're 
 going up to several different traders in the larger towns. The magic is also stackable too which 
 make being a mage very cool. The diversity of the areas is awesome. Deserts, castles, forts, beaches; 
 Two Worlds has it all. They also look very good thanks to some nice bloom and HDR lighting which 
 you adjust in the settings menu. Exploration is fun and exciting because you never know who or 
 what you're going to run into. There is alot of enemies to kill and thankfully it makes the combat 
 not so bad when your fighting different things often. The sense of exploration and adventure make 
 you want to continue the game and level up and play with the abilities and magic. I would recommend 
 anyone wanting to try this game out to rent it first. Just like Morrowind for the Xbox, you had 
 to be a very hardcore player to get into it and really play the game. It provided no tutorials 
 and was very overwhelming to the player if they've never played a game like that before. Two Worlds 
 is exactly the same. If you just jump in and start trying to kill towns people or running off the 
 main path, you'll find yourself dead and frustrated. Give it a chance and hopefully you'll come 
 to appreciate some of the better qualities of Two Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outlaw-X13
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  My last review of Two-Worlds was pretty much idiotic, Two-Worlds was a decent game in its own, 
 but failed to deliver enough content to keep me interested after
  finishing it. The Online portion of Two-Worlds when I played the game was unplayable unless you 
 were just doing a "Stage" with 1 friend. I'm certain the other game modes for the online would 
 have been fantastic.. if they worked.
  
  I don't know what else to say without spoiling what little there is to spoil, your sister is kidnapped 
 and you go on a quest to rescue her.. its very cliche in my opinion which means absolutely nothing 
 to anyone but myself, and I'm happy with that. 
  
  Technical stuff and mechanics, If you know anything about Two-Worlds its how bad the voice acting 
 is. Besides awful voice actors and stale "mo-cap" animations there is the game-world which can 
 be very beautiful and very boring..
  there are some fairly large city's in the game which consist of mindless npcs and quest givers.
 
  
  Two-Worlds is great if you get it for like $20.00
  
  -Grak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Normally I would go into a full description on why a game is good/bad, but in this case I am going 
 to skip that and just say Play at your own risk this game is flawed. Hard to imagine why this game 
 was even released. In fact, it's so bad I am even having a hard time trying to come up with the 
 100 word minimum for this review! If you must play this game, please do yourself a favor and RENT 
 it first, that way at least you are only throwing out $5 or $6. Could the frame rate be any worse? 
 I did not even attempt online after playing..... or trying to play the first 15 minutes of single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chadatru
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Playing into this game I had high expectations, not in a relation to oblivion. But just as an RPG 
 for the 360 you could go online with. So far from what I've seen ranged is the way to go as there 
 is no form of active blocking. If you go into melee, it's hit hit hit, jump back... wait.. and 
 repeat.
  
  Overall I think if they fix the lag in multiplayer it will have a fun co-op feel. But my advise 
 to you is buy this game used, as it just isn't worth dumping 60.00 on something I feel could have 
 been more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thyferian
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  1. The game only teaches you how to walk draw your weapon and attack, the rest of the controls 
 you have to discover on your own. I became so frustrated trying to figure how to play the game 
 I quit after about 30 minutes into it and didn't try again until the day after. I still haven't 
 completely figured out the magic so I may look through the game book again.
  
  2. I was really upset about not being able to choose details about my character, you HAVE to be 
 a male human in the main game. When I found out Two Worlds would have Dwarves in it I thought I 
 could be one of them and was thrilled, since that was one thing Oblivion didn't have. Well you 
 do get to choose between a male or female elf/human for your online character and your class, but 
 still I want the Dwarfs! (Sounds like I'm looking for WoW)
  
  3. Fighting just sucks, slash 'n smash is not meant for RPG's, leave that type of fighting to the 
 good old games like Gauntlet. By the end of the game, thats all it was I hit the Grand Enemy 
 twice and he died.
  
  4. Inventory and most of the menus are a bit disorganized and difficult to keep track of. 5. Finally, 
 the actors REALLY suck and the way the talked in the old-English style was really annoying. It 
 was an attempt at being more realistic, which failed and just managed to piss me off.
  
  A few good points about the game is the online play (which is, more times then not, laggy) and duel 
 wielding weapons, but these still don't make up for all of its faults. This game gets better as 
 you go, but only because you can actually kill stuff instead of dying every time you encounter 
 a monster.
  
  I was incredibly disappointed with the game. I was told the game would be like Oblivion, except 
 better. In regard to being better or even equal to Oblivion, they failed completely.
  
  All in all, if your looking for a decent RPG this might be good for you, but if your looking for 
 something to match or beat Elder Scrolls, keep on hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminretrostyle
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps it's because there's been so much hype, but I am highly disappointed in Two Worlds. I will 
 say the graphics are very good, and the sound is also acceptable, for the most part.
  
  One HUGE flaw, as many reviewers have pointed out, is the voice work. The dialogue is absolutely 
 abysmal, and every conversation feels overly stiff because the script is styled as High Fantasy 
 . Meaning, they actually say things like Prithee, good sir. And when someone answers in the negative, 
 it's Nay instead of just no . Vewry annoying after awhile. Plus, there are amazing errors. At one 
 point, a stable master refers to his corral (the fenced in area where horses are kept) as his coral 
 (the stuff reefs are made of) . Add to that the fact that finding quest locations is purely a matter 
 of luck. For example, one of the quests requires you to go to those caves south of town. Turns 
 out, the actual cave you have to go to is almost perfectly due EAST of town. You can find caves 
 south of town, but they have nothing to do with the quest you're on. Plus, the map shows all quest 
 destinations at once as green or purple dots. The difference between the colors? I haven't a clue. 
 Plus, there's no way to tell which quest is sending you to which dot. The combat is exceptionally 
 tedious. You simply repeatedly pull the right trigger to hit your opponent, and occasionally throw 
 in a b button to jump back. There are shields and parry skills in the game, but there's not a single 
 clue given as to how to make your character actively block. And that leads to one odd thing about 
 the controls. For some reason, there's no dedicated block button, but there are buttons dedicated 
 to useing heal and mana potions. There is some fun to be had in the game, but I'd honestly rather 
 play through oblivion for the third time, or even Morrowind for the tenth, than finish the main 
 quest in Two Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Failure, the word I use to desribe this game. Heres why.....
  
  The game tries to pull you in with a compelling story, but before I get into that lets talk about 
 the HORRID voice acting. I could say the lines better myself if I had water in my mouth, just very 
 bad voice acting. But no matter, the story could be good right? Wrong, the story is typical, doesnt 
 try to add new twists and doesnt try to add anything new to the RPG. Your sister or some girl gets 
 captured, and its your job to save her. So the story and the voice acting lack inspiration and 
 enthusiasm, theres still something to love right?
  
  Gameplay is like a typical RPG also, which I dont mind because the formula works well. Collect 
 weapons, kill monstors, get better gear and level up. Basicly become a super powered killing machine. 
 The mechanics are simple, get skill points to spend on different abilities, magic, and what not. 
 Get new spells to use, and so on. This is good, I like that they made it like most RPG's, because 
 it works better. Ok now your being thrown into the game with your VERY limited character creation 
 options, you can only pick between elves, and humans, not fun. After the first loading screen starts 
 and your actually playing the game, this is where the problems start to appear. You'll notice the 
 interface is very clunky and doesnt give you any directions on how to handle it. You have no directions, 
 no quests, no nothing. It is like Morrowind. But what Morrowind had was a easy to use interface, 
 and it was fun to walk around and kill things and steal things and so on. This game is not. I'm 
 not ashamed of what I'm about to say, Morrowind's combat system was better then this game, and 
 for this game to call itself Next Gen is just embarrsing. Also my biggest problem, was the frame 
 rate. It is very clunky, very bad. This game is not finished, it needs major work on making it 
 run smoothly. I will not buy a game, and then have to wait for them to patch up such an error like 
 this. This games learning curve is high for newbie RPG people. The enemies are WAY more powerful 
 then they should be in the begining. Oblivions system was fantastic, enemies leveled up with you, 
 so you were constantly challenged. I died so many times in this game in the VERY begining, thats 
 not right.
  
  Online is even more pathetic. You cant use your single player character in multiplayer. Yes that 
 made me mad, why cant I spend my time in single player, level up my character, then go into multiplayer 
 and use him with my friends, stupid descion by developers. Oh quick tid bit, you cant choose your 
 character class in single player, you instead level up in every character class catogory. Only 
 in online play can you pick one specific character class. The Lag in Online, IS SO BAD. I spent 
 more time trying to get my guy to stop skipping then actually playing the game. Also you will die 
 alot because you will eventually lag into enemies leading to a very terrible quick death. Summing 
 it up, this game is not finished, its trash, its garbage. I with their wasnt any hype behind this 
 game because then people wouldnt have bought it. I actually after an hour and a half of gameplay 
 went back to the store and demanded they take it back. After me complaining, they let me buy a 
 game for the same price i payed for this garbage. I bought Overlord, and Overlord is very fun. 
 Unlike this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klbader
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought two games this week -- Bioshock and Two Worlds. How rare it is to buy one of the best games 
 I've ever played at the same time that I bought one of the worst games I've ever played. Bioshock 
 is the former, and Two Worlds, sadly, is the latter. What is wrong with this game, you might ask? 
 Well here's a brief list.
  
  1. The voice acting is terrible -- almost commical. As bad as any voice acting I've heard in a long 
 time (right up there with Enchanted Arms) .
  
  2. The combat is terrible, almost to the point of being broken.
  
  3. The interface is far 
 from user-friendly. In fact, it's user-frustrating. Trying to get the journal/map to function is 
 almost as challenging as combat with this broken system.
  
  4. The horse is less responsive in this game than in Shadow of the Colossus. There, however, it 
 was realistic. In this game, it's just amazingly poor design.
  
  I will give it some minor kudos for bringing online co-op play to the RPG genre. I haven't tested 
 it out though, so I don't know how well that part of the game is working. Although if the online 
 play is as near-broken as the offline play, then maybe the kudos are undeserved.
  
  These are a few of the things that lept to mind after wasting five hours of my life on this game. 
 Whatever you do, do not waste your money on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w1l
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  the problem with this game is was compared to oblivion. this game is by no means even close .i 
 say it is more like fable for the xbox. with that being said i like it .i give it about a 7 . too 
 much hype ,but i also think they knew they couldnt live up to the hype .if they would have been 
 sure this game was going to be a hit , i think they would have put out a demo .that leads me to 
 believe they knew thier bid to be a n oblivion killer was not going to hapen . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll do in Two Worlds is create a character. You'll change his hair type and 
 color (about 5 different choices for each) . You'll make his eyes, mouth, cheeks, bigger or smaller. 
 And you'll stretch his arms, torso, and legs to how freakish you want him to look. No matter what 
 you do, your character will come out looking exactly like everyone else. Then you're thrown into 
 the story. You'll grudge your way through 5-10 minutes of terrible voice acting- I will wait... I 
 HAVEN'T SUFFICIENT TIME! And while you're watching the cut scenes you'll wonder where did the character 
 you just created go? He's gone. You're now playing as some scraggly man with a goatee, and your 
 first mission is to kill some goblin-esque creatures in a cave.
  
  You may be thinking- they're just goblins, and this is a tutorial mission, so no big deal. Well, 
 you'll watch in horror as your character attempts some sort of running motion, flails his sword 
 like a mentally challenged man, only hitting things right up next to him while the goblin is running 
 circles around you, and before you know it, he's hit you two or three time and you're dead.
  
  Not to mention the terrible frame-rate. My character was standing still, with no other enemies 
 in sight, and I was trying to spin the camera around him to look at his face. Unfortunately, I 
 found this simple act nearly impossible as the camera jumped around wildly.
  
  There is absolutely no reason to buy this game, let alone rent it. It is the worst piece of garbage 
 ever allowed to touch the market. The screenshots on the back of the case don't even look like 
 they're from the game. The real game is much more pixelated and ugly. Stay far away from Two Worlds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  If you were even thinking about renting this game, DON'T. Two Worlds has the worst frame rate of 
 any game I've ever played on Xbox 360. The graphics are horrible also. Not only are the graphics 
 horrible and the frame rate terrible, but the gameplay is so repetitive and isn't even fun when 
 you first start playing. You have to be a hardcore RPG fan to ever even kind of like this game. 
 When you try to play Two Worlds online, it is so annoying how every 5 seconds, its just lags more, 
 and more, until you can't take it anymore and you want to snap the disc in half. This is one of 
 the worst RPG's ever, and I can't believe that it was ever compared to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrRyan1234
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Two Worlds has had to suffer an unfortunate fate. The inevitable comparisons to TES 4: Oblivion 
 were going to hurt this game from the very beginning. I think that comes more from an ignorance 
 of other games in the genre than it does from actual simalarities between the two games. The large, 
 open-ended world is about where the things they have in common stop. Unfortunately, it seems that 
 the developers did not do enough themselves to distinguish their game, emphasizing the differences. 
 It could even be argued that they did plenty to perpetuate the idea that Two Worlds was going to 
 be like Oblivion. The game kicks off with a predictably cheesy cutscene that was actually available 
 online before the game actually came out. Anyone expecting or hoping for something deep and involved 
 on the narrative side was also destined to be disappointed. I find it a little sad that the writing 
 is so poor, because they could probably have hooked a few more of the RPG-hardcore if the story 
 was more interesting. Its not that its especially bad, but we've all played this story probably 
 ten times before. It doesn't hook you right off the bat. In fact, it gives you almost no context 
 whatsoever, so you have no idea why you start the game where you do.
  
  Once you finally get a chance to take the reigns of your character, you'll find yourself in a tomb 
 to dispatch a few orcs. You'll actually come back to this tomb in a later quest, but once again, 
 the give you no idea at first why you're there at all. Its really supposed to be like a tutorial 
 thing, but it actually gives you pretty much no information on how to play the game. This was a 
 major oversight, as some of the gameplay mechanics and controls aren't exactly intuitive. This 
 game was clearly built for the PC first, and if you can run that version, I'd recommend it a little 
 over the 360 version. This is especially true for the inventory and character screens. They are 
 simply much easier to navigate and use with a mouse.
  
  On the technical side, the game is a very hit and miss. On the plus side, the draw distance is 
 huge, and vast landscapes look very attractive. The character models are servicable, but not very 
 inspired. Probably the best aspect of the design of this gameis the armor and weapons. I found 
 all of them to be extremely cool looking. There were numerous weapons and armor that I felt tougher 
 just to have equipped. If you're into the treasure hunting side of these sort of games, you'll 
 be in heaven, because there are simply hundreds of pretty looking things to find. The huge world, 
 cool weapons, and exotic enemies to fight would pretty much have me sold, if it weren't for the 
 fact that this game performs rather poorly, especially in caves, and when fighting several enemies 
 at once. The framerate will likely be one of the first things you notice, because it can really 
 get annoying. I had huge success wih clearing my Xbox's cache. I think the framerate probably went 
 up about 5fps after doing this. (Done in the dashboard. Go to Memory, Then hit Y on your HD, then 
 hit XX, LB, RB, XX.) As you may have noticed, I said you'd be disappointed if you were expecting 
 certain things in this game. But this game has way more in its favor than you'd think if you listened 
 to all of those saying this is the worst game they've ever played. That's completely crazy, or 
 this is one of the first games they've ever played. You can explore, hunt, make potions, set up 
 bombs and traps, steal horses, break into houses, and just admire the view. There is so much to 
 see and do, that some people may get lost in it and eventually stop noticing a few of the games 
 flaws. This is one of those few games that I've been able to wholeheartedly appreciate, warts and 
 all. If you buy this expecting right things, and not looking for an Oblivion clone, you'll find 
 a lot to enjoy here. Don't ignore the naysayers, but don't take all they tell you at face value. 
 Its worth a play. I give it 7.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcedViper
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  WOW, after months of waiting and anticipation I can only say that one word when playing one of 
 the biggest dissapointments in gaming history. Two Worlds is crap and any person that thinks differently 
 needs serious mental help. The game is jerky, the blood effects are straight outta mortal kombat, 
 combat is so ridiculous that boars and wolves make you their **** But by far the worst part has 
 to be horse riding. Basically the horses control like they have ice skates on. I don't think the 
 creators could have done a worse job and honestly I hope SouthPeak doesn't get the option to make 
 any more games. Anyway I would advise you to never purchase this game unless you like making bad 
 investments. STAY AWAY FROM TWO WORLDS... DON'T MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE I DID!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SENTRY56
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  the gameplay lacks that thing that make you want to play it..... they made it more of a mmo then 
 a rpg very dissapointing everything about it must be changed the choice of weapons and armor are 
 great but whats a game where you cant even destroy a town with your buddies online xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxx 
 xxxxxxx x xxxxxxx xx xx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx x xxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxx xxxxxx xx 
 xx xxxxx xxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx x xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxx x xxxxx x xxx x xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjackerseth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Two worlds. When we heard it, and read about it, everyone was excited. Wow! It will be like Oblivion 
 but with multiplayer! Bad news, it's not like Oblivion. But I havn't played, nor intended to play 
 multiplayer.
  
  When I first played it, I was let down. I felt betrayed, alot of people spent 60-70 bucks on this 
 game, and it wasn't worth it. I felt that way, but I kept playing and it got somewhat good.
  
  The following points, are what I feel are important, or what is normally badmouthed, but I 
 feel needs to be redeemed. The goods: 1. The world looks good, I don't know why people say it looks 
 like Morrowind, I thought it was just fine. I love the look of the outfit on your character when 
 you talk to someone, very nice.
  
  2. The weapon stacking. I love it. It's much better than carrying around millions of the same piece 
 of equipment.
  
  3. The combat. It's sorta iffy at first, but once you learn how to backjump before they attack, 
 its good. (Even if it is tenacious) 4. The storyline. I havn't gotten very far yet, but so far, 
 the story seems somewhat interesting.
  
  5. The loading times. Sure, in Oblivion it wouldn't stop then load, like it does in Two worlds, 
 but it's an acceptable amount of seconds. And you can normally go into buildings without that 10-30 
 second load time.
  
  The following, is what grinds my gears.
  
  The bads:
  1. Voice acting. Everyone thinks this is horrible. The 200+ voice actors was a good idea, but having 
 them talk, without much emotion and strange emphasis in the weirdest places, isn't the best, but 
 it's still better than hearing the same 10 voices over and over.
  
  2. The map. I hate the map, this is probably Two World's worst quality. It dosn't tell you anything. 
 The lack of the name of the city's is what really steams me. In quest I need to know which city 
 is what. Which brings me to my next point.
  
  3. The quest indicators. It's very horrible. Maybe I am just spoiled from Oblivions quest guides, 
 but this isn't very good. You have to keep checking your map constantly to see if your going in 
 the right place, since it dosn't have the map marker (And the minimap is pretty useless for quest 
 anyway, so thats not helpful.) and since you can't see the names of the cities, you can't memorize 
 what is where.
  
  4. The quest journal. I only played Morrowind for a few minutes, but if I'm not mistaken, the quest 
 journal is like that, but worse. On my tv anyway (It's not HD) The quest description looks like 
 the end of the page in a book were the crease is. The words seem to disappear the more to the right 
 it goes, making reading them a strain. Which makes me think, the game is hard, since you have to 
 keep looking where you are going, and try to figure out where is where.
  
  Overall, I think it's a pretty okay game. The only quirks I really have about it is the map, and 
 quest guide, But other than that, any other fault I find is acceptable.
  
  I think it deserves a 7.5, out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avfortner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Even though it is not quite as customizable as Oblivion or Morrowind.
  The game is beautiful with a great frame rate. The combat in the game makes oblivion look terrible. 
 The armor is nice as well as the alchemy.
  I just wish it was a little harder to gain experience, and you had to actually use the skill in 
 order to gain experience. That was revolutionary when Morrowind introduced this system. Oblivion 
 introduced the horse, but Two Worlds went one step foward, the horse really acts like a horse. 
 It grazes, and sounds, and even comes to you when you whistle. I don't think just because Oblivion 
 is one of the greatest role playing games of all time, that you should be so harsh. They are two 
 different games, going in two different directions.
  I was skeptical at first but after playing a few hours I was hooked.
  I would recommend this 
 game to anyone. This game really grows on you. Definitely worth the money, especially with the 
 online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chips80
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Rent this game before you buy it. This game is a old school rpg you will need patience to really 
 enjoy what this game has to offer. You get very few options on how your character looks but you 
 get to customize everything else about your characer. You get to pick what skills you want to invest 
 points into ranging from horse riding, magic, and fighting skills. This game starts slow cause 
 most of the creatures out there will hand your butt to you. Now the graphics could have been better. 
 I give them a 6 out of 10 the character models are horrible, but the environment is decent with 
 a very long draw distant. I have only played 3 hours so far and at first i really didnt like this 
 game. But after reading the game manual and actually trying to figure out how to do stuff like 
 alchemy, combining items to make stronger ones, and figuring out the map and quest log. this game 
 is growing on me. Again rent before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2006M5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Just like any other individual I turned this game on and was wondering what happened? I heard it 
 was suppose to be the Oblivion Killer or it is like Diablo. Listen, I do not write reviews but 
 I would like to convince you as gamers to give this game a true chance, it does become very engrossing 
 and addicting. The game gives no explanation to its mechanics and as a gamer one would expect that 
 but if you just sit and try to figure things out it all becomes apparent and you will end up having 
 a game on your hands that is very enjoyable. Although I must say that the story is somewhat lackluster 
 in enthralling you into it, the game still plays very well. I noticed minor frame rate issues on 
 the launch of the game but all that seemed to go away. I just slide the HDR slider and my problems 
 were gone. Whether that is a real fix or not I don't know but whatever.
  
  The world is vast and has so much to explore, there are tons of weapons and armor, and the spells 
 are quite numerous actually. Graphically I would say it looks pretty good but nothing really mind 
 blowing. The sound is honestly what caught my attention, especially the ambient background sounds 
 like the birds, and the lightning when its raining. That another this game does well, its presentation 
 of weather. The weather effects are real neat and your character will make dry comments about from 
 time to time. The voice acting is a mixed bag. Its set to a very old englishesque style with plenty 
 of voice actors. I know I mentioned it before but, I cannot stress to you fellow games the size 
 of the world, its unbelievably enormous! For a Xbox360 game, wow. With my given warnings I must 
 say the game is good but it isn't anything amazing. There is a lot of value in this game and the 
 exploration will very easily take you away from the numerous quests, that range from good to bad, 
 and its combat system will keep you entrapped once you ALLOW it to take you. Don't sell this game 
 short and really try to give it a shot, I promise you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeigzero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  yep, i cried blood at the shock of seeing all those dropped frames in the beginning of the game. 
 and the poor conversion from mouse control from pc is almost unforgivable as well. in fact, i think 
 i turned this game off twice before i actually stuck around to get through the first set of quests. 
 that's when the plunge happens. IT DOES HAPPEN- don't worry about that. also have been checking 
 the forums a lot - the suggestion to turn down the HDR lighting seems to have been effective, and 
 the frame rate does seem to stable out a bit on into the game. and oddly, there are some areas 
 of the game even above ground that always have a perfect frame rate. just not everywhere. with 
 so many good systems at work, a huge and greatly varied map, and an overall generous lootquest 
 feel borrowed from diablo2, i was really quite surprised to see this come to market with these 
 frame rate issues, and such a pissy camera- apparently there is no horizontal zero on the 360 controller 
 anymore. however, if the developers could address with an update at least the frame dropping issues 
 and get the animations a bit smoother between camera and player movement, this could be one of 
 my favorite rpg's i've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UpsilonMerc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Two Worlds for a long time. When it finally came out I got it that day. 
 I put it in my 360 and was pissed. I thought the game sucked, but determined to make my 60 bucks 
 worth it, I kept playing. After fifteen minutes or so I was having a blast! So If you get Two Worlds, 
 play for half an hour or so and DON'T compare it to Oblivion cause its not.
  
  Pros: Huge world, fun gameplay, lots of weapon and item options, different environments and enemies
 
  
  Cons: Graphics could be better, voices need more emotion, Speech in Old English tis be annoying, 
 random 3 second loadings, single player customization could have more options (But hey, who's gonna 
 see you in your armor?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  The problem with games like these is that the video clips can be very deceptive. A good game is 
 a combination of many factors. A brilliant game need not be an Oblivion or Bioshock but it must 
 bring something unique and special to the table. It needs a good storyline, decent graphics and 
 some real creative inspiration. I watched it played in the local computer game store and could 
 see that it needs considerable work. It is clear that they rushed this game to market inspite of 
 pushing the release date back. They have a concept that could work with some refinement and inspiration. 
 Problem is after this disaster who would buy another game by the same folks. I wish them well though.... the 
 hype was sweet... I could almost taste it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drack666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Ok... so I put the game in and was REALLY disapointed... all the hype about the game and high expectations... 
 Big let down. Like many others I didn't have much good to say about this game. But I gave it a 
 little more time and it began to grow on me. And then I found myself realizing that there ARE a 
 lot of cool aspects to the game and that after the initial shock I found the game play pretty good. 
 I think that everyone (myself included) is guilty of making a direct comparison to Oblivion. You 
 can't do that with this game. You have to take this game and play it without predjudice and I believe 
 even the biggest critic will come to enjoy it for it's originallity and diversity. Give it a chance.. 
 It will grow on you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ContrastXF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  PLAY BEFORE YOU BUY... i give it a 8.5 cause i thought it was great, but having an HD is like a 
 must... just, rent first... Fans of Oblivion will have mixed reactions about the game... I mostly 
 bought it as a RPG to play till Fable 2 hits the shelves. I was deffinetly surprised... Still like 
 oblivion better though, so thats why it doesn't warrant a 10... riding the mounts is deffinetly 
 cool especially since oblivion had no mounted combat... On the downside, voice acting blows and 
 your guy looks more like a show-act while fighting then a fighter... I like straight to the point 
 fighting, not someone who show-boats around. All in all, decent title, may be not worth your 60 
 bucks but look to see a price cut by christmas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaknefaine
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  FORWARD:
  Like most of the other reviews that I've read where Two Worlds has received a good rating, when 
 I first plopped this in to my 360 console I thought it was crap. I honestly was expecting something 
 a more like Oblivion. The only thing this game has in common with Oblivion is its basic design; 
 a high fantasy adventure RPG set in a huge open ended world. Again, this is not an Oblivion clone.
 
  
  WHAT A TURN OFF:
  I think what gives this game most of horrible reviews is that for creative first a wow first impression 
 Two Worlds fails. I waited a month it to finally come out, and even bought it over Bioshock! And 
 in the first half hour I thought I had made a terrible mistake, but I kept playing... and 12 straight 
 hours later my opinion had definitely changed.
  Some of the things that'll throw you off when you first play are the graphics and controls. While 
 the graphics are definitely next gen worthy, they just aren't as good as other 360 games that came 
 out way earlier. The water looks amazing though. Also the meshes (the 3D frames that you put textures 
 on) seem to be pretty low polygon count, giving cliff walls too flat and sharp a feeling. Also, 
 Two Worlds seems like it wasn't really designed for non HD TVs, and you will definitely notice 
 that. The controls are pretty good, but there's just something. I can't really put my finger on 
 it, so I don't know what to tell you there, besides you might feel it could use some fine tuning.
 
  The game starts out, after some lengthy cutscenes, with a few simple steps on how to... well do 
 a couple basic things like sheathe/unsheathe your weapon and open a door, you can't really call 
 it a tutorial. You're in this small ruinesque room that's pretty bare and you have to kill a few 
 Groms (goblinoid ish people I guess) . This interior looks crappy, I admit it. But when you finish 
 the quest and go outside and actually start exploring... well, it sucks you in. And you can forgive 
 your bad first 30 minute experience.
  
  MY ADVICE:
  Keep playing! Two worlds is like reading a book, after the first hundred pages, the book starts 
 to heat up and really get good and you get sucked in to the characters and the plot. In Two Worlds, 
 after your first hour of play, it's the same way.
  
  THE RPG ASPECT:
  When you gain a level by earning experience points from quest rewards or beating the life out of 
 things, you get five attribute points and one skill point to allocate. When you place an attribute 
 point in to either strength, willpower, dexterity, or vitality, you see a big boost in that area 
 (larger than most other RPGs where you see a tiny change. One point in strength is giving me +30 
 damage now) . Also, with the skill points, leveling them up is very rewarding, with each new level 
 actually making a pretty nice difference in your potency with that skill.
  Combat is regular hack n' slash, but you can use your skills to supplement it. The magic spells 
 are pretty awesome to see, really nicely made. Finding items, even only decent ones, is actually 
 fun and rewarding. The alchemy system is pretty cool with lots of ingredients to find and lots 
 of effects. The quests are pretty basic but fun (there's so many) , and reward you with experience 
 or items or both.
  
  FINAL NOTES:
  Two Worlds is a game that makes a horrible first impression, but if you stick with it after that 
 first hour, you'll be sucked in. It's like an old school RPG with skill points and attribute points, 
 but with many new twists. The land is huge and there are so many things to do and find, even if 
 you're not a completionist, this game will definitely keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisi35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I must say that when i first started playing two worlds, i said to myself what have i just purchased. 
 At the very begining, the framerate is not very good and it seems like the enitre story may be 
 horrible. But after playing the game for a few hours, it really became amazing. The framerate gets 
 much better after you play it for a while and the story becomes much better. The people that give 
 this game bad reviews are probably because they just played the intro level that was not very good 
 and then just stopped playing. You can't score a game if you just do that. If you take some time 
 to play it and get past the begining it really is an amazing game. The controls are not difficult 
 like so people say you read the book u cant just jump into a game and expect to know the controls 
 i find the controls to be very good and handy. Once you get into the game there are so many amazing 
 things you can do with it. I love the way you can combine weapons to make even better ones. And 
 the way you can use the magic. I you play it for at least and hour you will start to love this 
 game. All the bad reviews on this are all from people that played the game for like 20 minutes. 
 You need some form of patience in order to play a great game. Just trust me on this one you will 
 absolutly love this game if you can get past the poor begining and into the great rest of the game 
 if you have some patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigromeo
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Only spent a few hours with this horrible Oblivion wanna be, which is all I could tolerate. The 
 voice acting is indeed terrible and the graphics are not to 360 standards. This game should be 
 in the bargain bin very soon, and even then, save your money for something better. the controls 
 are not intuitive or comfortable. There is absolutely no fun factor in this game what-so-ever. 
 But, as I've said: I only spent a little time with this mess. Thank goodness I only rented it. 
 I should have read the reviews first. A good sign of a game being bad is when it's released before 
 the reviewers are allowed to really shred it to pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazygamer01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game imo is a total BUY! A lot of people have been comparing it to Oblivion when really I 
 think it should be compared to Diablo 2. The story is amazing, the world is beautiful and huge, 
 and the physics of the game is unbelievable!! You are about to see the single branches of trees 
 and single blades of grass sway in the wind!!! In the beginning you get quite a bit of frame rate 
 issues but after a good hour they are ALLLL gone. The frame rate issues will probably be fixed 
 right away with a patch and there goes one of the only downsides to the game. That said the other 
 downside is that while the fighting system is really fun and sweet to watch (especially if you 
 mix it up with a lil magic, a lil fighting, and a couple of combat skills) it gets all too repetitive. 
 Other then those two things I have found nothing wrong with the game after over 10 hours of play. 
 If your scepticle about getting this game just rent it, but remember before a lot of the good starts 
 to show you have to play for a lil more then an hour. ENJOY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Now when I say it's the oddest, I don't mean that it's bad. Almost always, in a game, I automatically 
 know if I'm going to like it or not. Now, when I started I had high hopes for this game. Then I 
 played it... Wow , I thought, This game sucks. It's a bad version of a mix of Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion and Diablo 2. So I let go of the controller and left the game for about 5 hours. I was 
 then bored of World of Warcraft, and I thought to myself, well I may as well play Two Worlds, or 
 else I'll feel like I wasted 60 bucks. So I got into it. And about maybe 30 minutes into it, I 
 liked it! I was like, Wow? What the heck just happened? Now I'm sure if you're reading this, you've 
 most likely seen the other reviews that say it's horrid. Well, personally, I think the people that 
 played the game as much as I did before I liked it, will have that review, while the other people 
 who gave it a better than decent score will have a better review. The game grows on you. At first 
 you're going to say, The graphics suck, the feel is awful, and the control is horrid. Then after 
 you pass you're first town and get a couple quests done, you'll look past all that and come to 
 realize that, yes the graphics do suck, but the feel of the game is actually a great mix of Oblivion 
 and Diablo 2. The way that your character levels and grows is similar to both those games, and 
 has a little flare of it's own. An abundant amount of quests is offered to you. The atmosphere 
 is greatly amplified by the surroundings and creatures you'll run into. The only thing is, everyone 
 was thinking this game was going to be short of an MMORPG. Well it isn't. In fact the multiplayer 
 down right sucks. It's always one sided battles, really no intensity once you figure out who's 
 got the better character, and it's just PVP, and a very bad PVP at that. So, look past the multiplayer, 
 and focus on the single player. It has a lot to offer, just be patient with it, and it will surely 
 grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grislyatoms
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Wooden voice acting. Pretentious dialogue. Mediocre graphics.
  
  I spent about an hour and a half last night trying to figure out the menu screens by trial and 
 error. Very un-intuitive . The manual is little to no help at all in this regard.
  
  Aiming the bow sucks. Clunky d-pad ready items and effects . The minimap is borderline un-intelligible. 
 The Press back for instructions field blocked some of the information on the screen. That being 
 said, I am going to give it a chance. It has an old school RPG feel to it that I may come to like, 
 if I can overcome it's faults.
  
  Update
  I am glad I gave it a chance. I spent about 3 more hours with it last night, and got the menu interface 
 figured out. It has turned out to be at least entertaining. My original score was a 5, I have since 
 bumped that up to a 7.5. That may go up even more as I play the game more. The voice acting and 
 dialogue even seemed to improve later on. This game will not hold your hand and give you blinking 
 lights and sirens to guide you to your next objective, nor will it baby step you through figuring 
 out how to play. You have to actually think a bit and figure things out for yourself.
  Probably why the shoot 'em up hack 'n' slash folks don't like it.
  
  Just bumped the score 
 up to a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartKoehler
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  This has probably been the most diappointed I have been about a game in a while. When I am in the 
 game I feel like there should be more there as the graphics are quire good, but when I get invovled 
 in the gameplay I get disappointed. To be honest, I did not get too far into the game becaue I 
 simply had to turn it off. What I did get invovled with disappointed me. The control system was 
 a bit confusing to figure out with equiping and combing objects causing me some issues. The concept 
 is there but the execution seems overly simplistic and leaves much to be desired. The combat is 
 very straight forward and can be clunky at times. There are not many options to strategize as it 
 seems mostly just digging right in and hoping for the best.
  
  The voice acting in the game has got to be the worst I have ever heard. The inflections and emphasis 
 of words seems right out of a comedy. The deisgners decided to throw in a bunch of 'Tis' and 'Shants' 
 and 'Perchance' words in to try and give you the feel of some medieval society and it failed miserably. 
 Combine that with an odd story line and quest options that did not fit the situation and it really 
 disappointed me. Go find your wife a present? Get serious.
  
  I am mostly disappointed with the lack of co-op. I did not find any way to join a friend online 
 to play through the story. There are only arena type games online for multiplayer and the ones 
 I played were laughable. Monster Hunt was a bunch of penned up creatures in one area and you had 
 to run across the map to kill them faster than the other team. No strategy or enjoyment at all. 
 I expected to be able to play through the story online and I was greatly disappointed when this 
 was not the case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlastmaster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  I was so hyped about this game it looked awesome... combat animations + coop play + great graphics 
 = Psyche!!!
  
  The Bad:
  Now i know why the videos they released for this game were in lo res, so you'd thing they looked 
 muddy because of the resolution, not because their bump maps were cruddy.
  
  My heart started to sink a couple days ago when i started looking through the strat guide... which 
 felt as though it had been translated from another language due to its odd wording and slightly 
 over exaggerated descriptors. I mean come on... weapons mete out damage?? really?! i haven't heard 
 that word used in at least 15 years, and that was by my great grandmother. And as i feared it is 
 just like that in the game... but even worse. in the game it is translated to English (from German 
 i think) then they toss in words from medieval times like forsooth . That combined with the terrible 
 voice acting where it sounds as if they recorded one sentence per day making conversations that 
 are already written poorly more jarring to listen to.
  
  But even that could be overlooked if the game play was good, but alas... failure. The combat is 
 simple especially if you build up a melee combatant, the frame rate is downright atrocious topping 
 out at (in its smoothest points) ~33fps which bounces down to about 20 id say, coupled with the 
 fact that if you're traveling, you will often find the game freezing for about 5 sec (and giving 
 you a load icon) while the game catches up loading the world in front of you. This is exactly why 
 PC -&gt; console ports are generally frowned upon, poor optimization means bad frame rate and bad 
 UI (terribly attempted mouse emulation) Sound is just as bad, repetitive annoying color commentary 
 from your character ill kill you , i am resurrected or the worst one lets take a look every time 
 you loot something. Plus the over the top grunts and squeals of pain while you're mincing up a 
 group of baddies
  
  The Good:
  That being said... there is great style in Two Worlds, the attack animations are pretty cool, the 
 spell effects look good, the flourishing of the sword as you sheath it on your back... all very 
 cool, but thats not worth much when the game runs like Gears of War on a Dreamcast. Final thoughts:
 
  I know theres a good story in there, and if they patch the framerate issues i might just scoop 
 it up for cheaper and struggle my way through its terrible narrative but seriously this game is 
 not worth anything over $25. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianhorizon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for months now, and now that i finally have it, all i can say 
 is that it is an amazing game. Lots of people say that the game sucked but i know that they didn't 
 really play the game, cause once i got the hang of it, i couldn't stop playing. Some people say 
 that this game is the same as Oblivion but it's not. It may have a very similer look and feel but 
 they are not the same. People just think Oblivion is better cause it is easy to play, everything 
 is right there for you and some people just won't take the time anymore to sit down and play a 
 good game that takes some time getting used to.
  
  once you get the teleport down then you are pretty much set. I love how you can upgrade everything, 
 and the monsters are insane. Graphics are great, gameplay is amazing, the voice acting could be 
 better, and some of the things yur person can say are pretty wack at time, like when it starts 
 to rain he will say Hmm... looks like rain or Drip drip drop but other than that everything in this 
 game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platniumaura
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  ill begin with the voice acting, its absolutly horrible. tho it seems to get a little better as 
 you get further on, it made me giggle like a school girl a few times. next is frame rate issues, 
 put bluntly thay suck. the game freezez way too much. moving on. the combat is ok but it feels 
 a little shallow. you dont get a whole lot of moves like comboes or whatever. next issue. mounted 
  the most annoying part of the game. i couldent bare to 
 ride i just walked everywere ( play the game youll see what i mean) who ever is responsible for 
 the mounted controls needs to be shot. it really is unberable. next the map really suxs its a pain 
 to navigate with the controller. your objective menu....... give it up it makes no sence too me. 
 its imposible to tell what you have done from what your doing in that thing, just follow the dots 
 i guess. the AI is poor at best. i really could go on but i think i need to adress the good stuff 
 now, despite all the broken crap in this game its actully not really that bad. there is a ton of 
 stuff too do, quest, side quest etc..... the items seem almost limetless so far every time you 
 kill somthing you find somthing new. it really makes you able to customize your char any way you 
 would like. the grafixs are decent, at least i thought so n e ways. the monsters look pretty good 
 and some of the npc dont look to bad either. tho the story line is kinda odd, it still was able 
 to get my attention and motivated me to go to the next objective......... well im going to sum it 
 up. if you liked diablo, or baldurs gate, champions of norath. you are going to like this game. 
 it is nothing like oblivion in any way ok. its a so so game but it beats enchanted arms. i would 
 say rent it first tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavethedarqk
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  I played about ten minutes of this game and my decision had been made. Here; s my timeline:
  
  I started the game and couldn't help notice the absolute lameness of the title screen song. 
 I then went to the extremely limited character creation screen, realized i couldn't do anything 
 i wanted, and then once I accepted my as good as it will be character, I started. Then after sitting 
 through one of the most poorly acted cutscenes since the first resident evil, we were underway. 
 I tried to ignore the goofy voice over and horrendous graphics (which are PS2 level at best) , but 
 the first time i fought anything, once the 70's kung fu sound effects and Mortal Kombat 1 blood 
 started, i was just about done. After I accidentally figured out how to kill the enemies, i had 
 to deal with the confusing inventory screen. This game is awful. It keeps getting compared to Oblivion, 
 for some reason, and here are some points Oblivion had that Two Worlds could have benefitted from:
 
  
  1. Let me customize my character. I don't care if you have a story to tell, work around it. 2. 
 If you're gonna let me play in first person, don't switch the view as soon as I draw a weapon. 
 It's disorienting. 3. LET ME WALK AND SHOOT THE BOW AT THE SAME TIME!
  
  4. Some sort of eary tutorial type hints would have been great since you felt the need to have 
 a completely confusing interface. 5. If you can't have good voice acting and dialog, don't have 
 any at all. 6. Oblivion came out almost 2 years ago. There's no excuse for a game in the same vein 
 to look ten times worse. 7. lock down a decent framerate please. Seriously, this is a terrible 
 game. There is absolutely nothing fun about it at all. Avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSandman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  First off if you haven't played the multiplayer RPG Mode or the PVP Modes, then think Guild Wars 
 Raids, meets oblivion style RPG gaming goodness. This is not a pick up and slay kinda game, this 
 actually requires reading the directions. Anyone who says it takes so many hits to slay a monster 
 obviously isn't playing with others in the multiplayer modes. The single player is scaled to allow 
 a human character some ranged and melee skills off the bat. The Multiplayer simply rocks for RPG 
 fans looking for co-op gameplay, it allows complete customization to your looks, weapons, spells, 
 and races. The camera angle glitches can be countered by clicking the right stick to change perspectives. 
 The Teleporters save walking between towns, a nice touch, and finding trainers for the different 
 abilities is nicely laid out. If you are suffering from ADD this game is not for you, this is a 
 thinking persons game. Hot keyed special abilities may be changed on the fly, to a single activation 
 trigger pull. I might have liked more than one ability at a time. The passive abilites of the archer, 
 turn their bow into an arrow spitting machine, when boosted. The fact a spell caster can tweak 
 any of their spells with spell cards is very cool. The Weaponry system allows for weapons to be 
 merged creating bigger, badder weapons. The Death scheme is you die and respawn nearly endlessly 
 underneath the big ANKH's. SInce the multiplayer is meant for up to 8 people, stick to animals 
 until level 3 unless you have a nice party layout. A spellcaster, an archer or ranger character, 
 and a Sword dancer or barbarian make the party nice and smooth. Full voice chat is nice to create 
 a private party of old and new friends.
  
  The PVP is a lot like Guild Wars the character classes are pre-maxed on abilities, and the team 
 monster hunt is fun. Think capture the flag with monsters instead of flags. Yeah, an unusual game 
 type to say the least, mind the thief class stabbing you in the back.
  
  The single player game is fun too, but the multiplayer makes this game shine, grab some buddies, 
 choose a few class variations, then hit one of the several multiplayer maps, the levels are huge 
 the bad guys team up on you. Stay close to the towns to allow space to run back and let the townies 
 help you fight the big bads, you still get access to the loot even after respawning. Make sure 
 the host has a nice connection to host games, and you will love this game. Or you can go back to 
 playing oblivion by yourself, repeatedly, which isn't a bad thing, but it's not as much fun as 
 playing with others.
  
  You get several persistant save slots for characters in Multiplayer, for PVP and RPG character 
 types. After playing and getting the gist of the hotkeys, this game is a lot of fun. The graphics 
 are nice for a virtual sandbox of geography. No loading issues, a bit of clippling, but remember 
 it's adjusting for multiple players. This game is must buy if you love RPG Games, and didn't like 
 paying monthly fees for online MMO's
  
  For the record if you post a reveiw saying you hated this without playing the mulitplayer. Do me 
 a favor when you buy a porsche, try to accelerate above the speed limit once in awhile. Why buy 
 a performance car built to handle, if you are staying in the car pool lane, you know who you are 
 people.
  
  Nuff Said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myrkul8013
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is actually pretty good.
  First off its not oblivion, so for all of those who would compare it to that game. Stop while your 
 ahead. Secondly, it has a very unique system for enhancing items by matching items of like qualities 
 together. The graphics are not flawless, but not every great game has to have great graphics. Take 
 the original Final Fantasy games as that standard. Thirdly, there are a few blips here and there 
 that may cause issues, but do not in any way make the game unplayable. These include occasional 
 frame rate skips, lack of an auto-save feature, And the extremely rare system lockup which i have 
 only gotten once. (i am actually blaming the system on that, not the game)
  
  In the end though, the game is worth getting. Honestly i would shy away from the Collector's edition 
 because the items included with it are not worth the increased price. I give it an 8.0 out of 10.0
 
  
  Pros: Unique gameplay, massive world, intriguing equipment and item sets, awesome mounts
  
 
  Cons: Frame rate issues, Less than perfect graphics, little minor glitches here and there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayoksh
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  aside for the voices being kinda funny, this game was a complete and absolute letdown, 2k games 
 is probably peeing there pants with laughter. i played about five minutes of this game and turned 
 it off, in the first five minutes I was attacked by a million different boars, two kinds of wolves 
 and a bear that followed me around, yhea the horse riding was alot more detailed then oblivion 
 but it was hard to control, unrealistic (as i could run through trees) and the horse kinda did its 
 own thing, I thought it was going to be amazing that you could whistle for your horse because I 
 was always losing mine in oblivion, yhea you could whistle for it but only when it was in sight, 
 so tell me what is the point of that, not to mention the fact that you could hit your enemies nine 
 times and they hit you once and your done. pretty much the only part of this game that was mildly 
 amusing was the voice of your character, who sounded alot like the movie annoncer. so if you are 
 reading these reviews don't even bother with two worlds, its a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALPHAHawkeye
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics are great. In depth character skills customization. Many different ways to play 
 game. over 200 different endings. 8 Player online co-op and deathmatch. Cities are realistic and 
 fun to find. Getting new equipment is rather fun (like most RPGs)
  
  Cons: Ocasional jumps here and there. The combat could be better. No area specific enemies to save 
 the trouble of having to go in urself. A lot of people havent played it long enough to enjoy it. 
 Hard to make money at times. selling things you buy by accident back to the vendor will only get 
 you about 5% of what you payed for it
  
  Overall i love it cause the bad part of the game is ignorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willb311
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Like many other Xbox 360 fans who are also Action RPG fans out there, I was anticipating Two Worlds 
 over games such as Bioshock and Stranglehold (and I've played both of those games thanks to Xbox 
 Live) . I really looked forward to this game. First let me just say that I am not a huge RPG expert 
 but I have played my fare share. Recently, I consider Oblivion the game to beat on the 360. Did 
 I expect Two Worlds to top Oblivion? No, but I did at least expect it to be a lot more than what 
 I've experienced so far in the first 2 hours of play time. I have played many games in my life 
 and for those skeptics out there who believe that it is necessary to play the entire game to give 
 an adequete review can continue on in you stupidity. I say that a game's quality can be summed 
 up within the first few hours of gameplay, and I think most experienced gamers would agree with 
 me. For two worlds I should have known that something was up when there were no previews in the 
 Official Xbox Magazine. Game developers know they're not pushing a quality product when they deny 
 any publicity. I really am preaching here but I can't help but compare this game to Oblivion. Oblivion 
 really set the bar for this genre of games on the 360. Let me run down the pros and cons real quick. 
 Pros: Decent graphics, sound, character models. Cons: Story, Controls, Playability, voice acting, 
 price, originality. This game just is a big disapointment to anyone who has played a gem such as 
 Oblivion. Probably the biggest dissapoint ment about Two Worlds personally involves mounted riding 
 and mounted combat. I really wanted to fight from my horse on Oblivion, something that was a big 
 selling point to me about Two Worlds, but the mounted combat and mounted riding on this game is 
 no fun at all. And to think my fiance' was even excited enough to fork out $75 ( tax included) 
 for the Collector's Edition of this game because even she thought it looked promising. It has left 
 us both very dissapointed. Oblivion is still king of the Xbox 360 RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbdevpro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I got it today and have played it all day. My first impression was bad. The voice acting is inconsistent 
 as is the frame rate. The UI isn't as smooth or pretty as it should be, though it is functional. 
 However: the more I played it, the more it grew on me. The quests are decent as is the main plot. 
 The combat is also pretty damn cool. It does draw you in, eventually, but this is definitely not 
 a game for everyone. It's a lot more old school then Oblivion in that it doesn't hold your hand. 
 It's up to you to decide what you're ready to fight and what you aren't. I do like the old school 
 leveling and skill distribution better then Oblivion's skill level-by-repetition method. I also 
 liked the horse mechanics better then Oblivion's, though I don't fight from horseback much because 
 it feels too limiting to me. It's a lot more like riding a real horse then other games I've played 
 that treat the horse like a car or other vehicle. I didn't have any problems with my horse getting 
 stuck either. I would give it a 7.5 if asked to give a score. I will keep it and probably play 
 it through to the end. I'll probably even try the multiplayer. If you liked old school, hardcore 
 RPGs like Wizardry, Ultima and the first 3 elder scrolls, you'll probably like this game. It isn't 
 as pretty as Oblivion, but it is just good enough to keep you somewhat immersed in the game.
  
  BTW: I found that turning down the HDR lighting intensity under the options helped the frame 
 rate quite a bit. Yes... on the XBox 360 version... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaisons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Okay, my first review and impression was off the mark. This game is addicting and a lot of fun... but 
 it takes about 4 hours in to realize this. There are initial things that freaked me out about the 
 $60.00 bucks we pay for this RPG. But the game seems to evolve just at the right time, just as 
 sson as I'm getting bored, I find a new weapon or spell.... something keeps it going.
  
  The fighting is quick and rewarding.... as your character gets stronger. The dialogue grows on you 
 a bit... and you can always quickly skip it.... the small verbal quips that your character blurts 
 out are sometimes hilarious and other times very apropo. I think the loading times are awesome, 
 and the fact that you can see the whole world at once - from one end of the map to the other - 
 I have never seen that in a game. Oblivion always had a falseness to it, that the world was not 
 really there - the fighting - and character movement was lame... even the dialogue gets monotonous....
 
  
  So, there I have upped my review and rating. But, I also recieved an anonymous payment of $500.00 
 on paypal.... weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mussdog
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is not really that bad after you actually learn how to use it it becomes pretty 
 fun. So the graphics are bad when did you all become junkies. Graphics don't make a game, but gameplay 
 if half of you gave this game more than 2 mins you would see that it is a really in depth game!! 
 So give this game a little more of your time, yeah it definately is not oblivion but there are 
 about fifty gajillion things you could have knocked oblivion for too and that is coming from someone 
 who considers that game in his top 3. I am now even farther in the game, one word with the story....... 
 EPIC. This game just needed people to play it longer than 2 minutes so that the real game could 
 shine! And get this it actually plays better the further you get into the game. I am glad I stuck 
 through to see that this is actually a decent game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdmoore356
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  the only complaints i have with this game are the difficulty you have searching around for your 
 quest givers and destinations.... markers like in oblivion would have been nice, but the biggest 
 complaint is that if you get kicked/chased from a town you cant recieve forgiveness. The ENTIRE 
 town will chase you around and kill you, so if you have any imcomplete quests in the town you can 
 forget about it. You can die and come back to town and they will take up pursuit again, it is a 
 neverending hunt that completely messes up the game. Other than that the games aproach to leveled 
 weapons and eneimies is like that of sacred or diablo.... certain attributes and abilities to use 
 this weapon or this armor... newer enimies are tougher as you go along. I prefer this over oblivions 
 approach, but to treat this game as an oblivion killer is setting yourself up for dissapointment. 
 This game is more like a revamped 3rd person Diablo with more in-depth story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinkywoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  OK so it isn't Oblivion. However, it is a solid RPG for a system lacking RPG's. Yes the framerate 
 is kind of sucky at times, but for those of us who play PC games on a mid-range system, we are 
 pretty much used to this.
  
  So the negatives are the framerate, horses, and the voice acting.
  
  But the positives are: 
 lots of content, fun leveling system, decent combat system, and a really good immersive environment. 
 It's a classic RPG that isn't trying to be the next big thing. Don't let these people influence 
 your decision, if you like big RPG's, you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectrolightSH
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I have only been playing the game for 20-30 minutes and while I should play the game more before 
 I judge it, it is so terrible that I don't think it will get any better. So in my short time playing 
 here is what I have to say.
  
  The graphics are horrid and are less then next-gen quality, they are Xbox quality and comparable 
 to Morrowind. The textures do not shine or reflect light and do not have depth. Textures often 
 appear dull and lack detail. The weather effects in the game don't live up to what Oblivion offers 
 and unlike Oblivion grass dose not move either from walking into it or from the wind but dose move 
 back and forth just slightly. Spell effects look too simple an unoriginal. Spells like Fireball 
 go through wall and trees.
  
  The UI is absolutely the worst User Interface I have ever seen in any game. When you are in your 
 inventory text such as BACK - show instructions appear over icons and other things the player needs 
 to looks at. In the settings menu instructional text appears over several options at the bottom 
 of the menu. Icons and equipment boxes are often too small and menu content is misplaced and badly 
 designed. The map is lacking detail and difficult to navigate.
  
  The music in Two Worlds is not great but not good either. The menu song is only song I think is 
 good because it feels epic and is of exceptional quality. Given the quality of this game I'm sure 
 the rest of the sound track is crap. The game dose ambient music and sound effects but are not 
 as intricate and well scripted as Oblivion. Action and combat sounds sound flat. Character dialog 
 is not very well written and is devoid of any humor.
  
  The AI in Two Worlds could use a lot of improvement. AI's don't chase you when they are aggressive. 
 Your character is able to walk up surfaces to steep to walk up in other games. Spells automatically 
 target nearby AI's even if they are friendly so if you accidentally fire your spell in a town it 
 will hit a guard and they will come after you (remember they wont chase you very far) . Two Worlds 
 lacks physics that would other wise make the world seem more realistic and alive. Two Worlds dose 
 not do anything innovative or new. The controls... could be a lot better.
  
  THE GOOD:
  1. The title music is the only good song in the game.
  2. Game has 1st and 2nd person views.
 
  3. Game has online co-op for eight, not that it makes the game any better.
  
  I will continue to play this game because it might get better. I have not tried Multiplayer but 
 I imagine its the same although playing with your friends online could be fun. If you want to play 
 Two Worlds I suggest renting it or waiting until you can get it for under $20.
  
  I know that South Peak Games and Topware Interactive are smaller developers and don't have the 
 money or talent of the larger developers and publishers but this game should have been better in 
 every way and should have been better developed. Given how certain parts of the menu are cut off 
 on the Xbox 360 I am guessing that the 360 version is a port of the PC version which is unacceptable. 
 Oblivion was co-developed for both systems and was optimized to work well on both.
  
  It's a shame that so many people as well as my self paid full price for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah27
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is friggen horrible. I just got my paycheck and picked up Bioshock and this game and 
 i played bioshock for about 5 hours before i took a break to play this game. Man i wish i didnt 
 take that break. The framerates are choppy as hell, the HDR is REDICULOUSLY bright, blinding, and 
 just plain annoying, And the AI is pretty much retarded. I wouldnt buy this game again if it went 
 on sale for 1.99. Horrible game, Graphics are boxy and the framerates are rediculous. I wish you 
 could enable a frame rate counter because im pretty sure this game gets around 10FPS in the better 
 parts. The weapons do almost no damage when your fighting enemies you have to hit them about 20 
 times for them to die in the beginning of the game. I have never seen an RPG so broken and stupid. 
 Im thinking the people who made this game didnt even test it for themselves and just released it 
 because if i worked for this company and played this game id tell them to take it back. I cant 
 see releasing a game this choppy and buggy. This is the Hour Of Victory of RPG's. HORRIBLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decard1980
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I was excited as all get out about this game when I heard about it. Wow, was I disappointed. I 
 mean come on 60+ sq mi. to explore? However after playing the first five minutes of this abysmal 
 piece of fodder I had had enough. The Old English didn't help. The fighting system was not what 
 I expected. Then there was the graphics. Granted they looked better than morrowind but no where 
 near the level of Oblivion. If this was supposed to better than oblivion Id hate to see what they 
 really think of that game. Too bad there isn't a score under 0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homestar15
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I was completely hyping this game. I always thought that there was the possibility of a letdown, 
 but i didn't take it seriously. How wrong I was. This game was completely disappointing. The graphics 
 feel like Oblivion on a PlayStation 2. The game play is choppy and repetitive. It feels like they 
 should have worked on it for another year. Amazingly the first day the US server is down. Not a 
 good sign South Peak. I know that I can't base a game on servers that can be fixed in time so on 
 with everything else. The game is insanely buggy. Even with a patch I don't know how in the world 
 they can find all these glitches. I'm not even looking out for them and they're right in my face. 
 First the single player. Your horse gets caught on trees and objects on the map. When you are on 
 a horse and try fighting all what you do is swing your sword or whatever weapon you have frantically 
 and don't hit enemies due to the games horrible collision detection. The mini map is horrible. 
 Its extremely hard to tell were to go. The game has loads of hitch ups in single player. The voice 
 acting is also absolutely horrendous. It sounds like Strawberry Clock from www. Newgrounds. com mixed 
 with Old English. The song at the menu is actually a partial rip from Oblivion and sound effects 
 are used from Dead Rising. Thats just a small list of the Single player's many problems. Now onto 
 multi-player. While in a large map going out as far as the eye can see you can only explore about 
 1/50 of the map. There was beautiful huge river i was excited to explore, guess what you can't. 
 There is a borderline of bushes blocking the other 99% of the map. More than 2-4 people makes so 
 everyone freezes in place and everyone has to quit out. Its not one big free roaming map online 
 either. You choose a map which has a listed difficulty. You can't even port your single player 
 character over to multi-player. Now finally on to PvP. Guess what, it sucks. Archers have the major 
 advantage in all modes because when they are sniping you and you get close they just run away and 
 keep shooting. When you try to hit them when you get close you can run and swipe you have to swipe 
 in a very slow motion meaning its not very likely you're going to hit the enemy. You can't even 
 block, it's just bash each others brains out and hope that you win. It's not that I'm bad at the 
 game or its too challenging, everything is just poorly executed. Please save your money. I'm returning 
 this piece of garbage tomorrow and hopefully they'll give me a full refund. I even heard a large 
 mass of people returned the game all at once. Thats not a good sign. Save your money and get a 
 game thats worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodStorm2262
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, now just like you I was hoping for a multiplayer version of Oblivion. Just so you know... THIS 
 IS NOT THAT GAME! But I suggest contininuing reading. What we must blame is marketing an the gaming 
 websites that contributed to this idea. This is not at all like oblivion, aside from having breathtaking 
 graphics, gameplay, and being an extremely in-depth RP. This game feels like an older style RP 
 like Baldur's Gate, Dungeon Siege, Divine Divinity, or Neverwinter Nights. But it throws in great 
 graphics and an up-to-date fighting and playing systems. Every aspect of this game has recieved 
 great work by its creators and a great deal of time was spent in making everything. This game should 
 be played on an HD screen, or from within a few feet of any other screen as the text is pretty 
 small. Now when I opened the box and put the game in I was hyped up, then shot down by the first 
 15 minutes. The tutorial is worthless and your really going to get a character to nearly 10 before 
 understanding how it should be played and how you want to make your character. When the game is 
 first being played with a new character, for about 20-30 minutes, you will experience some moments 
 of lag... But after getting farther in, even loading a character, this dissapears. I'm fairly certain 
 the game has to load the wrld for your character or something along those lines. The world is HUGE! 
 I had spent two hours or so in just 1/10 of 1/4 of the level! And I hadn't finished nearly half 
 the quests where I was! Running around through the woods slaying Groms and bandits and wolves, boars, bears 
 is great fun. You don't have to worry about saving often after finding your first life shrine because 
 afterwards upon death you automatically respawn at the nearest. Now horses are a bit confusing, 
 I hijacked one from a grom, and I'm not quite used to them yet. But the teleporting system is really 
 useful. When you use a teleporter, you must have atleast one other activated, you must zoom out 
 your map (push in right joystick) to select a teleporter to teleport to for some reason. The item 
 stacking system sounds a bit uber but it really isn't and many times you can get better items than 
 you can stack, due to the rarity of enchanted items you rarely stack them, and weapon augments 
 give glow and really useful effects! The spell trees are rather different and the spell card stacking 
 and booster cards is great, after getting used to. The fighting appears repetitive in videos, but 
 I assure you it is far from it and in fact its quite honestly far preferable than Oblivions system. 
 Dual wielding vs shield n sword vs sword n torch vs two handed vs staff vs polearm vs bow vs dagger, 
 what to use? Its really up to you, their all pretty well balanced and archery takes a moment to 
 get used to also but at high levels has awesome skills. Let me just mention now to read the text 
 during dialogue, the voice acting is great but the mouth movement and eyes are random and retarded 
 :-D. The mouth and eye movement during dialogue is probably the weakest point of the game, and 
 considering how much their is in the game thats saying ALOT. This game rocks! Now to the online. 
 It is not openworld, although I hear-tell their will be downloadable multiplayer campaigns. Not 
 sure if you unlock a campaign online after beating single player either, as I said I'm not far 
 in, but their are quite a few entertaining modes. I've only played a deathmatch and a monster hunt 
 (using a necromancer, and a barbarian respectively) but both were great fun. The servers are a 
 bit overloaded atm but they'll surely clear that problem up. 4vs4 is a great time :-D. Rating...
 
  Overall an honest 8.5/10. No **** from me guys.
  For hardcore and/or in-depth RPG fans, this is for you! If anyone has any questions, feel free 
 to ask me in a message or reply. (Making a forum thread) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlcm2atl
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I really had high hopes for this game it had a lot of innovative ideas and though it does deliver 
 on the majority of them the problem is the interface. There are plenty of cool things you can create 
 but figuring out how to do it is quite hard. For such a hard to understand game there really is 
 no tutorial no opening dungeon that develops your character and teaches you the basics before throwing 
 you out into the real world (Thumbs Up Oblivion) . The map is horrible i spent about a quarter of 
 the time I was playing trying to find out where to go next. The graphics are sub-par although I 
 was expecting this after looking at the screen shots. The control scheme seems to be on the border 
 of broken it seems overly complex for such a simple fighting system. Oh and the voice acting makes 
 me want to laugh cry and shoot myself.... all at the same time. So due to the fact that there is 
 actually a lot of cool ideas and content in two worlds its worth renting if your an avid RPG player 
 but think twice (or perhaps three times) before actually buying this game.
  
  EDIT: I had more time over the weekend to play this game more... and its still no oblivion but 
 if your a RPG fan and don't mind digging past bad presentation (a lot of it) Two worlds is really 
 deep and fun.... Not sense Diablo 2 have a had that cant stop playing feeling.... just one more 
 short sword that I can stack and ill be unstoppable... lol that feeling is great ive missed it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Needless to say, Two Worlds is no where near the Oblivion that people expected it to be. Hell, 
 it is barely even playable.
  
  Graphics: I am not a graphics person when it comes to my games, but this is a pretty bad looking 
 game. Don't get me wrong, it is pretty cool being able to see the different kinds of armor and 
 everything, but most of the character/monster models in this game look goofy and poorly done. And 
 there are also alot of jagged edges. The landscapes are pretty nice looking though.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is in itself, terrible. Matter of fact, if it was not for the online play, 
 I would not even keep this game. The combat is pretty much your character swinging his sword wildly, 
 using it like a club instead of a blade, and praying that you land a hit to kill the enemy. The 
 gameplay is also buggy, and lagging. Even on the single player campaign! And it lags at very bad 
 times, leaving your character open to immediate death. A good part of the game though is that when 
 you die, you are resurrected, and do not have to pay any kind of penalties; like a loss of armor, 
 weapons, and gold. And the potion making system is pretty easy. But buying weapons and armor is 
 also a chore in this game. You gotta really pay attention to the buttons, or else you'll wind up 
 accidentally selling precious weapons and armor. You can also upgrade skills, magic and other strengths.
 
  
  There are also alot of annoying enemies in the game. Such as ghost animals, giant floating squid 
 things, you can't kill these things, and unlike how it is in most games and literature, the ghosts 
 can attack you in the daytime when you can't see them, fnucking brilliant! The game does not give 
 you any understanding when it comes to what kills certain enemies best, it lleaves it completely 
 up to you, not that you can read any of the wording on your equipment screen, it's so tiny, that 
 I am guessing that it was written by and for mice. Oh, and on another note, riding horses in this 
 game is about as fun as slamming your face into a wall until you kill yourself, because your horse 
 always rides off course into trees, or gets stuck in glitches and disappears.
  
  This game has to many flaws to count. It is not an oblivion killer in the least, I would rather 
 play Castlevania 64 than this game. But if you have friends who purchased this game, at least they 
 can suffer with you online, and you can get a good laugh at the money you wasted. I'm going to 
 go and cry for my lost cash now
  
  Don't even rent this.... game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: branbot100
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I only put the game in for at least two minutes and i killed my first enemy and i puked. Where 
 do i start? OK first of all there is only one attack button which really destroys game play. Then 
 the enemies look outdated... wait everything looks and feels outdated. The loading occurs in the 
 middle of fights and while you are exploring. when you move the camera around the frame rate begins 
 to stutter. The blood from your enemies appears in between you and the one you are fighting. Also 
 the blood looks like it came straight out of the first mortal combat. There is so much that is 
 bad about this game and only a few good things i can say. Those are there are dragons with crappy 
 animations and thats about it. Whatever is good about this game is destroyed by the bad. I am not 
 going to continue to write about this game. I am now going to go preform an exorcism on my 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosox2005
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first of all anyone giving this game a 10 is insane. By that same token, anyone giving this 
 game a 1 is insane. Now that we've covered sanity, Iets hit some key points. First of all I think 
 most people reviewing this game is reviewing it based on their individual reactions to all the 
 hype. Some are doing their best to defend a game that does not come CLOSE to the hype built around. 
 Others are just plain disappointed. Here's my unbiased and emotionless review...
  
  The Good: -The story. If you can get past the (at times) cheesy voice acting and cliche beginning, 
 then it starts to get interesting. I honestly don't understand people bashing the story. In fact, 
 the story has the potential to be more interesting than Oblivion (please note that...1. This is 
 not saying the story is delivered better, only POTENTIALLY more interesting and 2. this is the 
 only key aspect to the game that will even compare to Oblivion) .
  
  -The magic. In my opinion it's the best combat feature of the game. There are some pretty lofty 
 ideas in this game that don't pan out all too well, but magic is simple and fun (And this is coming 
 from someone who hates using magic... more on that later) .
  
  -Depth. There is plenty to do and a variety of ways to do them. I like many of the ideas put forth 
 in this game. Obviously, not all of them work out as we may have hoped, but you can't complain 
 about options (with the exception of character creation in general) .
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Graphics. Environments can be outstanding and weather effects are cool, but the characters look 
 like something my old playstation threw up. Pretty rough. Also plenty of clipping and awkward camera 
 angles make this easiliy the most disappointing aspect of the game.
  
  -Voice Acting. Though not quite as horrible as some would make it out to be (a few characters are 
 actually quite good) the voice acting is, at times, laughable. You can almost see some out-of-work 
 actor with a script in his hand, phoning his lines in. It's a nice attempt to have each character 
 voiced differently, but what difference does it make when the majority of them suck? Oh, and I'm 
 already about to kill if I hear or see the word mayhap again. Very pathetic attempt at old english, 
 fellas.
  
  -Character Customization... sorta. To be fair, there are plenty of ways to customize your characters 
 appearance in the game. From multiple armor types, to weapons and enchantments, this aspect is 
 pretty deep. BUT... you can only be a human male with a choice of about 4 haircuts, minimal body 
 and face changes, and no good way of seeing how your character will look in the game (My first 
 looked normal in the creation box, but was gray with a huge forehead and sunken cheeks... skeletor 
 anyone?)
  
  Overall. I know this is a long review, but I wanted to post as accurate and unbiased a review as 
 possible. This game had some very cool ideas and attempts to be great. For a first effort, it's 
 actually not bad at all. I think part of the let down is everyone was expecting the next Oblivion, 
 and instead got the first Two Worlds. I was VERY disappointed when I first started. To the point 
 where I turned it off after the very first quest in the prequel. When I turned it back on without 
 my high expectations, however, I actually have been having a good time playing it. If you're an 
 RPG fan, it's definitely good enough to warrant a playthrough. I think with a foundation to build 
 on and some polish to the many features (AND VISUALS... honestly guys... early PS2 graphics at best... Morrowind 
 was better in some regards.) these guys could put out a really good RPG. For now, if you can only 
 get one game, however, get Bioshock... fricken amazing!
  
  Graphics-5. Environments: Yes Characters: Insert vommiting sound here.
  Sound -----7. Voice acting 
 is rough, but ambient sounds, music, and combat effects are all solidly done.
  Gameplay-7. Melee combat and animal riding takes some getting used to and even then it's quirky. 
 Most other controls range from standard to very good.
  Presentation-8. Great story and plenty of immersive side-quests. Loses points for the delivery 
 from the goofy voice acting and canned old english attempts.
  Depth/Replay value-8. Obviously tons to do and some cool ways to do them. Would be higher if all 
 the features worked as advertised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pungent231
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Two worlds is easily one of the most ambitious games to come out this year. First, the strengths.
 
  
  The combat system is easy to use, providing some automated features to simplify it for the less 
 hardcore gamers, yet still retaining the excitement of an action RPG. I have found that many games 
 with real time combat systems are preyed upon by people seeking an easy way out. The best way of 
 dealing with each enemy is periodically discovered, leaving the player with nothing more than routines 
 bordering exploitation. The only two games I have ever seen with truly fantastic melee combat were 
 Dark Messiah of Might and Magic and Fable. This game's combat cannot be directly compared, because 
 it is a diferent style, could very well be one of the best i have ever seen.
  
  The graphical intricacies of the game astound me. Every inch of the ground is finely crafted, with 
 roads winding through forests lush with flora, across mountains, with no loading screens to interrupt 
 your travel. The way the game is set out simply amazes me. The first time you climb up a mountain 
 and look down over a great city, you will really appreciate the level of detail put into the game. 
 There are only a few shortcomings that were really noticeable. The way that you sometimes seem 
 to go right through doors and other objects is a minor problem, but does not really change much. 
 The physics were also having a problem with object clipping.
  
  Due to popular demand, time for the great comparison... Two worlds to Oblivion *cue ominous music* 
 (FYI, everything from this point on is a comparison)
  
  Oblivion was certainly a fantastic game in its own rights. Two Worlds is superb as well. There 
 are many people out there who have said that Two Worlds is copying oblivion. This is unavoidable. 
 When there is a fanbase as dedicated as Oblivion's, any other action RPG to be released will be 
 torn apart with the rantings and ravings of the Oblivion fanboys/girls about how the new game is 
 a rip-off. Ths is simply how it works. These two games could be compared in many ways, graphically 
 and otherwise, but first let us consider what each game did better.
  
  Voice acting: In oblivion, there were no more than 30 different voice actors. As you traveled from 
 town to town, you realised that you were hearing the same people over and over. The voices were 
 all pretty much the same for each race/gender. In two worlds, almost all of the people have unique 
 voices. This is offset, unfortunately, by some unskilled voice acting and the style of speech used. 
 Old English time!
  
  Combat: Not the same at all. In oblivion, it was a toe to toe with an enemy who simply attacked 
 you once in a while. The status inducing power attacks were very unreliable and not very useful. 
 The entirety of the combat was mashing the mouse (or controller) and doing a power attack if you 
 managed to block an attack. The latter form of combat was not nearly as efficient, so really all 
 there was to it was mash mash drink potion mash mash mash. In two worlds, the combat is not strategic 
 either, but adds some sense of intensity. In oblivion, you only needed to have one rank in block 
 to be able to stop any oncoming attack. Stand there long enough with your sheild up and eventually 
 they will just hit you, leaving them open for some attacks. In two worlds, the way that you block 
 is based on percentages. If you want to be able to stop attacks, you'd better pump points into 
 the blocking skills. In Oblivion, it didn't matter if you were swinging a mace, dagger, longsword, 
 axe or otherwise, you always did the same animation. Some of the upper level power attacks were 
 pretty poorly animated as well. In Two worlds, Each weapon class has its own animation, adding 
 a nive touch to combat. Plus, the fact that fighting in third person is actually feasible is more 
 than oblivion was able to pull off.
  
  Spellcasting: In oblivion, the spells were simple fireballs, healings and other damage dealers 
 for most of the game. once you hit the highr levels, you got some nice armor reducers, weight givers, 
 and enraging spell combinations. These are some very original ideas, and were well executed. The 
 only problem with the spellcasting is the way the spells actually look. No matter how amazing your 
 new fireball is, it still just looks like that first level flare spell you got in the sewers. The 
 spell creating and item enchanting were very useful as well, being balanced enough to not put casting 
 over the top. In Two Worlds, the casting has some great variation in the animations, and the types 
 of magic prevent an all powerful necromancer from calling down a huge fireball.
  
  Mounts: Only useful in oblivion for transport, and with the fast travel, not even necessary sometimes. 
 The way that all of the horses had different stats was a nice touch. If you were out to buy a really 
 nice horse, you could chose from the hardy white ones or the fast black ones. Then again, all you 
 really needed was shadowmere, right? Even with a super-horse like her, thre was no mounted combat. 
 In two worlds, the mounts are a very important part of the combat. No matter how good you are with 
 a sword, you need to know how to fight from horseback too. The spear counters to corseback fighting 
 are a great way of keeping the game balanced.
  
  Plot: The storytelling in oblivion seemed a little underdone. Even the epic battle near the end 
 was no more than a twelve on twelve fight between some guards and some demons. Some of the quests 
 in oblivion seemed to be detached and boring, but for the most part they were very original. One 
 of the only problems with oblivion's quests were actually near the end of the game. Right before 
 the aforementioned epic battle, your character was told that you needed more help. Even though 
 your character probably didn't need any help at this point, you were sent off to gather extra guards 
 from the other town. I felt some excitement here, expecting a smattering of original tasks, based 
 on the prior quests, and a suceeding massive battle. There was some mild dissapointment as I went 
 from city to city, which grew to Irritation as I discovered that every single town seemed to have 
 the same problem: oblivion gates. After shutting half a dozen of these, I scurried over to the 
 place where the epic battle was to be carried out. I arrived only to discover that the forces I 
 had gathred numbered around twelve. Surely there would be more? No. Twelve. This put a hamper on 
 my excitement. Enough! This is a review of Two Worlds, dang it! Anyways, The storytelling in Two 
 worlds is sometimes rather vague, but is explained later in the main plotline. With plenty of side 
 quests to keep you busy, there are no quests in which you are required to do the same task, again 
 and again.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Two worlds are simply awesome. The graphics in Oblivion are just as amazing. 
 They do have major differences, such as textures, view distance and character models, and you can 
 see for yourself just how different they are. The most noticeable difference between Oblivion and 
 Two Worlds are the faces. In oblivion, no matter what you do, you just end up with a horrendous 
 , bubly face. The faces in Two worlds are more realistic and less ridiculaosly horrific. I am sure 
 there are Many other things that can be said about Two worlds, but If the review gets any longer, 
 I may be forced into publishing it as a novel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reanor2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Well, I change my opinion. This game is great if you invent few hours in it. Probably best console 
 RPG experience since last Final Fantasy. Very Solid game. Horse controls are awkward of course, 
 game has some issues with frames, jerks sometimes, constant stops to download more data but quests 
 and overall story and world are so fan that after some time you stop paying attention to those 
 issues. Its worth at least a try. But RPG fan will find great experience in this game.
  
  Well, I change my opinion. This game is great if you invent few hours in it. Probably best console 
 RPG experience since last Final Fantasy. Very Solid game. Horse controls are awkward of course, 
 game has some issues with frames, jerks sometimes, constant stops to download more data but quests 
 and overall story and world are so fan that after some time you stop paying attention to those 
 issues. Its worth at least a try. But RPG fan will find great experience in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodhawk_DX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the collectors edition of two worlds. Seventy US dollars right off, I was expecting 
 quite a bit for that price tag but I don't think I was ready for this. You'll hear people tell 
 you it's not that bad if you play it as it's own game, not comparing it to Oblivion... etc... However, 
 they couldn't be more wrong considering the following.
  
  People who played the Beta in Europe had decent things to say about this game. However, if you 
 get this game you'll soon find the game is god awful. Right away the graphics look like they should 
 have come from the Playstation 2 era. Character models are hideous, I mean absolutely awful. Heads 
 are misshapen, many NPC's look alike, and while the environments look like they could be lush, 
 they're very choppy. The frame rate chokes from time to time and even monsters and creatures look 
 poorly done.
  
  Gameplay is very redundant, you just find weapons, spell trainers and various other little modifications 
 and beat creatures with them given that you have the stats to match requirements. There are other 
 things to do like alchemy considering you can handle the game enough to get that far. Plenty of 
 unique ideas that were just played oh so wrong. The ability to combine alike weapons and shields 
 was a cool idea except that the weapons still suck. The combat is a little choppy and monsters 
 will lay you out quickly because in the beginning everything is rather strong. The controls aren't 
 unusable, but the way the menus are set up is just awful. Melee combat is repetitive, you just 
 keep doing the same move over and over again. Let's not forget that your character runs like he's 
 trying to hold something between his butt cheeks, very ugly movement system.
  
  The music is alright, but the voice over is TERRIBLE. Lets not mention your character keeps saying 
 the same cheesy crap every time you kill something, or loot a corpse/object. It's just as annoying 
 as Navi from Zelda: Ocarina of Time. This game might be worth it, if it was a budget title, even 
 then I wouldn't recommend it, but it's not cheap. The multiplayer is broken and lags like you wouldn't 
 believe. So it isn't even redeemable on Xbox Live. It has basic head to head modes and so on, but 
 what's the point if the game is unplayable. Right away everyone online was pissed off about how 
 laggy and broken everything was, how they got ripped off of 60-70 bucks.
  
  DO NOT BUY TWO WORLDS. This game is not an MMORPG, it is not an Oblivion Killer. If you want an 
 RPG, buy Bioshock or wait for Mass Effect. It's the sort of game you give someone you hate, because 
 it's THAT BAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizardking006
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  this game im sure had high expectations from everyone im sure everyone in their mind was picturing 
 oblivion upgraded with dragons and magic and all kinds of stuff well if have to say this is by 
 far the worst 360 game ive just about seen not to metion a let down. see ya, back to bioshock and 
 back to gears of war state of the art games i might add. and to whoever thought and had part in 
 making this piece of crap needs to go back to school cuz clearly as a gamer he was not trying to 
 make a good game just a few buck and he suckered me i will never buy a game except halo3 until 
 gamespot reviews it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeoneex66
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 6 becuase it lacks alot of real luster for it to be called a unique game.
  
  Here are a number of issues I have with it:
  
  Fist off, when you hit select and enter 
 your inventory, journal, map etc..., its hard to maneuver. - The map: You can't use either analog 
 stick to move the map around, only the left moves the cursor to these colored circles. The D-Pad 
 moves the map, its not as bad, but whats really bad is the cursor covers up the texts of the colored 
 circles. Thats really annoying. On top of that, on the right side of the map theres a window that 
 displays text, I'm assuming this is for info pertaining to quests. Well its so poorly done, they 
 word wrapped it, but it looks as if there is no edge to the right most side of the text so it looks 
 like the words trail off past the edge of the screen. - The inventory: It's a really cool idea 
 to combine weapons for upgraded versions of that weapon. However again, when you hit select and 
 bring up the help menu, it basically draws over the window that shows items. What I mean is, when 
 you move over an item, it shows a window that gives statistics of that weapon, on the bottom left 
 corner theres a big text thing saying hit select for more options. That huge oversized text blocks 
 out the window that shows item stats and you miss some of the info it gives.
  
  Combat system: - Fighting: Well the animations aren't half bad so I give them that. But the combat 
 itself is very rugid and not very smooth. What I mean is say your fighting a wolf. You swing at 
 it, it will hit, but then for some reason you can't hit it again for a few seconds. On top of that 
 if you have a shield, I still have yet to figure out how to actually BLOCK with it. Another thing 
 that I really don't get is, I'm in one area with wolves, then I end up dead and am in a completely 
 new area with wolves that are 10x stronger than the ones I fought before I died. How do I tell 
 whats stronger and what isnt. They weren't very clear on that.
  
  Movement: There are only 2 things which I'm kind of disappointed in. - Horses: movement on horses 
 is extremely hard to maneuver at times. There are times when I try to turn and it won't let me, 
 like its restricting my turning yet theres like say a fence area with an opening clearly large 
 enough for a horse to go through and your trying to turn into it, but instead of turning into it, 
 you look as if your turning but its not turning. There are a number of areas like this where the 
 collision points of the horse dont even come close to matching up with an object like a tree trunk 
 or a rock, or even a hillbase that you can't go up. - Backwards jump dodge thing AKA B button: 
 Ok, what I don't get is, you have a jump button which ironically is Y, and everyone knows A makes 
 the best jump button, but they also have a jump back button. Thats right a jump back button, which 
 to me comes close to a dodge. You hit the b button and you can jump backwards. What I'm disappointed 
 in, is the fact that they actually have a seperate button just for this. When it would be much 
 easier to make a lockon button and allow you to jump in all directions using the jump button, and 
 switch the action button, A, with the B button so you can make X jump and have a lockon button, 
 then you can strafe. I'm sure in the PC version this isn't an issue, but for the xbox I am curious 
 to this decision. On top of it, if you are trying to turn and click it, you jump back but curve 
 around right back to where you were, only your backside is facing your opponent instead of the 
 otherway around leaving you in a very bad situation. It happened to me quite a few times and I 
 either died or got hit.
  
  Misc. stuff: - Load times: There are some major pro's and cons on this one. First off, I am all 
 for the constant loading, but it's also a pain in the ass. There are times I'll be in a fight and 
 I guess I'll trigger a loadtime, it will freeze my screen but apparently not the game. I'll be 
 dead more times than not if I'm in a fight at this happens. Then there are times when it just loads 
 and the screen has funny huge colored lines when loading, nothing permanent just weird. The game 
 itself is really choppy, some area's are smooth, others choppy. - Sound Design: This was poorly 
 done. Bears sound like trolls, boars sound like some alien thing, some sounds aren't even synced 
 right. No reason to get too much into this, I pretty much covered it all. - Music: I fail to think 
 how the music even on a subpar level fits this game. Some woman singing completely over the top 
 opera type music with piano's that aren't symphonic sounding, and electric guitars. It makes me 
 think of a second rate company that really wasn't planning too much on their musical score to be 
 of any real value to the game. As my brother pointed out, the guitars really dont go with it at 
 all. Diablo had a REALLY good acoustic guitar in their peices, and my favorite for that game was 
 Tristram. But here it doesnt do the score justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesisnine
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on my pc which has a factory video card and 1g of ram and it had a better frame 
 rate than the 360 version. I beat bioshock 2 times so i decided to trade it in to get this in order 
 to play with my friends and i have never been so dissapointed in my life and i did compare this 
 game to oblivion i could have compared it to pong and it pong would have come out on top. Let's 
 start with the voice acting imagine hearing stephen hawking having a conversation with himself 
 in medieval speak and you got an idea, second i never knew that when you slice someone iwht a sword 
 it sounds like punching and the animations make al gore look like a belly dancer the graphics were 
 horrible. Some people are saying rent it screw renting take this game and try to get your money 
 back if you can't do something creative with it like staple it next to your console sofrom that 
 point foward you can make youself feel good about your next crappy purchase because nothing will 
 look bad when compared to this, this game is a slap in the face to and type of rpg it should have 
 been 20$ and on the original xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loumart08
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This will make a great gag gift for people susceptible to epilepsy. Only buy this if you enjoy 
 making your 360 feel like its about to die. Whats with the blood effects?? It looks like they're 
 throwing ketchup packets at each other, Just save your money and buy a lap dance. Really it seriously 
 made me punch a baby. Terrible graphics, voice acting animation, the fire looks like a cardboard 
 cutout. Almost unplayable. Don't be fooled those german Doitchbags failed miserabley at making 
 this game. I think I would rather play superman n64 than this. Man I really was jaded arrrghhh!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blintzkrieg01
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  What a major disappointment. Terrible Art, Terrible Voice Acting, Framerate Issues, Terrible Animations, 
 Terrible Story, Completely Uninteresting, Poor Charater Creation. Save your money. After being 
 push back this many times, I don't know how this game can be that bad. This game is laughably bad. 
 You will wonder if it's going to get better. But it doesn't. Stay Away.
  
  I could go on... And that's saying something. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.
  
  There's not a whole 
 lot more you can say about this game except please stay away. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. 
 Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. 
 Please. Pretty Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Do not... I repeat do not buy this game. It may be the worst game I've played on the 360 to date 
 (and I've played a lot of em) . From front to back, side to side, everything about this game sucks. 
 Sucks bad. The graphics are pitiful, the voice acting will almost force you to end it all, the 
 game play is terrible, controls idiotic, story (what story) is stupid, inventory system (Diablo 
 rip-off) annoying to control, slow and very frequent load times. Man, this... game.... sucks.
 
  
  Here's the worst part. I was about two hours in and the game froze. Mind you, there's no auto-save 
 so all the progress I had made and items I had found... Gone.
  
  My t heory is that this is and experiment by Microsoft to make the worst possible game ever to 
 see how much a game can make if it's hyped but totatlly, totally blows.
  
  What's the worst movie you've ever seen? Mine would be Hudson Hawk. What's by far the worst 360 
 game you've ever played? Mine you ask, Two Worlds - hands down. I want a refund.
  
  Get BioShock - 20x's the game.
  
  Gamespot is gonna give this game about a 3 after the review 
 is done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtw8x
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I havent played a game this bad in a while. In the first few seconds of gameplay the game was skipping 
 all over. Glitches are everywhere and the graphics are not the greatest unless you stop moving 
 to look around. Combat is boring, and it isnt possible to tell when you hit or miss a creature. 
 This game, which obviously is a ripoff of diablo and elder scrolls, isnt even worth a rent (im 
 especially glad i didnt buy it) . Im not sure how people are giving this game a 10 rating, they 
 must work for the company that made it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenLee
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I was very excited about this game when I first learned about it back 
 in January. I was irritated like most that it was pushed back time and again, but I was positive 
 that the finished product would be worth it. Let me begin with the positives. The game has some 
 great ideas, such as multiplayer online. That was the main attraction of this game. The other positives 
 are the stackable weapon system and the fact that everything has a use. However, the negatives 
 make this game almost unplayable. First is the frame rate. In multiplayer, it makes fighting a 
 joke. Everything skips around so much that you will be fighting a boar one second and the next 
 you are swinging at nothing, or even worse, you will nail your friend and kill them because they 
 happened to move in front of you during a swing. Second is the target system. The game has auto 
 target lock on, however, it will lock on to anyone, even friendlies. And once you target someone, 
 you cannot change targets unless you unequip your bow. You can turn off auto target but then targeting 
 is impossible. Once you draw your arrow back, you cannot turn in any other direction except the 
 one you were facing to begin with. Third is the difficulty. With 3 friends online, we had trouble 
 taking down a pack of wolves, so much that we had to die and resurrect several times before we 
 killed them all. Although there is no real penalty for dying, it gets old having to run all the 
 way back just to whittle on an opponent over and over again until it is dead. Others have pointed 
 out the graphics and voice acting. While it is not top notch, these are things that I can do without 
 if the game play is good. The graphics are good at times, such as the worlds look in general, 
 and bad at times, especially the faces. The voice acting sounds very wooden and matter-of-fact. 
 It sounded little more than someone reading a script with little emotion to add to the mix. Overall, 
 I really wanted this game to be great. I was really looking forward to a RPG that my friends and 
 I could play on line. I am sad to say that I am very, very disappointed in what I received a $65 
 game with frame rate so bad that I quit playing in disgust. I read somewhere that the reason it 
 was held back was to fix the bugs and frame rate. If this is how they fixed it, I would hate to 
 see what it looked like before. Microsoft and South Peak should have looked into this before putting 
 it on the shelves. All I can finish with is at least I have Bioshock to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric008R
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  What a horrible game. I've heard rumors that Two Worlds was in development longer than Oblivion? 
 If that is true, shame on the developers. -There are awful death animations in this game. Any game 
 that comes out these days had better be able to make the characters look believable when they hit 
 the ground. This is 2007, pay for Havok, or make your own physics engine. 2007, no physics in a 
 game, shame on you.
  
  -Don't throw out this garbage about, It's bigger than Oblivion! , It has dragons! Oblivion didn't! 
 If you can't deliver. QUALITY, not QUANTITY. So what if your map is bigger than most RPGs, if it's 
 filled with awful textures, extreme amounts of lag, than cut it back!!
  
  -Combat system? Uhh, get someone on the team who has some experience with this. Clunky, uncoordinated 
 (reminds me of trying to run away from something in a dream)
  
  DO NOT believe the 9-10 reviews... these are people who didn't want to admit they just paid $60.00 
 for something they're never going to play again. I didn't pay a dime for this, my brother decided 
 to buy it... big mistake. DO NOT BUY IT. By giving money to companies that make piles of garbage 
 like this, you are dooming all of us gamers to terrible games in the future. If you buy this game 
 after my review-SHAME ON YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Lets not beat around the bush here people this game is bad I mean really really bad, its so bad 
 i was having a discussion with players online and we were thinking this might be the worst game 
 of all time and Im not joking. Lets begin with the offline campaign....... The voice acting and 
 story is like from a really awful chinese martial art film. When fighting there is no block button, 
 NO BLOCK BUTTON! how can you have a fighting game with no no defensive button? The camera is also 
 terrible. If you are running one way and then change direction you have to rotate the camera manually 
 to see whats in front of you there is no button to snap the camera around like oblivion so if your 
 running from an enemy or in a fight with alot of enemies it is impossible to see whats going on. 
 The map system is also bad. there is no directional compass. you dont know if your going north 
 or south its very difficult to see where the next quest is located and even navagating the map 
 screen is a challenge in itself. when you come across an NPC you cant tell if their friend or foe. 
 they both appear with red icons. I compare this game to a really awful dynstaty warriors with RPG 
 elements. I love dynstay warriors and RPGs and this game makes me want to go read a book instaed 
 of playing xbox. (maybee thats not a bad thing) . Lets talk about online play now....... Its broke. 
 when i say its broke i mean you cant play online. there is so much lag that you literally cant 
 even move. the co op story is not a story at all its 8 players just running around with nothing 
 to do no apparent quests to complete and no objectives. But most of the time online is spent in 
 a world of lag thats so bad we were all just marveling at how terrible it is. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
 I only wish I could go back in time so I could save the 66 dollars. The game developer should be 
 ashamed of themselves and give a refund to everyone! I Cant even articulate how bad this game is. 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razolrok
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The game has several fresh new ideas worth exploring, however the visual effects felt outdated 
 The new stack system eliminated that all too familiar feeling that the majority of enemy drops 
 are complete junk. Instead you can take many several smaller items and combine them to create stronger 
 items. You find yourself wanted to find another level one 1-12 sword so you can add it to you current 
 one. It was also really interesting to see all the different options available to leveling up your 
 character. I felt like it was possible to create a serious weapon wielding machine in minimal time.
 
  
  What was a huge disappointment was the lack of graphical display. The game simply looked outdated 
 from the start. Perhaps I've been spoiled by games such as Elder Scrolls Oblivion, but it just 
 felt like a step back. One difference that i did notice from Oblivion was the lack of load times, 
 so perhaps that is the trade off.
  
  It seems to run pretty smoothly however, i have already crashed it once within 2 hours of playing 
 time. Perhaps this game is more of a renter than a buy-able game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrocco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 9.5 becuase in my eyes its perect but for online play. as they say its oblivion 
 on steriods plus i heard there were content downloads comin out so we will wait and see. at first 
 in single player you don't really now what your doing but after about 20 minutes more or less i 
 got the hang of it and was ripping apart freaky green guys this game is a must buy for all rpg 
 fans that like games like FABLE, and the elder scrolls. have fun playing the game and this was 
 review by the infamous Jarracco Add me on Xbox 360 my tag is the same if theres any questions you 
 know what to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRazil
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the many who wanted so much to like this game. I wanted it to be good, to be fun, not 
 neccessarily an Oblvion killer, just a game that is fun and massive. Was Two Worlds the game I 
 wanted? Hell no. Graphics - 4/10
  They do their job adecuately, but frankly i found myself wondering if they were based on a pre-beta 
 build of Morrowind. The environments look nice, but i find it hard to care about that when each 
 and every character model looks terrible, and all the NPCs are hideous with either GOllum style 
 teeth (small, sharp and seperated by black) or no teeth at all. The various creatures look even 
 worse. The best part is the weapons and armor, both look great. Another problem that seems to be 
 common on standard tvs: on every menu in the bottom left hand corner is a prompt saying BACK for 
 instructions WHICH OBSCURES THE ALREADY SMALL TEXT!
  
  Controls - 3/10
  Yeah, they are abysmall. Frankly, this game is designed for a keyboard and mouse and it shows. 
 X button draws out the weapons, right trigger attacks. It would have felt more natural were it 
 reversed. Aiming is nearly impossible without auto-aim.
  
  Sound - 5/10
  The music and ambient sound effects are great. The voice acting, however, is horrendous. They obviously 
 hired d list talent here, and not a single one of them have any emotion. PS1 games had better voice 
 acting than this...
  
  Gameplay - 1/10
  Its just about broken. The sword attacks are ridiculous, the magic is pointless, the quests are 
 impossible to find and then return to. Every five frames there seems to be a frame missing, resulting 
 in a lot of jumping.
  
  Fun - 2/10
  If you like this kind of game, or a drunk, there's probably some fun here. FOr me, who loves this 
 type of game. this is just unforgivable.
  
  Overal - 3/10
  Do not buy this game at 60. Do not buy it at 50,40 or 30. It is worth, at msot 25 bucks. Do not 
 waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, I rarely review games. I mean I think I have reviewed maybe 3 and one of them was 
 jokingly. So for me to even care to review this game means that I am desperately trying to save 
 some poor soul from picking up this piece of crap. I played it for about an hour and here are my 
 thoughts. Even from the character select screen you can tell this game is going to be bad. For 
 instance, you can chose male, female, male elf or female elf for the gender. Which is fine except 
 that if you want to be a female warrior, it just inst happening because the female characters have 
 lower strength then the male and vice versa. So if your a caster enjoy playing as a female.
  
  Second, the game states it runs in 1080i, I mean I have played all my games in 1080i because 
 I have an older HD model that wont support 720p. Now even from the first scene where your in a 
 small temple/cave the game is laggy. Its unplayable in 1080i and frankly switching to 480p looks 
 equivalent to an Xbox one game. Third, they claim they have hundreds of different voice actors, 
 which in return they probably do, but they all sound the same because they all talk like they are 
 all automated phone operators. I mean a guy says run, we are under attack . How are you supposed 
 to capture that moment when it looks no different how I wrote it then how it sounds?
  
  This is only a few examples, but I'm sure if I choked myself through another hour or two, I would 
 have a whole bunch of other complaints, but for now, heed my warning and stay away from this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Travis0123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I feel really bad writing this but for as excited as I was about this game, i feel completely and 
 utterly ripped off. I have played the game for about an hour, maybe more, and to be quite honest, 
 its unbearable. The fighting is clunky and isn't anywhere near as immersive as I would like it 
 to be. The game menu is also kinda odd to navigate, and on my TV at least, extremely hard to read 
 anything. Oh, and the voice acting, don't even get me started and that Old English pile of cow 
 poopie. There was absolutely no emotion is any of the charaters voices. What really got to me right 
 off the bat though was the graphics. I could tell from the very beggining scene that they weren't 
 nearly as good as Oblivion, the horse that the main character was riding on moved VERY un naturally. 
 And when the game actually started, it would lag like no other, the framerate seemed really bad, 
 and i honestly had trouble going anyfarther because i just wanted to turn it off. Im not a very 
 good reviewer, so I guess Ill just summerize why this game was a $60 waste with handy bullet points 
 =)
  
  * Graphics aren't nearly as good as we were led to believe
  * Framerate is horrible, huge lag even offline
  * Menu seems clunky and for me at least, hard 
 to read
  * Fighting is very unfufilling, clunky mechanics
  * The camera always got in my way
  * VOICE ACTING 'twas ye old pain in the arse
  
  I tried 
 to like this game, i went out and reserved it the moment i heard about ti, but all it makes me 
 wanna do is trade it in and play Oblivion some more, get the horrible taste of this game out of 
 my mouth
  
  Sorry Two Worlds, but I'm on my way to Gamecrazy to salvage what little money I can get back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I first saw a preview for this game about 6-7 months ago and got really excited for it. I loved 
 Oblivion and thought this game looked really similar. I just bought and I really like it. I think 
 that the graphics and visuals are good, but not as good as they could (or should) be. It's a little 
 choppy here and there, but its not too bad for me. I like the level and skill systems better than 
 Oblivion because no matter what you get to chose what skill you want to level. The combat system 
 is difficult to get used to, but once you get used to it it's easy. The controls are a little difficult, 
 but get easier to use as time goes on. It isn't too difficult a game, but takes a little getting 
 used to. I also like the online feature. The fact that you can level your player alone before you 
 go play with a party is good. I also think the PVP aspect of online is good. All-in-all I think 
 it is a good game.
  
  Good: Online features, level and skill system, equipment, map and environment, interface
  
 
  Bad: Bad voice acting, a little choppy, sub-par graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseAsh
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Never have I made a purchase that has made me want to contact the Better Business Bureau, until 
 now. Southpeak has released a shoddy, rushed product that does not deliver in even a basic sense 
 on all of the promises they made. I am physically ill after 20 minutes of play due to the horrible 
 choppiness of the visuals. The box says that there are seamless transitions between outdoor and 
 indoor environments. This is false advertising, nothing in this game appears to be seamless. Save 
 your money! Because this review has to be longer I will elaborate and say that the combat controls 
 make it extremely difficult to aim at an enemy. The inventory is unattractive and the presentation 
 of items in the game world make it extremely difficult to tell exactly what you are picking up 
 without putting the cursor over it. The artists seem to have let their 3 year olds draw all the 
 items. Target switching is cumbersome. The voice acting is laughable and in short I know now why 
 there was no review copy made available to the press. I feel that Gamespot has let me down as their 
 recent preview did not alude to all of the problems that were surely present at the time they had 
 their hands on. If gamespot had said this game will suck if they don't fix the problems with it 
 I would not have shelled out my money on day one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the elder scroll series, I was already biased against two worlds before it 
 was even released. Due to the horrible lack of good rpg's for the 360 in general, however, I decided 
 to give it a shot and preordered it. I am surprised by some of the low scoring reviews, and I can 
 only guess thast these players put the game in for a few minutes, and stopped playing. Initially, 
 I had the same reponse. The controls, especially the combat, did not feel right at first. As I 
 kept playing however, I started to notice the excellence of the overall game. The graphics are 
 top grade, and i believe this game will continue to be visiually exciting after horus of play. 
 The sound is excellent, especially on surround sound. The voice acting is about the best I have 
 heard. It definitely adds to the immersive qualities of the game.
  For me, however, the most compelling part of the game is the story. As a long time fan on both 
 paper and pencil and video game rpg's, I know that the best graphics and sound in the world mean 
 very little without a well written story. So far I am impressed, and I think it will continue to 
 get better. This is all just my opinion, but in short i am very excited about this game, and while 
 I might not put it right with Oblivion on the single player mode, overall, I think Southpeak did 
 an excellent job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lublar
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  So, Two Worlds finally hit the shelves in America today, and it's been a game I've been wanting 
 to get my hands on for a while. The trailers for the game looked amazing, and every concept of 
 the game looked like the next big action RPG since Oblivion. Be prepared to have that dream violently 
 shattered...
  
  So I started off by playing the Single Player mode to see what the game was like. There is a character 
 creation mode but the options are very limited; the game explains that you are supposed to have 
 limited options because the story is supposed to revolve around the hero being a male bounty hunter. 
 I don't understand why they even put a character creation in if that is the case. The game starts 
 off with a vague cutscene about a man (the main character) , and his sister, who is apparently wounded 
 and he's trying to get help for. The cutscene is extremely vague, explains nothing, and leaves 
 you with a confused look on your face. The game immediately skips to a month later in the future 
 not explaining what happened to the sister or the man, possibly leaving it for later in the game. 
 You come across the main character again and he's returned to a village seaking out the village 
 elder. The conversation he has with some of the villagers is laughable. Everyone speaks in Old 
 English, which is completely unnecessary, and that, coupled with some of the worst voice acting 
 you'll ever hear just leave you rolling on the floor laughing from these scenes. Every line someone 
 says sounds like they are just reading from the script, emotions come at the wrong time during 
 speech, and it's just generally horrible.
  
  After eventually skipping the cutscene due to boredom and general uninterest I found myself plopped 
 into a tiny dungeon with a few instructions, which I ignored. That's how bad the game is, I actually 
 don't care what the game tells me to do, I was simply still playing to see what the combat was 
 like. So you unlock a gate and have your first fight of the game (exciting!!!) , but it really isn't 
 exciting at all. Be prepared for a shock everyone: THIS GAME IS NOT AN ACTION RPG. Sure the trailers 
 all made this game look like oblivion, and the next best action RPG to be released but it is very 
 very far from that. This game is just an old fashioned RPG, your damage is based on your stats, 
 your chance to hit is based on your stats, your chance to knock someone down is based on your stats, 
 etc.. etc.. etc.. Basically all you can do is swing your weapon wildly and hope you can do enough 
 damage to kill your opponent before they kill you - it's a kill or be killed world. You can't even 
 block or time your attacks, you just swing wildly like a barbarian every battle, it's the same 
 animation every single time, and it gets repitive and uninteresting. Your block rate is determined 
 by a passive skill, so basically you can be holding a shield and about 80% of the time it won't 
 serve any purpose. I couldn't figure out where to go, and ended up getting killed by a pack of 
 wolves which I stood no chance against. Then, I ended up trying to attack the NPC that gave me 
 the quest for fun, and he ended up killing me in one hit.. this is no joke. He killed me in one 
 hit, if he is that freaking strong why does he even need to hire me to hunt monsters in the first 
 place? You are basically given no direction in the game it seems, and nothing is explained to you 
 about the comat system or the way the game works. I had to figure it all out by just tinkering 
 with the menus until I got comfortable with it. The game isn't all bad though, the world you are 
 placed in has pretty decent looking graphics. However, the character models are all very strange 
 looking. Their bodies are proportional, but their faces just look disgruntled or warped all the 
 time. I actually did take some time to run around the forest nearby and it looked pretty nice, 
 but then I ended up getting killed in about two hits by another pack of wild animals and got a 
 little more frustrated.
  
  Eventually though, I went on to try out the aspect of the game that I was most excited about, and 
 ultimately bought the game for - the online play. Here you have many more options for character 
 creation. While the options are plenty more than the single players character creation, I still 
 felt cheated after creating my character. The options were very limited, you only get to choose 
 from Human and Elf for your race. You can pick female however, which I always find a good thing 
 in a game, makes it more accessable for female players. With such limited options though, I couldn't 
 get my guy to look like anything other than a Arnold Schwarzenegger clone. There were a few basic 
 jobs to choose from: warrior, knight, barbarian, archer, ranger, thief, and some different types 
 of mages, and they are all seperated by different starting skillsets. Obviously, knights and warriors 
 are more suited for soaking damage, while the others are more suited for dealing damage. This is 
 a good thing, because it can lead to some diversity in groups for online play, and give you a role 
 in a party. Also when creating your character you have to initially choose between making your 
 character a PVP or RPG character. PVP characters only duel in an Arena, while RPG characters play 
 Co-op with friends.
  
  Overall to me, this game isn't really worth the money and it fails to deliver on the concepts it 
 brought forth. If you can get past the cheesy Old English dialogue, and the poor voice acting, 
 I'm sure there will be people out there who find enjoyment in the single player. While there are 
 many shortcomings in the game, if you can get past these shortcomings though this game can potentially 
 leave you with enough to do to keep you satisfied. The online does look more promising than the 
 single player however, and should be a good way to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exprez1022
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Believe me when I say this game is horrid. There may be people that review this game that say it 
 is otherwise, but consider they may have something to do with the company releasing this game.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  They look nothing like all the screenshots you see floating around the net, and still they stutter 
 somewhat on the XBox 360. Alot of blocky textures in-game. Seems like the PS1 could have done a 
 better job handling this game.
  
  Sound The sound is ok, but it leaves alot to be desired. Terrible voice acting.
  
  Gameplay
 
  
  This is the real disappointment. Controls are really stiff. Hard to get a feel for character movement. 
 Combat is a joke. Bad questing system.
  
  Overall
  
  I would advise you to save your money, this game is abysmal. I am truly sorry I wasted the money 
 and you will be too if you decide to neglect this review. 30 minutes of playing this will make 
 you wish you would have thrown Oblivion in for another go-round. The voice acting in Oblivion was 
 superior in comparison. All in all I'm very disappointed because I was looking forward to this 
 game. I wasn't looking for another Oblivion, just a good game. I wouldn't have believed that this 
 free-roam do anything type atmosphere could be screwed up so badly, until I played this. So in 
 closing I think most will agree if they are honest, hopefully you will be smarter than me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakon178
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  The concept of the game is cool. I liked the multiplayer features and the game size seems to be 
 pretty large. The xbox 360 version runs so choppy and the framerate is horrible. The game's feel 
 just isn't right, it isn't solid. It seems southpeak was trying to get it out as fast as possible. 
 It is an attempt to match oblivion. All of the features they added are better then oblivion, but 
 the gameplay, graphics, even sound are very poor. I am very dissappointed in this game and wish 
 I hadn't of bought it so soon. I am trying to sell my copy now or trade it in. Thats how bad it 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMalice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Ive played about two hours of this game and so far, it has'nt lived up to the hype. This game was 
 compared to Oblivion before it came out, but frankly, it does'nt stack up. First of all, the charecter 
 creation is limited. You can only be male, and can only be human. Next, the graphics are nowhere 
 near as good as Oblivion's, although they ar'nt entirely bad. The voice acting seems a little overdone 
 and amateur also. The play control is a little choppy, especially when you first aquire a horse. 
 Im hop'ing that that will get more fluid after I spend some skill points in horse riding. It may 
 be unfair to compare this game to a classic like Oblivion, but such comparisons are inevitable 
 since both games are from the same genre. So far the game has been enjoyable despite its shortcomings. 
 Oblivion is still the standard must have role playing game for the 360, but this game isnt too 
 far behind. A great first effort for a fledgling company. Again, this is only a first impression. 
 As I said, ive only played for a few hours and I dont think ive got around the learning curve yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmorrison2
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  combat controls seem awful, can only fight in 3rd person.. 1st person fighting not an option, 3rd 
 person fighting makes it hard to tell what the heck ur swinging ur sword at. Instruction manual 
 for the xbox 360 still has 'use the spacebar to execute this command . I cant find my spacebar 
 on the xbox. Great potential, but put together sloppy and possibly released too early. Oblivion 
 still #1 it looks like, Game may get better as i spend more time on it, but i was so excited about 
 this game, now i feel like southpeak games just ripped me a new one. Rent it first, u may love 
 it, but try it out b4 blowing 60 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmath4life
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Two worlds is nothing like oblivion and once i started the game i couldn't stop the graphics on 
 the 360 are amazing and better than oblivion... the fighting style is perfect and no loading times... 
 beat this PS3.... from the very begining of the game was awesome and you have to work for the Dark 
 Brotherhood and well i know that this is familiar if you have played Oblivion but it is completely 
 different... this game is one of the best games and i think its even better than oblivion... its 
 just an eye popper of a game... the voice acting is like none other with every person a different 
 voice and the express themselves Two worlds is a must have for 360 owners its just brilliant beyond 
 belief and thats why this game is perfect... and the 3rd person rocks!.... 10 in my book... so 
 go out and get the damn game now will ya! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
