-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UEFA Champions League 2006-2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/uefachampionsleague20062007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Buying, selling, and collecting player cards is addicting.
 Graphics and sound are top-notch.
 Lots of replay value thanks to the challenge and ultimate team modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Collecting cards is so much fun you'll wish there were more to it.
 Game controls poorly at times.
 Poor instruction manual and in-game tutorial.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 380 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Management
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
UEFA Champions League's unique method of building teams by collecting player cards makes up for 
 it being EA's fourth soccer game for the 360 in just over a year. 

  Judging by how many soccer games are currently available for the Xbox 360, you'd think that soccer 
 was by far the most popular sport in North America. EA alone has already released two FIFA games 
 and one World Cup game, and now there's one more to add to the list: UEFA Champions League 2006-2007. 
 The core game isn't vastly different from any of EA's other soccer games, and the Champions League 
 license will do little to excite most North American players, but the game does introduce the concept 
 of collecting and trading player cards. This unique feature is so addictive that it alone is a 
 good reason to check out UEFA Champions League, even if you do own other 360 soccer games.  

          Virtual bubble gum not included.     

  There aren't many different game modes in 
 UEFA, but what's here is fun and offers a good bit of depth. There's no traditional season or franchise 
 mode, but you can pick a squad and try to qualify for and win the Champions League. You can also 
 jump into the challenge mode and relive classic Champions League matches. You'll get more out of 
 this if you're familiar with the league's history, but even if you think of Newcastle as a beer 
 and not a soccer team, the mode is fun. The lounge mode from the FIFA series is included here, 
 as well. In the lounge, you and seven friends can play each other and keep track of your history 
 and statistics. Based on how well you play, you can unlock power-ups to swing the odds in your 
 favor.  

  But all of these game modes are secondary to UEFA's best new feature, the ultimate team mode. Your 
 goal is to put together the best possible squad and earn a "golden ticket," which lets your team 
 compete in the Champions League. The catch is that you'll do all of your team building and management 
 with virtual trading cards. After finishing nearly any kind of match, you're awarded credits based 
 on your performance on the pitch. You get credits for winning, as well as scoring goals and doing 
 other positive plays, and you lose points for losing the match, giving up goals, and committing 
 fouls. These credits are used in ultimate team mode to buy packs of cards. There are three different 
 types of packs: bronze, silver, and gold. You won't get the best cards in a bronze pack, but they're 
 relatively cheap, and they're the only packs you'll have access to initially. Silver and gold packs 
 are unlocked as your team levels up by winning games. In addition to players, packs contain cards 
 for managers, trainers, coaches, stadiums, kits, boots, balls, attribute boosts, and more. You 
 can even unlock cards that can be played midmatch to improve your team's performance or hinder 
 the performance of the opposing team.  

  Putting together a squad is surprisingly easy, though it's quite difficult to put together a great 
 team. You'll need to do more than just use the highest-rated players; you'll actually have to take 
 player's nationalities, favorite formations, and natural position into account. Managers, trainers, 
 and other staff will raise your players' attributes and even increase the effectiveness of other 
 cards. For example, you might have a player with a low fitness level and use a +11 fitness card 
 on him, which will raise his fitness level by 11. You can raise that number by at least 50 percent 
 more if you've got a trainer on your staff. Since you lose them forever if their deals expire, 
 it's important to keep a close eye on contracts for your players and staff and extend expiring 
 deals with contract cards.  

          On the pitch, UEFA is quite a bit like FIFA.     

  It might seem a bit confusing at first, and the instruction manual and in-game tutorial do nothing 
 to alleviate the confusion, but it's generally quite easy to manage your cards. When you open a 
 pack of cards, the game automatically keeps the cards you've got room for, and then you decide 
 what cards to discard, keep, add to your collector's album, or trade online. Any card in the game 
 can be put up for sale online with just a few button presses. You can have up to 10 cards for sale 
 at once, and you determine a card's asking price (within certain parameters) . When the card sells, 
 you get credit. It's that easy. In addition to selling individual cards online, you'll spend a 
 good amount of time purchasing them, especially when you need specific types of players or desperately 
 need a contract extension card and don't want to buy multiple packs in an effort to find one.  
 

  Using trading cards to build the ultimate team is highly addictive, and for a first effort, the 
 concept is executed well. There are a few things that could have made it even better, though. It 
 can be a chore to try and match players based on nationality and favorite formation, but you've 
 got to fight through it because it's essentially the only way to improve team chemistry. The developer 
 didn't make use of the social aspect of trading cards in any way. You can't send cards to your 
 friends, you can't trade one card for another card, and there's no way to show off your card collection 
 online. It's also odd that you can earn credits for playing against a friend online but not when 
 you play against each other in an exhibition match on the same system. You'll probably wish there 
 were more types of cards and more to do with them. And finally, certain cards will increase certain 
 player attributes while lowering others, but there's really no way to significantly improve players, 
 so there's little reason to take a chance on lower-rated players.  

  It almost seems like an afterthought at this point, but you'll actually be  playing  games, too. 
 UEFA's gameplay is good and, unsurprisingly, quite a bit like FIFA 07's, with a handful of minor, 
 but noticeable, differences. The pace of play is slower than what FIFA fans are used to, and there's 
 less scoring as a result. Goalies are quite sharp, too. They always seem to be at the proper angle, 
 and they're ready to charge the ball at all times. The referees call a tight game (a bit too tight) , 
 but they're lenient with the cards and rather smart at letting the play continue if there's clear 
 advantage. Crossing passes are less effective now, and this helps cut down on players who run down 
 the sideline and cross into the penalty box over and over again. You'll need to work the ball around 
 the field using precision passes to exploit any holes in the defense. This is made more difficult 
 than it should be thanks to some erratic passes that often don't go anywhere near where you were 
 aiming. Sometimes your players will pass to themselves or just kick the ball to empty space. There's 
 a CPU passing-assist option that helps ensure the ball goes to a player, but it's not always the 
 player you wanted. Thankfully, you can still send players on runs with a tap of the trigger, as 
 well as quickly send a through pass by pressing Y. Player switching has been moved to the left 
 trigger, and somehow this move made it tough to switch players. The CPU assist at the default level 
 changes players for you so often that the game's almost unplayable. Turning the assistance level 
 down helps solve this issue, but you'll frequently have to press the trigger multiple times to 
 get to the player you want, or sometimes just to switch control at all. Once you've actually gotten 
 control of a player, they control well, though there are some issues here, too. The increased emphasis 
 on player momentum makes it tough to stop or change direction quickly, which as a result makes 
 it tough to play defense. This isn't a huge problem when playing another human, as they've got 
 the same issues to contend with, but it often feels like the CPU can dribble around your players 
 with ease.  

  You can hop online and play matches with four live players on each team. You get a healthy credit 
 bonus for taking your ultimate team online, too. It's a breeze to find a ranked or unranked match, 
 and the gameplay is largely free of lag. There are leaderboards to track your career stats, but 
 because there's no penalty for players who disconnect midmatch, these stats aren't necessarily 
 indicative of a player's true skill. Only the most ardent achievement-point hounds will enjoy the 
 game's absurdly difficult achievements, such as winning 60 matches in a row, averaging four goals 
 a game for 50 games, or winning 300 total games.  

          Selling your cards online is a breeze.     

  If you've seen FIFA 07, you've seen UEFA 
 Champions League. From the players to the pitch, it's an all-around great-looking game. Perhaps 
 in a nod to the game's emphasis on team play rather than individual skill, the default camera angle 
 is farther away. This makes it easy to monitor large parts of the field, but it doesn't show off 
 the player models as well as a close camera would. There are a few zombie-faced players that look 
 like they came from Dead Rising, but for the most part, they look quite good. There are some great-looking 
 animations, particularly the ones that show off the more physical aspect of the game, like defenders 
 nudging players off the ball. There are around 20 stadiums, each of which has a unique look and 
 is filled with rowdy fans. Player cards look OK, but since they are such a big part of the game, 
 it would have been nice if EA had done more with their presentation. The audio is also about what 
 you'd expect from a FIFA game. The raucous crowds will sing their hearts out, and the music is 
 an eclectic mix of artists from around the world. The commentary is adequate but can be a bit dull. 
 There is a fair amount of Champions League-specific commentary, which is nice, particularly in 
 the classic challenge mode.  

  In some ways, it's a shame that EA chose to implement player cards into UEFA Champions League rather 
 than FIFA. It certainly makes UEFA a more attractive game than it would have normally been, but 
 FIFA is the flagship franchise and played by many more people. But, the cards are in UEFA, and 
 the game is better for it. While it might sound intimidating, buying, collecting, and selling cards 
 is quite easy, even if you don't have experience with card-based games and don't possess a great 
 deal of knowledge about individual players. If you're a soccer fan who's looking for something 
 different, UEFA Champions League is a worthwhile purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  I rented this game, knowing that if I had brought it I would have wasted a lot of my money, but 
 I was curious and yet I was right the first time.
  
  This game reminds me of WWE in the way that it simulates something that looks so much better on 
 TV and can never capture the spirit of the merchandise or going to the event.
  
  I felt after that I had wasted a good five hours, collecting bronze cards and running aimlessly 
 after a digital ball which results in extreme headaches. 
  
  If players and teams interest you then the collector card bonus will lead to enjoyment, yet doesn't 
 really equate to the old fashioned version of collecting panini stickers.
  
  The answer is to save your money and buy a real ball and kick it around the local park. Your time 
 is spent in a much better way this way, okay buy it but don't come crying to me if you aren't any 
 better at football in a years time and never get picked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  You can say what you like about EA as a developer, but you cant fault their business acumen in 
 the face of yet another licensing opportunity. Uefa Champions League 2006-2007 is the fourth iteration 
 of EAs footy series for the Xbox 360 in less than a 2-year spell at the reigns of the next-gen 
 console. Judging from the series sales figures, they seem to know exactly what the general audience 
 wants from a football title; flash presentational aspects, complete licensing, and the chart positions 
 in the UK alone are testament to that fact. Depressing? Not necessarily.
  
  The problem with this approach previously had largely been due to the Fifa series simply losing 
 its way. EA Canada seemed to be on a slippery slope of decreasing quality ever since the dreadful 
 Fifa 2001, with subsequent versions simply expounding the problems brought about by the generational 
 leap from Playstation 1 to Playstation 2, and the new engine that followed. Fifa reverted from 
 being arcade-style, fast-paced and slick to a slow and clunky, graphically ugly, non-responsive 
 and highly predictable game. Its no coincidence that this was the time Konamis Pro Evolution 
 Soccer series rose to the fore, and without any decent competition, deservedly so.
  
  With the advent of Fifa 07 however, the tables have at least semi-turned. The first rewrite of 
 the core engine for the last 6 years has brought the Canadian developer plaudits for increased 
 animation realism and ball physics, with a tangible difference to the Fifa formula for gameplay. 
 Whilst most of the hardcore football fans will still choose Pro Evolution Soccers fluid and realistic 
 match engine, competition can never be considered a bad thing, and given a few more revisions the 
 Fifa engine could well catch up to provide us with a genuine dilemma. Uefa Champions League 2006-2007 
 however, is unfortunately short of the mark.
  
  In terms of on-the-pitch mechanics, Uefa brings about only a couple of tweaks to the game plan 
 laid down by Fifa 07. In fact the changes are so miniscule youll have a hard time spotting them 
 unless youve played the previous version thoroughly. Even by EAs standards its the absolute 
 minimal amount of effort, and we can only hope that Fifa 08 brings substantial upgrades in that 
 regard. The changes that have been made are beneficial however, as long as you know what youre 
 looking for.
  
  Shooting, for example, has been slightly refined to further emphasise the difference between a 
 player striking the ball with their preferred foot and at what part of the running stride the ball 
 is released. When running with the ball, you have to make sure to release the sprint and shoot 
 buttons at just the right time, as over-stretching will cause a tame shot thatll trickle into 
 the goalkeepers arms frequently. Finesse shots have also been toned down considerably, so no more 
 curling the ball home from the edge of the box every time with your center back.
  
  Tackling has also been upgraded, and the silly bouncing animation as two players run towards 
 the ball has almost been entirely eliminated. Sliding tackles no longer automatically result in 
 a free kick, and can be very useful when timed correctly. Defending in general becomes more enjoyable 
 as a result, although there is a bias towards referees being slightly too harsh. In terms of midfield 
 play, jostling for a high ball is still woefully executed and light-years behind even the previous-generation 
 versions at this point. Quite why both development teams cant crib from each other in this regard 
 is beyond me, as the PS2 and PC versions seem to have refined player interaction to a very satisfying 
 and fluid mechanic.
  
  All the little annoying niggles still remain in this version also, with substituted players coming 
 off the bench with already dirtied kit, and the top of the net being mysteriously sticky whenever 
 the ball approaches at any sort of velocity. Over-reliance on wing play abounds due to the lack 
 of ability to take the ball past players in the middle of the park, and tactical movement is still 
 shoddy and too dependant on triggering runs manually. Poor player movement seems to be a long-standing 
 feature of EAs sports games in general.
  
  Bizarrely for a Fifa title, the one area that the game deserves credit however is the rather innovative 
 single-player structure. The Ultimate Team mode revolves around an addiction that football fans 
 the world over will have been a party to at some point, and comes in the form of collecting packs 
 of player cards in order to build a dream team or fill up a sticker book. Its a completionists 
 dream, and the urge to buy just one more pack of cards to see who you get is a strong draw. Player 
 cards come with stats that can be upgraded and in-game boosts that can be applied at any time to 
 turn the tide of a match in your favour, and any of these can then be traded or sold online with 
 other players.
  
  Its a nice community-minded addition to the somewhat stale formula that most football games utilise, 
 and connects the single-player and multi-player sections of the game admirably. It may be a one-off 
 for the Champions League format, but I hope it gets resurrected at some point in future iterations 
 as its a world away from the usual generic season mode, and entirely engaging as a result.
  
  Usage of the Champions league licence is generally excellent, as you would expect. In-game 
 presentation takes on a suitably grand tone, with the ubiquitous theme music used throughout to 
 conjure up the mid-week atmosphere that fans throughout Europe will look forward to. The challenge 
 mode is a natural extension of this, tasking the player with completing various classic Champions 
 League matches, featuring games that even those with only a passing interest in the competition 
 will recognise. The only issue is that youll be playing with the current-day squads, so youll 
 have to recreate that Zidane volley with someone like Jose Reyes, or fight back as Manchester 
 United in the Stadio Delle Alpi with Darren Fletcher instead of Roy Keane. Hopefully EA can extend 
 the licence to classic players and kits in any future version.
  
  Graphically and aurally the game is largely untouched outside of a few tweaks to the animation 
 system, and the game generally looks decent, if a little plasticized at times. Player likenesses 
 are the usual mixed bag, and for some reason EA seems intent on producing a semi-translucent aura 
 around players with long hair, which just looks strange. Online play is again superbly reliable 
 with extended support for up to 4 on 4 matches. Little to no lag occurs during the majority of 
 games, and the swiftness of the player matchmaking service is something that other games could 
 definitely learn from.
  
  At the end of the day, the question of whether to buy this version will come down to just how much 
 you enjoy the Champions League. If the worlds premier club football competition is important 
 to you, then Uefa Champions League 2006-2007 is undoubtedly worth a purchase as the fan service 
 and unique single-player modes will keep you playing long into the summer. For everyone else however, 
 there really is little to recommend in this title above and beyond Fifa 07. For those on the fence, 
 itd be wise to hold off until this Christmas when hopefully EA can address some of the more prominent 
 issues with the engine, and produce the genuine challenger to the Pro Evolution Soccer crown that 
 football fans the world over are yearning for.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieselPowerMx
Rating: 3
Date: May 23, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect example when a company have a rush to take it to the market the game is 
 dissapointing in every sense this game sucks in every way i dont have anything to say unless i 
 say bad words sorry. If u want a good Soccer Games Buy Winning Eleven, this game relly is ver very 
 poor i hope EA fires a lot of people for one of his poorest games ever. Sorry guys better luck 
 the next Year seriously dont buy this  
 game is the perfect example when a company have a rush to take it to the market the game is dissapointing 
 in every sense this game sucks in every way i dont have anything to say unless i say bad words 
 sorry. If u want a good Soccer Games Buy Winning Eleven, this game relly is ver very poor i hope 
 EA fires a lot of people for one of his poorest games ever. Sorry guys better luck the next Year 
 seriously dont buy this  
 game is the perfect example when a company have a rush to take it to the market the game is dissapointing 
 in every sense this game sucks in every way i dont have anything to say unless i say bad words 
 sorry. If u want a good Soccer Games Buy Winning Eleven, this game relly is ver very poor i hope 
 EA fires a lot of people for one of his poorest games ever. Sorry guys better luck the next Year 
 seriously dont buy this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viperium
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  EA sports Finally made a great football game than before. I think EA use the same engine with the 
 PES or WE used. Like the players movement, passing, shooting, etc... But, i was little dissapointed 
 because the palyers face don't match with the real face on the tv. Its better in the FIFA series 
 that the players face had a same face in the game with the real face, thought the game was worst 
 than PES series actually. But now, it's totally had a big chance to the game. Like better n better 
 graphics (totally awesome) , new features like Card collecting (but i don't really like with the 
 buying card mode, coz if i dont like with the card that i buy, i think i can go out n load the 
 game again to buy taht booster n get the other cards, but it doesn't happen n still i get the same 
 card, that so dissapointing) . And, my big question for EA is where is Ajax Amsterdam?? i think 
 that team will be appear in this game, but just PSV (not official too) from holland team that appear 
 in this game.. Another dissapointing for me.. But, actually this game is great football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumuvite
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok the same old story ... its just Fifa 07 with the champions league teams... nothing new... even 
 the same old errors, like the movement of the players .. they look mike mummys.. turning around... 
 like no middle directions.
  But the game as his fun part like creating your player, and create ure dream team. But ok, its 
 not the worst i have played lately and looking for the time between the two game Fifa 2007 and 
 Uefa ... it could be worst...
  The game menus are the same as Fifa, the graphics too, the game player really need some adjustments. 
 it as his great moments like the 3 Portuguese teams Benfica, Porto , Sporting And the game just 
 deserv a credit because u can win the champions league with your favorite team . just the most 
 important club competition and for football lovers... its a great fealing beating Real Madrid on 
 the final just 2-1 with a goal at the last minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  You can get shots from heaps far out
  
  Example: i was playing online today i took a free kick from behind half way i dunno maybe 1/4 past 
 halfway overpowered it but goalie ran out BOUNCED OVER GOALIE INTO 
 
  and im sure you dont select goalie automatically unless otherwise =P
  
  anyway has very good realism
  in the game i played after it , the ball hit the bar bounced onto 
 the goalies hand and into the net lol
  
  maybe a bit hard to defend at times compared with other soccer sims ive played, players dont seem 
 to tackle as well or its just me :)
  
  anyway the game is solid and good. Good online play where you can trade cards or just play some 
 full on soccer which is fully tracked in ranked mode
  
  I think some of the achievements are a bit overambitious, and very similar to other EA releases 
 of recent.
  
  Controls are still pretty much the same mix in the game
  
  Catch me on multiplayer if im on - dot2 360
  ill be ac milan otherwise =P
  
  im not a hardcore 
 gamer at this reality i suck at this altogether but i love champions league
  
  GO KAKA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  UEFA Champions League from EA is more like a FIFA of last year except with some minor tweak to 
 gameplay and some extra presentation to match the European nights of Football.
  
  1: Gameplay- A Marginal improvement (more of a tweak) than FIFA 07, it uses the new FIFA 07 engine, 
 its a bit more improved than FIFA 07 game, the passes are a bit more organic and some spectacular 
 goals come by in more regular intervals than FIFA 07 (its UEFA CL, players want to perform right?) , 
 but PRO EVO still holds cup in this category. The biggest difference is the card system. Which 
 you can get on the course of the game to changes prior to the match, like a card that can red card 
 an opposition key player, which keep things interesting. Also u can exchange the cards online through 
 Live!
  
  2: Graphics- It is best in a football game to date, the stadiums, crowds and most players look 
 very detailed with believable ball movements. But the graphics is more or less the same as FIFA 
 07.
  
  3: Sounds- UEFA CL has definitely have a huge advantage over FIFA in this department. The commentaries 
 are very good, and with less repetition, then again, most of them are recycled from FIFA 07. The 
 crowd chants, the orchestral UEFA CL music creates the atmosphere of the top most level of club 
 football.
  
  4: Value: The main story mode (Treble) , lasts not more than 6 hrs, after that, the game is mostly 
 FIFA 07 without a huge number of other clubs, stadiums, international teams- so the value is not 
 that good. This game should be priced around 25$, no way 60$!.
  
  UEFA CL is a slight update to FIFA 07 of last year, so if u a hardcore soccer fan and CL is ur 
 fav competition, u cant go wrong with CL.
  
  In other words, if ony 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxobie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  While the Football war has always been a tough battle, Ea Sports &amp; Konami have been going at 
 it for a while,
  Since Iss and Iss deluxe (SNES / Super Famicon) Konami's series has been drawing ever closer, to 
 who always where the leader in Football / Soccer games.
  
  Then with the Playstation Konami went for a dual release changing the core game to Pro Evoultuion 
 Soccer and releasing a stand-by game which held many of the Arcade features from previous games.
 
  
  Immediatly Pro Evolution Soccer was a hit, and its tougher, more realistic gameplay was the top 
 of most Football Fans Lists.
  As technology goes forwards so do the games, And today it's a close fought battle between the recuperating 
 Electronic Arts series, and Konamis Pro Evo series, which many feel is the better Game 
  
  One thing EA sports And Fifa has always held is the money to buy lucrative icense deals year in 
 year out.
  And whil emost say Pro evo gives you better gameplay, the superior graphics, and official teams 
 full of official players has always been EA's Fifa edge.
  
  This year, Electronic arts has taken there license money one step further and has brought us EUFA 
 champions league 2006/2007.
  
  While core gameplay is very similar to the recent fifa title (Fifa 07) there has been a few slight 
 improvements, bringing the game to become more alligned with the Pro Evo series.
  Gameplay feels much more realistic this time, And the whole team morale / chemistry system gives 
 players that Football feeling 
  
  Back with Pro evo on the Ps2, was the first true football feeling I witnessed, you fought, you 
 battled, and no matter how hard you tried, the ball just wouldnt cross the line.
  And the next game, you'd be popping them in from all over the place,
  Perfectly showing how Football 
 i sa funny old game, an don a bad day even the best would struggle.
  
  So Gameplay wise, Champions league is a slight improvement over Fifa, initiating player runs is 
 better, ball physics seem a little more fluid, And while some have complained of difficult defending, 
 the call a second man button, allows you to easily pull a second defender to help against tricky 
 offenders, Add to this a well made offside control (allowing you to step forward th edefensive 
 line) and defensive gameplay becomes much more skilled that a few less depp reviewers may have 
 mentioned.
  
  Off ball players move well, and apart from a few dodgy directions, generally player movement is 
 pretty impresive, On the Ball, While i would love to see passbacks more realistic, and pplay-on 
 decisions a little more fluent, Things are still pretty good.
  The only thing I feel the game really misses, is th eIntentional Dive button found in a fe wxbox/ps2 
 fifa titles.
  And I would love to see EA or Konami bring in the fantastic Handball that was seen in This is Football,
 
  
  So, to cut a long and pretty boring story short, Gameplay is easily as equal to previous Fifa games, 
 and drawing closer and closer to the konami series, with only the through ball needing to be drew 
 closer to the system used in Pro Evo.
  
  As for Graphics,
  There's truly no contest,
  Havin gplayed alot of Football game son the 360, i would have to say Fifa Road to world cup is 
 better than last years Pro Evolution soccer, But in comparison, Champions League honestly makes 
 Pro evolution soccer look like a Ps2 game. (love or hate, sony fanboys, But the Ps2 aint even close 
 to the 360, and even the so called super-power ps3 is having trouble keepin gup)
  Anyhows, After playing for a while me &amp; my cousin decided to power up pro evo and we where 
 litterally shocke dby how bad the graphics are.
  I truly hope Konami get there act together for the expected release later this year.
  
  Sound 
 is also much improved, while football sound / commentary has always been laclustre, Champions league 
 gives a much better atmosphere, and while I wasnt particualry pleased with either fifa 07 or pes, 
 (pes being the better of the two)
  Champions league. is deffinatly a step in the righ tdirection.
  
  Next on the list is modes,
 
  While fifa 07 wasnt fantastic, PES was severely lacking in game modes.
  and while Champions league onlin eis pretty limited, offline you've got the best Football section 
 you will ever witness.
  Think pokemon with football players,
  you play games, you collect points, then you use those points to purchase players, managers, or 
 even stadia or kit. either via Foil packs, (bronze silver and gold) or by the online trade system 
 that allows you to pass on unwanted cards, for lucrative ammount of money to unsuspecting idiots, 
 who migh tnot see the players injuered etc...
  It's bad though when you spend god knows how much on Arsene wenger, and lose him after on ematch 
 because you didnt check his contract.
  
  In all this fantastic mode, keeps you playing, you build up a great squad, and befor eyou know 
 it your changin gevery player becaus eyou want better team chemistry, or you want to work your 
 team around a certain player.
  For me, Ronaldhino was my pick, however after switching back to 4-4-2, he was useless, and sold 
 within a few hours, (shame th emoney only got me a Portsmouth away kit after 3 poor Gold packs)
 
  
  Overall this is fantasti cvalue, I've played alot myself, and even me and my fruiends have spent 
 more time than we'd wish to mention, playin gco-operative trying to beat old CL records (to get 
 more points) or winning a golden ticket to again see our ultimate team (made via the colelction 
 of cards) onto and thorugh the Champions League.
  
  So, this review may have been boring, But pick up Champions league, and you wont be dissapointed.
 
  True, i may have wasted ten minutes of my life, but hopefully somebody out there might make a 
 decision based on this review,
  and if your decision is to get this game, It's a decision you wont regret.
  
  Capiche 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike2x_03x
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Good game, Great graphics! the stadiums look so real, my question, how come EA sports couldn't 
 get the copyrights of PSV eindhoven?? the only reason why i bought this game was to play with PSV, 
 but oh surprise, the uniform and names of players are not official.
  The sound of the game is amazing, and the gameplay remains the same from fifa 07. very good idea 
 the whole trading cards (players) thing.
  i just hope that for fifa 08 they included more teams.
  Ea dont care about us gamers. thats why 
 fifa 07 was so incompleted in teams. and i bet that fifa 08 is going to be incompleted also, since 
 next year the Eurocup is going to take place i bet that they are already planning of a game for 
 it! EAdon't forget important tournaments like the: copa america and libertadores cup 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Design  8
  For those of you who watch the champions league on ITV you will realise that the design of this 
 game is much like the design of that programmes in fact the way the game was designed was in order 
 to give you the experience of watching a match at home on telly so the layout is identical to that 
 of the show which is actually quite satisfying as it lets you feel as though it is a real high 
 light reel from a match. It keeps this theme throughout &amp; maintains consistency with it. Its 
 relatively easy to navigate &amp; not much of a hassle if you do take a wrong turn. I didnt give 
 it a full ten though because it lacked originality as its a fairly routine design.
  
  Gameplay  8
  Initially I found that this game was awkward to handle as I struggled from the 
 change over of my beloved PES 6 but I battled on &amp; then found them incredibly easy, almost 
 childlike, however when consulting someone else on how they found the controls they replied negatively 
 citing them as clunky. Im much in the mindset that youll either get used to this game fairly 
 rapidly or struggle endlessly but if you have been a Fifa/PES fan the transition may be confusing 
 at first but should not pose much of a problem.
  
  Audio  8
  It might be a little untoward to say that this game is the first sports game in the history of 
 sports games to have half decent commentary but Im going to say it anyway. This is because the 
 commentary is constantly flowing &amp; not just fragmented, it adapts along with how the game is 
 progressing &amp; it changes enough not to be inanely repetitive. Yes it does repeat itself but 
 that is to be expected of any game (sports or otherwise) also following on the theme of the ITV 
 effect it also has acquired the voices of Clive Tydlesley &amp; Andy Townsend &amp; yes they still 
 make comments that make you cringe but that happens with football commentary anyway.
  
  Visual  8
  When designing this game it was clearly the idea of all to go for a cinematic experience 
 as opposed to that of other sports games which try to get you into the action as much as possible 
 &amp; luckily it has paid off here. Big name stars look stunning &amp; when you get so far into 
 the game the perspiration is so life like you feel you need a shower after each match however there 
 is a slight problem with some of the lesser talents of Europes footballing elite because although 
 they clearly represent those of who they have been created around they still have that slight generic 
 look about them. In all their attempts of trying to get the characters as realistic as possible 
 they still have a waxy texture to them &amp; sometimes, just sometimes you feel like youre standing 
 in the sports section of Madame Tussauds.
  
  Multiplayer  8
  In essence much the same as the single player but there always has been (&amp; always will be) 
 a bit of edge when playing a human opponent who has the ability to adapt their style of play at 
 a whim or who is capable of making irrational decisions &amp; getting their star centre back sent 
 off. However this is nothing unique. What sets this game apart is the card system where you can 
 build your dream team &amp; trade players with others, take it online &amp; see if your team matches 
 up to those of the Xbox Love community.
  
  Longevity  8
  Football is football, it can not &amp; will not change so no matter what game mode it has been 
 put into, its football. But if you enjoy football you will devour the various delights presented 
 to you. You have the champions league (as expected) , you have online/offline multiplayer which 
 offers up many a treat, you have the card trading system &amp; the dream team system which will 
 sap many an hour out of your life &amp; you have other things which I cant remember. Simply put, 
 if you get into it its gonna be a lot harder to get out.
  
  Achievements  8
  EA are renowned for making games with laughably easy achievements but this not so much. You have 
 the Win Champions league which seems logical enough &amp; offers up 100G. Nice. Then you have 
 Badge of Honour win the champions league 3 times 200G. Very nice. But then you have unbeaten 
 streaks &amp; go however many games without getting a card. Certainly not impossible &amp; if you 
 think about can be achieved with relative ease but not the usual EA insert disk get 10G that 
 I was expecting.
  
  Overall  8
  A solid game that can easily hold a torch to Fifa &amp; PES but it will never do as well as these 
 other 2 games as it only offers the 1 tournament to compete in &amp; the public want variation. 
 Yes this game does have its pitfalls &amp; its follies &amp; is certainly nothing different to 
 the already well established football titles but you will enjoy it, even if you do only play it 
 until the end of the season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Champions League is EA's fourth installment of a football game in a little over the space of a 
 year . The aim of the game is pretty much the same . You keep winning games so you can get a better 
 team . But this edition is different , all players can be viewed as cards also there is an online 
 transfer market where you can sell your cards or buy a new one for some of the money you have earned 
 from playing online or advancing in your career.
  The graphics on this are quite similar to that of FIFA 07 except with improvements . Also of course 
 , there has been transfer updates as there has been the January Transfer window since the last 
 game . eg. Henrik Larsson plays for Manchester United. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casual33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  This next installment of football is probably what '07 should have been but EA either got lazy, 
 greedy, or ran out of time. The speed has slowed although became more realistic in the process. 
 There are improved graphics, player models, movements and the card system is surprisingly addictive, 
 especially if you have xbox live. They have made tackling more realistic as slide tackles no longer 
 always result in a foul. However, even on lower levels of difficulty the better teams will run 
 right around your back line as your defenders watch them without much of a care. The passing system 
 has seen some improvements but has also taken some steps back. You can choose the speed of your 
 pass and they've added nice touches like heel passes but at the same time your players seem to 
 pass the ball to people you never intended to pass to... which results in needless turnovers. Also, 
 from time to time someone you pass to will just completely miss the ball. Shooting is about the 
 same although the finesse shot is less effective. Overall though this is a step in the right direction 
 and makes FIFA 08 very promising 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 103292
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  This is ea best football game yet. There are a few things that are like fifa, most of the gameplay 
 and graphics but there are some new things. When passing you have to hold it down for how much 
 you want the ball to go, you cant just go and win the cup you have to go through modes. In the all 
 new ultimate mode, you have to collect cards and manage them. This modes very good if you have 
 xbox live. If theres any old cards you dont want you can just put them online and see if anyone 
 wants to buy them. (using game credits) And if theres a certain card you need like a contract card 
 for a certain player you can just get it online. Id recommend this game whos played fifa 07 and 
 anyone whos got xbox live. Its very easy to play and very worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  First off let me note that the game plays very well. Alot more real then FIFA or World Cup. The 
 physics are surperb. The graphics are on point as well. The whole card collecting to build your 
 team is brilliant. It is alot of fun getting new card like training cards, patches, new kits to 
 wear, and of course the best players to build your team around. It is great hoping for the next 
 star to be in your new pack that you buy so you can improve your team. The process is simply fun. 
 If you enjoy soccer games then you will love this game. it plays very well and there is alot more 
 to do then just playing matches on the pitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Legendkiller_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  OMG i love this game, This game is much better than fifa 07, i wouldnt say better than the pro evolution 
 soccer series but if i makes a few improvements then yes, This game is definatley a contender for 
 the best football game out. A new unique idea for the xbox 360 the ultimate team is astonishing 
 it will take up most of your time at home you use packs of cards with training cards players etc. 
 then you can get better packs when you make your ultimate team go higher in rank and get better 
 players i would say only one thing spoils this feature... and that is the contracts you have to 
 get contract cards to upgrade your players contract and if you dont that player will disappear 
 from your team the second that spoils the game a bit is the glitches for example if a player is 
 injured and substituted he will walk off the pitch without even a limb.
  
  well i hope you enjoy the game as much as i did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makolokooko
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played FIFA 07, so this is my first experience with EA's supposed new game engine. I 
 say 'supposed' because it feels an awful lot like 2006 FIFA World Cup. Sure, the ball physics are 
 different, and player momentum has changed for the better. The graphics are overall a little snazzier 
 and the animations are a little smoother. But it's not a radical departure at all from previous 
 EA Sports futbol games. (It feels weird to call it soccer, it feels weird to call it football, 
 so I call it futbol. In case you care.) Which means if you didn't like them before, you probably 
 won't like them now. If you did, then you will. It's as simple as that. The card system is pretty 
 cool, but I was hoping I could play through an actual season and then play the UEFA Champions League. 
 Unfortunately, there is only the card game and the UEFA League and that's it. No regular season 
 or franchise mode. For that EA gets a big boo from me. Then again, I could have done some more 
 due diligence before I bought the game, so boo on myself as well. Some of the player models look 
 like partially melted wax museum characters, but for the most part the graphics and sound are rock 
 solid. The soundtrack is nowhere close to as good as the World Cup soundtrack was, unfortunately. 
 But World Cup was the exception, not the rule. I listen to my own music when playing sports games 
 most of the time, as the soundtracks are usually garbage. The complaints others have are the same 
 I have; mainly, the defensive A. I. is so horrid that even the commentators will say things like, 
 The defense is constantly out of position, they had better tighten up. When a video game announcer 
 can notice the flaws in your game, we have a problem. When up against superior attacking talent, 
 your defense will turn into swiss cheese just about every time. No matter how much you're dominating 
 a game against the CPU, you'll undoubtedly have to survive a few hairy 1-on-1's with your goalie, 
 as they'll just slice through your defense like they aren't even there. The problem isn't as annoying 
 against human competition, but very skilled players who have good ballhandlers will still slice 
 right though you. It's not Winning Eleven and it doesn't try to be, which I like. Personally, I 
 find WE to be a little too in depth. I'm not a hardcore futbol fan, I just want a fun, solid game 
 that any of my friends can easily pick up and be able to compete. That's just not possible with 
 WE. The learning curve there is much steeper than it is here. If EA had included a franchise mode 
 and fine tuned the defensive A. I., we'd have a must buy game. Instead, we get a decent game that 
 probably isn't worth the price of admission if you have FIFA 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelsea-omar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  UEFA champions league had copied most of FIFA07 things, the problems are there is no refree walking 
 in the match, the commentator is older than the one in FIFA 07, the only cup that is in there is 
 uefa. The graphics were the same as the ones in FIFA 07, the gameplay is quite diffrent than 07. 
 when you start the match its almost the same as the one in 07 the referee looks at his watch and 
 they bring the team standing which is the only different. the good is the new cards that you use 
 is cool you can make your own team, and the other good thing is some of the shoes of the players 
 are changed to the new ones. I don't see a big change with 07 so i give it about 8.1 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alibanava
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Except for a few glitches, it's an excellent game. I think it's the best Fifa game (since 94) I 
 have ever owned. This makes me not to think about Winning Eleven any more!
  
  The game play is excellent. Slow motion is beautiful and the ultimate team is a unique idea. This 
 is an addicting feature and if you don't have much time at home (like myself) don't start it! then 
 you'll be screwed! Over all, Well done to EA. Although it still has a lot of room for improvements 
 such as:
  
  - Adding Snow, Rain
  - Adding fancy dribbles
  - Adding national teams (although it's called UEFA Championship but yet you sometimes want to play 
 a national game) . This is surely a feature in Fifa 08.
  
  Gameplay:10
  Graphics:9
  Sound:9
  Value:9
  Tilt:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Now Im not really much of a soccer fan and I dont know many names besides David Beckham and pretty 
 much only ever watch world cup matches, but regardless of that fact I found this to be quite fun 
 and highly addictive, in fact during my weekend I was barely able to tear myself away from it, 
 the gameplay is fairly smooth but could of done with a little more tweaking on the tackle/dribble 
 system but what really makes this game stand out and in fact urged me to purchase it in the first 
 place over any other football title out there is the interesting card system where you buy card 
 packs and randomly receive player cards and various types of bonus cards, so if you used to be 
 the type as a kid that spent all his pocket money on buying card/sticker packs with that hope of 
 getting one of those few decent rare cards that would set you apart from all the other kids, then 
 you will immensely enjoy earning points by playing matches and purchasing new packs of cards in 
 a desperate hope of gaining a rare card, without the sick feeling you get after you realise you 
 just spent &pound;20 on a bunch of cards only to realise once you've opened all the packets youve 
 got a pile crappy cards you already had 5 doubles of staring back at you. Havent really hooked 
 this up to live yet so cannot comment on the trading system or multiplayer but so far I have not 
 been disappointed with my purchase despite having little patience for sports games or even sports 
 in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danman87
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  UEFA Champions League for the 360, on the surface, is a relatively enjoyable soccer experience. 
 I'm glad to see some improvements (albeit minor) in terms of gameplay. With these improvements, 
 SOMEHOW, also are accompanied by some new problems. (Go figure, EA has once again failed to live 
 up to expectation) .
  
  A potentially very addicting card system is the key feature in UEFA. The new feature is called 
 Ultimate Team Mode where you start from scratch and build your very own dream team by buying cards 
 with the credits you will earn when completing matches against varied teams. You can really lose 
 yourself without even playing a single game of soccer by just managing your team. Aspects such 
 as player contracts, staff contracts, injuries, fitness, gameplay cards, skill enhancement cards 
 etc. all keep you pretty busy when trying to structure your team accordingly.
  
  Apart from Ultimate Team Mode, which is probably the best mode on the game, you can enter in a 
 UEFA Champions League tourney. You pick your favourite team and play thru group stage games, then 
 work your way up to the final. Online play is top-notch! Virtually no lag. However, that DUMB sprint-glitch 
 can STILL be used in UEFA. You would think EA would have the brains to get rid of that glitch, 
 but apparently not. Other than that, online play will keep you busy when the Ultimate Team Mode 
 is over with.
  
  So, overall, the game boasts some great modes. As i have stated before, the gameplay needs MUCH 
 work although, I am very excited to see where this new ball physics system could potentially go. 
 (Perhaps FIFA 08?) The game is much slower (but more realistic) paced. Passing is quicker and shooting 
 has been tweaked. The finese shot has been toned down, making it almost useless in most situations. 
 You can no longer score by placing your striker in the perfect position just outside the corner 
 of the box and shoot it over the goalie's head. In my opinion, the NEW through ball mechanics are 
 a complete miss. Dare I say I like the through ball more in FIFA 07?? The through ball is always 
 placed much ahead of the intended recipient, which is fine. Although, passing in general, is UEFA's 
 biggest problem. It is DEFINITELY not precise enough, you will find yourself cursing at the game 
 because your player will pass the ball to open space. You will always find yourself an excellent 
 place to pass the ball (just outside the defender for example) but will not be able to do it because 
 the normal pass goes right to the recipient and the through pass usually does not place the ball 
 where you want it to go.
  
  One of the biggest improvements is tackling, it is much more realistic. It is harder to get the 
 ball off of players now. The A. I. however, is a different story. It is so ridiculously hard to 
 get the ball off a computer A. I. player, it's just down-right frusterating. It often becomes a 
 one-man show who SOMEHOW deke your entire defence.
  
  Speaking of defence, I'll be blunt - defenders act as if they're ALL lazy. It's just a giant mess; 
 sure, you can control one of the defenders yourself, but the others just kind of stand around and 
 make fools of themselves. Something must be done with the way defense is played in FIFA games.
 
  
  Attacking, on the other hand, is pretty good. Your team will run up the field with you and do a 
 nice job of getting into a position for an attack. AND NOW! You can ACTUALLY successfully pass 
 in the BOX! Which was a rare ocassion in FIFA 07.
  
  EA compensates for the fact that this is the FOURTH soccer game for the 360 in just over a year, 
 primarily with the Ultimate Team Mode. I will say that this is the very best playing soccer game 
 the 360 has to offer, but it is no gem. UEFA is a half-finished version of the REAL soccer game 
 EA could potentially offer to its fans. It depends though, EA has recently been criticized to deliver 
 under expectations. In conclusion, take it from me, a player who's online record stands at 410-150 
 (online) in FIFA 07. I know what I'm talking about. This game is decent but my GOD, this game, 
 with a little more precisive passing and a rework of the dribbling (maybe a reintroduction of the 
 skill stick?) EA could have a REAL gem of a soccer game on their hands. Much work is to be done, 
 but I look forward to the FIFA 08 instalment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neovico
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  I decided to start the review with this option first instead of graphics, because each time seems 
 that EA works and works more on this part with great results, not all in life are graphics!!.
 
  
  The first thing that you will notice is hey man, this players and ball are not the same!! and yes, 
 gameplay is much much improved from FIFA 07. A more paceful game brings you the chance of to elaborate 
 a lot more all the plays (not all is to play on the wings, like in the old fifas) , you can pass 
 and pass and pass until find the space for to create your goal chance, making the game more realistic. 
 Now the midfields and defenders are really importants, with his improved A. I, and all is much more 
 responsive, as in the players as in the controls. Ball physics are amazing, really well done, the 
 game has the same thing about that the ball goes appart from players , but in this version is much 
 more accuratte, is not so BOUNCE like in in FIFA07.
  
  Talking about bounce, players collisions are simply great, now when you want to do a light tackle, 
 players dont bounce like in 07, they really fight for the ball, and is more difficult, is not so 
 easy as to press the tackle button and wait for the player make the job, you must to be well positioned 
 and make the tackle in the right time. Strong tackles are really great, and you can feel when you 
 did a good one (with a great satisfaction of to break the opponent play and to go with the ball 
 on your boots) or a bad one (with your consequent yellow card) .
  
  The CPU A. I is really improved, as may people said, to play in semi-pro is not so easy as it seems, 
 you must to work hard in the field, and this feeling of to do a great job on the field is awarded 
 with a consequent goal, thing that makes you up of your sofa saying yessss!!! after a nice play. 
 Must to say that the the new camera angle television helps a lot on this, is not so close like 
 in FIFA, is just in the right position.
  
  You will notice too that long passes are more acurate now, you can feel the ball weight and how 
 your players put the ball on the field after a long pass, etc...
  
  Head shots are impresive, there&acute; s more spectacular head diving shots, overall when you make 
 a low long pass and the forward is looking for to score.
  
  Finally, controls seems more responsive too, not like in a arcade game, i mean, many reviews claims 
 against that the controls are not responsive, this is not true, the controls are responsive, but 
 the players have weight and you must to play a few games until you achieve the timming for to do 
 all the actions, making the game more realistic yet (in FIFA07 may be was too much exagerated, 
 now is really ok) . If you want and arcade game where you players can turn 180 degrees in 0.0000002 
 seconds without break their legs, this is not your game. There&acute; s not TRICK moves yet, but 
 each time is minus necesary, you will realize about how players can do a lot of tricks simply with 
 left stick, like foot to foot, stop and go on one defender, etc.. etc.. is cool.
  
  And like always, multiplayer is totally out of lag.
  
  There&acute; s only a couple things that 
 could be improved, as the select player button when you are defending, stills not so exact as you 
 wish, but it works well. Another thing is that the goalkeepers are more difficult to pass than 
 in FIFA07, they cover really well the spaces, and believe me, you must to do a great work on this 
 part to achieve the goal, you will sweat until to score a goal if you play games kinda Liverpool 
 - Bar&ccedil; a, etc. This happends overall in good teams with good goalkeepers (Casillas, Valdes, 
 Reina, etc....) some people will find this more realistic, others will find not so realistic, this 
 part is up to you, but personally, i preferd a 1-0 or 2-1, than a 7-5, you know what i mean. But 
 this is not a defect itself, if you play well, making good pases, posession, etc... your team morale 
 is going up, making this task more easy.
  
  MODES/LONGEVITY
  
  Here, you have a lot of options. Quick Game ,,, To Play the UEFA CL with any team that you want 
 from 5 leagues (Premier, LaLiga, Bundesliga, Serie A, French League, plus Rest of Teams) , with 
 celebration include at the end!!!, a Challange Mode , where you can play 42 diferent situations 
 of the pasts UEFA CL editions and rewritte the history, Online Play up to 8 players, and the great 
 Ultimate Team Mode , that is deep as hell. All of this without count all the rest of options, like 
 transfers, edit/create players, line ups, attack/defense movements, etc... etc... etc.
  
  The new Ultimate Team Mode is really adictive and great, the idea of to start from zero, with 15 
 dumb players, like in a 3rd division team, and going into win and win macthes for to gain points 
 and to go up levels and to buy new players until achieve the team of your dreams and to win the 
 Champions League is simply great. All of this this without count with the special cards, like trainners, 
 contracts extends, better form, or inclusive cards that you can use while you are playing a macth, 
 like to have 15 minutes of great stamina for your players, or bad stamina for oponnet one player, 
 etc. You will expend great minutes making your team as good as possible chemistry , players from 
 the same country speaks the same language and they understand themself much better, or they have 
 a preferd position or system, etc, etc.
  
  And the great thing is that all this things are totally reflected on the field. If you have done 
 a great work on this part, the macth will be more easy (is nice to see how your players improve 
 after each macth) . As i said, this kind of 30% RPG and 60% soccer is simply brillant. At the beggining 
 i was not so convinced about this option, but after playing 10 macthes you cannot leave it!!. Furthermore, 
 you can sell your cards or buy new ones on LIVE, or complete albums and unlock boots, balls, stadiums, 
 etc.. GREAT.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Without comments.... absolutelly AWESOME. The stadiums are simply amazing, to play at night with 
 all that lights (you can play at day, afternoon or night on the same long list of FIFA07 stadiums 
 plus a new stadium, the one that appears on the demo) . All the atmosphere is well done, like in 
 a TV macth, the crows roars meanwhile players enter in the field of this great stadium.
  Players are simply brillant done, you will notice that are a bit more accurate than in FIFA07... for 
 R. Madrid fans, finally there&acute; s a GUTI face!!!... and other players new faces. Kits, balls, 
 and boots are smooth and well done and, etc, etc.... all you can imagine from EA games on this part. 
 More fluid animations, new enter scenes (3 or 4 each time that your team goes to the field) , new 
 replay angles 3 replays per goal , and the cool thing, new animations scenes on celebrating goals, 
 or after a tackle like the one the player is saying that he touched the ball and not the player 
 while you can see this player make the round form of the ball, other animations like bad faces 
 or shoulder touches in yellow cards, etc... etc. There&acute; s no words for this part, is simply 
 perfect. Inclusive the detail of real advertisements of the UEFA CL, like PS3 on a 360!!.
  
  SOUND
  
  As good as graphics. Lot of chants from the crowd You will never walk alone Bar&ccedil; a, 
 Bar&ccedil; a, Bar&ccedil; a!!! Madrid!!....... Madrid!!! , etc... etc. Each team has 5 or 6 diferent 
 chants, almost the teams that i tested. Crowd roars as i said on the enter the teams, after each 
 goal, screaming during the macth when you are near to score a goal, aplausses when you break an 
 opponent play, etc. Plus a great comments (i talk about spanish version) from LaLaguna and Pepe 
 Domingo Casta&ntilde; o, from La Cadena Ser, that gives a more realistic thing to the game... with 
 all the players names, great and funny comments after a tackle, etc. Is clear that there&acute; s 
 a lot of phrases, hundreds and hundreds, but after to play 100 games, some of them can be repetitive, 
 all has limits. I still thinking that the speaker thing when the game is near to finish or in the 
 half time, talking about a card bad parked is so great. Pure class on this part too. There&acute; s 
 not a long MUSIC SCORE on this part, like in FIFA07, but, did you really buy a soccer game for 
 to have 25 songs?
  
  FINAL COMMENTS/ LAST APEAL
  
  If you enjoyed with FIFA07 but you though, this can be better , and you dont care to dont play 
 with national teams or the IGN reviews, take your FIFA07, sell it and buy this great game, is much 
 much better. Until now, and in my oppinion, the best soccer game for our 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  Achievements: Impossible
  
  Pros: Ultimate Team, with card trading, is an excellent innovation; best FIFA game so far; soundtrack 
 is good; 4 player XBL and loads of modes
  
  Cons: Useless manual and little help with the complex card trading; still not quite PES; stupid 
 and impossible achievements
  
  The football game genre has changed very little of the past 5 years. Pro Evolution Soccer (PES) 
 has remained king among the discerning fans, whilst FIFA has appealed to the more casual gamer. 
 PES6, released last year, was barely any different from 5, 4, 3, or 2 for that matter. In many 
 ways PES6 was actually a step backward with some previous features removed. The football game genre 
 has been in need of fresh ideas for some time; does UEFA 2007 deliver on its promise? Oh Yes!
 
  
  The FIFA match engine has been tweaked in a number of ways for the better. Firstly, the ball and 
 player physics have been improved such that each is now individually modeled; giving the impression 
 of weight and momentum to the players. The change certainly benefits the look and realism of matches, 
 but it does mean that the players are a little less responsive on the turn. Player collision is 
 much better too and this aids defending a little, although the defending is still a bit tricky.
 
  
  The controls have been tweaked too with crossing now much more a matter of skill than just tapping 
 B. Passing and through balls are also much better than previous FIFA releases; in fact it is positively 
 PES like. Delve into the control options and youll actually find a setting called New Default 
 which actually maps all the same buttons as PES6! If you are familiar with PES then there are a 
 few extra buttons to contend with. I personally like the the offside button as it takes me back 
 to the George Graham days Smiley.
  
  The pace of the game is slower than FIFA 07 and PES promoting a more strategic pass and move style 
 - Alan Hanson would approve! This has the positive effect of more realistic matches with plenty 
 of tight 0-0 and 1-0 results; but it also means that UEFA is a game that you need plenty of patience 
 and skill in to get the most out of it. No longer is FIFA a pick-up and play game.
  
  Overall the match engine is a welcome improvement, and despite the slower play and tricky defending, 
 it is actually more rewarding when you eventually score (cos it is not easy!) . UEFA is still not 
 quite as good as PES, but the FIFA series is definitely getting very close to stealing its crown.
 
  Where UEFA wins hands down is in its plentiful and novel game modes; in particular the card trading 
 Ultimate Team mode. Football games had become quite dull in terms of the competitions and game 
 modes available with multiple rehashes of the same international and national cups. To be honest, 
 once youve played one, youd played them all and there was no compelling reason to carry on unless 
 it was for achievements.
  
  In UEFA, the Ultimate Team mode steals RPG style elements and combines them with a trading card 
 game (that you can trade online) to create a game that is both engaging and strangely addictive 
 (you can fill a scrap book with your cards too) . At the start of the game your are given 16 random 
 cards. Further Bronze card packs can be purchased with credits you earn playing ultimate team 
 matches (you get more credits for high difficulty levels) . Silver and Gold packs can be won by 
 completing certain challenges and levelling up. Various cards are available: including, players, 
 modifiers (in-game) , stadia, kits, badges, coaches, back-room staff, and managers.
  
  To create the ultimate team you must balance the attributes of the team by collecting particular 
 players, coaches and managers that work well together. This is achieved by matching nationality, 
 favorite formations and positions to get a Chemistry bonus that improves your teams on-the-pitch 
 attributes.
  The card trading system is a Statos dream with loads of menus, details, statistics, and endless 
 combination bonuses. Unfortunately, EA make it as difficult as possible for you to learn about 
 this new feature. The manual is useless and the in-game tutorial barely scratches the surface. 
 I suspect that EA want you to visit their website or phone their help-line, which are cynically 
 plastered over the manual, to actually find out how to use the card trading system. EA are releasing 
 a movie tutorial on XBLM, which is at least something.
  
  Graphically UEFA 2007 is a sold effort. The player animations are fluid and life-like while the 
 players feature some nice textures and decent face mapping. The grass and stadia look great too. 
 The in-game presentation and menu navigation is well designed, particularly the card trading screens, 
 and it is a doodle to use once you are used to the many menus-in-menus.
  
  As with previous FIFA games, the sound is top quality with some realistic crowd chants, a reasonable 
 in-game commentary (much better than PES!) , and a fantastic soundtrack featuring mixes from a couple 
 of my favorite acts: Bonobo &amp; The Thievery Corporation.
  
  With the ultimate team mode alone, UEFA would represent much better value for money than FIFA 07 
 or PES6. However, UEFA also features additional Champions League challenge modes (one that is unlocked 
 in UT) , and a brilliant 4 player, lag free, XBL that also allows you to enter your Ultimate Team.
 
  
  Sadly, some of the achievements in UEFA 2007 are a joke. Most of worst ones are inherited from 
 FIFA 07, and represent some of the most ridiculous ever defined: for instance, Win 60 games in 
 a row! &amp; Get an average of 4 goals per game over 50 games on Semi-Professional difficulty. 
 There are some achievements tied to the Ultimate Team mode, and these are generally more reasonable 
 and balanced.
  
  Overall UEFA 2007 is a really good attempt to move the football game genre forward. Whilst the 
 match engine is still not quite as good as PES, the rest of the package puts UEFA 2007 3-1 up at 
 half time. The new Ultimate Team mode, with the card collection mechanism, is quite brilliant and 
 provides an interesting, compelling &amp; rewarding way to enjoy playing football on your Xbox 
 360. UEFA 2007 is highly recommended for PES and FIFA fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loanduck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Champions League Finally did it right with Having the combination of not only great graphics, but 
 even better gameplay.
  
  Graphics- 10/10 FIFA 07 had great grahics but CL06 really made a big enough upgrade on the graphics 
 and presentation to make to worth seeing.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10 THis is how football should be played, the pace of the game is right on with a true 
 football speed, Tackling is much better, you still have to be careful but straight red cards like 
 in Fifa07 won't be as common! Passing has been inproved, Shooting is always great in fifa games 
 to me at least . Overalll a signifigant upgrade from fifa 07 that makes it worth playing and overall 
 it's funner to play that FIFa07
  
  Sound- 8/10 Overall sounds great but could have been just a tad better but I'm not all about the 
 sound and commentary, the commentary still uses some of the same phrases from all the other fifa 
 games
  
  Tilt 8/10 Besides the CL tourny you have a lot of game modes and challenges for the game to keep 
 you occupied for a long time, the Ultimate team mode is extremly Innovated and fun to play, I can't 
 wait to get my Golden Ticket to take my team to CL tournament, and with all the challlenges or 
 re-writing great CL games is very cool
  
  This game is very awesome and gets me excited to think how awesome
  FIFA 08 will be, if you love 
 Soccer and have a X360 you NEED TO BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
