-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UEFA EURO 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/uefaeuro2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plays a great game of football.
 Excellent crowd noise.
 Realistic, challenging AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Almost the same game engine as FIFA 08.
 No club teams.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: May 19, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
UEFA Euro 2008 plays a better game of football than anything else on the market, but only just. 
 

  UK REVIEW -- First things first: UEFA Euro 2008 plays a better game of football than any other game 
 currently available for either the Xbox 360 or the PS3. EA Canada's gameplay team has been hard 
 at work on the core engine since it finished FIFA 08, and its work shows. UEFA Euro 2008 isn't 
 that far ahead of the latest FIFA offering, but minor improvements are apparent all over the pitch. 

  As you'd expect, Euro 2008 features a much smaller roster of teams compared to FIFA, only featuring 
 the international teams that are eligible for the European Championship, without any reduction 
 in the sticker price to compensate. The football is slightly faster than in FIFA 08, the animations 
 are smoother, and the addition of a manual celebration mechanic lets you control your player after 
 scoring. All of these things add up to make UEFA Euro 2008 a slightly better match experience than 
 FIFA 2008, but not that much better.  

           Captain Your Country mode lets you try for the captain's armband.      

  Euro 2008's 
 single-player modes are as varied as could be hoped given the limited nature of the licence. You 
 can play through your chosen team's qualifying campaign or just jump into the finals with your 
 team. You can also play through in the Be A Pro mode or its new cousin, Captain Your Country.  
 

  The Captain Your Country mode expands on the Be A Pro mode introduced in FIFA 08. You create a 
 player and control him during the course of the qualifying campaign rather than in just one match. 
 The aim is not only to see your team through to qualification, but also to rack up a large enough 
 number of good performances to be made captain by the time you reach the finals. The weaker the 
 team, the easier it is to become captain, but the harder it is to make it to the finals. Your personal 
 score for each match is based on how well you perform in your allotted role; as a defender, you 
 can run forward to knock in goals, but you're more likely to do well staying at the back and waiting 
 to put in that goal-saving tackle instead.  

  You compete against three other players bidding to make the transition from B-team unknown to captain, 
 with your scores out of ten displayed as you go along. This leads to some interesting gameplay, 
 as there are a number of factors to bear in mind. Firstly, you want to perform as well as you can 
 in your chosen position. Secondly, you want your team to get through to the finals and then win. 
 Finally you want to do better than your fellow captaincy candidates, which can lead to a certain 
 amount of gamesmanship as you try to ensure that they don't get the chance to impress. This is 
 an interesting take on co-op play, and it works really well in both single player -- where the other 
 players are AI controlled -- or in multiplayer, where the mode really takes off as the competition 
 hots up.  

  The football itself is very similar to FIFA 08, complete with its advanced trick system that allows 
 more skilful players to skip past multiple defenders when mastered. As with FIFA 08 this system 
 can seem overpowered in multiplayer games when one player has mastered it and the other has not, 
 but the online skill matching does a good job of ensuring that this is rarely an issue.  

  In addition to regular matches and competitions there are a number of scenarios to play out, which 
 put you in control at moments from the actual qualifying campaign that were particularly significant. 
 For instance, you might be tasked with coming out on top after having been dumped into a game 2-0 
 down with 10 minutes to go, or you might be required to replicate Scotland's famous 1-0 victory 
 over France in Paris. Winning the European Championship with any side unlocks a batch of new scenarios 
 from Euro 2004.  

  In previous midseason football titles released to coincide with major championships, playing through 
 the full qualifying campaigns was a nigh-on pointless experience when playing as a high-ranked 
 team, because you would steamroller the poorer international sides, but that isn't the case here. 
 The opponent AI changes are noticeable from the get-go of your campaign, with weaker teams defending 
 in numbers and making your life in front of goal very difficult indeed. Crowds are more vocal than 
 before, too, and are more hostile both home and away. When you're already a goal down in a match 
 that you have to win, hearing even virtual fans chanting "We want our money back" does nothing 
 for your confidence. These changes do really give the game a lot of added value as it  

  The other significant gameplay factor that has been tweaked is the weather, which now plays a more 
 significant role than before. Rain has noticeable effects on the speed the ball skids over the 
 surface; if you hit wet turf, your pass will fly off faster than you'd expect, but if you hit a 
 muddy patch, you will howl in dismay as the ball slows down and a defender slips back to cut out 
 that seemingly perfectly weighted pass to your advancing centre-forward.  

           UEFA may look just like FIFA, but there are some noticeable differences between the two 
 games.      

  The multiplayer game has also received a certain amount of attention. The most obvious change is 
 presented to you front and centre: UEFA Euro 2008 features a metagame that will tally up the performance 
 of the various European nations throughout the tournament, with daily prizes for those who perform 
 best. This performance is measured with a new in-game scoring system that attempts to quantify 
 the skill you've shown. This is based on not only the number of goals you score and let in, but 
 also on pass completion, shot accuracy, and more. It's adjusted for the skill of your team and 
 the skill of your opponent's team. This may help to address the main problem FIFA 08 has had online -- where 
 Barcelona, the best-rated in-game club side, are the most popular team to play because they're 
 so good -- but we're sceptical. More significant is the introduction of quick 16-player tournaments, 
 which can be set up among friends or with random people over Xbox Live or the PlayStation network. 
 This is a compelling addition to the series' basic multiplayer modes and is something we hope to 
 see replicated in FIFA 09.  

  Despite its smaller scope, Euro 2008 replicates the drama of a major international cup competition 
 very well. The gameplay isn't a significant enough an improvement over FIFA 08 to make it easily 
 recommendable as an upgrade given the sticker price, but if you're yet to experience EA's football 
 offerings this season then now's the time to start.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tiagopati
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps I'm the post the game heads on to, but I simply couldn't like it that much. 
  Been PES fan for a while now and that might be a determinant factor in this rating appreciation. 
 From the first look on to this game it's down climb is just incredible... 
  Great graphics are perhaps the saviour of the game but then the rest just falls apart in every 
 way. New passing style with intensitymeter isn't reliable at all and basically ununderstandable. 
 Shooting becomes a creepy trick here as it is very hard to score from distance, even with the best 
 players available to do it with... Lower ranked countries are surprisingly good sometimes and, 
 believe it or not, there's a problem there as we're not talking about the will or the team's mentality... 
 Those differences are noticeable on individual players people, picture that!!! That's disastrous 
 as I see it!
  On the Euro run it is unexplained why do players lose ability through stages and games and the 
 management window interface isn't that easy to understand at all as sometimes you organize it in 
 a manner and then everything appears mixed up again. Terrible. 
  No online experience to tell but the Story Of Qualifying mode is a great add-on such as the Be 
 a Pro playability. Those are great ideas to be developed but... Deserve a better structure to fit 
 into! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a better game than previous installments of the fifa series. It is made by EA and 
 many expected it to be bad but it turned out to be good.
  
  Advantages:
  
  The game has improved graphics and gameplay. There are not much framerate issues and there are 
 no glitchs or bugs in the game. There are a lot of countries to choose from to play the entire 
 campaign. There are 3 campaign modes available. One is the euro 08 tournament only. This enables 
 you to play the finals only. The second option is the tournament, including qualifiers. The third 
 is the whole of the tournament, including friendlies. I chose this 3rd option. There is also a 
 'captain your country' mode which is similar to fifa 08's 'be a pro mode'. This mode enables you 
 to create a player plus 3 other players to fight for the captain's armband during the course of 
 the tournament. This looks interesting as it provides challenges. As for difficulty levels, the 
 difficulty has gone up tremendously. Even the easiest difficulty level, amatuer, provides a challenge. 
 I am currently playing semi-pro as the other difficulty levels are very challenging. Once i complete 
 the tournament, i will start a fresh one with 'professional'. The sound system is very good and 
 the commentators livens up the game. There are also pitch effects in which the wetter the pitch, 
 the more harder is it to run, pass, tackle, shoot and slide. The character models are excellent.
 
  
  Disadvantages:
  
  There are also some issues with the games. Firstly about the passing. Sometimes when you pass a 
 ball to your teammate, he won't bother to get the ball and just leave it alone. This is especially 
 fustrating when you are about to score. The seond issue that it would have been better if EA had 
 introduced the training option like in the PES series. This is good, especially for those who have 
 never played EA's fifa games as it takes time to get used to the gameplay.
  
  In my conclusion, i think this game is a really good soccer game. Furthermore, EA is using this 
 game's engine in FIFA 09. So you can expect FIFA 09 to be a lot better than all the previous installments 
 of fifa games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandam86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  this game delivers what it happens, a historic game piece tracking euro cup 2008 create your own 
 player for more unique ablilities and place them into any team, new controlled celebrations can 
 add that extra whiff to your goals, online play is good as long as you play 3 minutes or more for 
 if the person leaves they are assessed a 3-0 loss but th e trick is surviving those 3 dreaded minutes 
 or having to do everything again. new modes promise a lot of fun however if you bought last years 
 soccer game, dont go out and buy this one again very few changes as can be expected unless you 
 can afford it and want the new features and updated roster, i picked up as i hadn't bought a soccer 
 game since the champions league 06-07 in the bargain bin. Love the fact that the announcer can 
 now not only say any person's last name or first name, but can also say names that are not included 
 in the list or you can string up names together that may seem like the announcer is saying what 
 you want him to say. Great graphics on this too, online play is not bad with the full feature scoreboard 
 on the battle of the nations, can become a bit tedious though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this up, I wondered if I should get this of FIFA. FiFA is what I should of gotten 
 because this game sucked. First off, there are multiple errors. It got really annoying because 
 when I would attempt a through pass the ball might hit an invisible wall or sky of something and 
 it would fly back at me. It looked as though there was an invisible player. My next complain is 
 the the shots look like toddlers are doing them. They look so bad when they're taken that it makes 
 me want to turn the game off there. I was playing as France and playing some half star team. I 
 lost. It seemed as though the goalies were to good. I cant seem to get a shot up close because 
 I run in to far. On the bright side, the visuals are fantastic! It really feels like your on the 
 field. The sound quality is also very good at the same time giving you the realistic atmosphere 
 of a stadium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ting0065
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  UEFA Euro 2008 is by far the best football (soccer) game to date. The gameplay is very fluid and 
 opposition AI are smart. Captain of your country is a good mode, but that is where some of the 
 frustration comes in for me.
  The point system is really unfair. They give the other players plus 0.5 points for just completing 
 a pass, yet your player dosen't get any points for exacly the same thing. Playing captain of your 
 country with some of your mates however is really fun and entertaining.
  Playing as a team can be really challenging on harder difficulties. However, half and one star 
 teams are really hard to beat with a five star teams such as Italy. You never get the ball when 
 you are playing them. Also at times when you are playing you have all the possesion and loads of 
 shots on target, but the goal keeper saves them all! Plus the other team will get one shot and 
 score!
  Apart from those very anoying cons about the game, everything else is solid. The graphics are pretty 
 decent but players faces look unlike them when the cammra goes close up. Gamer controlled celebrations 
 are unnecessary but still lots of fun. 
  Euro 2008 is the best football sim ever and despite problems it is still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Those of you who label this FIFA SOCCER 08.5 aren't exactly wrong. However, the improvements this 
 game makes on that excellent engine makes the game not only improved, it also makes the games itself 
 feel a lot different and more important.
  
  Biggest improvements come with the major integration of "Be A Pro" mode. Not only do you have a 
 better camera angle to work with in this game (where the camera keeps you on screen but follows 
 the action on hand) , you also have a better feel as to what you're really supposed to do in position. 
 The game gives you room to improvise if need be without much of a penalty.
  
  These improvements make what's probably is the best mode in UEFA EURO 2008: Captain My Country. 
 In this mode, you play the entire tournament as either one pro or a created character of your own. 
 You then take three squadmates and help build them up into the ultimate team to dominate the tournament. 
 
  
  If you feel like branching out and leading an entire team, then the standard tournament modes still 
 apply.
  
  When you actually get on the pitch, you'll notice a very colorful, festive atmosphere that varies 
 depending on where in the tournament you are and who you are. Do a match with San Marino and Faboa 
 Islands: it won't be that spectacular. Italy and Germany, however is an incredible sight to behold: 
 loud chanting, bright lights, picture perfect pitch and quite possibly one of the most immersive 
 atmospheres (rivaling that of NCAA Football) .
  
  However, the biggest improvement in this game has to be short game: thru passing works incredibly 
 well in this game. It's not painfully easy (like PES) to slice thru the defenders, but it's stable 
 enough where, at the right time, you will want to use it. 
  
  The problems are few, but notable: Long cross through passing is still highly difficult to pull 
 off effectively. The shot power seems kind of sparadic at times as well. Finally, which may turn 
 some off, the slide tackles in this game seem rather weak and red/yellow cards are still very rare 
 in this game.
  
  Still, for $50 UEFA EURO 2008 is worth the price for the diehard FIFA Soccer fans, as well as for 
 players who love the tournament. If you want a more complete soccer game, FIFA 08 might be your 
 best bet or waiting for 09. However, if you want a stunning game of footie with some spot-on controls 
 and excellent features, UEFA EURO 2008 is that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casperite
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  A very enjoyable game that makes you wants to play more. The game play is much faster than FIFA 
 08. You can really feel the build up during attacking as you have to pass the ball around more 
 often. Simply dribbling the ball under one player's feet and hoping to score in this game is almost 
 impossible, especially against a strong team like France, Italy or Germany.
  
  The crowds' chanting, booing and cheering makes the game more immersive and fun to play. The new 
 control option using the right analog stick for corners and taking freekicks is a great improvement 
 to the series. 
  
  Being an England fan, though England didn't qualify in real, but allowing one to play through the 
 qualification and try to qualify for the Championship and try to win the Euro Cup is simply fun. 
 
  
  This is the best football (or soccer, if you prefer) game I had play. Regardless what "the other 
 camp" like to say about EA's football game, I think EA had done a fantastic job this time and makes 
 me enjoy football more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickjimbo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  
  Let me start by saying I thought EA made major improvements in Fifa 08, they finally began to take 
 in players feedback and made changes accordingly, and for me the result was the best Fifa game 
 to date. When I fisrt started playing 08 I really thought that it had won me back from PES, but, 
 the more I played it (on single player) the more irritated I became with the computers AI. No matter 
 what team you played or on what difficulty level, your opponents just seemed to be braindead, I 
 would find myself chasing a player (who runs in circles) for minutes at a time until eventually 
 it either ended in me making a foul or conceding a throw in, I wanted to play against a team who 
 could pass the ball and could actually play. Uefa Euro 2008 does this!!!
  
  This is the biggest and best thing ea could have done and they have done it superbly, you actually 
 have to consider the consequences of your actions, all out attack could quite easily result in 
 a beutifully worked counter goal from the comp, and if you play defensively the comp will pass 
 it around patiently until they work that opening. 
  
  Even though this game is no where near as in depth as 08, and only has international sides I just 
 can't see myself putting 08 back in the XBox! The clever AI uses variety in play to keep you coming 
 back for more. Although there were countless leagues to play in 08 the dumb oppenents bored me 
 senseless and hense I loose interest!
  
  A great addition of course is the captain your country mode, brilliant, I'll say no more!
  
 
  I simply can't wait for the next installment (euro 08 will easily see me through untill then) , 
 Fifa 09 is a mouthwatering prospect. If EA build on what they have achieved in 08 and enhanse the 
 gameplay of Euro then PES will simply be a legend of past! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucifer_Rus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  I played UEFA EURO 2008 last weekend and ready to share my thoughts about it, and pay attention, 
 i'm talking about next-gen version (i played on XBOX 360) .
  
  So the first and most important: i really LOVED the game. It's amazing. I've spent all my Sunday's 
 free-time on playing. I tried different game modes, starting from quick match to online playing.
 
  
  As i played the demo i was a bit ready to see improving from year to year graphics, new gameplay 
 features, such as personal goal celebration, which can be choosed after scoring and hard-to-perform 
 tricks and feints. Even after reading manual some tricks are difficult and you have all things 
 you need to make each match exclusive-stylish with every player personal gameplay style. Of course 
 i don't even start talking about licensing - everything is great and even Russian national looks 
 (visual) close to real prototypes - that's hard to believe.
  
  I also created myself in "Captain your country" Funny, but not so easy - in demo i played for Klose 
 or Podolsky, and here i got a player of Russia national with speed ~40 and bad shoot power. Hah.. 
 i played 2 matches, it was funny, really! I will improve, i'm sure.
  
  Scoring - is really very important and rather difficult. A remember some years ago it was easy 
 to score from any point of the pitch, you should just find the right shot power and score. Nowdays, 
 if you just press "shot" button - you will not score in 99%. Goalkeepers take these shots as they 
 looks easy for them.. i can't agree with such position, some shots were really good and hard to 
 save, but keeper saved them in the same manner he takes easy ball. But you should just work hard 
 and find a way which will allow you to have 100% score - it's a little strafe before shooting, 
 you just need a second for it, but if you are in time - you will score.
  
  Playing online is interesting, i played some rating matches, 2-3 times started UERO online tournament 
 but only once proceeded to next stage, where lost. One time i was close to win Russia against France, 
 but player leaved on 85 min. (Heh, he got my negative report on his profile, burn in hell, looser) . 
 I had really interesting matches, most of them i've lost on last 10 minutes or even in extra-time. 
 I still have to improve my concentration on last minutes.
  
  Some words about my girlfriend. She played football for 1st time and she played 4 matches for Italy 
 against Andorra and San Marino. She have scored only in the last one. The other matches she had 
 lots of moments, but could not finish them - she did not understand how the power for the shot 
 should be. She made very very high shots, instead of aiming power. So, for newcomers the game has 
 a miss of tutorial, i think.
  
  So, positive features costs much more than some negatives, so the game deserves high score and 
 i put 8.5 - there are still some thing to be done before it will be 10. A "Must Have" game to spend 
 your time before (and after) upcoming UEFA EURO tournament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm8000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  The new game is much better to play then FIFA 2008 but don't get me wrong I love FIFA 2008 but 
 I just have to say that UEFA Euro 2008 is just that much better.
  One thing that EA have improved on is that you can now see the Manager on the sideline but one 
 thing i'd like to add is that there is no Ref out on the pitch still.
  The Be A Pro is improved because you can now play a whole tournament as one player oh yeah and 
 I kick ass :)
  I also love how the game is rated as you play, in single, multiplayer or be a pro play.
  The 
 replay has improved as well were when you score and you can choose the celebration style of your 
 choice but one thing with the camera views why did EA take out Be A Pro view hmmm...
  
  So to finish off this review i'd like to thank EA for these improvements and more lets make the 
 game of Soccer/Football even better thanks GO!! POLSKA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Wisely, UEFA 2008 keeps much the same feel and look as its big brother, FIFA 08. Of course, it 
 is questionable as to whether it is fair to compare a full FIFA game to what is essentially an 
 international tournament version of its predecessor. 
  What is for sure is that the customary EA polish is here, along with the online features we have 
 come to expect from the franchise. Graphically, the player models look a little sharper than FIFA 
 08, probably down to the reduced amount of players available in the game. The addition of short 
 cutscenes showing the remonstrations and frustrations of the managers on the touchline is a refreshing 
 add-on, as is the feature which enables changing of the goal celebrations in real time, although 
 the modelling of the fans leaves a little to be desired compared to 08. Furthermore, on the PS3 
 version at least, there is a noticeable drop in frame rate in the instant replays, although nowhere 
 near as bad as the latest Pro Evo offering on the same console.
  Gameplay wise, the EA effort has never felt so much like Konami's Pro Evolution series in terms 
 of smooth control and a refreshing lack of gimmickry. Sharp and intuitive, the controls seem to 
 have been tuned since last year's version.
  However, the reason I would say "rent it first" is that the lack of a manager mode of the like 
 seen in the full FIFA games means that playing through the tournament with your given team a couple 
 of times may exhaust your interest in this version of the franchise. Online features are of course 
 fun, but the lack of real longterm appeal means this, like the tournament it represents, will probably 
 have run its course by the end of June. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  EA did really well with fifa 08 improving alot on the terrible fifa 07 on the 360. Fifa 08 gameplay 
 wise was awesome and immensly supiriour to 07's gameplay, 08 ended up being one of the most successfull 
 fifa's ever, it is even debatable that fifa even beat the mighty PES this year.
  
  But despite this there was a still a few things with fifa 08 that annoyed alot of people including 
 me. There was terrible foul decisons where if you lay just a finger on the opposition they would 
 tumble to the floor and you would conceed a free kick. Another thing that was slightly lacking 
 in 08 was the AI that was still a bit flimsy and dopey it still sometimes felt like the players 
 didnt have brains in their heads.
  
  So with euro 2008 coming out EA had a chance to address these problems and make an overall better 
 game than 08 and make changes along the way, I always buy the mid season titles because I always 
 find them alot better than the main fifa titles because how they get improved.
  
  Well euro 2008, it plays as well as fifa 08, it looks as good as fifa 08 and if not slightly better, 
 the graphics look slighly smoother. There is slight changes to gameplay though, you now power ground 
 passes and this does give the gameplay an all round slightly different feel. It now feels slighly 
 easier to score to me now, the defence is harder to break down though, but shooting seems to be 
 a bit more rocket assisted like it used to on the old fifas but not completely. The crosses have 
 also been improved and are easier to get on the end of.
  
  Now the AI this was something I was hoping would be improved and to be honest its only been improved 
 slighly I think the silly fouls dont happen anywhere near as much anymore which is good but it 
 still does occasionally happen which is annoying. The players still act a little dopey sometimes 
 its not as sharp as I had hoped it would be and the goalkeepers seem to love to parry the ball 
 back out to the oppostion rather than catch it.
  
  Usually the mid season titles seem to bring a freshness to the game and make it alot more exciting 
 and more fun to play for a fair while, this game had done that to an extent for me but has gotten 
 too familiar quicker than usual, I just dont know i have mixed reactiins for this one, it is a 
 great game dont get me wrong just not as good as I had hoped maybe I expected too much? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
