-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Universe at War: Earth Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/universeatwarearthassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exceptionally varied factions make for some unusual and fun battles.
 Conquer the World mode is highly engaging.
 Big, lumbering mechanical walkers with lasers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful frame-rate drops and other technical problems.
 Quirky control issues.
 Some mediocre missions and poor storytelling drag down the campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 342 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Petroglyph
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Technical problems mar what should have been a solid addition to the Xbox 360's growing library 
 of strategy games. 

  Universe at War absolutely bursts with interesting units and neat twists on genre standbys. It's 
 hard to not appreciate a real-time strategy game that lets you outfit hulking robotic walkers the 
 way you want and send them into battle. Yet despite its awesome mechanical arachnids, the game 
 gets in its own way by failing to fix some obvious problems present in the PC version, as well 
 as adding a major one of its own: namely, a frame rate that dips frequently into the single digits. 
 In a genre that relies on quick thinking and smooth command of the battlefield, it's an inexcusable 
 issue. Throw in some smaller bugs, and you have an entertaining game that squandered its own enormous 
 potential with terrible quality assurance.  

           This walker is way awesome.      

  The aforementioned behemoths of might and metal belong to the Hierarchy faction. The evil-and-proud-of-it 
 Hierarchy brutes have attacked the Earth to gather its resources. The robotic Novus arrive with 
 the intent of obliterating the galactic bullies once and for all, but they casually dismiss the 
 possibility of saving the planet (doing so wouldn't be consistent with their programming) . The 
 Masari, self-proclaimed gods with a flair for arrogance, arrive fashionably late to the party. 
 Apparently, they created the Hierarchy eons ago and are now upset that they let things get so out 
 of hand. Although there are some interesting characters -- such as Mirabel, the lone human among 
 the aloof Novus -- the story is told with the sophistication of a sledgehammer to the forehead. Cutscenes 
 look relatively crude, the corny dialogue is laughable, and the amateur voice acting reduces every 
 character and unit quip to a prehistoric science-fiction cliche.  

  The big twist here is that even though some alien commanders admire humankind's spunk, the Earth's 
 natives take a backseat during the strife that unfolds. And that's just as well, given that all 
 three alien factions are incredibly unique, each offering its own variant on RTS formulas. Those 
 gigantic walkers are such variants. Playing as the Hierarchy, you can create three different types 
 of walkers and outfit their hard points (installation locations) with infantry-creation pods, plasma 
 turrets, magnets that paralyze vehicles, and other cool goodies. If you find yourself facing one, 
 you need to target the unit's hard points before you attempt to take out its core, or you'll get 
 nowhere. For the Novus, speed is the name of the game. Using power conduits, you can spread quickly 
 across the map, and units can use these conduits to speedily zoom around and harass opponents. 
 Building bases as the Masari is a little more straightforward, but they have two modes of play: 
 light and dark. In light mode, you have access to airborne units, and movement speed is increased. 
 In dark mode, your attacks change (even that of your superweapon) , and flying units are grounded. 
 The differences seem subtle at first, but knowing those distinctions can have a noticeable effect 
 on the battlefield. Overall, it's a wonder that these three wildly different factions are balanced 
 so well.  

  The Novus and Hierarchy campaigns embrace the tired method of limiting missions to a limited selection 
 of units and sending you on a linear path to victory. It's a good way of getting you used to the 
 unfamiliar, but both of those campaigns abruptly end before you can explore all of the available 
 research options and units. A few missions, such as one in which you take control of a single hero 
 unit and a few infantry, are the worst types of RTS puzzles, and hardly play to the game's strengths. 
 Once the Masari campaign kicks in, things take an exciting turn for the better. The global map, 
 previously just a visual device employed in cutscenes, is now at your command. Here, you can move 
 from one territory to the next, create strike forces outside of the skirmish itself, and build 
 structures in captured territories. It's a great introduction to another mode, called Conquer the 
 World, but you can easily exploit it because the global events in the campaign are scripted. For 
 instance, since you don't need to worry about any territories getting attacked, you can take as 
 much time as you need to build units before you ever head to battle. It's fortunate that the battles 
 themselves are fun, if a bit straightforward, and that the final showdown is intense and challenging. 

  Outside of the campaign, you can take on the AI in individual skirmishes, though you'll get the 
 most mileage out of the Conquer the World mode and in online matches. In Conquer the World, you 
 battle opponents on a global scale, moving heroes and their strike forces from territory to territory, 
 building structures and unleashing superweapons and spies. It's all in real time, and it's compelling 
 enough to keep you engrossed for hours at a time. You can also take this method of play online, 
 where you face an opponent in a particular territory. If you win the skirmish, you seize the territory 
 in your own game. It's a great idea and works like it did on the PC, though a week after release, 
 we couldn't find a single person competing in this mode. However, we did find players competing 
 in ranked and unranked matches, and several of the games were terrific and intense. It's here that 
 the game should, in theory, shine.  

  Instead, the game suffers because its technical gaffes become more obvious. No matter whether you're 
 playing on your own or against another player online (but  especially  if you are playing online) , 
 the frame rate chugs as soon as there is any excitement on the screen -- sometimes drastically so. 
 This isn't a small annoyance; at times, the action becomes a slide show in which the game doesn't 
 respond to commands, the map choppily scrolls, and your units move as if they were wading through 
 treacle. These gigantic drops in frame rate probably won't ruin the game for you, but they may 
 come close to doing so. It isn't as if Universe at War looks like it's pushing the hardware. Its 
 better unit and structure designs are impressive, and battles do produce a lot of bright, colorful 
 particle effects and explosions. Regardless, Universe at War isn't a technical powerhouse; it's 
 replete with low-resolution textures and bland environments, which makes it hard to forgive these 
 problems.  

           This walker is way awesome too.      

  Developer Petroglyph did succeed at bringing a comfortable control scheme to the Xbox 360 version 
 of Universe at War. The most notable advance here is with the minimap, which you can enlarge with 
 the right trigger and then use to quickly scroll around the map. It's also a snap to create control 
 groups, access production queues from anywhere on the battlefield, and cycle through available 
 special attacks. The overall scheme isn't as good as those found in other Xbox 360 strategy games, 
 but it functions well enough. It could have used some further refinement; for example, it can be 
 tough to select a small unit with your reticle, or to select a certain hard point on a walker. 
 These quirks wouldn't be such a chore if the game's friendly artificial intelligence was more helpful. 
 As it is, you need to heavily micromanage most encounters, and small foibles like these stand out 
 as a result. With a patch on the horizon that will let PC players compete with Xbox 360 players 
 online, it should be interesting to see how the control differences manifest themselves in a competitive 
 environment.  

  There are other annoyances to be found, some of which are small and others more noticeable. For 
 example, you are given the option to turn off pop-up tips by pressing the Y button, but it doesn't 
 actually work. And as in the PC release, the camera remains maddeningly close to the battlefield, 
 even when it's pulled all the way back. All of these problems hinder what should have been a great 
 new addition to an ever-growing selection of real-time strategy games on the Xbox 360. The incredible 
 variety within may win you over in spite of these drawbacks, but there's no reason you should be 
 forced to overlook the frustrations just to get to the good bits.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CPOYoung
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The story is pretty good, but your typical RTS the world is ending game. The part that I really 
 enjoyed was that the humans were losing, so badly that they were not a playable race. Yeah it kinda 
 sucks because people really want to play as humans but when you look at how the game goes, you 
 start to realize how hard it would be to actually play as the humans. Well scratch that you actually 
 do play as them for two levels, and they are very hard levels. Universe at War doesnt do anything 
 new and exciting. The "Adapt your units as you play" concept isnt expressed very much, and i found 
 it easier to just build lots of Ohm Robots and march them into the battle. I also liked how the 
 main hero robot was a girl. It threw me off when i found that out. About halfway through the game 
 a new race is thrown onto your doorstep, and it turns out they come from segas version of atlantis 
 "Atlantia". They are a pretty cool race and control energy and such, its just enough to get you 
 through the game. Over all, i would say wait until this game is under twenty dollars before buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Universe at war is a game made by petroglyph who are better known for star wars empire at war and 
 other games but their new entry into the RTS genre had a brave step to jump to the xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: The overall quality in UAW is solid, with great looking units and extremely different 
 teams which make it much more intereseting than other traditional RTS games, for example the hierarchy 
 main base is a collosal walker and is like something out of war of the worlds and are so much fun 
 o command and take down. The campaign is of good length too with all three factions having a campaign 
 each.
  
  Sound: UAW has a great soundtrack and voice acting is solid, the only drawback is that some of 
 the dialogue is a bit too cheesey. Especially during the campaign.
  
  Multiplayer: This is basically a skirmish map against another opponent but you can play against 
 people on the PC too but you'll find out why you'll lose every time in the next paragraph.
  
  Flaws: There is only one really frustrating flaw here and that is the framerate, its not awful 
 it just makes battles too slow and waiting for a hierarchy walker to get to the enemies base on 
 the other side of the map is frustrating.
  
  Overall: A solid RTS gets universe at war a great 8, it may not as good as its PC counterpart but 
 a good port makes this a great purchase for console RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calazaki96
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, if your into RTS especially Sci-Fi then this is the game for you. 
 I was surprised that you could not play as the humans though, but don't let that put you off from 
 getting the game.
  
  Summary
  The game is about three alien races which overall have their own purposes for coming to earth. 
 The first race of E. T's you play as is an race called Novus. The "Novus" are not so aliens but 
 robots who's creators were wiped out by another alien race that you get to play as called the Hierachy 
 but we will get to them later. The second race of aliens you get to play as are of course the Hierachy 
 they are a "Parasite" in a way consuming every natural resource in sight which is why they came 
 to earth. The final race of aliens you play as named the Masari did not come to earth recently 
 but have played a role as forefathers in our history as humans. They show up in the last moment 
 in this battle between the Novus and the Hierachy to defend Earth were as the Hierachy is trying 
 to destroy it and the Novus are just trying to destroy the Hierachy.
  
  That is all I am going to say as i don't want to spoil it if you haven't played it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mars25
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Its awesome to control Huge Mega-Walkers that spit out Awesome units and to control Heroes that 
 belong to each 3 factions (Masari, Hierarchy, and Novus) But, the movement is Clunky and laggy 
 as if your online. Campaign is OK, with the exception of the few missions that take FOREVER to 
 beat. Also, Units that you would think would be very strong take forever to defeat even the weakest 
 unit. i. e. it took me forever to kill a Masari disciple with a Heirarchy Habitat Walker. (Dont 
 ask me why)
  
  Good: Awesome units (ex. Walkers) , Awesome Heroes, cool means of economy, lots of powers for specific 
 units
  
  Bad: Clunky, dificult to control and select a specific unit, medicore storyline, Factions arent 
 very balanced, weird laggy-like movement
  
  Overall, if your looking for an RTS game when your bored of your others, go ahead and purchase 
 this game, but if you had to choose between this or Command and Conquer 3 then just go with C&C. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulja_gam3r
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Universe at War is an RTS where you can play as 3 different races. Hiearchy (sorry if I spelled 
 it wrong) : you control huge, slow walkers that are like like mobile, destructive, buildings. Novus: 
 stereotypical, futuristic blue-ish robots with tank-like, walker-destroying machines and normal 
 units (sort of like a mix of terran and protoss from StarCraft.) Masari: the human race with boring 
 weapons and stuff- my least favorite race so I don't have much to say XD. Anyway, the camera controls 
 are sort of hard, and if you're in an intense battle and need reinforcements quick then that's 
 a problem, trust me. The battles in UAW are pretty awesome if there are all three races against 
 each other with huge armies and a few heroes. Another good thing about UAW is the superweapons; 
 huge, destructive, kill -no, annihilate- almost everything on screen, powers. They're awesome and 
 useful for destroying main bases or winning a battle when you think you're about to lose. Also, 
 it's good that you can save in the middle of a battle if you don't have the time to finish a battle 
 in one go.
  
  
  That said, Universe at War: Earth Assault is a good game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joaq1999
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  If you are a RTSG fan, Universe at War deserves at least a try from you, 
  
  The good:
  
  - Superb factions, each faction is VERY different from one another
  - Great controls for 
 a console, some people is saying the controls are weird, they might be only weird if you have played 
 BFME II or C&C before, but actually, the control mappinig is by far superior in UAW.
  - Cool Conquer the World game add a strategy level in real time
  - They aren't adding again the 
 'Queen Alien', the ain't repeating the Zergs, there are not Dune Worms; and all those stuff that 
 I don't know you, but I'm tyred to see again and again
  - Very decent AI to play against
  
  The bad:
  
  - Due to bugs, I was unable to finish the campaign, still skirmishes ans scenarios 
 (skirmish with strategy level) are so good, I found this game to be my favorite RTSG on console 
 and in general, only second to the original Starcraft
  
  - A frame rate bug, but it doesn't happen that often, no putting an excuse here, but actually is 
 te truth. BFME II and even C&C get this kind of trouble from time to time, gamespot didn't punish 
 that much
  
  - This is a minor one, more like a request, I would have liked to include other planets, not just 
 the Earth, and more maps
  
  If you are lookiing for a different and original RTSG and you can live with its issues (which every 
 game has, anyway) , you're gonna love this one!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Alien race comes and destroys Earth and we try and fight back. Sound familiar? Well that is exactly 
 what Universe at War: Earth Assault is. The only difference is that humanity is so weak and defenseless 
 that another alien race has to save us. Now, if you enjoy RTS games then I hope this review will 
 help you decide on wheter to buy this game or not but if you don't then I already would strongly 
 advise you not to buy this.
  
  In this game we have our three factions, the Hierarchy, Novus, and Masari. The Hierarchy are an 
 alien race that has gone throughout the universe killing every planet to rid the universe of the 
 weak. Well, I'm sure by the title you can figure out who's next. Now in online mode, this is the 
 race that is highly unbalanced compared to the others. This race has what is basically a super 
 machine called Walkers. There are 3 types of walkers and you are allowed one of each. These Walkers 
 also make your troops and vehicles so they are essential for building an army. The only problem 
 is, you can build all 3 of them before the enemy finishes building a base. Thus, you will find 
 that players who use the Hierarchy will charge with all 3 walkers in a matter of minutes and chances 
 are at this point, you have no way of defending yourself and you lose.
  
  Now, the Novus are the Hierarchy's rivals and have been waging war against them for a large amount 
 of time that we never figure out. They come to Earth to try and stop the Hierarchy from using The 
 Purifier which is a machine that can destroy entire planets. By destroying the Purifier, the Novus 
 would then be able to destroy the Hierarchy. Unlike the Hierarchy, these guys tend to have large 
 amounts of soldiers instead of a few big ones. So, if you can build a base and make an army then 
 you can take on any of the races but like I said before, if you are playing online against an Hierarchy 
 opponent, then it's not going to happen.
  
  Then we have the Masari. These guys were the gods of the universe and they made all forms of life. 
 But one day, the Hierarchy rebelled and they thought they had killed the Masari. Turns out, the 
 Masari came to Earth, helped man evolve, then hid in Atlantis to watch humanity grow. Then of course 
 once the Hierarchy come, the Masari come from hiding to help humanity in its final stand. Sadly, 
 humanity is so weak that we only get to play as them in the first mission. The Masari are really 
 your in between race. They don't attack with a few strong soldiers, but they don't attack with 
 a bunch of small soldiers.
  
  The game play in this is complicated because of the keyboard to controller shift. With these complications 
 that the developers had to work through came problems. Sometimes unless you press B to make it 
 so you control nothing, you can add troops to the troops you had selected without knowing which 
 can thus lead to your impending doom because you might leave your base unguarded or bring your 
 builders into the slaughter thus making it if you are attacked, you have no way or rebuilding. 
 There are also some major framerate problems. Every mission you will probably have 2-4 framerate 
 drops that are highly noticeable. Now if you put that throughout the entire game then you're looking 
 at around 40-80 framerate drops which s incredibly annoying. Things also are very slow. If you 
 have any slow vehicles in your party then it could take about 10 minutes to go all the way across 
 the map. Things also are created very slowly. There are some troops you can make that can take 
 almost 2 minutes to make one of. Yet, the Hierarchy's super machine that can take on a whole army 
 of soldiers takes about the same. Also, once you get to the Masari campaign, you do what is basically 
 a World Conquest. You start out in East Africa and have to go region by region all the way to Central 
 America. Now you can build an army before you attack but you have to wait about 10-15 minutes before 
 you can attack. If they had cut down on time it takes to do stuff in this game it would be a very 
 enjoyable experience.
  
  Now, this game does feature some fun and unique game modes. There is your skirmish which is normal 
 in RTS games but there is one that is not seen very often. It's you versus the world. You have 
 to go from region to region destroying the enemy to take over the entire world for your race. Now 
 like it has been mentioned. This will take forever to accomplish because of how long it takes to 
 do things but it is fun to play.
  
  I won't go too much into the online because it is mediocre at best but to let everyone know it 
 is filled with lag and people who rush using the Hierarchy. If you are lucky enough tough to find 
 someone who uses a race besides the Hierarchy then it can be fun if you can get past the lag. Otherwise, 
 this isn't what you are buying the game for I hope.
  
  One possible major issue I would like to point out that I noticed is that this game's difficulty 
 may possibly reset as you go throughout the game. That or the achievements are glitched but if 
 it's the first one then it is something to point out to let people know. I started the game on 
 hard but didn't notice until the end I unlocked no achievements for the story. Now the only way 
 you don't get any achievements for the campaign is if you played on easy. Thus, it is good to let 
 people who want a challenge to know is that instead of loading your game every time you get on, 
 click continue campaign and select the difficulty you want otherwise you could be playing on easy.
 
  
  Overall, the game is decent. It's worth a play through if you enjoy RTS but otherwise, just don't 
 touch it. I would also recommend playing the PC version instead since that version doesn't have 
 all the problems that the move from keyboard to controller caused. I give it a 6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst out of the three curret RTS's on the xbox 360, Unlike the other games Lord 
 of the Rings Battle for Middle earth 2 and Command and Conquer 3 whom had a great controls that 
 felt like you were playing the PC copy. The first thing you will notice about this game is the 
 poor graphics. It looks like a old PS2 game the Unit design is terrible and textures are no diffrent. 
 The controls just are to complacated for a console and the music, dont get me started at the music, 
 it sounds like 80's disco music. Even the story is poor, a alien faction invades earth and the 
 other two factions try to stop them. Dont even rent this game it dosn't deseve you time and money. 
 You would think that after 6 months they would spice thing up but no it got worse. Go and buy Lord 
 of the Rings or Command and conquer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinegrinder17
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  RTS's do not work on the 360, and this is why i hope halo wars can prove me wrong. The game is 
 good with sweet graphics for an RTS. If you really want it you will most likely only play the PC 
 version. All in all i have one thing to say that should really help any true gamer out. GO BUY 
 WC3 FROZEN THRONE THEN STARCRAFT 2 WHEN IT COMES OUT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! sd d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d dd ddd dd d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d 
 d d d d d cd d d d d d d d ddddd dd ddddd dd ddd ddddd dddddd ddddddd ddddd dddd ddddddd d ddddd 
 dddd dddd dddddddd ddd dddddddd ddddd dddd dddd dddddd dddd ddd dddddddd dddddd dddddddd dddddddd 
 ddddddddddd ddddd dddd dddddd dddd ddddd dddddd ddddddddd dddddddddd ddddddddddd ddddddd dddddddd 
 ddd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Help! My Xbox 360 is being invaded by Real Time Stratagey games! Well, not yet, but soon. The most 
 recent title to take over the Xbox 360 is Universe At War: Earth Assult, which turned out to be 
 a pretty good PC game as well.
  
  So, what does it do right? Well, you can play the game as three different factions, all of which 
 are very diverse and gives some great gameplay variety. Also, it comes with some pretty good multiplayer, 
 and its creoss platform, can't get better then that.
  
  However, the A. I. is ridiculously dumb and requires you to babysit your A. I. teamates. Also, since 
 it is an RTS game, it does have a STEEEEEEEEP learning curve to it and it will take you a few tries 
 before you get it right.
  
  Final verdict is: if Petroglyph could fix out the A. I, fix the slowdowns and provide a camera that 
 zooms out a bit more, Universe at War 2 could very well take Battle For Middle-Earth II from the 
 top spot of X360 RTS honours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancient12231223
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  ive noticed recently gamespot has been sliping in its reviews and on the spot inteviews i cant 
 belive the old cast and crew is gone cuz u messed up i dont know if some ppl left or u fired them 
 but nice job gamespot u just had to mess it up.~ any ways here my personal review universe at war 
 is worth a really good try for ppl who havent played the game nor demo .this is a 9.0 game in my 
 opion and what it dose is amazingly well and what game spot does is plays it for a hour or two 
 and rates it this game u cant get its amazing feel till u at least let it show u how battles wage 
 and commence its game play macanices exseeded my expections it does what it is saposed to exseedingly 
 well even more so than command and conquer 3 tiberium wars me i personaly own all C&C games out 
 and watched e. a mess it up even tho iam gonna buy C&C 3 kanes wrath on 360 as well and red alert 
 3 and tiberuim when they are out i garentee u it wont have the classic aspects of what west wood 
 orginal games or game play and for all u who dont know when west wood was bought out but the evil 
 sick minded e. a whos only looking for a quick buck and launchs games b 4 there even 100% ready 
 tells u e. a messes every thing up so west wood when they left they made a new company !!! after 
 e. a bought out west wood they made pertroglyf or some thing i frogot the name so this game i say 
 worth buying cuz even tho there are lil aspects in the game that needs fixing but who cares when 
 your playing this game ull b some ivolved in it that u wont even notice these defects and gliches 
 even tho i really starting to dislike e. a and gamespot i still love c&c games the diffrence from 
 C&C 3 and universe at wat is c&c u make 50 of 1 unit and rush your oponets base hopeing he doesent 
 have 50 of another unit witch is most likly the case in univese at war u have to think in a manner 
 u never thought possable what i mean by that is u have to use units ablitys in battle to change 
 an unforseeable out come even if ur aponnent has twice as manny guys as u if u have novis ballte 
 mech aka gundam with the human inside they can take on entire armys if u get into a full on war 
 with your oponent the battles will last 5 minutes well back into c&c 3 battles usely last for a 
 a minute or two at the most when u play threw these long battles in universe at war u wont know 
 the outcome till the very end and as u command ur units u will change the out come of that battle 
 over and over so it makes it that much more adicting and funi give the factions 10/out of 10 game 
 play 9.5 overall 9.0 if i could idd make every one realise this games overall aspect and teach 
 them a thing or two but i say if u like rts's and u loved the old C&C's then look no further universe 
 at war is for u! if u do feel like that u should go out and buy it imedetly! .sorry for my spelling 
 guys & have fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tales-of-shadow
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  flaws. the flame rate drops are annoying but isn't the end of the world. Also the controls are not 
 as easily to get to grips with as LOTR: BOME2 and C&C3: TW but after a while you learn how to vast 
 armies with ease.
  final flaw is the weak campaign but who needs an excuse to get an armies an fight. The other modes 
 and gameplay make up for it. Conquer the world is very good having to fight people for the world 
 is hard but engaging. the gameplay is neat and seeing three giants walkers rampaging right into 
 your enemies base is awesome. the other modes are an skirmish mode and a mode like conquer the 
 world but against the AI.
  The armies are the novus who can use flow network to move faster around maps and best used to win 
 battles fast. The Hierarchy have giant walkers went upgraded are a forced to be reckon with. Also 
 the walkers are where you produced most of your units from and that can lead to many styles of 
 how to play as the hierarchy. Finally the masari who are my favorite can be hard to play as. They 
 build their unit slower than the others but they are quite strong so they best for long battles. The 
 masari also have two modes light and dark, in light mode they see farther away and to burning damage 
 and fire at a faster rate, in dark mode they get dark armor and move faster and their fire can 
 slow enemies units down but all of their air units can't fly.
  So that Universe at War: Earth Assault is an around great game that people should play it. Also there 
 isn't any glitch where you can make your army bigger than the the unit cap which is annoying as 
 you can do it in battle for middle earth 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: console-deity
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Though Universe at War has a few minor kinks it's an all round solid real time strategy game. I'll 
 start with the kinks and then go on for a bit about the major genre improvements, then finish with 
 final thoughts on the story and game in general.
  
  So lets look at those kinks in the system:
  - Slightly unstable frame rate; at times it gets 
 a little choppy but never really messes with game play when it really counts. 
  - Oddly enough once in a while, sometimes this happens when an alert sounds, the menu closes on 
 you but there so fast to reopen it barely matters. 
  - Sometimes your units get a little confused and forget to fire back but I've seen little of this, 
 easily rectified by an attentive commander.
  -Other then I personally didn't care for the Masari Race as a culture or really their style but 
 this purely personal preference.
  
  Now for the good stuff, the improvements in the genre's stand control layout:
  - Left stick controls 
 your cursor, right stick controls camera, nothing new there but if you hold the right trigger it 
 enlarges the mini map in the upper right corner and now the left stick moves the camera and the 
 right stick issues move commands to units over the map.
  - Setting/selecting unit groups; big improvements here. 1st all you have to do to make the group 
 is press the back button and the system gives it a number and clears old groups who's members are 
 dead or now part of other groups. Selecting is basically as simple; hold the right bumper and a 
 wheel comes up with an icon for each hero, unit type, and groups by number, cycle either way to 
 the desired icon and press A to select.
  - Selecting units on the battle field is again a simple duty: either hold A down and sweep the 
 units you want (sometimes if you go really fast it skips a frame of two) or double tap A on a unit 
 type.
  - Accessing unit special abilities has never been easier: hold the left trigger and cycle through 
 the abilities of all the units in a selected group, targeted or effect abilities work equally efficient.
 
  - Petroglyph did a really good job creating 3 very different and balanced races; each has its 
 style, look, and advantages. Masari have powerful units but are slow to build and have a slower 
 resources gathering system. The Hierarchy use huge walkers as base/assault units; they build most 
 of their smaller units from the walkers and can upgrade them to be effective war machines. The 
 Novice have many more numbers then the Hierarchy, not so great a difference over the Masari though. 
 The two biggest advantages the Novice have over the others is the Flow Network and their recycle 
 centers. The Flow Network is a series of connected "antennas" that let Novice units and gathers 
 move quickly across the map. This lets the Novice gather resources quickly and safely but also 
 lets them defend themselves more effectively. 
  
  So as the game as a whole it's really fun and well balanced, the story isn't awesome but it's comparable 
 to most game plots today. The updated control layout way out weighs the few faults, improvements 
 like this are what makes later games even better. I bought this game because I love RTSs and I 
 love my 360 and I can say I wasn't disappointed. I fully recommend this title to anyone with a 
 360, it's more then worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sully8scrat
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  What I love about this game the most is the control's. It makes it a pleasure to play. No stress 
 involved in commanding your troops.
  Yes, I agree maybe rushed a little, or maybe that it's because its so hard to port a game onto 
 the 360 but it still rocks. And I am shocked that gamespot say frame rate issues!!! They gave Lord 
 of the rings 8.5 and the frame rate there is terrible ( i still play it though :- ( lol
  The conquer the world multiplayer game mode is very interesting too. I think I speak for most of 
 us RTS guys when I say that there is something about owning the whole world that I like! 
  I wish the story was longer but you do play through each type of race so it makes up for that in 
 gameplay hours. 
  I hope to see expansions to this game and more from those guys from westwood, the grandfathers 
 (no offence guys) of RTS. 
  All in all, if you love RTS get Universe at war!!!
  PS the intro trailer is GREAT! I can watch it again, and again... and again!
  GO get them commader! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  In short, this games major plus is its variety. Every faction plays differently and is well balanced. 
 Gamespots review pretty much tells you everything you need to know. The lag issue is bad but isnt 
 enough to make me kill the game. The camera is also over-exaggerated, your view is perfectly fine. 
 The online componet is slow and there isnt enough players online to really enjoy it but offline 
 is great. One of my greatest issues though is the fact that on scenario modes (take over the planet) 
 you can bring builders with you when you attack a planet. This makes battles EXTREMELY long. Another 
 issue is that each fleet you have can only have so many units and you only have three fleets. Another 
 issue is that the AI isnt very agressive sometimes and you will mostly go on the offensive. The 
 soundtrack is good and really sets the mood. The control scheme is also very solid and easy to 
 get a hold of after a while. It can be confusing and overwhelming though.
  
  The lag issue has been resolved a little bit. Live isnt really that laggy in one on one matches 
 but 4-player matches could see the framerate chug. Multiplayer is pretty good, but get used to 
 rushes. Battles are pretty epic on live but like before, they can be EXTREMELY long.
  
  Please forgive any gramatical errors and I hope you enjoyed my review.
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  I am afraid to report that this game is not all that!
  
  I found the frame rate awful, the sound uninspired, the units you control boring, the missions 
 generic, and the story dull.
  
  I did think that the control system worked better than Lord of the Rings and Command and conquer 
 but it still does not allow you easily control your units. I am sure that Microsoft could release 
 a USB mouse/ keyboard combo that would solve all of the fuse caused by joypad use. I can't really 
 be the only person who thinks this!
  
  This game may be worth a buy if you can get it cheap, around the 14.99 mark would be a fair price 
 but as a full priced game, well save your cash.
  
  So in summary a game that is hard to love. My quest to find a good RTS on the Xbox 360 continues.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyFox_444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Ahh were to begin with this game i have played a couple of campaign missions and skirmish. now the 
 controlls of the game is REALLY hard to master i assume i would have ot play 1-2 weeks before iv'e 
 mastered the controlls but after that they would be capable of matching vs a mouse! now on my 360 
 this game Lags like *Sensor* i found it impossible to play even in 1vs1 Skirmish mod it lag so 
 badly its unplayable and i got no clue as why it lags like i was playing the game on Nintendo! 
 The Distinct faction and the various HardPoints on walkers the patches and Light/Dark mod offer 
 A lot of strategic gameplay matching that of Starcraft i would know i used to be on the National 
 Team A Norway Overall this is a GREAT game but if u want to appreciate the game WE NEED TO FIND 
 A WAY TO GET the freaking LAG AWAY it screws up the whole game for the 360 if i dont find a way 
 to get the lag away im Returning the game to the store i love the game but with the immense lag 
 its simply unplayable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  I really like the concept of Universe at War. There isnt any goofing acting like there was in command 
 and conquer. It you typical Independce day type of Rts game. Aliens (Hiearchry ) have invaded earth. 
 With the help of an outside entity Novus the aid the earthling in the struggle to save mankind. 
 I 
  like how they included the tutoriall in the beggingi missions. The user interface is pretty easy 
 to get usedto. Reallly good story like i said before. Alot of destructions. I love the Walkers 
 pretty insane creatures. I havent played through the missions yet but from what ive played so far 
 its amazing. the character detail is kinda of weak but the game play makes up for that. Not a real 
 biggie I beilieve this game de serves a 9.0 instead of 7.0. Its the third non arcade live rts to 
 come out for the 360. To compete against pc players is a great plus. I think that is the future 
 of online gaming for the 360 and ps3. For any rts fan i would reccomend it. It good that microsoft 
 is using its strengths in bringing this type of genre to the 360. Good job game well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LawMan87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  If your a rts fan of ANY kind, and you own a 360, this game should be on your shelf. They did such 
 a good job bringing this over to the console i find myself forgetting that im not playing it on 
 a computer. The controls are done flawlessly, its preety easy to learn. Muliplayer is quick and 
 fun. I have to say the three races in the game are VERY VERY different. They each offer their own 
 unique twist on the game which is nice, seeing as though most rts games i play the races seem to 
 be the same aside from the way they look. In this game, the entire game play, units, and what not 
 are very distinct from each other. Lastly, the presentation of the game is awesome, the graphics 
 are nice, not amazing, but nice, i did however experience sight fram rate problems here and there, 
 but only briefly. I guess in conclusion, BUY THIS GAME, to be honest i bought it out of hope because 
 i love rts games, and i was hoping this would be fun, it honestly has blown me away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmccarthy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Super varied factions, even more user friendly controls, smoother graphics, deeper online, you 
 name it. C&C3 was a great attempt at RTS on a console and Universe At War takes everything they 
 did with that game, adds to it and takes everything they FORGOT to add and put it in there. 
  
  They've optimized the controls very well. Selecting groups is much quicker and more intuitive 
 and the right trigger to zoom to map mode was a much needed control option that C&C didn't nail. 
 Anyone worried that the controls would be too complicated or too slow, need not worry. The game 
 also runs smooth as butter. No choppy slowdown and beautiful, color vibrant characters and locales. 
 Excellent game, once again pushing console RTS further. 
  If you're on the fence about jumping into RTS, this is a great game to dive into. I recommend it 
 without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palpatine19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Very Balanced Units, factions are so different at times will leave you overwhelmed. Too many ways 
 to count, to customize, and alter your battle stradegy. Even in the middle of a battle. Multiplayer 
 is solid, Global assualt by far the nicest feature for any RTS to date. Controller scheme and layout, 
 makes controlling units a breeze should have it down in about 30min. Runs at a slower pace than 
 other RTS games, which i found refreshing, with new controller scheme less time is spent on, move 
 the cursor all over the map to try and find a specific unit or group. HUGE maps and with over 25 
 of them will keep you coming back for more, unique way of generating economy is always good for 
 a laugh. Mini-Map for fast travel, and birds eye view of the entire map, is a nice addition to 
 the RTS genre. Campaign mode could have been a little longer, and menu printing was too small to 
 see on a SD TV, at times even on an HD display. Which can make it challenging to see what certain 
 structure or uprade will do. Once in a while the game will slow down for no apparent reason, but 
 not often enough for it to annoy me. Overall this game does not disappoint, infact the opposite, 
 was hesitant at first to pick it up, but i am glad i did. Diamond in the rough, my favorite RTS 
 for the console to date. 
  
  
  
  have fun see you on the battlefield 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
