-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Tournament 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/unrealtournament2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting online action.
 Warfare mode in particular is fast paced and fun.
 The five exclusive maps, like the others, are extremely well designed.
 Beautiful, mostly smooth visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unlike the other versions, doesn't support user-created content.
 Some performance issues and glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,551 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Jul 7, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even without player-created content, the Xbox 360 version of this online shooter holds its own, 
 providing plenty of slick, thrilling sci-fi action. 

  It might seem a little late to the party, but the Xbox 360 version of Unreal Tournament 3 proves 
 that fast, furious online action, when done correctly, is timeless. Of course, it's a lot like 
 previous games in the series: You'll cringe when you're stuck with the bio-rifle, celebrate killing 
 sprees that come courtesy of the powerful rocket launcher, and memorize all the best vehicle spawn 
 points. But whether or not you've played an Unreal Tournament game before, this sequel provides 
 endless replay value and plenty of memorable, fist-pumping moments that will keep the adrenaline 
 flowing.  

           In Warfare mode, the orb carrier can take a node instantly.      

  But the awesome action at its core doesn't make this version of Unreal Tournament 3 the best. Noticeably 
 missing is the inclusion of player-created content, which greatly expanded the PlayStation 3 version's 
 online possibilities and was (unsurprisingly) a central element of the original PC release. To 
 help ease the blow, however, developer Epic Games has added a few new maps and local split-screen 
 play. Local split-screen multiplayer is probably the most interesting addition, allowing you and 
 a buddy to join each other in an online game or even play the single-player campaign together. 
 Jumping into a vehicle in split-screen limits your viewing area a little more than you may be comfortable 
 with, but the feature itself is a welcome addition that helps mitigate the missing user content. 

  That campaign isn't the scripted story mode you would expect from a single-player shooter, but 
 it's a good way to get used to the maps and modes before jumping into the fray online. It is simply 
 a series of offline matches in which you and your AI teammates take on another squad of bots. Thankfully 
 the bots are actually pretty decent, particularly in Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, though experienced 
 FPS fans will want to ratchet up the difficulty level, since the standard setting is a cakewalk. 
 There are some AI issues that crop up from time to time in the other modes, but for the most part, 
 you can find some challenge in offline campaign and instant action matches.  

  But the bulk of your time with Unreal Tournament 3 will be spent online with like-minded fraggers, 
 and the game offers some quality ways to make your opponents weep. This is the speediest, twitchiest 
 first-person shooter available for the platform, and it controls well with a gamepad, even with 
 it's keyboard-and-mouse roots. The star of the show is Warfare mode, which is a retooling of Unreal 
 Tournament 2004's Onslaught. Here, you capture the nodes spread across the map in order to link 
 them up with your enemy's base; once the base is vulnerable, your team must destroy the enemy's 
 nuclear core to win the match. As it happens, the best of the new maps are Warfare levels: Cold 
 Harbor, in which you gain control of mountaintop nodes in order to rain missiles onto the enemy's 
 prime node, and Necris Downtown, which is jam-packed with the game's most unique vehicles. What 
 makes the mode so exciting, and easily the best way of playing UT3, is that the action remains 
 focused in just a few key areas at any given moment. Teams must be constantly on the move, adjusting 
 tactics on the fly whenever a node becomes unlinked or the enemy captures a node that gives them 
 access to vehicles that can only be found at that location.  

  Speaking of vehicles, you'll want to test out the game's terrific assortment of mobile death machines. 
 The speedy hovercrafts called Mantas and their cousins, the Vipers, are the most helpful on large 
 maps, and zipping around on them is a blast, particularly when you string together multiple road 
 kills in a single lunge. The most entertaining of them, however, are the new Necris vehicles, such 
 as the frightening Darkwalker tripod, which fires plasma beams and can crush players that venture 
 underneath it. Another Necris favorite is the Scavenger, which uses an energy orb to target other 
 foes, or can roll up into a ball and act as a tumbling sphere of devastation. They control well, 
 are fun to pilot, and are important assets in any map that includes them.  

  Deathmatch and team deathmatch are staples of the series, and few games can inject as much excitement 
 into these standbys as Unreal 3 does. You can thank the weapons for the this driving energy, from 
 the famed rocket launcher to the powerful flak cannon, since most of them pack a punch and are 
 liberally scattered across the maps. The only weapon you may miss from previous games is the lightning 
 gun, but the reintroduction of the sniper rifle and the nicely retooled shock rifle should help 
 fill in any perceived gap. The other familiar mode is capture the flag (and its vehicle-added variant) , 
 and the speedy pace at the heart of the game lends thrills to even this relic of multiplayer game 
 design.  

           Mantas make short work of long distances.      

  This version of Unreal Tournament 3 looks just as beautiful as the PlayStation 3 releasend plays 
 just as well. And, like the PS3 version, the engine performs smoothly, with only the occasional 
 hiccup. While the game usually performed well online during play-testing, we did encounter fleeting 
 moments of lag, even on official dedicated servers, and the lack of a ping meter makes it tough 
 to select a game based on this criterion. Another glitch we encountered that appears to popping 
 up for a number of players is drifting: Even if you don't touch the left analog stick, your avatar 
 may still strafe to the left on its own. This occurred only a few times and didn't affect the course 
 of the game, but as with any passing quirk, your experience may vary. Another consideration is 
 the size of the player community. As of this writing, it is difficult to find ranked matches, and 
 we encountered rather few full unranked matches in a week's worth of play-testing.  

  Even with these issues, Unreal Tournament 3 lives up to its pedigree. Great maps, explosive online 
 action, and the thrilling Warfare mode are reasons enough to pick up a copy if you like filling 
 online foes with flak. Split-screen co-op is icing on the cake, so while the Xbox 360 version may 
 not provide as much community-driven flexibility as the others, you'll still get a rush.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (108 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fball4life3030
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play, but there are some flaws. The campaign is well put together and 
 fun to play especially if you are playing multiplayer campaign with your friends. The gameplay 
 actually reminds me more of Halo and less of gears of war, which is what i was expecting, but that 
 is not necessarily a bad thing. A few negative things about the game are that the online play is 
 rediculously fast paced, and it is hard to stay alive for more than 30 seconds, because there are 
 so many different guns and the only way to regain health is to walk over to get a health pack or 
 health vile, which is usually being guarded by some camper who is looking to get a few cheap kills 
 and then take the health even though they don't really need it. Overall, a would give this game 
 an average score, because of its good campaign, but deffinately not because of its online multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greg258
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Game play.9/10
  Graphics..10/10
  Sound...10/10
  Keeping your interest...8/10
  Multiplayer..5/10 (multiplayer is online only. Have to do 
 split screen 1-2 players)
  
  This game is fast and fun go out and run and gun. The game is still the same with the first person 
 shooter and running around, This one is different you have vehicles in the levels witch I is really 
 sweet, kind of like halo, stop by your body's and have than jump in what ever you driving and go. 
 The gun or still the same but crazy looking, health is still the same start with 100% and pick 
 health upgrades. The AI is great if you make your own team they help you out every step of the 
 way, they just don't run around in circles. there not stuped. lol
  
  
  All you unreal fans I recommend this one its great with the vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibonk19
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun but if your a competitive person (like me) then it will frustrate you. 
 I have played all of the games in the UT series and love them all. I only played them on PC and 
 when this was released for the 360 I thought I would give it try. 
  
  The game is totally different then on the PC as far and movement and looking around. The Unreal 
 series is known for its faced pace map control style of play and unfortunately this cannot be achieved 
 on the 360. If you like slower paced games on the console like Halo then I think you will like 
 this game. If you play quake on the PC stay away from this one.
  
  Epic did not implement a matchmaking system which is becoming a standard for great FPS shooters, 
 so finding a good server that has a good amount of players is nearly impossible. If you are going 
 to by this game buy it on PC not the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o0squishy0o
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  This has been a game I have been looking forward too for such a long time. Since I first played 
 UT on PS2 UT2004 on PC and then UC on xbox I have been hooked.
  
  Story:7
  In the games story you play as Reaper. I big badass looking guy with a soft side for looking out 
 for his sister Jester. In the opening scene you see people walking around in a remote mining colony 
 then all of a sudden **** starts kicking off people are getting blown up and it looks like alot 
 of fun and games. You see your man reaper there with his shock rifle shooting dudes and then you 
 see Jester and Othello as well. This games story would have been ok except for the fact you just 
 play normal matches i. e Deathmatch etc as the "missions". It could be said that the game itself 
 would have not have lended itself to the normal type of mission setting very well since its feel 
 is very much a tournament style game. Sine all you do is play normal game modes it does drag the 
 story out and therefore loses its appeal. There are some twists in the story such as a guy you 
 think is on your side is really against you which kept it interesting but asside from that its 
 nothing special. 
  
  Multiplayer:8
  This is where if you can find it in your heart to forget about the fun you had in Unreal Championship 
 you might think this is the best it has been. I say that because you dont get the special abilities 
 from different races. Which although it was minor on UC it was just enough to make things alot 
 more interesting. It is also a shame that they have gotten rid of bombing run which was a real 
 fan favourite. With that out the way the mulitplayer in this game is good and with the addition 
 of the new vechiles . In the 360 you do get extra maps although looking at the warefare maps you 
 seem to get the same map like 23974239749237x just with different configurations. The way this 
 game lets itself down is the fact the community is pretty much non existant. Just the other day 
 I was trying to play through the Campaign online and noone really joined. Ranked matches??? Good 
 luck trying to find anyone who is playing them or anyone to join your match. 
  
  Gameplay:8
  This is where I think UT3 did lose its way. Its not as quick as it should have been. 
 The guns dont seem 100% balanced. The jumping in the game seems god awful. Either all the walls 
 are up to your chin or your characters boots are full of lead because jumping onto things is really 
 hard and sometimes frustrating since you feel like you should be able to jump up onto the side 
 but you go about 26cms off the floor. The hover board is cool though I think it was a great addition 
 and keeps the all important pace up. New things like the Orb in warefare again another good addition 
 adds to the urgencey of the game specially when you have an enemy on the way with an orb and you 
 have to quickly take him down before he takes the node. I will say now the game suits deathmatch 
 style games better. Since the weapons just dont transpose to well on larger maps. This is because 
 the weapons asside from Shock rifle, Enforcer and Sniper Rifle are of any real use unless your 
 really up close. The lock on the rocket launcher is terrible compared to previous games although 
 hitting an apponent in the face with it is isntant kill levels it out. 
  Vechiles movement on this is, best at average to terrible. Your flying vechiles are fine but you 
 try and race about in the Scorpian things just go out the window. On the default setting you drive 
 and aim the same way you are looking. This can work for vechiles with fixed guns but doesnt not 
 work with vechiles with turrets etc. You can change it though so one stick does the Movement and 
 the other the aim. I have it on this but its still horrible specially when turning in tight spaces. 
 
  
  Graphics:8
  It is a good looking game for the most part. I do not have a HDTv but it doesnt stop me from noticing 
 when things start looking bad. Just to get the bad points out the way. Texture pop up is pretty 
 poor you cant always notice it but when you do you just cant help but keep looking at it. Great 
 example is the bridge walls on suspense just outside the base. I walked up and thought "hey this 
 looks a bit muddy and ugly" then it started to pop up with the real texture. I walked away came 
 back did the same thing. The road textures and just awful as well looks like a constant unload 
 texture. The vechiles and characters do look good and some of the explosions look nice as well. 
 Again like all past Unreal games the big super weapon explosion looks pretty poor. Maps are varried 
 so you do get nice looking places from run down places to maps with waterfalls to cave maps with 
 water falling from the ceiling to frozen ones. 
  
  Summary:
  It is a ok game. Its short of being what its predicesors have been such as UT2004 and UC. It doesnt 
 have the pace you want it to have but its no a snail either. You still have loads of maps to blow 
 your buddies up on and the game is never always the same. Story missions may suck and the fact 
 you cant jump over a garden knome may suck even harder. All of that but yet it does its job in 
 giving a good mulitplayer experince. Lack of mods on the 360 version is a bit of kick in the nuts 
 but being able to play splitscreen is a nice addition. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  First off the games story this time around is not all that great.... Progress from tournament to 
 tournament... But unlike the UT series on the PC... the xbox 360 versions controls do not feel 
 as tight.... The single player is just like a training ground for multiplayer and you can unlock 
 new characters and stuff in the single player.... The problem is when I went on the multiplayer 
 in UT 3 on the 360 is that not many people play this game anymore.... Communication is harder in 
 this game and games in the past like Unreal Championship the lambia conflict (xbox) and UT 2004 
 (PC) were way better than this.... I mean u cannot create maps and play them online and people 
 are already gone to games like halo 3, gears of war 2 and COD 4 and COD WAW..... so this game has 
 been abandoned in alot of ways and is slowly falling apart.... like halo 2 (xbox) and timesplitters 
 3 (xbox) and others.... UT 3 on the PC has the customization option for the PC for maps and stuff 
 and is better.... Stick with the PC version and rent this version at best... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferno003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  UT3 is a great game that many people missed...... online this game is probably the most balanced 
 shooter out there...... it has a great selection of weapons that have alternate fire options and 
 are unlike any weapons in other shooters...... the maps are excellent, and there are many online 
 game modes, that each have there own maps..... a very good feature...... so theres over 30 maps.... its 
 fast paced action is refreshing and unique..... it easily seperates itself from other shooters..... graphics 
 are top notch.... gameplay is #1.... the only thing really missing is single plaier...... it has one.... but 
 all you do is matches against bots on multiplayer maps..... still fun..... and it does have great 
 cutscenes the sport some of the best graphics around today.... the online modes are CTF, VCTF, WAREFARE 
 ,DEATHMATCH, TEAM DEATHMATCH and DUEL..... which are all straight foward but have unreal gameplay 
 twists..... I recommend this game to any shooter fan.... it does take gettin used to..... but is alot 
 of fun, and should not be overlooked or forgotten.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 3 is probably the best fps with bots in any of the console games. 16 bots can 
 be added with their levels verifying from novice to skilled to godlike. No matter how bad you are 
 at an fps, unreal tournament 3 is for anyone over 10. (lots of blood and gore)
  The features of unreal tournament 3 are amazing. You have co-op campaign available, 2 players for 
 xbox live with xbox live guest, 2 player instant action, 16 bots can be added, and lots of different 
 game types available. Unreal tournament 3 has team deathmatch and vehicles this time, unlike the 
 first unreal having either.
  If only this game could have 4 players local, instead of 2. Honestly, the ps2 version could have 
 4 players which came out what, 8 years ago? why can't the xbox 360 have 4? (Two of my friends came 
 over today, so mad about how we had to switch on and off) 
  At least the campaign has a storyline this time, however the story isn't really continued once 
 you get down onto matches. The campaign can be fustrating at times, ESPICALLY capture the flag! 
 Even with the bots on novice, capturing the flag by yourself can be a pain in the --s!
  Pros: Co-op campaign and online guesting but with only 2 players max. Incredible bots, with quantity 
 and quality. Vehicles are very fun to use especially, splattering people is so satisfying. Game 
 is very realistic when it comes to vehicles blowing up and the vehicle parts flying everywhere.
 
  Cons: HELLO! WHERE IS THE 4 PLAYER SPLIT SCREEN! HOW COULD THE PS2 HAVE 4 PLAYERS BUT THE 360 
 ONLY 2! THE PS2 VERSION OF UNREAL 1 CAME OUT 8 YEARS AGO! Graphics aren't exactly beautiful, capture 
 the flag can be fustrating, even with the bots on novice. Campaign storyline kind of dies out once 
 you're battling it out in different levels. 
  Conclusion? You could get a new unreal tournament 3 on amazon for $30, or if you don't trust online 
 shopping, you can buy the game at about any retailer store for $40. If you're tired of xbox live 
 or you don't have xbox live, this is a must! even if you still play halo 3 or cod4 regularly, this 
 game will fail to disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorisSoad
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Once this game was released I ran to the store. Bought the game, put it in my xbox and just waited 
 for the game to blow my brains out of excitement. But that moment never came. 
  
  What am I complaining about? Unreal Tournament, that is a pretty awesome game, right? Yes, it is. 
 The quality of the game is super. The unreal engine gives us fantastic graphics and a great setting. 
 The speedy gameplay in the multiplayer is good fun. 
  
  But what I miss in the game is... soul. The campaign doesn't tell us a story. You have some cut-scenes 
 but the campaign are just multiplayermatches, but then offline. That was one dissapoiting thing. 
 I was hoping for a gears of war-like epic campaing. 
  
  The multiplayer works without lag and is very hyper-active. Just the way I like it. But even the 
 multiplayer didn't gave me the sensation I was hoping for. It is good and everything works well, 
 the maps are beautiful and the weapons are cool. But it just isn't engaging or really sensational. 
 Wich really is a shame, because it is so close to that feelings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer85257
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who get games for the multiplayer, this games for you. This is one of the best 
 multiplayer game to come out. But what happens when nobody plays online anymore. The games single 
 player campaign is just a bunch of multiplayer games against bots instead pf actual people. I don't 
 get games for the multiplayer so am glad i just rented it and feel sorry for those of you who bought 
 it. The games has great multiplayer and i didn't notice and glitches or lag but then agani, i didn't 
 really get too in depth and got bored really quickly with it. I know that this game is meant for 
 multiplayer but don't think its too much to ask for a actual campaign instead of a fake one. The 
 opening scene makes it look like theres a story but it never shows up and is why i would only rent 
 it. Its too bad not enough people will buy the game and it gets the online credit it deserves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has always been about fast paced FPS action. This version delivers on that experience 
 and provides a different flavor than other online shooters on the 360. The graphics and sound are 
 both exceptional and every aspect of the game seems well examined and well executed. For better 
 or worse, UT3 does one thing and does it well. Its all about multiplayer.
  
  The core of this multiplayer game is well built. There are a lot of stages built into the disc 
 and they're all impressive. UT3 uses a heath pack system where you can pick up health and armor, 
 it doesn't recharge automatically. This might be surprising to someone new to the franchise but 
 it works really well in the game. The guns, spread out over the stages, are all very unique and 
 fun. Even if your opponent is using a rocket launcher when you spawn it doesn't leave you without 
 any options. In that regard, the gameplay is well balanced. There is also vehicle combat in the 
 game and the vehicles are just as interesting. I personally liked the Darkwalker a lot, but there 
 are many to choose from.
  
  There are a few different modes of play in this game. There is of course the standard deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch. A variation on deathmatch, called dual mode, is made specifically for 2 people 
 to fight one on one. There is also capture the flag and vehicle capture the flag. The final mode 
 is called warfare and has both teams fighting for control of different connected points until one 
 team is forced back to their own base and eventually destroyed. 
  
  If you are looking for a single player experience that game does throw you a bone. There is a campaign 
 mode, which sets you through a series of missions until you reach a final boss that you fight in 
 a duel. The campaign is really just bot matches in the same modes you could play in an instant 
 action or online. The game tries to explain things like respawning and why you're trying to capture 
 the enemies flag so often in the story, but the story doesn't matter. You can also earn cards in 
 the campaign which can change the settings of the matches a little more in your favor. That adds 
 a little but not a lot.
  
  One plus to the console version is the split screen co-op play. You can play through the campaign 
 or online with one additional person on your console. It would have been nice to have up to four, 
 but two is still more than the PC version allows.
  
  I really enjoyed UT3 and I think anyone who enjoys multiplayer FPS games will find a lot of enjoyment 
 too. The only drawback to the game is that despite its attempts at the campaign its still all multiplayer. 
 The game is quick to get into and has a high replay value. For those that think they would enjoy 
 it, this game is definitely worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  And here we go. Unreal Tournament 3, ut3, keep the already strong franchise still running, and 
 it has provided exactly what we have come to expect from an unreal sequel.
  
  This is a multiplayer game of course, single player is simply a sequence of bot matches played 
 across every map in every game mode with 4 or 5 cut scenes in between chapters. The multiplayer 
 is rock solid, guns are balanced, maps are plentiful and varied, and the game modes are standard, 
 except warfare, but just as solid as ever.
  
  For starters, the weapons in ut3 are typical unreal weapons you have about 10 to 12 weapons that 
 are all very unique in their own right, and feel completely different from one another. Some standard 
 fps weapons like rocket launchers and shotguns make appearances in ut3, but they are unlike the 
 typical run of the mill ones we see in games like halo due to the fact that each gun has an alternate 
 fire. The weapons are all extremely balanced, one weapon does not completely overpower another, 
 yet you would preffer to have certain weapons like a flak cannon, aka the shotgun, over say the 
 standard pistol. The weapons are truly very good and part of the reason unreal has always been 
 so good.
  
  The maps in ut3 are quite abundant. If i had to guess i would say there are about 60 different 
 levels to play on. About a third of them are dedicated for deathmatch and team deathmatch, another 
 third dedicated to capture the flag and vehicle capture the flag, and the last third is dedicated 
 to warfare. The graphics in ut3 are top notch for a multiplayer only game, and are really enhanced 
 because each level looks and feels entirely different from the last. Great map selection has always 
 been a strong point for unreal and it continues in ut3.
  
  The gameplay runs perfectly on the 360, and its controller. Of course, the gameplay isnt quite 
 as fast as on a pc, but you wouldnt want it to be as you dont have the precision aiming with the 
 joysticks that a mouse and dpad could give. However, the gameplay is still the fastest on a console, 
 and feels perfect.
  
  Warfare, the semi-new gameplay mode, is an objective based game in which you must capture specific 
 areas along the map in a sequence to get to the enemies base to destroy their power core. I am 
 not a huge fan of warfare, but it's relatively popular online, and the maps and vehicles make it 
 a good and unique experience. 
  
  One thing must be said however, the friendly a. i. when playing warfare in campaign is absolutely 
 horrible. I mean HORRIBLE. You essentially will have to capture all the points yourself and destroy 
 their core lone wolf style because the friendly a. i. is completely incapable of doing anything. 
 In fact, it would probably be easier to win without friendly a. i. on your team because a lot of 
 times they will take the orb, which automatically captures a point for you, and end up dying. When 
 they die, which they inevitably will, you lose the opportunity to immediately capture a point, 
 which makes things much more difficult.
  
  With all this being said, this game is an online shooter and so lag always comes into question. 
 Rest assured that even though you will find games that lag you can always quit out and find another 
 game that wont lag. I probably catch a game that has lag 1 out of every 10 games and i simply quit 
 and go to another game. So, most of the time it's extremely smooth and a great experience.
  
  Last but not least i would like to mention that the vehicles found in vehicle capture the flag 
 and warfare are all very fun and interesting to drive/pilot. There are probably 10-12 vehicles, 
 some human some alien (necris) . The necris vehicles are much more interesting but nevertheless 
 they are all good.
  
  Unfortunately, this game isnt quite as popular online as you would expect it to be. I can still 
 easily find player matches online that are full, but instead of there being hundreds of games occuring 
 online to choose from there are merely 10 to 20. Unreal always has a strong fanbase so i dont see 
 this game ever becoming deserted online, but you never know.
  
  Overall, the game is an amazing game that has great graphics, great weapons, great vehicles, great 
 levels, and is an overall great game. I cant recommend it enough if you love multiplayer first 
 person shooters. Hopefully the price will come down on it soon and more people will pick it up, 
 but it's still an awesome game that you should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooly1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Why are people still hung up on Call Of Duty 4 and 
  Halo 3? 
  
  This game is extremely entertaining. I personally have always been more of the "mission" gameplay 
 fans, but this "deathmatch" game is awesome.
  
  This is without a doubt one of the most entertaining games I personally own. There are many different 
 game difficulties from Easy to Godlike in which you will 'pwn' everybody in the game, or get PwN3D 
 yourself.
  
  It has a decent amount of different game modes to keep it away from traditional "team deathmatch" 
 and "free for all".
  
  The AI is the smartest of any game I have every played without a doubt in which computers perform 
 "bunny hops" or hiding behind walls.
  
  I have played multiplayer a couple times, but the computers are even more entertaining. They dont 
 talk crap (much) but they still put up a challenge as to you not even knowing that they are even 
 a computer.
  
  Want a 1-1 deathmatch? Go ahead.
  
  Want an 6-6 capture the flag? Go ahead.
  
  Full customizable and %100 entertaining.
  One 
 of the best I own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eko_Eko_Azarak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This version of Unreal Tournament is awesome. The graphics look great considering the transition 
 from PC to 360. Many will argue that the PC always has superior controls for a first person shooter 
 (and they would be very right) but the controls feel very comfortable and easily suit the fast 
 nature of this game. The gameplay is a wee bit slower than the PC version but not enough to really 
 notice. Online the game suffers from very few glitches and the occasional lag. 
  
  However, there are a few things keeping me from giving this a perfect score. One is the fact that 
 since this is a console game, there is no user creation supported, which means no mods or user 
 maps-something that the Unreal community has had for a long time. Also, though this game is great, 
 if one seeks the true experience of this game they should get the PC version. 
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 for the XBOX 360 is an awesome console version of a PC classic. Despite its 
 few flaws, it is a great substitute for its PC counterpart. This is a game with better multiplayer 
 then most of the games out there. A definite buy for those into fast-paced FPS action!
  
  A REVIEW BY EKO_EKO_AZARAK
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shermans_HUD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament III, for the Xbox 360, is one of the newest installments from the Unreal crew 
 at Epic Games. This game, originally for the PC, puts you in the place of one man, his crew, and 
 an intense battle with the Necris.
  
  As you should all know, Unreal 3 was made for the PC as its predecessors were. Some gamers were 
 not happy with the transition from PC to console, like some Valve fans were angry over the Orange 
 Box being a multi platform game. But, like in my last review, this game made the transition over 
 very well from PC to Console.
  
  Design and Detail:
  
  This game is pretty. Yes, I said pretty. With this game, the graphics are just beautiful. But you 
 would have to expect it from Epic Games since they built and use the ever popular Unreal Engine 
 version 3. The landscapes are well detailed, with explosions taking rocks, water, and corpses into 
 the air and returning them like really horrible rain. The character models in this are very detailed, 
 but you will notice some other details that seem well familiar. Looking at your main character, 
 (insert name here) ; his model is taken from Gears of War of the beloved hero Marcus Fenix; and 
 one of your other team mates uses the same model as Cole from Gears of War. Now being these games 
 are made by the same company, you would have thought that they could have been a little more creative, 
 but in this line of work you have to take what you have and put it to use. With the vehicles side 
 of the game being an addition to this ever popular series, the Epic team has done really well with 
 the vehicle creation. The detail on them is very well proportioned, especially when damage is done 
 to them. They do catch fire and do smoke, but it seems to be a little overdone, in a matter of 
 speaking.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Moving from a mouse/keyboard to a controller does take a little getting used to, but if you can 
 do it well then you should have no problem with playing the game. Moving and jumping is very easy 
 to do, and the addition of double jump makes getting to high spots easier and better. Weapon use 
 is very simple too, with the utilization of both left and right triggers. For example, the link 
 gun, when holding down the right trigger, shoots out balls of energy, while holding on the left 
 trigger creates a stream of energy, which can be used for repairing vehicles, building nodes, and 
 completely disintegrating an enemy into nothing but a skeleton. Along with the usual running and 
 jumping is a fantastic addition of a hoverboard. To activate this you push X. During missions where 
 you have to get to someplace fast, this board makes it so much easier. During Core missions, you 
 have to drag your color orb to a node to be able to perform a quick capture, and to do this easier, 
 you just use your hoverboard and well hover to the node. Fairly simple, yes? Well no it's not. 
 Once on your hoverboard, you have no control of weapons, so you become a flying target to the enemy. 
 Falling off of your board due to an enemy round striking you costs you about 20HP. Driving is another 
 challenge all on its own. Trying to get a vehicle to move correctly takes a little time. With the 
 larger vehicles like the goliath, getting stuck is almost inevitable, but after about the 3rd time 
 it's a breeze. So take some time, and you'll get it.
  
  Missions
  
  I decided to do this on its own, since you should all know about how they work. The missions in 
 this game are very repetitive. The campaign is just like one big set of multiplayer maps. Missions 
 do repeat a lot, with Core Destruction being most prominent, then Team Deathmatch, and then Capture 
 the Flag. So, be ready to do a lot of repetitive work. It does, like I said, play like a big group 
 of multiplayer maps, so be ready for some kind of taunting and tea bagging.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The crown jewel of the Unreal Series is the multiplayer. Staying up, hours 
 on end, is normal with this game. Multiplayer plays like it did in the old days, with running across 
 the map killing others and collecting weapons, then killing them with those weapons. Get ready 
 for some extreme mayhem with this game as well, since you can blow up just about everything. Others 
 from across the world playing the game will bring the pain since everyone is familiar with the 
 way this plays and what this game can and cannot do. The variants this game does have are exactly 
 like the campaign, so be ready for more repetitive work.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 has made a very beautiful transition from the PC to the 360. Be expecting extreme 
 gameplay, but do remember that it will get repetitive, so keep going at it and it will get interesting. 
 Multiplayer is as it was in the old day and will bring memories back of the hours you put in on 
 the computer killing others over who is the best and who just sucks as a gamer. The graphics will 
 make you feel like you're really there, and the Unreal Engine makes it the best.
  
  Score: 4.5 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beetroot502
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  I have been an avid player of Unreal2k4 for a long time, and waited very long for Unreal3 to finally 
 come out on the 360. The graphics in the game running on the Unreal3Engine look incredible. The 
 gore, amount of action going on the screen at once, and the fast paced run'n'gun gameplay are what 
 make this game addictive. Unreal is really best known for the multiplayer compenent, which is where 
 the series is known to shine. Upon joining games on Xboxlive, I found excessive amounts of lag 
 making the game near unplayable. Whether there is a fix for this coming, I do not know but can 
 only hope.
  
  The single player attempts to put together a storyline, which is really just a reason why you are 
 playing a pack of gametypes across many maps.
  
  Overall, Unreal has a large amount of potential to be a really great game. Just give us a patch 
 to make it so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Last generation, console users were introduced to Unreal Championship and Unreal Championship 2, 
 but this game, I would consider, is the closest to the feel of Unreal Tournament that PC fans are 
 most familiar with. The gameplay is fast and unrelenting; meaning, you need to react quickly in 
 order to survive in this FPS. This shooter offers much of what Unreal Tournament 2k4 had, but with 
 better graphics.
  
  What surprised me about this game was the option of local multiplayer, considering how many games 
 this generation have left that option out; especially with the great graphics this game showcases. 
 There are plenty of modes for both on-line and local, and, if you're wondering if the modes are 
 worthwhile off-line: yes, they are because this game offers bots. While the majority of shoots 
 that are on consoles only offer local multiplayer with, maybe, up to four friends, this game offers 
 two players to play co-op or competitively with or without bots.
  
  While the game outshines what most FPS this generation have to offer, it does have its flaws. The 
 single player campaign is little more than dull dialogue giving reasons behind each match; it makes 
 me think that they took time to write out a somewhat good script for Gears of War and got lazy 
 with it for this game. So, what you see in single player you will see the exact same thing in multiplayer. 
 
  
  Unlike the PC version or the PS3 version, this version of the game does not offer mods or custom 
 maps. Also, PS3 users can verse PC users, but 360 users can only verse, you guessed it, 360 users, 
 which is somewhat odd, considering Windows is owned by MS, but that's besides the point.
  
  All in all, this game is fun, but if you've played or own Unreal Tournament 2k4, expect very little 
 more than better graphics. If you're looking for a good single player game, look somewhere else. 
 The focus on this game is mainly multiplayer and that is where it shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MythicalSteFF
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Remember playing those old online multi-player games, the ones where you strafed, jumped, dodged 
 to victory? Heres a game straight from those days. Now upgraded to new technologies and perfectly 
 up to standard with todays gaming standards. Don't be to afraid to put down that overly strategic 
 Rainbow Six or Gears of War for a game that doesn't rely so much on the same form of strategy. 
 This game, although essentially well without as much strategy of todays games, is still a fast 
 past and extremely fun game. As you'll read on, you'll see why.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Ever heard of a little engine called the Unreal 3 engine? Of course! Who hasn't? Most games today 
 that has that powerful next-gen graphics pumping through that X Box of yours is using the engine. 
 Can I say its the best graphics I've ever seen? No. Can I say its very well one of the best graphics 
 in a game? Easily: yes. In no way will you be disappointed in the graphics, without a doubt, just 
 not the best graphics ever.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  Not a whole lot to say here, really. Is the sound goo? Without a doubt. But it isn't exceptional, 
 exactly. Everything sounds good and like it should, but I can't really remember any time that the 
 music or anything like that really made an epic feel at all or really enhanced the game. But Sound 
 never detracted from the game, at all, so I'd give it a good solid 8.5. Not the best, but it isn't 
 bad in any way.
  
  Controls: 9/10
  For the most part, the controls work very well. Its pretty easy to get a good grip on the controls 
 and be jumping, dodging, aiming, sniping, whatever within your first sit down with the game. The 
 only reason I don't give it a 10 is because you'll be fumbling with the controls a considerable 
 amount at first, especially while you get a grip on vehicle handling. There are many different 
 options for how your driving will work in the main menu, so that is a huge plus, without a doubt.
 
  
  Story: 7/10
  The story in UT3 is definitely the weaker point of the game. It doesn't have to strong of a story, 
 nor to compelling of one. If you play the campaign, you'll get a dose of the story. Its very much 
 not needed to play well throughout the campaign. But the story itself is actually pretty good. 
 If there was actually any direct relevance to story and progressing through the campaign, I'd definitely 
 have a higher mark for it. But, as you can notice, it still isn't a very low grade for the story, 
 and the reason being that the story is a pretty good one. It doesn't exactly connect to any of 
 the previous games, except with returning characters and corporations, but its relatively enjoyable 
 all the same.
  
  Game play: 8.5/10
  And now to what really makes or breaks a game. The game play. For UT3 here, its pretty hard to 
 call. Its really a love or hate kind of game. Well, more like love or just kinda like game. Its 
 pretty hard to hate it, really. The game is basically built around multi-player, not so much in 
 a bad way, though. And to those who only play single player, there are bots (up to 16) for instant 
 action and a pretty good campaign mode. The bots are usually pretty smart. I've noticed, though, 
 several times with a bot would just stand there or shoot at a guy and just walk away without killing 
 him at all. But, all and all, the bots work well. For those of you who are strictly into multi-player, 
 as I have said, its basically built for you. All matches and games are all multi-player games. 
 Like CTF, death match, and the like. There isn't a huge variety in game modes, but every mode is 
 very fun and sustainable, especially with mutators (which just change little aspects of the game, 
 like low gravity, slow mo) so its fun to play through again and again. Many vehicles and weapons 
 are included, so you won't be bored ever or run out of weapons and vehicles to try and use over 
 and over any time soon. BUT what will turn some people away from the game is the arena style fighting. 
 If your mostly into strategy and highly strategic games, it may not be for you. Although, I very 
 much am into those games and its about all I play, but I still love this game.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  A very good game, without a doubt. Its worth a rent, if not a buy. If your more 
 into focusing on pure strategy, it may be only a rent. Its a very good change of pace, and it still 
 is an arena game but modernized, you could say, to fit those strategists sort of games. If your 
 more into a lengthy single player campaign, it may not be so much for you. But if your into multi-player, 
 online or offline, its definitely worth checking out. Even comes with split screen on every game 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnight-walker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament three is a big improvement from the middle games of the series. The same weapons 
 from the classic game as well as song remakes of maps and remixes of the OST from the first game 
 gives UT some vital elements. However, I was let down by the campaign. UT is supposed to be a hardcore 
 fast passed action shooter and yet on the loading screen for the campaign they try and create a 
 back storey and give you some objectives when in the end all you have to do is kill the enemy or 
 capture the flag or dominate the map with your team. The campaign is lacking alot but saying that 
 the multiplayer makes up for it, after all its what UT is all about. I would have loved the campaign 
 to be less like the multiplayer and more like the assault game type in the original game where 
 you had objectives to carry out, which they try and acheive by introducing the warfare game type 
 where you have to link your power core to the enemies in order to destory it. This is done by linking 
 power nodes together that you capture. I love this game type but it does get boring due to the 
 fact its just a game type and its not hidden in anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeo_Fury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament Remains a great series with the release of UT3. While 360 owners had to wait 
 a little longer for the game (which sucked) it was well worth the wait. The game has a few minor 
 problems that ive noticed thus far. For one, Why cant a TANK drive over debris from a SCORPION?! 
 Unless its just the way im driving over it, I dont see why the biggest vehicle in the game cant 
 drive over a small chunk of debris. The Second thing ive noticed is that the computer tends to 
 be a tad Overpowered, Mainly when piloting something like the Nightshade (which stealths) and the 
 enemy can still see you (while stealthed) . I dunno.. I thought stealth meant you were invisible. 
 One last thing is that in one of the single player missions the match is 5 against 8.. and the 
 team of 8 has multiple nodes already captured. Im not sure how to win that but it was fun getting 
 well over 200 kills before getting the loss due to time running out. The game is still an amazingly 
 fun game and I reccomend it to anyone who has played previous UT games. And even if you havent 
 played previous UT games give it a shot, it will definately stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  As ports go, Epic tend to pull off some of the best. Gear of War on the PC felt absolutely honed 
 for that platform and I was very pleased with their work there. Now, here is the case of UT3 finally 
 out for the X360, and it's again in very good shape.
  
  I originally bought UT3 for the PC and i have to say, i was very disappointed. It had lost it's 
 original-PC-feel, plus bugs, plus a severe lacking in maps. The game however feels right at home 
 on the 360 (saying something about Epic's new regime?) . With 5 new maps the map count feels about 
 right, and there's a few new characters too. The split-screen multiplayer is flawlessly implemented, 
 it's also a first. Never before has a UT-franchise game offered this functionality, it works very 
 well too.
  
  The graphics are what we've come to expect from the incredible Unreal Engine 3.0, however with 
 a few bonus points to remark upon. Splitscreen does not degenerate either framerate nor visual 
 lustre. Also, the level of post-processing is a variable option in the Video options, which is 
 nice. Some people love HDR bloom shining in their face, and glistening effects left right and centre. 
 I'm one for a start. However some people find it distracting and wish to be rid of it, something 
 Epic have allowed for for UT3 on the 360 still. The framerate is utterly perfect for the game, 
 i'd say it's locked at 30fps at a guess, only rarely dipping a little to any noticable degree on 
 high resolution screens.
  
  The game remains a solid UT game, sticking to some grassroots of the franchise, but also displaying 
 some intreguing new innovations, such as the hoverboard method of transport, by latching onto moving 
 friendly vehicles. It's sad to see very few of the characters from UT2004 remain, for me most missed 
 are the Gen Mokai, i'm not one for having a beefy body-builder as my avatar : (
  
  The new maps are fantastic, they bring classics such as Facing Worlds up to date with the series 
 and add a couple of new ones as well. Having 5 extra means that all the maplists look that bit 
 more fleshed out.
  
  Of course, you are limited to any further new maps because of the lack of support for community 
 modding. However, there's nothing to stop Epic releasing new maps on Xbox Live for download if 
 they so wish :)
  
  Overall, i was very pleased with this conversion to 360. The controls are especially good, with 
 decent configuration settings to match. Good framerates and a wealth of new content soften the 
 no-mods, no-community-maps block. This however is what i was expecting from the game half a year 
 ago. It's a shame i've had to drop the franchise from it's original base (PC) over to console (360) , 
 in order to get everything i was expecting.
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Music: 7
  Gameplay: 9
  Optimisation: 10
  
  I cannot give it higher than 9, 
 simply because it's taken them this long to get the game in a decent, playable state. 3 years is 
 far too long to be "expecting" a game release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kypokillz1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first time playing an Unreal game. I'll take it from the other side of the biased, 
 hype-based critic world and say that the computer version is better.
  I have no doubt, because the only thing it's good for is multiplayer. I played the campaign until 
 the 3rd grouping of unbalanced levels. Then I realized, "It's just another Enemy Territory: Quake 
 Wars type of game!" Virtually no campaign, so we'll skip it. Multiplayer. I was hooked, though 
 no customization options, like in the godly original version, it was one hell of a time. Original 
 weapons, all with an alt fire. This game's peak is originality and gameplay. Simple button placement, 
 really easy to just start playing, but really hard when you start fighting. I think they are called 
 Darkwalkers, what a pain in the ass. This game is pretty hard flyin' solo. Same goes to co-op. 
 
  The enemy intelligence has 6 layers, all having a noticeable difference from the previous. They 
 prefer vehicles, and unlike the useless Mongoose, actually pack a punch. Graphics are Epic. Sound, 
 so-so, what you'd expect, nothing out of the ordinary, and an additional generic expression for 
 normal.
  So it's an 8. Yay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onigun
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  The newest game in Unreal Tournament series, Unreal Tournament 3 promises much but fails to deliver.
 
  
  The story consists of the various game modes played over and over ad nauseum split up by cut scenes.
 
  
  The game features new vehicles belonging to the Necris which are fun to play with along with the 
 set of rehashed "Human" vehicles which lack the power or fun of the new vehicles.
  
  While Player matches appear plentiful, ranked matches online are few with games struggling to meet 
 the required player count to start requiring a wait of at least half an hour before the match can 
 start.
  
  The game features no way to discern the ping or mutators being used by a host leaving the only 
 option being to join game after game until a suitable host is found.
  
  Also, the leaderboards are unaccessable online with the only way to view statistics being to play 
 the game.
  
  The official forums are confusing with the 360, PS3 and PC versions of the game sharing the same 
 forum.
  
  The game itself has many unacceptable problems like freezes, lag, lack of features and characters 
 moving without touching the controller, also it doesn't appear that Epic has any intention of releasing 
 a patch to fix or add to the game.
  
  Overall, the game could be made better with a few updates but is only worth a hire at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DudeJackMcG
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game it is action packed ,there are a lot of wepons from the pistol to the 
 Big gient Nuclear bomb thing. this game has 6 different types of instant action, so over all it 
 is a very good game. Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Bye 
 Bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bBye Bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Bye Bye bye bye bye bye Very Very FUN Game Fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun Very Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun Very 
 Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun Very Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun Very Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun Very Very FUN Game Fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun Very Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 Very Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun Very Very FUN Game Fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight, it's very unlikely you'll come across an Unreal Tournament game that 
 doesn't deliver. In 1999, Unreal Tournament had 'Game Of The Year' stamped on it, Unreal Tournament 
 2004 was also given a huge praise and got a 'Editor's Choice' award. Now 10 years later and Epic 
 release the long awaited Unreal Tournament 3 for the Xbox 360, but does it still have it's touch? 
 As we all know, it was released a year back for the PS3 and to make up for the delay to the 360, 
 Epic Games have thrown in 5 excusive maps, more selectable characters, and my personal favourite; 
 2 player split-screen! Yes, this means you can invite a friend over and play Xbox Live split-screen! 
 It also has a sneaky look at the Gear Of War 2 multiplayer gameplay, which is a good thing for 
 those fans of Gears.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 has it's instant action mode, multiplayer and a rather cool Campaign. The Campaign 
 tells the story of James 'Reaper' Hawkings whos home village get's destroyed by the Krall and the 
 Black Legion leader Akasha. Angered by this attack, Reaper want's revenge and seeks out Malcom, 
 who we've all come to know and love from the previous games, to help him get back at the Black 
 Legion Necris. Now the thing is with making a Campaign with Unreal Tournament is that they can't 
 step away from the whole 'Arena' style gameplay, they'll have to keep it like Unreal is meant to 
 be. And suprisingly enough they get around that by saying that there are these things called 'respawners' 
 that allow enemies and team-mates to respawn unless they've reached a certain goal. For example, 
 if it's a Capture the Flag game, if you successfully capture all the flags of the other team, their 
 respawner stop so they will no longer... respawn... you get it, right? Ever played Star Wars: Battlefront 
 2? Think of it as the Galaxy Conquest from there on, you go to different parts of the world, battle 
 the enemies, and that area is taken care of, so you move to another part. It's pretty simple. There 
 are some cutscenes as you proceed to explain some more of the story (which looks amazing by the 
 way) and you will occasionally hear your team talking to you about the mission or something. Speaking 
 of the team, throughout the game you will always have the same crew with you, unless the game you're 
 about to play is 2 on 2 or so an so. There's Othello (who resembles Cole from Gears Of War) , Jester 
 (Reaper's sister) and Bishop (a religious guy) . Even though they only really talk through the cutscenes 
 and sometimes in-game, you somehow get to know them... strange. Finally, once you've completed 
 the Campaign you'll unlock some things and you should be trained up enough to kick some ass online.
 
  
  What's that? You don't have Xbox Live? Well don't fret as Unreal Tournament 3 gives you 'Instant 
 Action' which allows you to play with up to 16 bots, you can choose any map or mode you wish to 
 play, and you can even fiddle around with the Mutators and settings to suit your needs. There are 
 a lot of maps to choose from and they're all brilliantly designed so you won't be thinking 'Eww, 
 what a horrible map'. Now then, about the game itself, the gameplay, the new stuff, what makes 
 this game so god-damn amazing? Well let's me just start off by saying how great the graphics are, 
 i mean you liked Gears Of War's graphics, right? Well with Epic Games being the creator of this 
 game, what more can you possibly expect but perfect, smooth and mouth-watering graphics! No, i'm 
 not joking, they're some of the best graphics you'll see on the next-gen console. Sure, they might 
 not be Call Of Duty 4 style which are amazing, but they're some of the best i've seen. Now of course, 
 graphics arent everything right? But the gameplay is, and Unreal Tournament 3 has highly addictive 
 gameplay, so be warned! If you've played Unreal Tournament 2004, it's basically the upgraded version 
 of that but with a few fixes here and there. There are six modes for you to play, Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Vehicle Capture the Flag, Duel and one of my favourites, Warfare. 
 Now unless you're completely new the FPS genre altogether, you should know what Deathmatch and 
 Capture the flag are all about. In Deathmatch you kill your enemies till you reach the score limit, 
 and Team is basically the same but with some allies by your side. Capture the flag requires you 
 to capture the enemies flag and return it to your base, this can only be done in a team, no solo 
 CTF. Vehicle CTF is basically the same thing except you have vehicles on the map and the maps themselves 
 are quite big. Duel is in all honesty, quite a pointless mode as it's just deathmatch but with 
 1 v 1... seems strange, but nothing to whine about. Now the Warfare mode on the other hand requires 
 a lot of team work, there's no chance in hell you can do this on your own. Warfare is very similar 
 to Onslaught on 2004, you have to capture all the nodes and link them together till you can destroy 
 the main base, but this time you can pick up these 'Orbs' which if taken to an enemy node, you 
 can just take over that node without having to shoot it, capture it and use the Link Gun to put 
 a shield around it, this Orb basically does all that for you. However, if the enemy has their own 
 Orb, they can do the same, and if they succeed, you'll find all your nodes quickly becoming the 
 opposite color to your team. But not all hope is gone, if you hear 'Orb Runner Incoming' all you 
 need to do is find this Orb Runner, kill him/her and she/he will drop the Orb, then all you need 
 to do is walk up to it, press X and you'll destroy it... along with yourself... yes, it's like 
 a live grenade, you basically have to sacrifice yourself to save your node from being over-run 
 and although you might have the attitude of 'I'm not gonna kill myself!', you'll find yourself 
 having to do before it get's picked back up again. You'll be a hero doing so, or you could just 
 wait till the timer above it expires... but by that time the enemy could blow you up and run off 
 with it... so think about what you need to do. 
  
  Ok, so that's the game modes sorted out, now as for the weapons, vehicles and tools in the game, 
 you'll find yourself with some really interesting and useful stuff. The weapons are the classics 
 that have been through all the tournaments but with a new look. You have your Pulse Rifle, your 
 Sniper Rifle, the Rocket Launcher, the Link Gun... y'know the works. The new gun models look so 
 much better though and the vehicles look great too. You might also recognise some of the vehicles 
 from UT 2004 too, but they've been updated and there are some new ones too. The Necris vehicles 
 are awesome, some resemble the War Of The Worlds Tripods but they're called 'Darkwalkers', where 
 as some are just so much fun. One of the Necris vehicles known as the 'Scavenger' is similar to 
 the Darkwalker but smaller and can morph into a ball (Samus Style) so you can roll around the map 
 squashing anyone in your way... such fun. Each vehicle never feels weaker or superior to the other 
 because each one has something unique about them. For example the Goliath Tank is strong armoured 
 and the Axon Manta is weak, but the Manta can jump over things and is fast wheras the Goliath can 
 fire rockets but is slow and cannot jump to save the world. So you'll never think 'Awww, i get 
 stuck with the weakest vehicle'. Now one of my favourite new things in the UT3 game is the hoverboard, 
 yes you read correctly, just a simple press on the X button and you'll find yourself on a hovering 
 board and with this board you can get to your desination quicker and can do a few tricks if you 
 wish... no it's not like Unreal Tournament's Pro Hoverboarding, you can only press the right trigger 
 in the air to grab your board or the left to do another, it's just a little gimmick that Epic stuck 
 in there. Although the board can get you to places faster than on foot, it's not mega fast so you 
 don't feel any need to use a vehicle, and to make it so you're not Mr. Invincible, one shot, even 
 the slightest shot of the enforcer knocks you off your board... meaning you'll have to be careful 
 if you see a load of enemies coming your way, so it's best to get off your board. No, you don't 
 die when you fall off your board, you just go into ragdoll physics and you have to pick yourself 
 back up, however, if an enemy is nearby, i'm sure he/she won't mind shooting you while you're down, 
 so be careful. You cannot shoot or use any gun whatsoever while you're on your board, so you'll 
 have to get off to kill an enemy, but you can however grapple on to friendly vehicles meaning you 
 can tag on to a vehicle he'll give you a lift! Yaay! But just remember, you can be shot off.
  
  So what's the verdict? Was Unreal Tournament worth the wait? I think yes, it was worth every 
 penny and i look forward to the next Unreal Tournament!
  
  Graphics: 10/10 (Purely Stunning)
  Gameplay: 10/10 (Fun, fun and a little extra fun!)
  Sound: 
 9/10 (It's never old to hear 'Headshot!')
  Result: 9.5/10 (A favourite on the 360, definately worth the wait!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bear0429
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, i wasn't expecting much from unreal tournament, so it really surprised me when i was at first 
 blown away by the addicting deathmatches and the fact that this game has probably the best announcer 
 in the world [not the woman get a double kill and you'll see what i mean] . then the few flaws come 
 in. first of all, the CTF matches go on way to long, with the average team maybe making 1 capture 
 per round, simply because the bots wont let you get away with a single flag unless you have your 
 whole 8 man team defending you. the warfare mode would be a refreshing change of pace, with you 
 having to connect nodes along your path to the enemy base and then destroy their core, but unfourtunately 
 i find that thanks to a glitch, i cant capture the nodes but my enemy can, thus forcing me to lose. 
 thankfully this doesnt happen to often, thou never would be better. by the way, while were on flaws, 
 when you start up the game, dont select campaign, its absolutely terrible. instead if you dont 
 have xbox live, opt for the instant action for your fix of bot action. therefore, UT3 is overall 
 a great shooter, and perfect for those who were put off by Quake wars sudden transition to objective 
 based instead of deathmatch and still a great choice for any shooter fan. have your secretary clear 
 your schedule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Like a bag o'potato chips you left sitting over the weekend without using a 'chip-clip'. This game 
 gets old fast.
  
  I played it for about eight hours straight and felt a lot of nostaligia for the UT that first came 
 out on PC. It's amazing how little the formula has changed.
  
  Sure it's not a terrible thing, but I got bored of it quick.
  
  The graphics and sound FX are 
 incredibly impressive. In fact I think this is one of the best looking games I own for Xbox360. 
 Things blow up real nice, and the scenery is just beautiful.
  
  Controls scheme is okay... I do miss the 1-10 keys for selecting guns... the gun select wheel is 
 not quick enough to use while in a fire fight. I'd perfer for LB/RB to be previous/next. But whatever. 
 
  
  Campaign... is LAME. The game is called Unreal Tournament. So you should be like some gladiator 
 or something... not a soldier in a war zone. The war zones? equally lame. Why? because their too 
 arena like and not open enough. After Tribes I have no idea how anyone can design online warfare 
 pay like this anymore
  
  The online play was a bit laggy for me... but fun. It's just not enough for me to keep it.
  
 
  EB games here I come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KungPow1985
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I absolutely love the Unreal series and have played most of them since the 
 Dreamcast era when I first bought Unreal Tournament I. Sadly to say, even though this game may 
 have dazzling visuals and some nifty vehicles, its the same game. 
  
  Yes, this game has some of the best texture work I've seen in a long time. It is totally beautiful. 
 Don't let the visuals fool you though.
  
  I really really really enjoy this game though. I still play it all the time, and I will admit that 
 it is one of the best Xbox 360 multiplayer titles to date. The only thing about this game though, 
 is that it doesn't stay on your tongue for a while. 
  
  It gets boring after a while, and the lackluster campaign doesn't help. Just play the online first, 
 and you shall be fine. I would just say to rent this game before you buy it. It will fufill your 
 rental and make that five or seven day rental worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  well, there's not any disappointing things about this game. although, an actual storyline for the 
 campaign would of been nice, but it's still a great game! the graphics and sound are amazing! all 
 the weapons are pretty sweet, too! the cut scene at the beginning of the game didn't really make 
 sense. because the what I've played of the game so far is capture the flag and death match. but 
 that doesn't matter. the game is great! riding hover boards and tanks is rarely THIS fun! there's 
 a lot of effects and gore, which adds excitement to the game so the bottom line is, buy this game. 
 and to be honest I didn't find any flaws in the game. it's a straight up awesome game with great 
 weapons and vehicles! so if you like Gears of War, get this game as soon as possible [ASAP] . when 
 I first started playing it, I felt a little confused, but after a few seconds, it gets really fun! 
 this game is no disappointment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I simply bought this game out of boredom. I have played COD4 nonstop for six months and pretty 
 much felt burned out. There are other multiplayers but none of them is really exciting enough. 
 I've heard and read about UT3 and became interested. 
  
  Originally I planned on buying this game after the price drops, but with the currently very dry 
 game season, I just had to have a new game. And I must say, I don't regret for a second having 
 bought this game!
  
  Although there's not really a real single player mode (no story) , I don't seem to miss it, as the 
 multiplayer is totally addictive! The maps are beautiful, the weapons are fantastic and the sounds 
 rock!
  
  The different matches have been well thought out and the challenges are great. This game is very 
 fast paced, so quick reflexes help tremendously. 
  
  The only critic I have is that the waiting periods between the matches are somewhat long.
  
 
  Too me, this game is at least 10 x better than Halo (multiplayer) . Also, there are no no irritating 
 little buggers that are constantly shouting through their microphones but friendly players with 
 whom you can have a decent conversation.
  
  Definitely a must for every FPS fan who love high intensity!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Gorgeous visuals that are basically on par with Gears of War, loads of multiplayer modes, 
 game runs smoothly, new options and characters
  
  CONS: Frustrating forgettable single player mode that consists of a bunch of bot matches, no user 
 generated content
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  I've always played Unreal, from championship to tournament. So when UT3 released for the PS3 I 
 was about to buy it.... but then word got out about the 360 version. I basically waited for UT3 
 on the 360 due to the acheivements and exclusive content. Luckily it was worth it, and this is 
 the Unreal I know and love. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are gorgeous, something that is nothing new with a company such as Epic. Everything 
 you have come to expect and love from the Unreal Engine is in full effect here and is definately 
 on par with powerhouse Gears of War. Speaking of Gears, alot of the characters look as if they 
 have been transfered out of the Gears universe. 
  
  THE STORY is here... somewhere, hidden underneath a load of bot matches. The story is existent, 
 and the cutscenes look great, but there aren't enough cutscenes nor followable plots to tie in 
 the story. 
  
  THE SOUND is great, and hearing the clasic announcer speak hasn't gotten old. All the guns sound 
 good and all the voices sound authentic.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is classic Unreal. Which means its basically Halo on crack. Everything is extremely 
 fast, and there are loads of guns to take out the enemy. Also, there are a helluva lot of modes 
 here to play which signifies that this game is truly constructed with multiplayer as the main focus. 
 But be forewarned, if you go into this game looking to play mostly the campaign than steer away. 
 All the matches in the campaign consists of a bunch of frustrating bot matches that will make you 
 more pissed, rather than happy. And it doesn't help when you are the only one on your team who 
 is willing to get the job done while your CPU controlled allies run around and get killed. BUT, 
 this game is not made for single player, its made for online. And online this game truly excels 
 as not just an addicting experience, but it stands as a one-of-a-kind, unique experience as well. 
 
  
  OVERALL UT3 is a definate must for any online multiplayer junkie. This game will make your eyes 
 twitch and put your reflexes to the test. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClintCrumpler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first rented this game it was to play it simply because it have a 2 player co-op mode. I 
 popped the game in and in a stumble of confusion within the menu system I finally figured out how 
 to get the 2 player co-op to work. After playing for about 10 min I came to the realization that 
 wow. I feel like I played this game a year ago and again 3 years ago. The sliding movement of the 
 characters the guns that look a little to cheesy are all to similar to games of the past. But as 
 time went on I continued to play with a friend and I grew more addicted to this game than I have 
 had to former games like it. It has many ways that its has changed the genre of frag fest. First 
 I would say the overall game play confusing at first in games like War zone become much more fun 
 once you figure out the rules and the team starts to function like a team. With the group working 
 together attacks on enemy areas become entertaining and spontaneous. Overall I feel this game has 
 improved the genre but I don't see myself playing it for more than another 4-5 hours. So I would 
 suggest a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yip345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  -Jeremy Sprader (yip345)
  
  About a month ago I decided to buy this game because I've been an Unreal Tournament fan since the 
 beginning. Despite the fact that one of my friends had said it was an awful game, I got it, brought 
 it home, and put it in my now trusty Xbox 360. When the menu came up, I was frightened that it 
 would not be a good game, (for whatever reason) and reluctantly went to the Campaign. The rest 
 was history. 
  
  ... But enough back story, on to the review.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, it feels meaty and every weapon gives you a sense of manliness and buff, 
 unlike Halo 3, where it just feels wimpy. (Yes, I'm comparing Unreal Tournament 3 in favor of Halo 
 3, and I do like UT3 more, and that's saying something, considering Halo 3 was my ex-favorite game.) 
 The bots are a near-perfect level, and I say near-perfect because some of their difficulty seems 
 a bit lopsided. For instance, they are (mind you this is all on the Normal difficulty) easy in 
 the Deathmatches, perfect difficulty in Capture the Flag, and in Warfare they seem strangely difficult 
 in most maps. Next we get to the graphics. And their splitscreen Campaign makes me rejoice, because 
 it was so well done.
  
  The graphics in this game are gorgeous. It's another thing that gives it the "meaty" feel. They 
 look comparable to Gears of War, (obviously, it's Epic we're talking about here) but a little nicer 
 and more colorful, due to the new engine and colorful characters and weapons. There are no game 
 lags, at least, not in the offline modes, on the online ones there will be some lag, obviously. 
 The vehicles in the game are well designed, with some unique minds at work, and the maps look like 
 they should. I guess saying all this, you would think I'm a fanboy ranting about this game, and 
 that I have nothing bad to say: WRONG! (3 things I dislike or am not content with.)
  
  1. No user-created content (Damn you Microsoft!) 
  2. No Online Campaign Co-op (There is online 
 Co-op, but it's non-Campaign oriented)
  3. The BGM! (Let's get to that.)
  
  I can't stand the BGM, (Background Music, for the n00bs.) and I never could in any Unreal Tournament 
 game, it's just too repetitive and it's the kind of music that gets stuck in your head. (du na 
 na nana na na na) At this point I'm just pulling hairs, and this problem can easily be solved (if 
 you have a hard drive or computer connected to your 360) by going to the In-game Xbox Guide and 
 turning on some Godsmack, (or Alicia Keys, if that's what your into) and continuing your game. 
 And to be honest, I barely notice it at most times, because I'm to busy getting a MASSACRE! with 
 the Darkwalker, or kicking arse online.
  
  Overall, this game is magnificently great, and my favorite Xbox 360 game of all time, and it's 
 all the more sweet if you have been a fan of the Unreal Tournament series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironworks11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  To be honest I am not a big follower of the UT series but I am a big FPS fan more tuned to the 
 run and gun types. We are on overload I know with First person shooters on the 360 but this has 
 something a little different. especially a ton of very cool guns and vehicals!
  
  OK, so there is no story and the campaign is a bit of a bolt on but what do you expect from Unreal 
 T? It is an adrenaline rush and the live 'co-op' campaign is brilliant, all the fun of online without 
 the morons messing it up for you with their singing and screaming. The enemy AI is really good, 
 almost too good on Insane tho!
  
  If you are looking for great graphics, relentless fast pace FPS action it is right up there. Just 
 dont expect COD4 or Gears... this is a traditional 'dont stop moving' FPS in the classic Quake style... 
 Good fun and worth it if FPS is you thing, just dont expect to be able to camp! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  unreal tournament 3 developed by Epic Games, (the same creators that brought us Gears) has made 
 this game come to the 360 for us to enjoy. Even though it was already brought to the PC and a timed 
 exclusive to the PS3 a year ago. Unreal Tournament 3 still packs that same old school, Highly addictive 
 game play that most of us still remember back in the day. (i know i still do) . If you were expecting 
 a story driven campaign, be warned this game's campaign is just like the mutiplayer but it is still 
 fun. The main idea here is that your the main character "Reaper" who wants revenge on Akasha for 
 destroying your colony . The game play is fast and intense so make sure you have fast reflexes. 
 The A. I is very smart and if you tune up the difficulty, and play all i have to say is good luck. 
 You can also have up to 4 player co-op to play the campaign with a couple of friends. UT3 also 
 features instant action where you can play bots in any game type. and use mutators (known as tweaks) . 
 The voice acting is well done to and some even sound like characters from gears of war. (Othello 
 sounds like Cole) The graphics look great we see Unreal Engine 3 has done its job. The weapon models 
 and features are also well done. Since we could not get mods on the 360 version, we get exclusive 
 features such as split screen, 2 new characters, and 5 new maps. Although the game's split screen 
 you can see the frame rate drop nothing too major. Now onto what this game is known for, the Mutiplayer!! 
 up to 16 players can play and there is no host advantage you also get dedicated servers. There 
 is Deathmatch Team deathmatch Capture the Flag and this new game mode called Warfare similar to 
 Onslaught on previous installments where you must control power nodes and destroy the enemy core. 
 Also what i found an inconvenience was the fact that you have to hold down your left d-pad to talk 
 however i found that the LB button works better so if you dont like the default setting to talk, 
 make sure you change up your controls. There is over 55 maps on UT3 and tracked stats regardless 
 of game type ranked or player matches on worldwide leader boards. You also get exclusive gears 
 of war 2 content right on the disc. Unreal Tournament 3 is a great Fps with a lot of edge of your 
 seat action and fun with old school elements still appreciated to this day. So if your looking 
 for a old school highly addictive fast paced FPS look into Unreal Tournament 3 you will not regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutinantsland
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I started out on single player, which begins with a terrible and unoriginal cutscene. Single player 
 is either way to easy because of the stupid AI or way too hard because your teammates have no skill 
 whatsoever. After tiring of single player, I switched over to multiplayer. After three matches, 
 I was finished. The game plays so terribly online that its often difficult to even fire your gun. 
 In my case at least, my gun would fire almost an entire second after I pulled the trigger, making 
 it nearly impossible to hit an enemy. In addition, the maps are so poorly designed that my entire 
 team had trouble exiting our base at all, while the other team was able to find their way around 
 easily. Whether it was a steep learning curve or just poor design, this game is not worth buying 
 or renting at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geon_lansis
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really into the whole UT thing, but after picking this game up, it is quite fun in certain 
 modes. It's a very fast paced, simple and easy to play, but a bit let down by the graphics. Played 
 better in multiplayer modes. The storyline is very thin, shouldn't even put it in. Worth your money? 
 For multiplayer yes. If you don't plan to go online or play with friends, not really. 
  
  You can choose from different characters, but traits are the same, only appearances varies. But 
 the rest of the characters seems to be after thoughts, not much design went into them. Unlike the 
 PC version, I can customise their armor, although limited, but customisable.
  
  I like the game because of the face paced action, not for the story. And it's always fun to jump 
 in and blow your enemies up. It's quite fun, but mostly fun for multiplayer mode only. By the way, 
 AI friends are kinda dumb, can't rely on any of them to do anything right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any of the previous Unreal Tournament games, then you will feel right at home 
 with this installment. UT3 consists of very fast-pased action similar to games like quake. You 
 get loads of awesome weapons, vehicles, and maps to play around with, even though there arent any 
 NEW weapons the same old ones from the previous games in the series should do just fine.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, this IS an online shooter. Its what the game was meant to be. I strongly 
 recommend that you dont buy this until you have online because the single player portion of the 
 game will soon get very boring and repetitve. The entire campaign consists of you doing bot matches 
 over a range of only three different gametypes: Deathmatch, CTF, and Warzone (The most frustrating 
 by far of all the gametypes) . On top of that it fails at trying to make a game that should be storyless 
 into 
  one that has a cheap and corny storyline that hardly even makes sense. But, if you are fine with 
 bot matches then i guess you might find the campaign mode entertaining. 
  
  If this game does get one thing right, its online multiplayer. Theres nothing better than the insanely 
 fast paced shooting in UT3, it makes for a preety intense experience, and its preety easy to pick 
 up and play because its kind of just a basic run-and-gun shooter that doesnt take a whole lot of 
 strategy, just a lot of well placed shots. Sadly, there is no ranking system in UT3, but it does 
 keep track of your kills and stuff like that, Plus it has leaderboards which can make for some 
 good competition.
  
  As far as visuals go, i think it looks just fine for an Unreal game. There not ground-breaking 
 or anything but they certainly are good. the cutscenes look great, but theres just something about 
 the gameplay that i think they could have done better with. eh, who knows maybe its just my standard 
 definition TV. The graphics are at least good enough to keep people from complaining about them.
 
  
  So, if your a fan of the Unreal series or if your really into fast paced shooters, then this game 
 is probably for you. For the most part, i enjoyed this game a lot but the lack of a good single 
 player campaign is what really ticked me off. Nevertheless, it was an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocomacoco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament was back a few years ago, one of the most loved games, and a must have for almost 
 everyone as insane as me.
  
  Though i never owned it, i played it a lot, and enjoyed it greatly as well, so its obvious to deduce, 
 that i was more than eager to get my hands on this game, specially with the plus content added 
 on the 360, and other things.
  
  I must say that the game is a blast nevertheless whatever you heard, and even though is fast, you 
 will get your nice kills withouth trying to hard, because i played the first time online, and i 
 got 6 or 8 kills, so it was satisfying to find i still kick despite been a pops.
  
  There's a lot huge looking maps, which very good looking effects and shortcuts designed to really 
 master your strategy, and knowledge of the maps is dominance of the game, which is real warfare, 
 there's nothing more advantageous than the knowing of your battlefield. Regarding this map there 
 are teleporters and jumpers that really fly you out, and there are all the collectables that really 
 enhance your survival possibilites, and besides that there are slowing time warp zones which are 
 really cool.
  
  The characters are not that pretty looking once you are on the game, they look a bit old school, 
 but that doesn't mean that your FP view isn't great, the gun you're holding is really detailed 
 and cool to fire, you wouldn't be dissapointed a bit, every time you shoot your gun, is like been 
 in paradise with Carmen Electra, much to say.
  
  There's plenty of Guns and ammo and armor and health enhancers, which is really good to collet, 
 because you won't die soon, contrary procedures will get you kill in a breath take. 
  
  Actually Gun difference in power is very well balanced, this is not Halo 3 were the one with the 
 Flame Thrower will waste you quicker, this is a game were you move fast, think fast and you have 
 to be accurate, even with a Pistol, your gamer skills will give you the kill if you are the best 
 Jedi in the Arena to put it somehow, of course there are very powrful weapons, with very damagin 
 Radius, but that shouldn't be a trouble, and if you're skilled enough you will get many double 
 kills like i did.
  
  There's many vehicles also for you to hover around but i haven't try them yet, i will comeback 
 soon with some details on this.
  
  the campaing mode and the online mode are the same, the only difference is online you kill other 
 players, offline you kill simulated AI, which is quite better than your teanmates, so is pretty 
 much the same experience Off-and on the net, which i find very interesting.
  
  Overall this game should get you entertained and comfy until my most awaited ever game comes out, 
 GOW2, Hell Yeah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsfreak14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  ~~~~~
  PROS
  ~~~~~
  
  1. Great Online and Offline Multiplayer.
  2. Gorgeous graphics that are worth looking at. 
  3. Great good ol' FPS shooter action.
  4. 
 Action is fast paced.
  5. Controls are work really well in this UT.
  6. A whole Lotta maps on the 360 version.
  7. You can actually find a working server on the 360 
 version than the PS3.
  8. Weapons are evened out throughout the game.
  
  ~~~~
  CONS
  ~~~~~
  
  1. Campaign is like any other UT game.
  2. Pathetic attempt to make a story outta 
 the Campaign! 
  3. It's a Press to talk game in online matches.
  4. No customization like i the PC version or the PS3 version.
  5. Achievements can get hard.
 
  
  A great game for the 360 with all the action of a UT game... Just what the 360 needed. Online matches 
 are intense and are always fun. The only major thing they could'a added would have been that you 
 don't have to press the right D-pad button to talk to your team-mates in TDM... There are many different 
 and unique game modes to play and lots of characters to choose from! Overall this is game is great 
 for the FPS fan, or UT fan!
  
  ~ Simsfreak14
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta-codlover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  i never play this game i heard this game was good! IT WAS! i never played unreal but if epic made 
 it ,it has to be good but then again epic has made some pretty dissapointing games like stranglehold 
 that was pretty lame but besides the point this game was fun and easy to pick up and the mutil 
 player was GREAT no lag in any room i went to the only thing i did not like about this game was 
 i thought it was a frist person shooter like cod4 (call of duty4) but the flip side was it wasnt 
 it was like playing mutli player campain expect it was only one play u have to get a higher score 
 then the AI or like capture the flag in single player campain witch i thought was kinda weird to 
 get use too but when u got use to it ,it got REALLY deep into the game play that turned out fun! 
 so if u played this game was boring to u i have one qustion ARE U DUMB! this game is good i made 
 good some parts u may good ah ok i dont like this come on give it about 5 hours of ur time it will 
 change ur mind 
  
  bottom line 
  *plus side*
  :great gameplay
  :no lag
  :easy fun to play 
  : mutli player is huge 
  
  down side
  *the campain is like playing 
 mutli player in frist player! 
  *its weird to get use too
  *its long but u might get bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament III is the newest game in the Unreal Tournament series. It's gameplay is very 
 similar to the other Unreal Tournament games and so are the level designs. The graphics have been 
 greatly overhauled since the previous Unreal Tournament games. The graphics look slightly better 
 than Gears of War which is a good thing, since Gears of War arguably holds the crown for the best 
 Xbox 360 graphics to date. Most of the weapons are evenly balanced for the most part except the 
 crappy Biorifle. The levels are cool and vary from a Asian themed town to a futuristic space station 
 floating in space. There is no character leveling or serious deph to the game ,but the awesome 
 gameplay almost makes up for it and the dumb single player mode. Unreal Tournament III is a great 
 Multiplayer FPS that should be played by any fan of the series or genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start off that the reviews for this game from some players almost drove me off 
 from getting this baby. People usually say this game is too fast, but that's not the case whatsoever. 
 It's just a bit faster than halo, but the action is more frantic. UT3 restricts the old bunny hopping 
 and shotgun tactic and requires very little strategy to play. that doesn't mean that there isn't 
 no skill required for this game. You need to have some quick reflexes and a sharp eye, thats why 
 this game is in the genre of twitch gaming. 
  
  story-the story of this game basically are series of bot matches with fancy cut-scenes that prepare 
 you for the real prize of this game, which is the multiplayer. You can play it with a friend in 
 splitscreen or over live. 
  
  graphics- the graphics are great! I would rate it a 9.5. there are texture pop ins here and there 
 but you will be too busy enjoying the action to notice. The frame rate and grphic quality takes 
 a bit of a plunge in splitscreen but it still looks great. It doesn't have those bootleg black 
 bars that halo has on the sides of the screen. 
  
  sound- the sound of this game is great. explosions and gun fire sounds are amazing, but the dialogue 
 is down right dumb. "you saved me just to blow me to bits." Its like gears dialogue, since you 
 know same developers. LET ME JUST TELL YOU THAT THE UT SERIES CAME OUT LIKE TEN YEARS B4 GEARS, 
 so please stop saying it jocked from gears. 
  
  gameplay- the gameplay of this game is very frantic and non-stop. If you camp like in COD4 (stay 
 in one spot hiding waiting to stealthy take someone out) you will most likely get blown into bits. 
 Strategy isn't that much of a requirement of this game, but fast reflexes are. It basically determines 
 who lives and who gets pwned. 
  
  Lasting value- this game will keep you busy for quite a while. there are about 55 maps, several 
 gameplay modes, splitscreen, bots which are cpus that you can play with offline or online, even 
 in splitscreen with your friends. The question people often ask is should i get this game if I 
 don't have live? I thought the same because I don't currently have live, but I don't whatsoever 
 regret purchasing this game. If you don't have someone to play with in splitscreen then no, I recommend 
 you don't get this game. If you don't have live, but have someone to play with in splitscreen then 
 I recommend that you definately check this game out. This game all comes down to opinion, if you 
 are not sure if you want to buy this game, then I recommend that you rent it. If you want to take 
 a risk and just buy it like I did then i hope you enjoy it as much as I am.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboyuno
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  
  Take Timesplitters 2, mix in the gears of war engine, add many vehicles, and you have Unreal Tournament 
 3. This game is such a fast paced shooter that you will be getting killed or getting a kill every 
 10 seconds or less.
  
  In the game you run around an arena-like course much like in halo. You move very quickly in this 
 game and will meet up with enemy opponents very quickly. As you kill players the announcer will 
 be cheering you on. Double Kill, Multi-Kill, MEGA KILL... and so on as you get kills in succession. 
 You can taunt other players, issue orders to bots and friends, but the speech in the game can be 
 annoying. You need to press and hold the right D-PAD to speak. The game designers should have made 
 this different. Since Down on the D-PAD is play-dead, you will often times see your character crash 
 to the ground as you were trying to tell your teammate to help you out.
  
  The story mode is basically a bunch of team deathmatches, CTF, and Warfare. There are about 5-6 
 total cutscenes in the entire story mode. Most of the story is described in your mission debrief, 
 but you will have trouble understanding how playing "capturing the flag" will help you win a war. 
 Warfare is an Unreal Tournament created game in which you work with teammates to capture nodes 
 on the battlefield. Once you control enough of the nodes on the battlefield, the enemy's power 
 core becomes vulnerable and you can destroy it. The games bots can be very challenging and almost 
 unbeatable on the hardest difficulty. When you put the game on insane mode you will find yourself 
 struggling to survive against crazy powerful robots who bounce off walls and use strategy to defeat 
 you.
  
  The weapons and the vehicles in the game are outstanding. The graphics on these guns are astonishing 
 and beautiful and they kill other players in gruesome and delightful ways. A certain gun will shoot 
 a disc that teleports you to the location in which you fired it. If an enemy is standing on the 
 disc when you teleport, they will explode into tiny pieces!
  The vehicles are equally amazing. One vehicle is a complete copy of the alien tripods in "War of 
 The Worlds" by Stephen Speilberg. Even so, it is great fun climbing atop a nearby mountain, and 
 reigning hell-beams on the enemy's base.
  
  With a wide array of difficulty levels, the game will challenge the hardcore gamer, but will also 
 be great fun for anyone looking to play a few casual games. The achievements are fun and also get 
 you to play in multiplayer.
  
  The game occassionally suffers from lag and freeze-ups, but the freeze-ups could be caused by a 
 bad disc.
  
  If you like first person shooters and like multiplayer, you can't go wrong with this game. Although 
 the storyline is weak, the action is fun, and it has four player co-op, with 2-players max for 
 split-screen. (Guests can play on XBOX live, as well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chelzach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I rented this game 4 days ago and beat it in 1 and a half days. The night I rented it I didn't play 
 it because I went and saw The Dark Knight and when I got back I was so tired I didn't play it that 
 night. Then I played it the next day and made it to the 3/5 chapter then the next day I beat it. The 
 boss is pretty easy but Unreal Tournament 3 is pretty challenging and pretty fun. It is a must buy 
 for those of you who don't have it. I think I will go buy it some time soon. Unreal Tournament 3 
 is allot better than the Playstation 2 version "Unreal Tournament". You must buy this game like 
 I said this game is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laiho7
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  ok well to start when i 1st got this game i was like woah this is so good i went online and got 
 pwned by some good players but still enjoyed my self, then i completed the campaighn which was very 
 dull and repetitive and i went online and most of the compotion was easy it wasnt challanging at 
 all once i got into it the maps are similar and very linear only on way in and out of a base which 
 means tactics fail most of the time it isnt skill its which team has the most peole with Rlaunchers, 
 its a good game just not as good as i had expected i think it is fairly convential and is only 
 good if ur a fan of the series, i would say rent 1st and do the story and get a feel the game and 
 then think of buying its not a fav of mine but is still a good game with great visuals but nothing 
 to revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_209
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  unreal tornament has come a long way from the pc. the story of the game is your home planet is attacked 
 by aliens you and your squad escape the attack and are looking for revenge. there are now real missions 
 in the story mode there just a bunh of bot matches but there are 4 chapters to play each has like 
 10 matches to play. game modes are deathmatch, capture the flag ,team deathmatch, warzone, much more. you 
 get to drive many things like robot walker, tank, jets, jeeps, much more. get lot of weapons like beam 
 rifle, chain gun, mini nuke lancher, sniper rifle, much more. the graphics look good looks like gears 
 of war becuse it's made by the people who mae gears of war. there is also new split screen so you 
 and a friend can play together. the a. i bots are not that smart but they still get the job done. so 
 any fan of shooter might want to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGisTHEbest
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is and always will be a kind of its own, it can compare to halo3 in many ways however and 
 beats Halo in every way. If you were a hudge fan of halo3 then you WILL FOR SURE LOVE IT. The graphics 
 in Unreal Tournoment three deserve an easy 10/10 the gameplay will vary depending on your taste, 
 for example if your into war shooters like Call Of Duty4 and not so much into sci-fi shooters then 
 gamplay will reach most likley a 7.5/10. there is a dowside to it however. The singlerplayer campagin 
 is NO different then online multiplayer, and is VERY repetitive while the story may keep people 
 a little intrested it has no diffrence than multiplayer, every mission is not what you would expect 
 it to be like shooting everything that moves, it is just like playing warfare, capture the flag, 
 and deathmatch, because well thats exactly what it is. Online multiplayer is much stonger than 
 Halo ever was, but none EVER seems to talk for gods sake i have absoulutly no idea why so if your 
 a social person call up a friend to privite chat before you play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Ut 2k4 which was the last Unreal game I played so I decided I'd give UT 3 a chance. 
 Played through the campaign which albeit nothing more than organized bot fights with cutscenes 
 here and there, was very entertaining. Much better than most multiplayer oriented single player 
 campaigns.
  
  After I finished the single player campaign I headed online to get into the real substance of the 
 Unreal Tournament games: Online play. I tried a quick match but it failed to find any and I just 
 put in deathmatch. I tried going through custom mode and looking for a game. At best, there were 
 5 servers in a game mode but never more. There were only two deathmatch games, only one team deathmatch, 
 three capture the flags, no vehicle capture the flags, no duels and two warfare matches. This was 
 even using ranked mode which is usually the mode that has more players.
  
  I am extremely disappointed in the online community. It's very dead. You'd think Unreal Tournament 
 wasn't popular by the number of people online. The few servers I found you had to wait for more 
 players to join because they were so lowly populated. After waiting about 5 minutes for enough 
 people to have a deathmatch, then the server lagged making it very difficult to play. With so much 
 lag and such a limited selection of servers (And none for some game modes) the online community 
 feels tiny which is not the Unreal Tournament I remember.
  
  This is the biggest disappointment I've had in awhile. I would easily recommend this game if the 
 online was more active and the servers were better but they're atrocious and in low supply. I have 
 not played the PC version but I'd recommend that as I'm sure it has more decent servers and a lot 
 more players. The 360 version of Unreal Tournament III is as I've said basically dead. I also experienced 
 a few extremely laggy moments in the single player campaign bot matches which is very surprising 
 since UT III came out on the 360 last and had the most improvements.
  
  Save yourself $10 and go for the PC version or just play the 360 one offline only. Much better 
 graphics as well as mods for the game on the PC version though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  Now if you are new to the unreal series then you proberly havent played epic games long lineof 
 fast past gore first person shooters known as the"Unreal" series. it started as unreal back in 90s 
 but i dident take of until Unreal Tournament came out in 1999. it was rated Game Of The Year by 
 many and many people still play it today online. UT2004 was realieased in 2004 it was good but the 
 many complaints were the that face that it was now slower then before and many people like the 
 original for its crazy fast past FPS. whill still being able to game of the year by some it just 
 missed the fomular that made UT great. now where in 2008 and Epic Games have finaly made the Xbox 
 version of UT3 the game actuly came out last yea but being one of the guys who dosent have the 
 super computer to play all next-gen titles who'd rather play his next-gen on a console i waited 
 a bit. and as i waited i was pleased to find out about the new content being added it made me fell 
 speical about buying the later version. now onto the game itself. i played a bit of the single 
 player and it first impresions were good. Fast, Violent, and lots of guns to choose from, AND THE 
 IMPACT HAMMER IS BACK!! :D lol back to the review. but evetualy the Single player gets old and you'd 
 proeblerly wanna start playing real people who dont get stuck behind leges and stay there. But 
 you would proberly watch the the Gears Of War 2 content but i would know that if you a late buyer 
 if this game on 360 you woulove already seen it on youtube. i liked the vid how it actauly showed 
 you game play and the maps. i will give it a review when it hit stores in November. Now heres the 
 part that brings the game right down from my original 9.5. When i first found out that i can bowse 
 for servers i was pleased. it ment i could try and find the server with the best connection. but 
 heres where it started to get bad. the fact that theres no idication on the ping of each server 
 and it dosent help the fact that im a Australian gammer and this game is only in a few stores at 
 the moment. but it once you choose a server its good until you have to shoot some one. i found 
 i had to shoot early in order to compeat with the online 1 second lag and boy it failed heaps. 
 the only gun that was actauly usable agaist the lag was the impact hammer but i stil felt some 
 how cut down as i could even snip some ones head off. Graphics are very impressive not the kind 
 of Crysis graphics but still vry impressive with good lighting and shadows.
  
  So in discription
  UT3 is a game that has potential but Australian gammer will find it very frusterating 
 with its online play but if you live in American i highly recormend playing it or UK cuase the 
 game has costom servers for you. i might change my score if some aussie severs opend up but till 
 then i gotta start firing now so i hopefully hit that Brittish kids head 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rare_ghoul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Although at first can be a confusing game, Unreal Tournament 3 is a very enjoyable, if somewhat 
 frustrating, experience. The game can be rather difficult (or indeed, at times seeming impossible) 
 However, overall it has the right balance of victory and defeat.
  
  Graphics: Though a game shouldn't be rated by it's graphics, UT3's graphics add immensely to the 
 gameplay, bringing violent bloodshed into your living room, looking 100% real.
  
  Gameplay: The confusion you might first experience can be frustrating, but after playing for a 
 couple of hours, you will find the game to have plenty of meat, presented in a nice manner. Plenty 
 of guns, plenty of ways to shoot them, plenty of vehicles, plenty of things to do with them as 
 well. Bots add to the replay value as well as the playing value, since you no longer need to buy 
 an online membership or have someone over to play with you, however, this doesn't mean that playing 
 with another human isn't fun, on the contrary, it adds to the game.. Lots of maps and plenty of 
 games modes add to the immense variety, making each match different. The controls are easy to learn 
 as well, what more could you ask for.
  
  Replay/Don't stop playing value: Very high, you may very well not stop playing this game.
  
 
  Conclusion, this is money well spent, great gameplay combined with much variety and the ability 
 to play multiplayer with only one person make a great game, definitely one you should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  The campaign is like several online multiplayer matches strung together. The game just moves you 
 from map to map with different objectives, such as, capture the flag and death matches. This isn't 
 particularly bad, but it doesn't stand out as a great game at the same time. The multiplayer aspects 
 are fun, but Gears of War or Halo 3 is better.
  The maps have good points and bad points, as well. The design and layouts are intriguing, but sometimes 
 confusing. In most of the maps there is no vantage point. So, getting to know the layout of the 
 land is difficult. Paths often branch off in many directions without any indication of whether 
 it will take you where you want or need to go. Often, the path just ends without any way to maneuver 
 around it. So, you may find yourself back-tracking to another path. The objectives usually aren't 
 too hard. They are just over- encumbered by the map layout. 
  The graphics are good, but not as good as Gears of War, oddly.
  All-in-all, the game is decent, 
 but there are other games that do a better job at the games focus. However, if you're looking for 
 a game whose campaign plays like an online multiplayer match without actually having to play online, 
 then try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  So I never played this game on PC or PS3 before renting it for 360. I have played 2004 on PC and 
 loved it so needless to say, this game has been a blast as well since it's very similar.
  
  Gameplay: Fast and furious! I love the gameplay. It's quick and twitchy which is what Unreal is 
 all about.
  
  Graphics: Game looks solid. Unreal Engine... enough said.
  
  Audio: I love the sound of the weapons and other players. It's just how I expect an Unreal game 
 to be
  
  Overall I think this is a very fun game. I am leaning towards buying it because I like that you 
 can use bots and that it has co-op online and offline. If you like Unreal at all, you need to pick 
 this up for sure. Oh, not to mention the fact that the disc has an 8 minute trailer for Gears of 
 War 2 multiplayer. I watched it 4 times in a row before I even played Unreal... Yes, the video 
 is that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptortank4
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  An old game I remember playing years ago that's brought back to next-gen times.
  
  To sum it up, it's a fast paced shooter much different from CoD4 and Halo3 so don't expect any 
 similarities there other than the gamemods (CTF, Deathmatch, etc) . 
  
  The multiplayer is good enough to buy this game if you're wanting that fast paced FPS experience 
 that UT3 will provide. However, the campaign was... crappy. It tried to make a huge story out of 
 just a regular game mode such as CTF or deathmatch. I applaud the effort, and it is an interesting 
 story I suppose, but I just thought it was a bit much when they actually created an excuse for 
 F. L. A. G. S. and why we capture them...
  
  If you're wanting a fast paced game and just love to put the game in, wait on little load time, 
 blow the hell out of nice looking stuff with puurty graphics then buy this game for you. Although, 
 if it's something you just play now and then I would consider whether or not you'd want to pay 
 $60 for the occasional gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Bringing it Home
  
  After the mediocre-at-best release of the title Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, a breath of fresh 
 air has been gratefully sent in the form of Unreal Tournament 3, around a year after its release. 
 With epic games at the helm of development, it's obvious that quite a bit of polish and work has 
 been added to create one heck of an app for both ps3 and Xbox 360.
  
  Into The Depths
  
  The campaign takes you through the vast majority of the multiplayer maps, keeping a nice pace 
 of the modes by easing in the player to the newer modes of gameplay, such as Vehicle CTF and Warfare. 
 he story itself is pretty thin, but much like Ninja Gaiden and its sequel, it hardly hinders the 
 gameplay.
  
  Tools of Destruction
  
  Weapons have recieved the Bioshock-style cycle method, as well as enabling you to prioritize your 
 favorite weapons to immediately pop up once you've run over them. All of the weapons seem to play 
 out well and feel balanced in each match, all of them naturally gruesome to use. They all come 
 with handy dandy alternate fires, giving short range weapons like flak cannons a little more long-range 
 usage and a little more oomph in some of the weaker weaponry.
  
  Highway to...
  
  The vehicle, simply put, are freakin' awesome. From speed vehicles like the scorpion and the viper, 
 to the towering Necris Darkwalker, the matches involving any or all of these are a sight to behold 
 and unique every time. I can't help but feel like it's a version of C&C3 in First person (that's 
 a good thing)
  
  Ooh la la
  
  The graphics of UT3 are most certainly 360/PS3 worthy, taking advantage of what looks like a souped 
 up version of Havok 2.0. All the vehicles, particularly the Necris fury and darkwalker look fluid 
 and well on par of the competition. The main character, nicknamed reaper, looks suspiciously like 
 another of epic games' characters... cough.
  
  Symphony of Destruction
  
  As far as audio goes, I've got 2 words for you: MEGA KILL. The infamous UT announces is back again 
 and as crazy as ever. All the voicing is simultaneously well done, and very amusing for the new 
 taunts, from Necris' "I shed little black tears for you", to the Liandi's "I see the blue screen."
 
  
  What's the jibber jabber add up to?
  
  After hours, and hours, and hours of UT3, the answer is obvious: If you're looking for intense, 
 vicious, and awe-inspiring multiplayer-centered action, look no further and be ready for blood. 
 UT3 is one heck of a fragfest for all ages... 17 and up, anyways. Oh, by the way, did I mention 
 you can use hoverboards? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Lots of differenent game types. Bots are a nice touch. The bot diffuculty levels are good for new 
 players and those who want to train solo. Although they won't be as fun to play with as humans 
 are. Co-op is fun on live. Graphics are wonderful. If you thought Gears of War looked good, wait 
 till' you get your hands on this. Lots of cool weapons. Gameplay is awesome especially with the 
 equipment you get. Definetly worth the wait. This is one sweet game to play on multiplayer. If 
 you have Live you should definetly pick up this game. If you don't then you might just want to 
 rent it to beat the single player campaign. Darkwalker is definetly my favorite vehicle in this 
 game. The Leviathan reminds me alot of the Elephant off Halo 3. Love the bloody deaths, especially 
 slicing and dicing with the hovercraft. The graphics are absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I was always a big Unreal Fan on the Pc but when I saw the commercial for Unreal Tournament 3 for 
 the 360 I was like AWESOME COMMERCIAL. So I decide to rent it and I played the campaign it started 
 out awesome till I found out the campaign was really repetitive they shouldn't make the campaign 
 exactly like the Online it seemed like a training mode for Xbox Live. You only see 1 cutscene after 
 each chapter.
  
  If you don't have xbox live I suggest you don't get this game cause the campaign is just like xbox 
 live pretty much just with bots. I mean it's not really worth 60 dollars it's more worth like 40 
 or 30 dollars. If your planning on spending 60 dollars and you don't got xbox live your better 
 off with gears of war or halo 3.
  
  
  Overall the game was really fun it's really addictive online if you can get your friends off of 
 halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 25Sniper52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Basically its one of the best fps out there now. If you're getting bored of Halo3, cod4, vegas2 
 or any other fps pick this one up. No spawn timers... crosshairs don't get bigger when walk/running... cool 
 weapons, characters and maps and good options (like faking death) makes this fast paced shooter a 
 must buy. Graphics and sound (especially graphics) are great. Campain is basically online with bots 
 and a story... but it helps you get use to everything. If your looking for something to hold you 
 over till thoughs big release titles in the fall this will more than satisfieeyeye.8.7 (P. S. there 
 is an awsome announcer guy and in-game talk between characters even online) ba b a ba ba ba bab 
 abab b ab ab a bab ab ba ab ab bbabaab ababab bab bab ab bab bbab b a ab b b aba bab ab babaa bababb 
 abb baaabb ab ab aba 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Lets get straight to the point this is a simple shooter at a fast pace with CTF and deathmatch 
 etc so it brings nothing new to the table.
  
  Single player
  Possibly the biggest disaster in a video game its not really a single player just the same modes 
 that you would play online so its not really needed but epic thought oh well might aswell throw 
 it in anyway. The objectives of the SP are simple CTF you capture it 3 times and you win it really 
 is laughable.
  
  Mp with bots
  this is fun because not only because it gives you practice but makes you think your good at the 
 game and the bots on your team are decent aswell
  
  GEARS 2 EXCLUSIVE VIDEO
  this is a great peek at GEARS 2 mp and shows of a lot more than you might think a great little 
 extra
  
  MP xbox live
  just like the bots only with real people just as fun just a bit more challenging
  
  pros
 
  instant chance to play with bots is good for practice
  very nice graphics
  can be fun online
  
  cons
  abysmal single player
  nothing new to see
  40 is a lot for 
 what you are getting
  characters are plain dull
  
  verdict
  To sum up UT3 is a fun fast paced shooter with a lot of flaws and gives you nothing new to see 
 rather than the graphics so overall buy if you love the series or avoid if you play COD4 halo etc. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holtsta500
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 was a huge disappointment for me. It looked really good, but thats where the 
 compliments end. The campaign is simply attrocious. I thought it would be similar to Gears of Wars 
 but all you do is play Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture The Flag, and a version of Territories 
 against the computer. Online is better than the campaign, but still does not measure up to games 
 like Gears of War, Halo 3, or Call of Duty 4. The player movement is way too fast and hard to control. 
 You'll often find yourself spawning infront of an enemy with a rocket launcher, resulting with 
 instant death. All I can say is that i'm glad i rented this game instead of buying it. Do yourself 
 a favor and dont waste your money on this excuse of a game, plenty of better games are coming out 
 soon so save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I never liked Unreal games on consoles. They have been pretty crappy. So when I seen this one I 
 was like "Gee, another push for peoples money!". I rented it and was blown away at how amazing 
 it was! I am actually in the process of buying it maybe.
  
  Where to start? Well the graphics them self are amazing. If you play it and say "That looks like 
 Gears of War" then your right because this is the very engine GOW is run off of. So its a beautiful 
 game. The characters, the levels, the details all are amazing.... actually so much so that sometimes 
 you overwhelmed by them!
  
  The controls are pretty easy although when it comes to vehicles things kinda get hairy because 
 everything is so diffrent and odd.
  
  The difficulty is rather varied to because unreal is all about playing the way you want. You can 
 play with bots (or real people) who are as dumb as ... well bots. Or bots that you really will never 
 win against. 
  
  The music and sound is really good as it has always been. 
  
  The gameplay is good to but has some issues. The good stuff is in the game you can choose from 
 single player which is a campaign mode... basically an excuse for them to teach you the game in 
 a few hour long journey with some pretty cool cut scenes. Not to mention it unlocks come nice goodies 
 for the rest of the game for you to use!
  
  Then theres online, instant action and all that. With this you can face your buddy on the same 
 360, online or just play other people. All this with or without bots. There are various modes including 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, Vehicle CTF, 1 on 1 Duel and Warfare.
  
  And to spice things up as always they brought back some mutators which you add to toss up the game 
 play even more. An example of a mutator is like "Big Heads" or "Low Gravity" or maybe even "Insta 
 Gib Rifles". They can be fun although I wish they had included some better ones. 
  
  The map selection is astounding. I really wasn't expecting so many maps! While some of the indoor 
 maps feel all the same, the outdoor maps really make the game feel unique and a thrill to play.
 
  
  The only problem I feel with the gameplay is Warfare mode. Back in the last edition of UT it was 
 pretty simple. But now its kinda complicated. And now they have added orbs and things like hoverboards 
 for everyone to use which don't work very well. Warfare is kind of a unfun mode now. 
  
  Besides that the game is a blast offline and online. Its all fast paced twitch sort of FPS play. 
 Theres ALOT of customization options from your hud, to your controls, to who you want to play, 
 right down to how the game will play out!
  
  This is by far the best UT I have played.... and its on a console no less! Get it now and be "GODLIKE!" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  It's summer again, that time of the year where there are no game worth crap picking up that come 
 out- wait.... Whats this? Unreal Tournament III and Battlefield Bad Company? The forces of nature 
 are out of balance!!! Stay calm!!
  Well anyway yeah, read on if you want to know if UT3 worth picking up.
  
  If you aren't familiar 
 with the famed Unreal franchise it's a fast paced, break neck speed explosive action. It's truly 
 a game for those who think Halo and Call of Duty are to slow. It's really all about speed, so the 
 average X-box gamer will take time to adjust to it all. Aside from the speed, alot of the basic 
 shooting mechanics you see in other games remain here. Some of the bigger difference here though 
 may make the game feel a bit dated. For one, there is no limit to how many weapons you can carry 
 in the game. This can be a bit unfair in death matches and head to head where a player can carry 
 every weapon in the game and pick up a bunch of power ups, so those who spawn with a pistol can 
 get totally annialated. Speaking of spawning this game seems to enjoy placing you in front of guys 
 with flak cannons and rocket launcher so that you can die before you can even take a single step. 
 This is another issue as well, alot of the weapons seem to be a bit over powered, because if used 
 properly most will kill with in one two to shots (except your spawn weapon, of course) . While it 
 does help the fast paced nature of the game, some people likely wont be happy with this. Then theres 
 the helth system. It's indicated by a number on the lower left corner of the screen, which is pretty 
 old school. I don't really undersstand why we can't go with the recharging health system, an innovation 
 many shooters today use. They dould have done away with the health power up searching. I know a 
 few people still prefer it the old way, but again, it's somthing alot of people wont want. On top 
 of shooting this game also has a wealth of vehicles you can do combat in, and I've got to say this 
 is something Unreal Tournament III has done excelently. Good enough to rival's Halo's vehicle controls, 
 you'll be glad piloting the vast array of vehicles availbe in this game is just so fun.
  
  Unreal Tournament III probably has the best over all graphics I've seen on an X-box 360 game and 
 the 360 seems to have no trouble running this game.... Most of the time. There have been a few 
 times where my X-box has just freezed on me with out warning. And it's not just me as my friend 
 have had similar problems. It's not a common problem but still happens every now and then. While 
 the graphics really are superb, the artistic design doesn't quite measure up. The enviroments are 
 beautiful and the vehicles look really cool, but the characters look very generic. You'll have 
 a case of dejavu if you've ever played Gears. And the monsters look utterly stupid, baring a similar 
 appearance to people dressed up as monsters in vroadway or somthing.
  
  The game's soundtrack really isnt anything special. None of it will stick with you, none of it 
 will make you wish for a n album, but that not to say it's bad. It's just generic game music. Same 
 goes for the voice acting. It's nothing bad, but it's not good either and you'll likely here alot 
 of familair voices. Not that it matters since the campaign's story and dailouge are worth giving 
 a crap. The story is also pretty worthless and it's hard to even care about it when the character 
 are so two dimensional. 
  
  Unreal Tournament III provides a few game modes. There is a campaign, but it's just a bunch of 
 bot matches strung together with cut scenes. With that in consideration I must say it is the most 
 unfullfilling campaign in a shooter I've ever experienced. At least it provides four player co-op. 
 This is deffinatly not the game for you if you wanted a good campaign. But veterans know the series 
 is all about multiplayer, and theres deffinatly some multiplayer fun to be had. You can choose 
 instant action which allows you to play multiplayer matches with bots (which makes me woder why 
 the campaign is even there) or you can play online. Surprisngly though there aren't many game types. 
 All you've got to choose from is head to head (1vs1) , Deathmatch, Team Death Match, CTF, Vehicle 
 CTF and Warfare (a gametype where two teams battle it out for control over territories) . You can 
 play all of this in ranked and un ranked. And while it is dissapointing that there arent many game 
 types, there are at least alot of maps to play them all on (although you can only play certain game 
 types on cetain maps and a good amount of the maps are just variants of others) . Theres also the 
 fact that the 360 version lacks the modded content (such as characters and maps) and customizable 
 characters, although the 360 version does have 2-player split screen and a couple new characters 
 and maps (although it hardly makes up for the losses) . Add to this though that the 360 version is 
 thirty dollars more than the PS3 and PC versions and I can tottaly see picking walking away from 
 this game feeling ripped off.
  
  Unreal Tournament III is a fun game, but it's so limited compared to some of the competition you 
 likely wont be addicted. And with the missing content and inflated price tag I wouldn't blame you 
 for skipping this game. But if all you want a fast paced shooter or just a nice distraction until 
 that next big game comes out, this just might be what your looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of an online fragger, but I do love a local split screen game with friends and UT3 
 offers that in spades. There are a nice selection of vehicles, an even nicer selection of weaponry, 
 and a wealth of game modes available to distract from the underling base of the game which is essentially 
 just a glorified death-match/CTF fest. 
  
  I was hesitant to pick up this title, as I kind of left the Unreal franchise behind when it went 
 strictly multiplayer, but I don't regret the purchase one bit. UT3 actually manages to reinvigorate 
 the FPS deathmatch with excellent innovations to the MP game play, while regressing some details 
 to an earlier age of gaming. The new stuff is good, very good. Rather then copying the same control 
 point "capture and hold" style of MP gaming that has become the norm, UT3 has managed to find nice 
 variations to the gameplay.
  
  Instead of simply holding a control point, UT asks that you convert nodes to your side and protect 
 them, which then in turn lets you attack the next one in the series, until finally being able to 
 attack the enemy "core". It may sound like the same idea, but in terms of gameplay it seems fresh 
 and new.
  
  On the regression side of things, UT takes a step backwards for the FPS genre in a few ways, but 
 this is not necessarily a bad thing. For one thing, there is no limit to the amount of weapons 
 a player can carry, which I personally enjoy as a primarily SP minded gamer, but I can understand 
 how this could upset the online MP community. If you spawn with a pistol next to a guy holding 
 four different types of weapons that can kill you in one shot, that is probably pretty frustrating. 
 Another backslide is in the health system, which reverts to an older style of play where users 
 are forced to find health packs and armor boosts rather then simply wait for their health to recharge. 
 I personally prefer this type of system for a game such as this, but again, it wouldn't surprise 
 me to hear that the online community disagrees. 
  
  From a SP perspective the game has some merit, although it is most certainly not GoW we are talking 
 about here. The cut-scenes and story are largely forgettable and do not really succeed in convincing 
 you that you're playing anything other then an online multiplayer game at home with bots, but the 
 game is so enjoyable to play through and pretty to look at that the lack of a cohesive story doesn't 
 really hamper the experience that much. This game is fast, visceral, exciting to play and almost 
 takes me back to the way I felt when Quake 3 Arena first hit the scene.
  
  On the graphics front, the visuals are on-par with the cream of the 360 crop, especially considering 
 the extravagant laser-light show going on at all times. It's not quite COD4, but it is nothing 
 to sneer at either. The characters are modeled very well, the vehicles have a great post-apocalyptic 
 flavor to them and the effects/lighting are a spectacle to behold. There is a bit of a drab-ness 
 to the overall themes and textures of the arenas, but they do have great level design and a nice 
 selection of maps.
  
  Controls are pretty tight and definitely usable, although there is somewhat of a slow and clunky 
 feel to everything in the game. Aiming is handled quite well, but it feels a bit sluggish when 
 compared to the speed which the players run around. Weapon selection can be slow if done through 
 the one button cycling of inventory, but once you grow accustomed to the secondary selection mode 
 utilizing an on-screen analog stick based wheel, you'll be changing guns nearly as fast as you 
 would on a PC.
  
  Vehicles control adequately and are based on a similar structure to that of the Halo franchise 
 with one stick controlling direction and the other the forward and backward movement. UT also incorporates 
 a few other buttons that vary per vehicle involving speed bursts, deployable objects and altitude 
 changes. I find myself getting caught on objects or in corners more then I'd like, and occasionally 
 it can take a bit too long to maneuver around objects or backup, but overall they control well 
 enough and are a welcome addition to the gameplay.
  
  Sound design is nice, but nothing overtly spectacular. The gunfire sounds good enough, and the 
 splattering of flesh is great, but the audio does not really pack much of a wallop overall and 
 pales in comparison to newer 360 titles such as BF: Bad Company. The one thing worth mentioning 
 however is the announcer who is back and just as entertaining as ever. I haven't played a whole 
 lot of UT MP in the past but I do remember the audio narration of your antics by the announcer 
 as being great and it just as entertaining today... "Killing Spree!"
  
  The long and short of it is that UT3 is a MP based game that is actually fun to play alone, as 
 where I personally find most MP games to be somewhat boring even when played online. Nice little 
 touches like deployable hover-boards and teleportation guns add unique flair to the title and prove 
 that there is still some room for innovation in the saturated FPS genre. I don't see myself spending 
 an exorbitant amount of time playing this title alone, but it will definitely be waiting in the 
 wings for the evenings when I entertain friends. The Split screen play of this title is not only 
 a welcome addition, but the true stimulus for me to purchase the game. I prey that other developers 
 pay attention and follow suit; believe it or not devs, we don't all want to strictly game online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  After months of anticipation Unreal finally came out on the 360. For me it was welcomed with mixed 
 reviews. With all the great shooters this game has to compete with it makes it hard for it to stand 
 out above the rest. The best thing it has against the others is its graphics. The game looks top 
 notch but there are plenty of parts where the game looks a little unpolished. A good example of 
 that would be character models (expecially at the end of a match) . Audio is a bit too low and not 
 enough environmental effects. The menu seems very simplistic but that doesnt really matter. Gameplay 
 is smooth and matches can be set at a furious pace. Plenty of maps to choose from and the addition 
 of Warefare match make this a good alternative to Halo. The biggest dertractor would be the single 
 player campaign. The bots can get very annoying so i would reccomend playing story made with co-op. 
 
  So with that being said, the game is fun to play but not a stand alone shooter. That meaning you 
 should have either a COD 4, Halo 3, or Bad Company to play if and when it grows old on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imanwv
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is a fast game. You die quickly and respawn quickly. It is NOT comparable to any other FPS 
 for 360. This game requires agility and fast decision making. During that 5-10 seconds that you 
 face your opponent, you really have to do your best to kill him/her with the weapon in you hand, 
 No time to change it! The music and the sounds effects are amazing (although kinda the same as 
 previous versions) . I played UT 2003 and 2004 on PC, and I think this version matches xbox 360 
 perfectly. The online modes are not so many like Halo 3. There is deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 CTF, vehicle CTF, and warfare, but all are exciting. The maps are great. Lot of maps. Maps have 
 reasonable variety. 
  
  Don't count on the single player game a lot. It is kinda short and a bit boring. For me the joy 
 is in the ranked multiplayer. The reason I'm saying ranked is because most of them have no Bots 
 playing. 
  
  It asks for a min 800 word review, how the hell can I do that, lemme see if it goes thruogh now, 
 if I don't come back, it means it went through... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martyr2k6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game on PC, and now on 360, I can conclude that it was money well spent. While 
 the campaign mode drags on a bit and leaves ALOT to be desired, the multiplayer MORE than makes 
 up for it. 
  
  I rate this game as a 9.5 for it's lush visuals, utterly intense and carpal-tunnel inflicting gameplay. 
 A beautiful translation from PC to Console, this game is the game I have been waiting for. Every 
 FPS I have played (including the Halo series, and COD 4) has been kind of a mid-way point for me 
 until this game was released. 
  
  Granted the game has visual polish, and amazing controls; however, it lacks the "complete package" 
 that Unreal Tournament 2004 seemed to deliver. I miss the days of countless matches in Bombing 
 Run, the FPS/Sport that seemed to bring Basketball and Football to a whole, new, disturbing world 
 of greatness. While most will complain about the severe lack of User-Created Content, I seem to 
 have no problem with this factor. Back when UT was solely on PC, I seldom downloaded new custom 
 player models and mods to the game to provide a different experience (and when I did, the gameplay 
 was rarely that interesting enough to leave it there to eat up my hard drive) so I really have 
 no problem there. 
  
  The only TRUE gripes that I have with the game are the semi-twitchy camera movement when in vehicles 
 (that can easily be smoothed out with an update) and seemlingly impossible to achieve Ranked Achievements. 
 
  
  With all that being said, I completely reccomend this to my fellow gamers out there who are both 
 fans of the series and new to it as well. 
  
  If you were dying for that FPS game that will have you sweating mid-round on your first outing, 
 this is IT. I can't wait for Epic to start providing some DLC for it, and yes I have NO problem 
 at all giving Epic more money for a QUALITY gaming experience. 
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBBO2511
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 has finally been released on the Xbox 360 and I believe it has definetly been 
 worth the wait. I think it is the best online game I have ever played and is amazingly fun. This 
 game could last me a very long time because it is an excellent old-school shooter where you don't 
 have to think, you just shoot. It is a very fast paced and fun game that is really easy to pick 
 up and once you have picked it up, you simply can't put it down!!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazingly realistic from the amazing different locations to the excellently 
 detailed character models right down to the amazing unique look of weapons. If you like your games 
 to look good then you are going to be amazed by this!
  
  Sound: The sound in Unreal Tournament 3 is absolutely top notch. The music on different levels 
 is a great addition and fits well with the pace of the action. The weapons also sound really realistic 
 as well.
  
  Gameplay: Unreal Tournament 3 is a game that plays really well. It is a very fast and furious game 
 that is a great joy to play for many hours. It is just one of those games that will keep you entertained 
 for a very long time if you are a fan of old school online shooters.
  
  Value: This game has extremely good value as it is a game that I will play for a very long time 
 as it is extremely entertaining and a joy to play.
  
  Overall Unreal Tournament 3 is an outstanding game that is worth every penny as it is really fun 
 to play. If you want to know why I haven't played it that much it is because I got the red rings 
 a few days after buying it which was quite annoying. After I get my Xbox 360 back I will be playing 
 it a lot though. So if you enjoy old school fast paced shooters or just enjoy the occasional online 
 shooter then I recommend you go out to the shops now and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I buy a lot of games. A lot. But after buying this game, it pretty much rendered all the other 
 games I own obsolete. It's THAT good!! The people who are rating this game low probably have no 
 idea how to play it. Unfortunate for them because this is probably the best game on the 360 to 
 date! Blazing fast with beautiful graphics and no frame rate slow down at all. Amazing! Unreal!
 
  
  Guys, before you write a review, learn how to play it first. It's really a simple concept, point 
 and shoot. If you can't grasp that then you really shouldn't be playing First Person Shooters. 
 Fiddle around with your sensitivity settings and the like.
  
  There are about 50 million things you can do in this game and it just never gets old. There are 
 a few gripes and groans along the way but hopefully they will be fixed. Knowing Epic Games, it'll 
 probably take a few months. Them being so busy with the lame sequel to one of the most overrated 
 games in history, Gears of War. I can tell you already that this game already smokes Gears of War 
 2 in every way. The weapons actually work in this game, go figure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydentenno
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Can't believe they put this much time and effort on a game like this, graphics not the xbox 360 
 standards if i want to play games like the xbox or ps2 i wouldn't have bought the 360, why go back 
 if i can go ahead in graphics, boring game play the only good thing about this game is the variety 
 of the weapons and the multiplayer tournaments...... no single player stages only missions like 
 the ones with the multiplayer but on a single mode. I just want to say its not worth a penny to 
 spend on... i was hoping it would be like the old unreal games, quake 4 is a game that can be relied 
 on, nice graphics, meets the standards of the 360, perfect missions and stages good story and i could 
 go on and on. Unreal tournament is a bad disgrace for the xbox 360, ps3 consoles. This game should 
 have been on the XBOXL ..... only. And yes D7ashelkonyeh jama3a.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kman_13ayn_12
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  im so glad i rented this to try it out before i bought it, i saw the videos and it looked pretty 
 good. But i was playing it and it was BORING. SLOPPY gameplay, WAY to hectic. if your looking for 
 some online tournament fun, stick to halo 3 or COD 4. THIS IS A HORRIBLE GAME , dont buy it. but 
 on a plus side, it has some pretty crazy graphix and an okay story, but the gameplay just sucks 
 big time. i played like the first mission then an online session and got so bored, i decided to 
 say that it wasnt working just so i could go back and rent a different game. i highly recomend 
 you do not play this game. theres absoulutly NO skill involved its just hectic explosions and gunfire 
 where you just shoot wherever and hope you kill somebody. extreamly disapointed. it was deff. unreal 
 how much this game sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feudemonj00
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was aprehensive about buying this game. I actually talked myself out of buying it twice on the 
 way to the game store. Well I ended up getting it, and when I got it home, boy was I ever dissapointed. 
 It wasn't all bad though.
  
  Graphics are pretty nice, though I must say I thought they would be better.
  
  Sound is okay. 
 Not nearly as nice as battlefield.
  
  Concept was STUPID! When I heard that it was going to have a "Campaign" I was excited. Then I found 
 out from playing it that said campaign was a bunch of stupid bot matches.
  
  I did like some of the objective based stuff, but some of it was really involved and probably would 
 have to be played by a team of people because the bots don't quite get it done.
  
  Multiplayer was okay, actually kind of on the bad side of okay. Didn't really enjoy it that much.
 
  
  The pace of the game is too fast, as it has been all along. This game would benefit from a slight 
 tweak in speed, although I know that is one of the UT signatures.
  
  All in all I did not like this game so now I am going to trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyBlueOtter
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  before I play a game i usually have enough time on my hands before i get back home to look at the 
 manual of the game. and looking at the manual for UT3 made me convinced that I would enjoy the 
 game. with its some 15 vehicles 15 weapons and 20 odd maps. and along with this new features like 
 the slow cube thingy used in defensive missions but these things seem too look and sound cool but 
 in practice there just not that fun. there are basically only 2 long ranged weapons which can be 
 fustrating for someone chasing someone around the map with the link gun that takes around 20 seconds 
 for it to make 50 metres. The thing is UT3 is not a bad game it just doesnt feel that fun comparred 
 to the other games out there and doesnt innovate enough to completly change FPS style. someone 
 with a rocket launcher will always win against a certain array of different weapons and someone 
 with a flak gun or link will win with against others ... i prefer a game to be more about the skill 
 with a certain weapon and it matters how good you are with this weapon that determines who wins 
 the fight.
  against anyone who knows what they are doing in multiplayer if you get shot from behind there is 
 always no way to bring the fight back. whereas in games like halo you can manipulate fights by 
 using grenades or melee.
  
  one of the main things that fustrated me about UT3 is that, not being a fan, ment that i did not 
 know there was no real story line to the game. so when i read in some kind of hyped up magazine 
 that you follow rohnin or whatever in a compelling story line i became exited to actaully play 
 the campaign but then soon found out all it was, was team based games over and over. do not buy 
 the game yet !! at least wait for price to go down.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peace-poo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  the on-line is fast and fun and above all it beasts upon noobs
  just so everyone knows this next part is just filling up my 100 word requirement i got the game 
 yesterday and have been playing the game nonstop the story really sets you up for multiplayer and. 
 For me, it took a little bit to understand the controls and it took 4 or 5 lives to beat the first 
 level so you could be like wtf like me at the beginning. After you get used to it you are able 
 to blow people apart with a single rocket to the body. i still need three hundred letters so i'm 
 going to write very long words. complication, supercalafragilistic expialadocious, thats right 
 i just spelled supercalafragalistic expialidocious. notice how i made it 2 words because aparently 
 25 letter words are confusing to some people. boom my work is done. Oh my f-ing lord i still need 
 like 90 letters left so i will say a couple more things about the games on-line, I personally like 
 capture the flag and team deathmatch modes the best , that is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niblackninja
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game is so noticeably a hyped up gears of war. The hoverboard is terrible in large missions, 
 you keep getting stuck in little corridors or ramps and cant reverse, meaning you have to jump 
 off and on, in the meantime your dead.
  
  The AI in single player missions is terrible, playing SP missions where you need the prime node 
 to be safe is just frustrating as the AI are stupid and no matter what you say they do the opposite. 
 Prepare to spend most of your time redoing the same situation - capturing the node, attack the 
 base, node gets captured back, go get the node - and round the circle goes. The single player will 
 be best played via Co-op as the AI in your team arent up to the challenge.
  
  Graphics are great, Single player is rubbish, multiplayer is where it's at.
  
  
  I have to 
 say, from playing all the previous UT's on PC, the Console conversion isnt great.
  
  I am gutted, all this hype for FA. I just bought this and C&C KW and they are both pants.. guess 
 i'll go back to a nearly completed 80% complete GTA for kicks... shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  It has many pros and cons that immediately stand out the first time you play it.
  
  Cons:
  1) Lets start with the cons. Well there aren't many. But the fact is EPIC games hasn't 
 improved on the graphics. Well since the PS3 and the 360 aren't that diffferent, hardware wise, 
 some areas on the multiplayer map could have been better. And i don't know if its just my copy 
 but the game did have occational pauses that sometimes lasted 5-6 minutes. At which point i had 
 to start my 360 so that it would unfreeze. Well i think its just my copy, i have 2 or 3 friends 
 you have the same game but haven't complained about the freezing.
  
  Pros:
  2) Well so far, all the cons are understandable. Well lets start with the pros, the enviroments 
 are really visual eye-candy. But some areas aren't all that well detailed or rendered that well. 
 But this is the pros and the fact of the matter is, Unreal Tournament 3 has Gears of War level 
 graphics. And in my book, that is really good. The weapons in this game are also much more frequent 
 on the multiplayer map. Which is a big plus for all those gamers who tend to use their ammo up 
 really fast in multiplayer (myself included) . The weapons also do seem to take down AI really fast. 
 Which means the ammo has gotten stronger or the the AI has gotten weaker. I dont know if anyone 
 else has realised that about the AI. The AI on the other hand is also growing in intelligence. 
 Well i thought that to be impossible, since its the same game engine. 
  
  Round up:
  Well all in all, this game is a nice sci-fi action shooter. There is some nice exclusive content, 
 Gears 2 video, multiplayer maps/modes included. So everyone who ever liked Halo 3 or Bioshock or 
 Gears should really give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceb0xx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  I just picked up UT3 today and I was pleased at how well it has ported over from the PC. It is 
 gorgeous to look at in 1080p (obviously since it takes a pretty decent PC to run the PC edition) 
 and the control are fluid as well as responsive.
  
  I started the first player campaign and the storyline is good, but it doesn't grip me as much as 
 the multiplayer. Granted, the story mode is for those that want to either learn the game, or still 
 don't have the proper connection to run the games.
  
  I hopped into a few team death matches and I have to say that host advantage is still there. Its 
 not as bad as what GoW was at first... but its pretty evident that when you are going up against 
 the host with a flak cannon and your shots, although they are perfect, still miss. 
  
  I recommend this game with its subtle flaws to anyone who has enjoyed the series in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syliss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has been around for awhile and I have played the series since its roots started 
 in the very first Unreal for the PC. The big fear for most PC fans is that the original game would 
 not be completely fleshed out and lost at sea with the speed demands upon the console. However, 
 the PC series has been so successful that many crummy console versions have been made in an attempt 
 to cash at the possibility of success. So the obvious question is does Unreal Tournament 3 on the 
 360 survive expectations of hardcore PC fans and console gamers new to the series?
  As one of the hardcore PC fans I can safely say this series makes the transition at the consequence 
 of slight simplification. Instead of rambling on in a long review I will imitate UT3 and make brief 
 reviews in each important category.
  
  Game play: UT has changed dramatically over the years and this game is no different. The speed 
 has increased dramatically, vehicles have been added, and various game modes have been added, subtracted, 
 and modified. UT3 finds itself somewhere between the first Unreal Tournament and UT2004. The speed 
 is slightly slower than 2004 and all the entertaining jump moves and special combinations have 
 been taken out. This to me is unfortunate, yet, absolutely necessary for the sake of the lack of 
 movement within console controllers. However, more vehicles have been added and the weapons have 
 been perfectly adjusted and in my opinion, are the most balanced of any shooter to date. Surprisingly, 
 my main complaint on game play is the somewhat crappy menus and the lack of a reasonable tutorial. 
 The single player does an adequate job of explaining the new modes, but many people today (including 
 many of my friends) go straight to multiplayer before even touching the single player. I watch 
 many players new to the series run around absolutely clueless of what is going on and then immediately 
 leaving the server after getting pummeled. If new gamers can get beyond the modes and incredible 
 speed UT provides they usually enjoy themselves. 
  
  Rating: 8.2/10
  
  Graphics: Absolutely gorgeous sights to behold and the Unreal engine has not looked better. The 
 split screen runs very well too and every model looks top notch. I get some clipping errors occasionally, 
 some physics are a little askew, but for the most part, there is no way any gamer should complain 
 of the looks. UT3 is one of the best looking games to date.
  
  Rating: 9.1/10
  
  Audio: I was a little disappointed here. The guns and announcers sound great, but there is a lack 
 of depth to AI commands (not to mention taunts) and the music has barely changed from UT2004. I 
 know I could make much better music than this, and midway has simply let this area of potential 
 go to waste.
  
  Rating: 7/10
  
  Depth: There is quite a bit here in UT3. If enough new gamers are leered into becoming one of the 
 many addicts there is the potential for this game to live a long happy life on live, but I naturally 
 fear for the worst. The modes and maps provided have plenty of depth and are a blast to play. Character 
 creation would have really added the final touch, but there are plenty of characters to choose 
 from.
  
  Rating: 8.3/10
  
  Overall Rating and the Eventual Bias: 
  I am a hardcore PC fan. Many new players say UT3 is Halo with Gears of Wars looks. UT was way before 
 Halo, plays faster than Halo, looks better than Halo, and has much more depth than Halo (multiplayer 
 wise) . I feel the conversion to the 360 was incredibly successful, but the simple things could 
 very well turn away new gamers that are already set in their ways. Along with this, there is no 
 cover system and gamers used to gears of war (and the like) could be turned off. All of this aside, 
 Unreal Tournament 3 is the epitome of what a PC to console conversion should be if gamers take 
 into account the removal of a few game play mechanics.
  
  Overall Rating:
  8.7/10 (not quite a monster kill, but at least an ultra)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the campaign mode is DM's, TDM's, CTF and and some other mode that I dont know the name of 
 ( All fun by the way!) its still pretty awesome and the AI is smart. The online provides up to 
 16 people and a load of fun maps (Including the 5 exclusive ones) . And like I said this game is 
 an FPS version of Gears of war, you can still pop heads and blow them to bits! The game is also 
 a little more fast pace GOW but I can deal with it. The game also has plety of vehicles to drive 
 and fly and alot of weapons. I reccomend this game to any GOW fanatic, any FPS fanatic and for 
 people who like solving objectives alot. The mods are also fun allowing you to play in third person 
 mode and make Marcus Fenix, Samus Aran, Solid Snake, Mastercheif, and the Locust playable characters! 
 Oh, and by the way most rounds (depending on the connection) is lag-free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is one of the most heavily played PC franchises in terms of FPS, and with UTIII, 
 it marks the first venture in recent years to port the game on to home consoles. While the core 
 game is unchanged, it just feels a little weird sometimes using the controller. 
  
  First off, the essence of UT is multiplayer, it began mostly as a multiplayer game and it remains 
 that way. If you want to get your full moneys worth out of the game, you're gonna want to have 
 an Xbox Live connection. If not, you aren't stuck in the mud, you can play the game with offline 
 bots, but honestly its just not the same. Match variants range from death match, team death match, 
 CTF, and other objective based game types. The action is frantic and a lot faster than games like 
 Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4. Another big part of the game is the weapons. You have a big variety of 
 weapons here, and to add on to the fun each weapon has a second fire. While you'll have standards 
 like rocket launchers, your classic shot guns and assault rifles have been given a big scifi twist. 
 Knowing how to use each gun properly and efficiently will give you a big edge up on the competition. 
 
  
  UTIII does feature a single player mode. I've questioned why exactly it does, but whatever it's 
 there. The single player mode is a story of... nothing that really matters. When it boils down 
 to it the story is crappy and the single player is nothing but pre set instant action games with 
 bots. The good thing is that you can go through them with your friends on co op to tone your skills. 
 But unless you really want the achievements, you'll be spending most of your time in multiplayer.
 
  
  Look wise, it's very Gears like and the reasons to that are... very obvious. So much so I don't 
 even have to say anything more. Epic knows how to use their engine but other companies can manipulate 
 it to looking different than Gears, but the way Epic uses it and it's architecture the two games 
 look eerily similar in comparison together. UTIII is a fantastic looking game but I feel they could 
 of made it look not as Gears like as it is. 
  
  I mentioned control issues earlier. Lets be straight, there are no real control issues, this is 
 just a matter of preference. UT is like FPS on crack. It's a very ADD twitchy game where speed 
 and precision is needed. Trust me when I say that it feels a lot better with a mouse and keyboard. 
 That's not to alienate anyone since you can get by perfectly fine with the controller especially 
 if you're not used to PC games. Another little gripe is weapon switching when you have a lot of 
 weapons. It would be easier if the LB and RB button cycled through weapons left and right, but 
 only one of those shoulder buttons does and the other seems to be for a hot key type use. It's 
 a minor annoyance at most, but still is annoying. 
  
  Another thing that is a big disappointment is the lack of mods. Both the PC (Obviously) and the 
 PS3 version have mod supports which are simple to install and easy to manage. You'd think with 
 Epic handling Microsoft's baby franchise in the absence of Halo that they'd open up the 360 for 
 Epic to allow mods in this version of the game.
  
  Over all, if you want a fast paced FPS for your 360 library, UTIII will fit it. It's not a game 
 for casual FPS players but it will do well for anyone who doesn't have a PC to run the game properly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons time. Based on over 20 hours play time
  
  
  
  A chance for those of us without powerful enough pcs to play ut3
  
  Graphics are good.. 
 Of course you already knew that
  
  
  
  
  
  No ping display in the server browser. For all you know, you're about to join a server being hosted 
 in China. Enjoy your lag.
  
  Flak cannon spread has been dramatically increased. It's become the 'I Win' weapon of UT.
  
 
  Weapon switching on the fly is HORRIBLE. Also there is no way to bind weapons to certain buttons. 
 Major failure here.
  
  Dodging feels awkward. Especially no Forward or Backwards dodging. Only left or right. Fail.
 
  
  Game feels very heavy compared to previous versions. Heavy and slow.
  
  Ctf maps and DM maps are way too small with tight corridors. I feel claustrophobic when playing 
 now. These maps make the already overpowered flak even more powerful. 
  
  You will never be a precision shooter like you could be on a mouse and keyboard. 
  
  Even midway 
 east coast servers are lagged to hell. Net code apparently sucks.
  
  No more shield gun. /crai Now noobs will have an easier time trying to kill my defenseless boobies 
 with their flak cannon. 
  
  Maps are being hosted in 16 player matches that should only be played 5v5 but are 8v8. Feels like 
 a damn spamfest than a tactical shooter.
  
  ----------------
  
  All in all, it's nice we get to see UT3 on the xbox 360. It will be fun dinking around with it. 
 However, I would never consider ut on a console for competitive play. That's like televising Pop 
 Warner football on Espn and becoming a die hard fan. It just doesn't cut it when you compare it 
 to the pro's, which in this case is the Pc version (whether it be dead or not, it's still the way 
 the game was meant to be played.)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Well the guys and gals at Epic have done it again. They have turned out a very high quality piece 
 of software and set a benchmark for what Unreal powered games should look and play like. 
  
  Graphics: I have to admit that I'm a bit of a graphics hound. UT3 delivers great visuals, smooth 
 frame rates, superb lighting, realistic shadowing, and the level of detail present in both the 
 character models and environment are really a testament to how well Epic knows their engine. This 
 is easily one of the top 3 most visually impressive games ever to grace the 360.
  
  Sound: Epic did a great job here as well. If you have a surround system you'll be very impressed 
 with the audio fidelity that is found here. From the sounds of people dieing, rockets exploding, 
 lasers sizzling, and character voice overs you soon seen that Epic was really taking great pains 
 to put forth audio that makes you feel submersed in the battle for humanity.
  
  Gameplay: No matter how good a games looks or sounds gameplay is where it's at. UT3 first wows 
 you with it's great looks, then floors you with booming explosions, and finally allows you to play 
 in this world of carnage and giblets, with ease. It really plays as well as it looks and trust 
 me, that's a good thing. The smooth frame rates help this along. With a fast pace shooter, like 
 UT3, frame rates are ultimately important. Run and gun is the name of the game in UE3. The 360 
 version doesn't have the mod options that the PS3 or PC versions have but offers additional maps, 
 characters, and a split screen option that doesn't miss a beat. 
  
  Conclusion: If you're a fan of the FPS genre or you just want a game that really lets your 360 
 show what it's got then you're gonna want to buy UT3. It's an experience that every 360 owner should 
 experience. Money well spent and worth the weight in spades. Go Epic keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Obviously, this can't be that original of a review. Everything that is great about this game has 
 been said already, and everything bad has been complained about already. I am just here to share 
 my opinion.
  
  The gameplay is classic. It made me remember why I liked the original game so much in the first 
 place. Making this an instant hit with me. About five minutes into the game I already knew I could 
 pop this in a year from now and still enjoy it. 
  
  Still intact is the fast and fluid gun play that will take new players a little bit to get used 
 to. The addition of vehicles gives the bigger maps an actual reason to exist, plus their not bad 
 to pilot. Guns range from the familiar to the some what new, and old fans like me will remember 
 most of the weapons appearing in previous installments.
  
  Their are plenty of modes to play, which adds more replay value to the multiplayer experience. 
 Plus, this game is supposed to be played online anyway, so it works out in it's favor that the 
 single player is nothing more then an elongated tutorial. Leading into the one of the anchors that 
 weighs this game down, the story. It isn't a story, it's a collection of cut scenes that wouldn't 
 challenge a one year old. I can't really sucker punch this game for it's apparent lack of effort 
 in making a decent single player because this game is supposed to be online. Plus everything looks 
 so darn pretty it's almost like one giant tour of the maps and modes you'll likly play online! 
 
  
  Sound works well, graphics are outstanding. Plus the game runs very smooth. 
  
  Us 360 owners lost the addition of user created content, but that doesn't mean Epic left us hanging. 
 They added 5 new maps, split screen co-op and extra characters to make up for that feature. 
  
  This game rocks.... pure and simple. It's quick gunplay, addicting multiplayer, and various 
 modes should last most gamers well until Gears of War 2 comes out. I'll be popping this in every 
 now and then to play it. 
  
  Monster kill......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  
  SCORE: 4/5
  
  Previously known as Unreal Tournament 2007, Unreal Tournament 3 has been available on both the 
 Playstation 3 and PC for several months now, and after a long delay due to timed exclusivity for 
 the PS3 version, 360 owners finally get to delve into this generations old school tournament style 
 twitch shooter. If you've played UT2K4 on the PC or Unreal Championship from the original Xbox 
 then you probably have a good idea on what you'll be getting into. The game is still structured 
 as an arena Deathmatch-CTF battleground where you'll be spending a lot of your time fragging, and 
 doing an equal amount of time blowing up. 
  
  Unreal Tournament probably shouldn't feel as new and exciting as it does. When you think about 
 it, UT 3 does very little change in the Unreal universe. The game is relatively the same as past 
 iterations of the franchise, its still the multiplayer frag fast reminiscent of Quake. With most 
 multiplayer centric shooters slowing things down and becoming more militaristic and realistic Unreal 
 feels like a breath of fresh air, which is hard to say about most old-school style games thus Unreal 
 3 contains its own charm, an somewhat of a nostalgic feel. 
  
  The UT games have never been about the campaign, so anyone approaching any Unreal game expecting 
 the singleplayer to be worth a damn would be sadly mistaken. The tradition continues in this game 
 with the campaign trickling down to bot matches separated by poorly written cutscenes. The Unreal 
 universe is in trouble, first it was a tournament, but now its real! Respawners on the battlefield 
 have changed how war is fought (but I thought war never changes!?) . Deathmatches are still just 
 a frag count, but how does Capture the Flag play into a serious war? Well in order to take out 
 the enemy's respawners you have to obtain their Field Lattice Generator, or FLAGS, and bring it 
 back to your own base-This is me rolling my eyes. Give me a break. The story doesn't need much 
 explanation, bad guys try to kill good guys, your bulky good guy (Epics awesome at rendering big 
 guys in huge body armor) , play about 50 bot matches, defeat bad guys. On the plus the campaign 
 is playable with four people, and its a good source for achievement points. 
  
  Epic is infamous with throwing tons of maps into their games out of the box, and UT3 is no exception. 
 UT3 contains dozens of maps, all of course are built for specific multiplayer game modes. There 
 are a healthy variety of maps for all the game modes, and rightfully so. This way all the maps 
 are balanced for their respective playing mode. All the maps are expertly designed, and fun to 
 play in, and non of which are dull or bland, looking beautiful thanks to the games under the hood 
 engine. Overall, UT3 contains some of the highest map quality you'll see in a videogame this year 
 with plenty of symmetrical, interesting level layouts for the objective-based modes, and a high 
 variation of environments. 
  
  Anyways, the games visuals are a standout, absolutely fantastic. Considering we've seen the Unreal 
 tech in countless games, we finally see the damn game itself, and the engine performs as well as 
 ever. You'll instantly see the art style the game shares with its 3rd person counterpart Gears 
 of War, but thats a good thing. The sound is pretty much similar to what you've herd in past Unreal 
 games, the guns sound modernized but no one will find any surprises, the Flak cannon sounds like 
 a Flak Cannon, the Rocket Launcher sound like, well, a Rocket Launcher. The only annoyance I've 
 encountered is in single player, the bots are very chatty, do I really need to know if my guys 
 about to score from three different bots at once? Just return the damn flag! However, this annoyance 
 isn't present in multiplayer, and unless you love playing co-op, or your an achievement hunter 
 just skip the campaign all together.
  
  Anyone whose played Unreal will find no surprises in UT3's arsenal. All the classic weapons are 
 present, all with minor balancing tweaks. The shield gun has been replaced with the Impact Hammer, 
 and your default weapon is a low powered pistol, which has actually holds its own compared to other 
 pick up weapons. The Sniper Rifle is still good fun for headshots, the Redeemer is still the high 
 powered Nuke which can take out half the map guaranteeing the opposing team crying out "cheap!". 
 The Flak Cannon's secondary fire has become a little slower, and forcing you to be a bit more accurate, 
 but nothing drastic. Even if the weapons are the same, that doesn't mean they don't kick major 
 ass, and feel great. 
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 is a very basic package, but that doesn't mean UT3 doesn't have if fair share 
 of multiplayer madness and thrills. While playing UT3 its very obvious how multiplayer gaming has 
 changed in the sense that these style of games just aren't made anymore, and quiet possibly outdated 
 by most counts. The only other game like this on the platform is Quake 4, and that wasn't a very 
 competent port. This is the reason why its impossible to not recommend UT3 to shooter fans, this 
 game isn't unique to gaming in general, but it's unique to the 360 library, and console gaming 
 altogether.
  
  Unlike modern shooters like Halo, Call of Duty, Battlefield, and so on, UT3 doesn't have any perks 
 or rewards to extensive play. Not seeing a little +10, or seeing a rank next to your gamertag wouldn't 
 mean anything last year. But this will probably be a turn off for some people if mere leaderboard 
 rank doesn't interest you. The Quake series moved from its roots into a Battlefield-like experience 
 with its Quake Wars game, so this may very well indeed be the last true Unreal game. With its variety 
 in modes, healthy amount of fantastically constructed maps, UT3 is one of the best multiplayer 
 experiences you'll have this year. If you can get over the lack of rewards, and go into this stoked 
 for old-school action, then it will be impossible to be disappointed. Epic might use Gears of War 
 as their flagship franchise, but it's Unreal that structured their company and gave them their 
 fame. 
  
  Pros
  
  Looks great
  Controls are sharp, and shooting is a breeze 
  Difficulty is well balanced
  Old School formula, with a new school look has its charm
  Amazing 
 animations
  For a gritty Unreal Engine game, the game is very colorful 
  Solid map design
  Top notch performance, you'll encounter very little lag if you have a reasonable 
 connection 
  Some of the best control I've seen in a console shooter, rivaling Call of Duty 
  
  Cons
  
 
  Single Player experience is worthless
  Mods are nowhere to be found
  Terrible writing
  Some texture popping is present before matches start, but not as bad as Gears
 
  Multiplayer doesn't give you much to work for. 
  
  Steven_Beynon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The Unreal Tournament Games have always been a fast paced FPS series. They are mostly for fans 
 of old school FPS's. They are not like Halo in the fact that Halo is a much slower paced shooter. 
 The controls on the 360 version don't really bother me. One reason the 360 version stands up to 
 its other versions, and is probably even better than the PS3 version is that it has five new maps, 
 two new characters, split screen and all the downloadable content from the PS3 and PC versions 
 already on the disc. It also has a bonus video of the Gears of War 2 video game. The story isn't 
 that good, but then again the game was made for the multiplayer part not the story. The Graphics 
 are great, but of course it uses the Unreal Engine 3. There has been no problem with stuttering 
 in the frame rate at all since I have played it. The game play is fast and fun it will keep people 
 playing for a long time. The vehicle steering and shooting are a bit sloppy at first but you will 
 get used to is as the time goes on. This is a must buy for any old school FPS fans and gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billiejoe415
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The online is amazing! Gunshots from every direction, guts flying over your head! The campain is 
 also very good the only problem is that the campain is like playing Instant Action or On-line. 
 How is it the same you ask? Well, in Chapter 1 you are facing your younger sister and trying to 
 kill her, which could be like playing 1 on 1. Chapter 2 is like playing Team Death-match. I don't 
 know about the other chapters yet but that is their one problem. The campain is like Instant Action 
 which you face bots or like playing On-line. Everything else in this game is GREAT! Blood, Guts, 
 some swearing... every thing you want in a game you have waited a REALLY long time for. So for 
 my review everything is awesome except for the campain. Could be a little better. 
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penecitodemono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  this game ios preety awsome , great multiplayer is the best online game to hava because there are 
 three types of matchs on this game :
  
  -deathmatch- you or your team need to kill a lest of opponents to win the match , you have a a 
 lot of awsome guns.
  
  .flag capture- you have to capture the flag of you opponet and bring it to your base .
  and
 
  -destroy the energy system - you have to capture bases to lead the main base and you have to destroy 
 the enemy energy system.
  
  this game is like halo . i recomend you to buy it.
  
  is an execelent game if you want to play it in live and the history of the game is great . you 
 character is you and you have to destroy a lot of different types of aliens and humans is great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great is great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great is great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great is great great great great great great great great great great great great is 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great is great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great is great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great is great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great is great great great great great great great great great great great great is great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great is great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great is great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great is great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great is great great great great great great great great great great great great is great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great is great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LightsOut138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  If you are new to the Unreal Tournament spectrum of the gaming world, then look no further than 
 the newly 360 ported Unreal Tournament 3. This game has got everything you could want in a FPS, 
 and all the things you would expect as well. Killer weapons, intense gameplay, and an edge-of-your-seat 
 experience that no other shooter on the market will give you. From the grizzly Flak Cannon deathes 
 to those ever so popular rocket launches to the face, everything from past installments is here, 
 and even some new stuff you haven't seen before. From a handful of new weapons to new characters 
 to the 360 exclusive maps, there is no doubt in anyone's mind that whatever you are looking for, 
 you will find it in this game. So go ahead and blow that 60 bucks youv'e been holding onto for 
 a great game, 360 owners, cause by golly, this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigan_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I will try to keep this review short :)
  
  Pros :
  - Decent length campaign with cutscenes
  - Graphics look great on HD TV 
  - Instant Action 
 A great mode for practice and beginners
  - Fast paced shooter, a style you don't see too often these days
  - Balanced weapons system, 
 Every weapon is deadly in the right hands. Every weapon also feels like it is capable of destruction 
 which is important.
  - Smart AI in Deathmatch, TDM, CTF, VCTF
  - Online is fun and relatively lag free
  - Good amount of characters to choose (despite custimization)
 
  - Split screen multiplayer is great :)
  - Fully custimizable controls, which is a nice feature that most shooters lack
  - Huge amount 
 of maps (55) to choose from and 6 gametypes will keep you busy for hours to come. Bringing back 
 classic maps like facing worlds and deck.
  - Dodging system is nice, not high hoping like in halo
  - Headshots look cool
  
  Negatives 
 :
  - AI bots are not as effective in warfare mode and sometimes cause games to last for a long time 
 if you are playing solo with bots
  - Cannot select all bots on one team against human players, E. G. 8 bots against 2 humans
  - Occasional 
 disconnections from online interupt ranked games
  - Online ranking system is pretty weak at the moment, but hopefully it improves over time
  
 
  Overall this game is a refreshing game and I am pleased to see the community are playing online, 
 I can see this game being strong for a long time on the 360. 
  
  Any FPS fan looking for an alternative to halo, R6V2, COD4, then this is your game. I own all 4 
 as i'm a huge FPS fan, and UT3 is defiantely the MOST FUN shooter out of them all for me. I would 
 recommend it to any FPS fans out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliban94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  this game is so fast paced its insane. defintally the most competative game out right now. with 
 the huge variety of maps weapons and vehicles this game deserves an award for best well rounded 
 game for sho. i highly reccomend thus game to those who love **** awesome games. yeah. so buy it. 
 totally worth your dough. and than add me on xbox live so we can game. x2020visionblur this game 
 is rediculous on the insane difficultY. chill 4 lyfe
  
  btw check out my top 20 favorite breakdowns on youtube
  my login is 69sofine
  
  or just type 
 in alex jesko
  
  hes a real character! hes a real character. daddy want some sausage? daddy want some sausages? 
 the cake is a lie the cake is a lie the cake is a lie the cake is a lie **** **** ass **** cock 
 balls
  
  i will refuse and watch you burn pull the trigger **** we will refuse and watch you burn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edot0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Everything about UT is fast, action, and very gory. It's always been this way and it 
 should stay that way. Well in UTIII case, it does. Although the game doesn't brake any new gameplay 
 amazing features, or pushes the scale higher for FPS. Its still a good game. Epic tried to through 
 a story in there, but its still like more of a intro on all the game modes. Bots are the best ever 
 in a game. Seriously.
  
  Graphics: Very pretty! Some of the best on the 360.
  
  Value: Med to High. If you dont have XBL then this game is not for you. This game is 99% for multiplayer 
 (which by the way is awsome) . This game will keep you busy for months, but again, only if you have 
 XBL.
  
  Closing Comments: This game is honestly very good. I recommend this to anyone who like fast-paced 
 FPS. Its not the best game in the world, but its a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownAss4ssin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  To start off the graphics are amazing, but the campaign Is lacking their is no story, you just 
 go around and shoot people. On the other hand the multiplayer is leet! It doesnt get boring. Besides 
 the Exclusive Gears Of War 2 multiplayer video is worth the buy. The Game is a must get if you 
 got xbox live, if you dont, this game is a waste of money. One problem i have ran into on the multiplayer 
 is a lot of lag, instead of picling the best connection people just go and create rooms, and some 
 people try to hold more people than their internet connection can hold, oh yeah plus it is push 
 to talk but that can be fixed, just hold down right on the dpad and unplug your mic and plug it 
 back in. It also has a great selection of guns, gunsthat are fun to use and have more than one 
 fire type, there isnt much being a noob on theis game so if you are a gay noob, well you will not 
 be able to play this game. Another good thing about the multiplayer is there is a big collection 
 of chareacters that you can choose from. Overall it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  UT3 was released in December of '07 for the PS3 and I bought it on day one. I was really dissapointed 
 in the PS3 version for many reasons the first being that the voice chat was broke. It took almost 
 6 months for Epic to fix it and even then playing UT3 on the PSN is not ideal because not every 
 PS3 owner has a headset. I think I have talked to one person on UT3 on the PS3 since I had purchased 
 the game in December of '07. Another huge problem was that split screen play was not in the game 
 and never will be. Also the much touted mod support is not as great as it seemed. The mods support 
 didnt launch for months after the game launched. Don't ask how much of a pain it is to find your 
 mods, add your mods into your system and get them to work actually work. Now on to the 360 version. 
 Let me tell you that you will not find those problems here on the 360. The split screen is there, 
 the voice chat is PERFECT much because the 360 has a better online service than my PS3 does. The 
 graphics look pretty much the same which means they look really really really good. I love the 
 fast action of the unreal games and the kill kill die die gameplay. The modes are all there for 
 your enjoyment including deathmatch, team deathmatch, CTF, Vehicle CTF and much more. The maps 
 are well done and very fun to play in. The sound is as good as it gets on a FPS. Trust me when 
 I say that if your a FPS fan or just enjoy playing shooters online, you will want to pick this 
 game up asap because its Unreal and its just fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbattsk
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I have just completed this game and i must say i am impressed the Graphics are good and even though 
 ive completed it i can still have fun in other modes like instant action and multiplayer so the 
 gameplay is good to, some people are complaining about the loss of mods and customization and yea 
 it is a great loss but i feel that the game is still good enough as it is. the multiplayer is good 
 as there is little/no lag well i havent expierienced any yet and matches are found quick so its 
 easy to play one quick match if you are in a rush. Instant action mode is good because the AI is 
 probaly the best ive ever seen and they can be set to alot of skill level so if your a beginner 
 or if your expierienced you can enjoy it anyway, there is a good amount of maps and each one has 
 great unique parts that are genus.
  
  Overall id say this game is 10/10 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The following review is based on 15 hours of online gameplay, and ONLY online, for I played the 
 campaign on my computer a couple of months ago ( since I couldn't handle the game very well since 
 of low framerates, I stood no chance online )
  
  
  The game series always had an awesome vibe to it, since 98', UT's been rocking LAN parties between 
 friends and still today, it brings loads of cool memories. How does it stands about 10 years later 
 ? I'll give here my opinion, so don't take it personnaly.
  
  I think that the game has aged well over-all, since they brought us lots of new stuff to tool with, 
 but most likely game modes and vehicules. As for weapons, they're the same since 10 years, and 
 honestly, they all feel underpowered and clunky to use compared to the PC version, wich is odd, 
 very odd.
  
  The xbox live community is a lot dumber than the PC one, since most of the player just keep heavily 
 trash talking and quit early in the games.
  
  The bots, while a neat addition, makes the whole thing odd. For instance, I never joined a single 
 CTF or VCTF game that had more than 2 human players in them, the rest is filled with stupid bots 
 who keep following the same pattern.
  
  Is it fun with bots offline? Hell yeah. Online ? no. It feels old and dated, and teams are never 
 balanced that way. Also, when you lag, ( and trust me, it will happen ) , the bots have the upper 
 hand on you, since they're part of the matrix of the game, they don't lag, leaving you heavily 
 handicaped.
  
  The graphics are generally good looking, with lots of varied locals and interesting map designs 
 although the character models seems pretty bland, wich is weird since the overall package seems 
 super polished and such.
  
  With little to no offline interest, and online flaws that leads you to play against bots more ofthen 
 than you should, the game just left a bad taste in my mouth.
  
  If you can play it on PC, do so, since the 360 version seems inferior in very aspect, even the 
 online community. For the first time i'd say, UT3 is better with NO voice chat other than the pre-defined 
 insults than hearing tons of kid screaming in their mikes when you blow them up. But, UT3 can be 
 loads of fun with your very own friends.
  
  8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elder-Scrolls
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has unbelievble multiplayer. The fast paste action makes this game one 
 of the best i've played. The splitscreen is also amazing yesterday me and my friend were plying 
 this for like 7 hours. The only problem is that not many people know about this game. For me this 
 game wipes the floor with halo and i thought halo was fun . Now I am speechless with this amazing 
 game so im just gona write 100 words so this review can be excepted. daffds dfdf fd ds dfds dsf 
 d fd sd fds afdg tryhg dfzg aserg th dzsf gr gfd gas dr ghyg f fet fret rt rtr rt t ret ret rt 
 erteas gsfg sf greg df fr t5 rf gar tgr4e rg grt df tgrwe tsr dfvds g43tr efd vsfg rt dfsv egtre 
 g dgvfsg treeterwtrwtrrttr r tret re tt rtr etr re t rt tr rtrsetre tert re tg rfedgf dg artr etre 
 ga rtre ga st rtgyh fd s weartrt f g WQR GREAGFADTAR4EW RG EFD GT5 GREF RE TTRE FR REWAGRE FFGSDSGFRE 
 FGDS FD GFDSGGFDSDGFG DFGDF GDFGF DFG DGDF GFD GFD GFD GDF DFG GFD GFD GFD GDF GDF DGF SDFG DGFS 
 DGFS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 isn't a modern day fps, for example your health doesn't regenerate when you 
 get shot. To regain your health you have to find health packs and health vials, which actually 
 makes the game more exciting. Also this game offers a heavy amount of power up's. Like the berserk 
 time power up, which will cause your gun to shoot faster, there are also power ups that cause you 
 to do more damage, turn invisible, jump higher etc.
  Unreal Tournament 3 has a campaign mode, which has a pretty interesting story to it. The campaign 
 mode puts you in the shoes of Reaper, and you fight along side with your team of soldiers trying 
 to save the world from extinction. The campaign isn't like other campaign or story modes in other 
 games. You have to play a variation of game types, like Death Match, Warfare and Capture the Flag. 
 Death Match in UT3 is just exciting period, Warfare mode requires you to take over and link a certain 
 amount of nodes together. Which to take over enemy nodes you have to destroy them, or take your 
 orbs to them, take them over, and make them yours. There are two types of Capture the Flag modes, 
 regular and Vehicle. Vehicle is really fun considering the maps are huge and vehicles are just 
 fun to drive period. Then there are a few types of death match modes. Including death match, duel 
 (1 on 1) and team death match. 
  Another type of play is Instant Action, which is like a single player or split screen game option. 
 Where you play with and against bots in any types of game modes on any map. Then there is the online 
 play which is really fun, they really added a lot to this game and you'll defiantly get your money's 
 worth with Unreal Tournament 3. And to make online and instant action more fun there are mutators 
 you can add to the game which can make your team have big heads, or slow or speed up the game.
 
  
  THE GOOD
  - The graphics are amazing
  - The vehicle variety, and there fun to drive.
  - Weapons are brutal and there is a lot of them
 
  - Warfare mode and CTF are intense
  - A challenging game
  - HIGH replay value
  - Fun achievements
  - Co op and split screen
  - Bots
  - Addicting
  - Mutators
  
  THE 
 BAD
  - Addicting
  - No modding
  - Only around 60 or so playable characters to choose from, so you might look the same as other 
 people online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dez2sho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Over all the game play is solid, if your good like me then you can keep up with the pace of game 
 play. HA
  
  Not only is the game play faster in this Unreal tourney than any other, even the vehicle battles 
 are fast paced. This will drive away a few tactical lovers, who enjoy being able t take a few more 
 seconds to plan a defense or an attack. There is a slight team work orientation built into it. 
 You {in the single player mode} can tell your AI to defend an area, or send them out to attack 
 and a few more team oriented commands. The AI seem to be averagely smart, sometimes they will stand 
 still and you can walk right up to them stand behind them and continue to shoot them, when giving 
 commands though your AI seem to do there jobs just right. The campaign is like a bot match with 
 cutseens and this makes the story line a little dull, but it is good practice before going online 
 and facing the real challenges. The online games are fast and chaotic never a slow moment. Hours 
 Of Big FUN!~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kungfu-Panda
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  The third part of the Unreal Tournament series is one many pc and console gamers have been waiting 
 for. Although UT3 was released earlier for PC and PS3 now xbox 360 owners can enjoy the fast multiplayer 
 action on there console.
  
  First I want to talk about the campaign. The campaign of UT 3 is almost the same as the multiplayer 
 with bots, because all you do is play different type of games on different maps.
  But than with a story, the story isn't that important, because the campaign is basically fun for 
 the matches you play against bots. And the option to play the campaign co-op makes it even more 
 fun.
  
  The multiplayer offers what the fans want, fast action shooting on great creatively designed maps 
 with a good amount of different weapons. And with the ability to play multiplayer online matches 
 with splitscreen, you can now play at home with a friend and own in multiplayer. Just like in Halo 
 3. 
  
  Are there also some bad points? Yes there are a few bad things. First of all the controls: the 
 controles for UT3 on xbox 360 aren't as fast as the controles for PC. And you get some of those 
 situations online that you need to turn 180 degrees and on xbox 360 that doesn't go so fast as 
 on pc. And what follows is that you get shot in the back by a flack cannon.
  Communiction is bad to. Someone came up with the idea to press right on the d-pad to talk.
  But 
 you need to hold it to talk. And its really irritating to play the campaign with friends and try 
 to chat with them and still try to play, because you don't have a third hand to press on the d-pad.
 
  
  Except for the few control problems UT3 is a great shooter single and multiplayer.
  Not a game for the hardcore shooter fan, but come on everybody enjoys getting a monster kill with 
 a rocket launcher or with the weapon of your choice
  
  The good:
  - Multiplayer
  - Co-op Campaign
  - Amount of different maps
  - Nice cutscenes
  
  The Bad:
  - Controls
 
  - D-pad for Chat
  - Campaign story?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknessviper
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to bore you with a long read telling you how this game doesnt follow the halo style 
 aswell as the gears because honestly this game cannot be compaired in styles because it is its 
 own unique experience. To fully understand the complexity and rich gameplay you would have to play 
 it. 
  
  This game looks pretty, doesnt chug on the xbox, and has as far as i can see balanced weapons. 
 The online and bot matches are fun. I actually had a blast warming up in the bot matches. This 
 game supports a bunch of maps of all sizes and has gameplay modes and options to satisfy all of 
 ur needs. though the lack of mod support is surely a factor that will hold this game from a higher 
 score. i feel that in a way it was for the best. Mods would no doubt ruin the omg gameplay moments. 
 Why mess or tamper with an already fun game. If i want to play a racing game ill play a racing 
 game, i dont need to race on a ut 3 mod. and plus most of the mods found on the PC and PS3 are 
 what i call Spam mods which dont really push the envelop in intrigue. 
  
  this game has a single player componed but dont expect something other than bot matches. i would 
 recomend a rental of this game to test it out.
  
  Additions to xbox edition, split screen, 5 exclusive maps plus 3 downloadable maps, 2 new playable 
 characters and an exclusive gears 2 video which is on you tube right about ..... now
  
  you get a lot of game for ur buck
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niffirg6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  this game mad me sad face. its fun lasts for and hour and then quickly gets only. the weapons in 
 the game are the same since UT '04. the grafics often pop in on huge maps, and they take for ever 
 to do. its amazing that epic can make a great game (gears of war) and a really S***y game (UT3) . 
 im mad i wasted 60 bucks on this. 
  
  THE CAMPAIN: cool opening movie. then you run a list of deathmatch and objective game types and 
 there isnt realy and "story" to it...
  
  INSTANT ACTION: basicly this is splitscreen and or play a game with bots. fun at 1st but gets old 
 quick... and i mean QUICK
  
  MULTIPLAYER: (xbox live) well you either suck or F***in' pwn. but it doesnt matter 'cuase it will 
 suck either way. shooting people with rocketlaunchers and bio goo gets old too fun.
  
  im sad cuase i really wanted this game but was disapointed to find out it sucked...
  
  dont 
 waste your money, please. if you really want it buy it from me for 40$ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desode
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  OK Here is my review of Unreal tournament III, I will start out by saying I don't give games very 
 high reviews but this game has impressed me a lot. To start out the graphics are amazing, and the 
 game runs very smooth. The biggest plus of this game is the amount of options given to the player. 
 You have 16 multiplayer maps and 6 different game modes. The game modes are Deathmatch, TDM, CTF, 
 Vehicle CTF, Warefare, and Duel,, plus all of these modes can be tweaked with options when you 
 host a match to further change them. My favorite is Warefare which is a great team based mode where 
 teams battle over what is called Nodes and when one team has control of all the nodes they can 
 attack the other teams core and destroy it for the win. There is even strat to it but thats the 
 short version of it. Warefare was meant to be played by clans, and thats all there is to it ! You 
 can also run a dedicated server if you wish. I have yet to have any lag online even on UK servers. 
 Midway has taken 360's and made gold accounts so thats there are dedicated servers for both the 
 US east and west coast, the west coast servers are in San Diego California and the east coast are 
 located in Chicago IL you'll see these on all the game modes listed as Midway servers on the server 
 list. One other great thing is the splitscreen online. With the graphics quality being so high 
 , I had wondered how well this would work. It works amazing, I have noticed a once in a while studder 
 but on very rare occasions where 16 people are all on the screen, but it is not anything that would 
 hinder your gameplay. If you can,,,,, Go get this game. Ebgames and Gamestop both have great trade 
 in deals right now where you get a extra $10 for 2 games traded in. Now one very important thing 
 is make sure to take some time and play with your controller settings before you jump online. They 
 have both a controller sensitivity setting and Turn acceleration setting, you will want to blend 
 the two of these settings till you get your prefered speed and smoothness set. I settled on a 11 
 sensitivity setting and 9 on the turn setting. This gives me the ability to smoothly scroll the 
 crosshairs around the turns so I'm ready for the kill and yet have fast turn around speed also. 
 The next thing you need to change is the vehicle controls. At default they are set up so that the 
 vehicles handle like the warthog in halo 3 and well that SUCKS ASS !!
  This was one of the main **** in a lot of the reviews, but they must not have tried changing the 
 setting to fix this. Make sure you have the vehicle controls set to DIRECT. This will enable you 
 to steer with the left stick and aim with the right stick. Closing thoughts:
  This is one of the best option filled FPS games on the 360. It has a wonderful amount of modes 
 and maps that will keep you coming back for a very long time. Yes it is very fast pace but playing 
 some of the larger team based maps slows it down enough that even players that don't like games 
 this fast paced, will enjoy the strategie and team gameplay. In my book there is no such game that 
 deserves a 10 but this game gets a big FAT 9.25 from this old stingy gamer ! Take Care, Desode 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiwak
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I thought that since this game has been in the oven for so long and with the spec designs taking 
 full advantage of the 360 capabilities that this would be a rocking game. I can't help but feel 
 that this is more of a tech demo to showcase the capabilities of the 360. The campaign mode story.... 
 older games that have been out for years longer have done a better job. The online portion of this 
 game has been done before. This is not enough of an improvement from other UT games before it. 
 The game is just like the ones before it and the only thing I can say is that it has much better 
 graphics. This proves one of theories about how long systems are going to last this generation. 
 I think that with costs associated to make a game this generation are high and if a system comes 
 out in the next 2 years what are we going to get? Games that could have come out with this generation 
 but with shinier graphics!!! I hope you guys agree and don't buy into the myth that we need shinier 
 graphics to enjoy games. It is the gameplay and story that make a game enjoyable. It's the reason 
 why I can still play Resident Evil 2 to this day. I am not saying that graphics are not important, 
 they are just not as important as gameplay and story. UT3 only improves on graphics but gameplay 
 and story are lacking.
  I will probably still have some fun with this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_RAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  At long last we finally get to experience the greatness that is ut3.
  
  I got my Hands on this game and I must say is nicely done version of a UT3 for 360. The game is 
 Fast and is straight up shooter for you FPS freaks Graphics were done nicely and the Controls are 
 nice. The game lacks single player story mode but so what. Its Unreal Tournament theres never a 
 true storyline in the UT saga. Online Gameplay is where its at gents and ladies this game is only 
 for Online shoot them up hardcore pick up and go people. No bots in this so it helps with reducing 
 lag. Servers work fine,
  
  To some ppl who are trashing this game and making people not purchase this game I got a few words 
 to tell you:
  
  Don't listen to people who say "this or that" and try to compare ut3 to gears of war or halo. It's 
 not meant to be like those games. Unreal tournament has always been more about fast intense battles 
 than immersive storylines or hundreds of different game modes which no one will play anyway.
  It's all about getting into the fight as fast as possible and take as many punks out before someone 
 turns you into a puddle of goo (which is still fine by the way) . Yes halo and cod are good games 
 but for someone who wants to just blow people up this is the game for you. Pick it up, get online 
 and beat the hell out of everyone in site or learn how truly bad you suck and hang your head in 
 shame for the rest of your life......
  
  Just buy it plain and simple and let the headshots fly.
  
  Over all if you like this game and 
 you wanted it for the counsel get it. if your PC can work with UT3 then buy the PC version. Over 
 this game is plain fun. Just buy and you be the judge yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanjackson888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan on Unreal and Unreal Tournament but since purchasing an original Xbox (back 
 in the day) and giving up on the PC I have not played one. Partly because I then thought a console 
 could never match the controls of a mouse and keyboard and decent FPS's would not be given the 
 justice they deserved on a console and gamepad.
  
  Anyway, 4 years on, 360 in place, still no PC, and all I play is racing games and FPS's. I would 
 still love to see mouse and keyboard support on a console but, like many others, I have now mastered 
 (scrap that - 'got used to') control pad FPS's. 
  
  Halo, Gears, COD 2 & 4 and so on have been and gone and in recent months there has been a lack 
 of a decent FPS. Bad Company & UT3 have just been released and I was suckered into purchasing them 
 both as I couldn't decide which I wanted. 
  
  Well, after playing hours on both of them I can tell you that UT3 wins hands down. Bad Company's 
 controls really let the game down as they are so sluggish yet over sensitive (if that's possible, 
 play it and you'll see what I mean) and it's impossible to get the feeling just right. 
  
  UT3 on the other hand... First game I played and it was like re-introducing myself to an old friend. 
 Plays just like I remember from the UT2004 days yet looks cutting edge with the amazing visuals 
 and sound. 
  It's not groundbreaking by any stretch of the imagination, it's simply good solid playability in 
 it's purest FPS form. 
  
  The game is really well put together and the controls are so intuitive. In fact not once did I 
 press a wrong button in my first few attempts, all the actions are assigned to exactly the button 
 you would expect and you can immediatly get on with the fraggin in the usual UT way. 
  
  Granted the single player is not much to write home about but the fact you can play it through 
 as a co-op campaign is a big boost. There's not enough co-op campaign action in modern FPS's. Too 
 many of them worry about the deathmatch aspect of it all (which is very important of course) but 
 imagine what COD4 would have been like with a co-op campaign. 
  
  I digress....
  
  If you are looking for a good, solid, fun and 'comfortable' shooter to fill the void of crappy 
 summer releases then UT3 is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorebashd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  I have to say first I have never had the pleasure of playing and Unreal Tournament game. Now that 
 i have said that.... what the heck took me soooo long. I have been missing out. The fast pace action, 
 great weapons and vehicles make for a solid gaming experience.
  
  First off the campaign is not really a campaign like Gears of War. It is more practice for doing 
 all the multiplayer modes online. Which is incredible for a guy like me who has never played the 
 series before. The story is done through cinematics and then a slew of missions using CTF, warzone 
 and the other game types. I have to say while its different, i am enjoying campaign mode to hone 
 my skill before going online.
  
  Another option is instant action, which is basically online multiplayer but played offline against 
 bots of varying degree. I fought them on normal and i have to say while not mind boggling hard 
 they did there job lol. I hate to see what godlike bots are like.
  
  I havent played online as of yet but as soon as a few more of my friends get it i will.
  
  
 The graphics and character models are some of the best I have seen in a game. The cinematics are 
 beautiful in scope and have great overall style. Characters look somewhat like gears ones, but 
 with greater variety. The sound is awesome although not as humourous as halo ( i love the grunts 
 they crack me up)
  
  overall a good gaming experience that is comparable to halo, and gears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asonofsparda
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is the first Unreal Tournament game to make it's way on to the Xbox 360. First 
 off I would like to say, if your still wondering whether you should buy this then don't hesitate 
 any longer because this game is a must buy for any shooter fan. This game is almost a flawless 
 port to the 360 from the PC. 
  
  The only reason I'm not giving it a perfect score is because their is no mod support. Personally 
 I don't care, but to some of you it probably does. The game at launch has 55 maps, about a dozen 
 weapons, and plenty of playable characters. For those of you who have never heard of Unreal Tournament 
 it is a multi-player first person shooter. If your looking for a single-player heavy game look 
 else where. In fact this review isn't even about the single-player because Unreal Tournament is 
 meant for multi-player and only includes single player to make people without an internet connection 
 happy. That being said I'm no going to penalize this game for something it's not.
  
  I'm not one to get in to specifics so all I'm going to say is the game is beautiful, the controls 
 are great, and their is plenty of content to keep you playing until way after the end of the summer 
 drought. It is very hard to find a flaw in this game, you can tell Epic Games spent plenty of time 
 polishing it and adding extra stuff to the original UT formula, but still keeping it fresh for 
 old fans. In its nature UT3 is a fast paced twitch shooter. This means it is a in your face shooter 
 that revolves heavily on accuracy and making split second decisions to stay alive whether it be 
 against other human players or the greatly programmed AI of the bots.
  
  Before I end this review I would like to talk a little more about the reason their is no user content. 
 First off, if your angry about this blame Microsoft. Epic Games fought tooth and nail against them 
 for us to get the user made content in here, but Microsoft wouldn't say yes. Due to this Epic Games 
 decided instead of giving the 360 a piss poor port of the PC and PS3 version they went out of their 
 way and made 360 exclusive maps and characters that are unavailable on the other two respective 
 platforms.
  
  So their you have it. UT3 is an amazingly ported FPS on the 360 that while looking simple at first 
 actually has plenty of depth and will keep you busy for months to come. If your looking for a good 
 shooter to play for a while then pick this up, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan21894
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  if you rate this lower than this your crazy it has Smooth, stunning visuals; great multiplayer 
 action; cool new vehicles; Warfare is a lot of fun. just because the story needs some work dosent 
 mean you can hate it because its mostly a multiplayer game the unreal seires just made another 
 stunning game and if you think not then your crazy. The graphics and sound are some of the best 
 seen to date in a 360 shooter. Its similar to the previous entries of the series, the game is primarily 
 an online multiplayer title offering several game modes, including large-scale Warfare, Capture-the-Flag, 
 and Deathmatch. It will also include an extensive offline single-player game with an in-depth story, 
 advancing from the simple tournament ladder to such concepts as team members with their own individual 
 personalities. The following game modes are included:
  Deathmatch 
  Team Deathmatch 
  Capture the flag 
  Duel: A one versus one gametype. It uses a queueing system, the winner stays, 
 and the loser goes back to the end of the queue. A typical match last five minutes with an unlimited 
 amount of rounds. 
  Warfare (formerly known as Conquest) : An amalgamation of Onslaught and Assault. While basic game 
 rules are equal to those of Onslaught, 
  
  Warfare adds unlinked nodes which can always be captured (supplying the capturing team with vehicles 
 and a spawnpoint) and countdown nodes (which, after being captured and defended for a certain period 
 of time, create a vehicle or trigger an event helpful to the capturing team) as well as the orb, 
 which can be used to instantly capture and defend nodes. 
  
  Vehicle Capture the Flag: Capture the Flag, with vehicles as part of the map; this exists as a 
 separate game type to Capture the Flag, above.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  I was thinking about this game for a very very long time, being remarkably new to the series i 
 was intriuged when seeing the PS3 version in action, seeing the graphics as well as foreign vehical 
 gameplay caught my eye.
  
  Coming into the series (as well as being the only one standing infront of a midnight blockbuster 
 to get this game, having no other mightnight launches of course...) , I felt a bit uneven... saying 
 to myself..."is anyone even going to buy this game other then me? or even rent it?" that question 
 has been anwsered.
  
  (Review style) : Story, Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Multiplayer, Overall
  
  To let everyone know 
 now, NO this game has no story line, you face bots on a variety of maps which basically gets you 
 ready to take on the online component of the game. (That was simple)
  
  The gameplay (espiecally for a newcomer only playing the last UT for the Xbox which name i forget 
 which was basically a 3rd person action game) will be trouble for people who have played alot of, 
 Halo 3, COD4, BFBC, TF2 ect... those games had a relvativly more realistic type of gameplay being 
 more slow and easily to handle, UT3 throws all of that away and is more like Counter Strike with 
 its fast sense of gameplay and controls, as well as Quake Wars with lots of jumping around and 
 firing off your weapon randomly to try to get a hit.
  
  So at first if your not already used to this type of gameplay just keep at it for a while and you'll 
 probably get a hang for it after a while, and after that while you will be getting messages saying 
 DOUBLE KILL!!, KILLING SPREE!! and so on and so force... makes you happy after a while.
  
  The weapons in UT3 are bizzare, you start out with a standard pistol but soon work your way to 
 getting the Bio Gun, Link Gun, Sniper Rifle, Flank cannon which are all UT favorties from what 
 i have seen in other reviews, all these guns depend diffrently depending on what your attacking, 
 like the bio gun isnt going to be much affect against a vehicle when the flank cannon and launcher 
 can really tear them apart.
  
  Vehicles are one of the great aspects of the game and they run like the Halo 3 vehicles do, pushing 
 the right stick forward to move and shoot where the reticule is, these controls can get a bit akward 
 at times depending on the vehicle you are using, all and all though most of the vehicles handle 
 nicely, the grav boards are fun to use, the goaliths are powerful as ever, and spinning and slicing 
 some guy in half with the great ball of doom is so much fun :D
  
  There are many types of gametypes to chose from as well such as:
  Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Capture the flag, Duel, Warfare and Vehicle Capture the Flag
  
  These are all fun gametypes which gives great replay value especially when it comes to multiplayer.
 
  
  The graphics are absouloutly beautiful with a couple of frames out of sync depending on the battle, 
 but other then that everything looks gorgeous being beautiful built, one of the best examples of 
 this called Gateway which teleports you into very different types of enviroments like snow, or 
 a jungle and it looks great.
  
  The sound is also pretty darn good, their is some voice acting in the game when dying and getting 
 the flag and lossing the flag going "Son of a *****" which funny to hear for the most part.
  
  Multiplayer is the focused part of UT3, you are not in this for the short campign of facing 
 bots you get this game to play with your freinds on Xbox Live and having loads of fun everything 
 gets amped up now facing actually opponents on these large game types can be ALOT OF FUN (Has played 
 3 matches getting owned in all 3 but still did pretty damn good, uhhh HEADSHOT!!!)
  
  Overall this is not a game to get if your expecting a great single player portion, your coming 
 into this Fast paced game with having no idea what to expect, but once you get online you'll be 
 trying to frag it out with people with all different types of weapons. I will warn you though, 
 like i've said before this is not like your regular FPS this is high speed, fast paced shooting 
 which might not be for everyone and it dosent revolutionize FPS's at all.
  
  PS: This game has the patches that were already on the PS3 and PC version was well as i think 5 
 exclusive maps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Unreal 3 is back and with authority! The only thing i'm unsure about is the Live play.. how long 
 can we expect it to stay popular?
  The graphics and sound are some of the best seen to date in a 360 shooter, however when playing 
 online, it seems to become a whole new beast.. its fast as all hellfire and can be quite difficult 
 to end a round without having more deaths than frags... ah what a wonderful word, when you think 
 of 'Frags' you think UNREAL TOURNAMENT.. sorry.
  
  Anyways the campaign is actually quite interesting this time around and does bare a huge likeness 
 to Gears of War.. mainly the main star looking EXACTLY like Marcus Fenix.. anyways.. i wander.. I'm 
 still up in the air as to whether this is a purchase or not but if you're an oldschool UT fan, 
 then this is definatly the version to get.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
