-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vampire Rain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/vampiresrain/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combining stealth gameplay with vampires is a great concept.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Truly insane difficulty.
 Vampires are almost impossible to kill.
 Enemy vision cones give just a rough approximation of what they can see.
 Dark and confusing--yet somehow still linear--level design.
 Jarring, nonstop cutscenes break up the spooky ambiance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 3.9, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 869 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: AQ Interactive
Developer: Artoon
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Jul 3, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fanged killing machines and clunky level design make this vampiric sneaker a real pain in the neck. 
 

  Playing Splinter Cell with vampires isn't as cool in reality as it is on paper. Despite an absolutely 
 fantastic concept that transforms Sam Fisher's spies and saboteurs into postmodern bloodsuckers 
 called Nightwalkers, insta-death difficulty and confusing level design make Vampire Rain nearly 
 unplayable. Developer Artoon hits some high notes with guts and gore, but the frustration factor 
 kills whatever pluses the game has going for it.  

  About the only good thing about this game is that it doesn't waste your time; it broadcasts its 
 awfulness right from the very start. The campaign story tells the ludicrous tale of John Lloyd, 
 member of a team of plucky commandos fighting a secret war against vampires that are somehow taking 
 over America and will outnumber regular citizens with pulses in precisely 908 days (vampires must 
 be really good at mailing in their census forms) . It's never explained exactly how this is happening, 
 though. Even though the game is loaded with nonstop cutscenes, virtually all of the leaden, comic-book 
 exposition is devoted to the repetitive explanation of mundane mission goals. Average folks are 
 still walking the streets at night without a care in the world, too, so it's tough to worry about 
 the undead swarming in to take American jobs or whatever.  

           Aside from some gory moments like this innovative use of a stop sign, there isn't much 
 horror in Vampire Rain.      

  Even with the vampire plague left unexplained, Artoon could still have built a creepy atmosphere. 
 You don't need context to send chills up spines when hunting vampires in the dark, after all. But 
 the developer doesn't do anything with the horror-movie vibe aside from throwing in the odd cutscene 
 featuring a-- wait for it -- creepy little girl with stringy hair and buckets of gore (including one 
 memorable moment where you discover that a few of your buddies have been turned into bloody performance 
 art courtesy of some stop-sign poles) . Lloyd looks exactly like Sam Fisher, right down to his black 
 spandex Underoos and night-vision goggles. Mission objectives are straight from the Third Echelon 
 playbook. You get a lot of high-tech scavenger hunts in alleys, office buildings, underground parking 
 garages, and warehouses, and goals like taking down cell-phone towers, recovering electronic data, 
 and shooting baddies with sniper rifles.  

  So aside from fanged foes ripping your throat out when you lose, there aren't any serious differences 
 between Vampire Rain and a typical espionage-style sneaker. Gameplay certainly mirrors Splinter 
 Cell and its clones. The basic structure of the game is identical in that you creep through alleyways, 
 climb ladders, slide down wires and poles, and do all sorts of odd creeping around in a desperate 
 attempt to avoid the vision cones of patrolling bad guys displayed on your minimap. Still, this 
 isn't exactly a by the numbers stealth game, as Artoon introduces new ideas in almost every area, 
 all of which do nothing but mess up what should have been a pretty straightforward game design. 

  First of all, Nightwalker vision cones are only a rough approximation of what the beasties can 
 actually see. This seems realistic, as the distance is never beyond the realm of possibility and 
 the vampires do have to be looking right at you. Shadows are more authentic zones of darkness here, 
 not the magic cloaking fields seen in the Splinter Cell and Thief games. A good rule of thumb is 
 that if you can see them, they can see you, which seems pretty fair. But even though you get used 
 to this over time, not being able to trust the vision cones forces you into a lot of tedious trial 
 and error, as you never know what you can get away with. Sometimes you'll go to great lengths to 
 get around a sentry that you're positive will be able to easily spot you, only to eventually give 
 up on alternate routes and discover that you can dart around it unseen. Other times you'll try 
 to walk by a guard well out of his range of sight and be picked up immediately. To make everything 
 even more annoying, you can't even activate vision cones on your minimap without identifying passersby 
 as bloodsuckers with the necroscope function of your goggles.  

  Second, Nightwalkers are virtually impossible to kill. When you're spotted, you're dead. Weapons 
 through much of the game are worthless. It takes a full clip of the automatic rifle or the submachine 
 gun to take down one of these Drac-pack refugees, while they move so fast that they seem to be 
 beaming from one place to another and can kill you with two swipes, the first of which generally 
 incapacitates you. And once one gets you in its sights, it goes on the hunt until one of you is 
 dead, so there's no running away or hiding. A sniper rifle and a UV knife show up later in the 
 game and make killing Nightwalkers easier, although these new-and-improved devices require rare 
 ammo (yes, even the freaking knife) and disappear at the end of each level. At any rate, vamp numbers 
 rise so dramatically that it's suicidal to fight them no matter what weapons you possess. And even 
 though Nightwalkers are so deadly, being hunted by them feels very artificial. Vamps never talk 
 to one another, shuffle their feet, cough, wander over to see what might be lurking in the shadows, 
 or even mutter about noisy rats. Instead of any interaction, you get a flashing-eyes special effect 
 that lets you know you've got a couple of seconds to get under cover.  

  Level design causes more headaches. Paths forward are relentlessly linear in the campaign missions. 
 Even though street scenes in the game appear wide open with all sorts of alleys to explore and 
 ladders to climb, you're hemmed in by invisible borders. Everything is also so dark that it can 
 be tough to figure out which way to go. Shadowy visuals boast incessant rain effects that set an 
 appropriately depressing mood, although the scenery is so murky and indistinct that fine details 
 are swallowed up by the gloom. You often can't even be certain of the presence of vampire sentries 
 until you get so close that they can spot you. Night-vision and necroscope goggles can pierce the 
 blackness, but the battery powering them runs down every few seconds. You spend more time waiting 
 for recharges than you do hunting down hidden ladders and vamps. Sound effects don't help, either. 
 Vamps frequently don't say anything when they spot you, and their footsteps are so muted that they 
 might as well be walking on air. The only noteworthy aspect of the audio in the whole game is the 
 squelching sound of a vampire mowing down on your carotid artery -- and, of course, you hear that 
 only during the brief cinematic that plays every time you get killed.  

           The sniper rifle and necroscope make for a devastating combo, at least while you're on 
 rooftops a mile away from any Nightwalkers.      

  Gameplay modes outside of the campaign are unimpressive as well. Trial missions that give you short 
 objectives to solve, like playing tag with all the other members of your team or grabbing a weapon 
 from under the nose of a vampire, are often more entertaining than the full-blown story levels. 
 Still, they're too short and limited to be all that involving. Multiplayer is dull, and the Live 
 server is sparsely populated much of the time. The only multiplayer option that stands out is Death 
 or Nightwalker, a deathmatch variant where a killed player can turn into a vamp. Of course, all 
 this does is give the player the absurd speed and strength of the vampires in the game, so games 
 end up totally unbalanced. It's probably best to stick with the uninspired alternatives, which 
 include deathmatch, team deathmatch, and a capture-the-flag clone where you capture a flame.  

 
  It's entirely reasonable to look at Vampire Rain's concept and hope for something good to come 
 of it. It may be a Splinter Cell also-ran, but the bloodsucking enemies and gorier moments give 
 it a sufficient level of intrigue for the horror crowd. Too bad that any unlucky souls forced to 
 trudge through this masochistically awful adventure would likely drive a stake through their own 
 heart less than an hour in. Here's hoping someone sees the potential in future genre mash-ups like 
 this one -- ideally someone with a better game design.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (87 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ebarrgamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Although everyone and their dog is giving it a bad rep, I will be a select few that actually see 
 worth in this. (Please note that its still not worth much) . You can read others to find out the 
 story, graphics, or w/e. Here is my take. Don't shoot everything you see! Listen to the story, 
 its actually a good story. Remember its a puzzle game, so don't go guns blazing. If you've played 
 Splinter Cell you'll know how to sneak, just a bit harder in my opinion since there is more enemies 
 around. Don't shoot all the time! Look for secrets, they're on you map. But don't shoot enemies 
 around it. So believe me its not that bad, when you do shoot them its a relieve you get to repay 
 them for all the misery you've had holding back your guns. (note: pistol and machine guns do almost 
 nothing) . My review is 7.0/10.0. Why? I see it more as a rental than a buy. For me, I wouldn't 
 pay more than 10, 15 dollars at the most. It will keep you busy though! Lots of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commander-D
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Vampire Rain's concept of combining stealth gameplay and vampires may sound good on paper but in 
 reality Vampire Rain is nothing more than a lousy excuse of a game.
  
  The level designs are clunky and linear, Vampires are near impossible to destroy, and the story 
 is capable of putting you to sleep, along with the puzzling fact that your knife actually USES 
 AMMO!!!
  
  Vampire rain also uses elements that were ripped-off from Metal Gear Solid and Tom Clancy's Splinter 
 Cell. Such as the CALL sequence and The Night Vision.
  
  Overall Vampire Rain is one of THE WORST GAMES!!! on The Xbox 360 capable of rivaling with other 
 dull and broken games such as Bullet Witch and Hour of Victory.
  
  Now the game is out on the Playstation 3 as Vampire Rain: Altered Species DON'T BUY THAT GAME OR 
 THIS ONE!!! Play Metal Gear Solid 4 instead your better of with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  here's the proof that not all genera mix well together i mean this game add a good concept but 
 it has just so much bad points... but just to make this review i'm going to try finding some good 
 points...
  
  -The good:
  
  enemies originality: well the game earns points for the enemies I guess, after all how many survival 
 horrors do you know of that has vampire as your main enemy? other always have either zombies, aliens 
 or mutants so it gives this game a little (make that very little) original feeling
  
  then I would say storyline but as in def jam icon, since the game is so boring I stopped playing 
 after the 5th mission and I really doubt I'm ever gonna play this game again...
  
  and then I guess that's pretty much it for the good points of this game...
  
  -The bad:
 
  
  genera mix: sometimes mixing genera can be a pretty good idea like mixing adventure with some rpg 
 elements, alas... this is not one of those times... mixing survival horror with stealth element just 
 makes the game feel so much slow, you have to look at every corner, locate every enemies and make 
 yourself a path without being noticed (ok it wasn't that bad in metal gear solid but metal gear 
 solid had just so much more to offer)
  
  enemies: in a survival horror video game when you spot your opponent via the necro vision you would 
 expect yourself to be able to take them down and make yourself a way threw right? well not in this 
 game because if you actually try to shoot down one of your opponents he or she will turn into his/her 
 vampire form and in vampire form enemies get ten times faster (that is when they spot if they don't 
 they are gonna walk like zombies in other video games (which means about 0.1 meter per hour) ) they 
 can jump jump supper tall buildings (which means if you think you can hide safely by shooting them 
 from the top of a building you are pretty screwed...) and even they are almost invulnerable to 
 gun shoots I mean the only two weapons that could take them down are either A- the sniper riffle 
 (but this one requires you to be the far-est possible of your enemy because it takes at least two 
 gun shoots of a sniper to take those atrocities down (yeah I said at least two so sometimes even 
 more...) or B- the electric knife: this one allows you to kill them in one shoot but then again 
 you have to sneak up on them without being noticed how the heck are we supposed to do that? How 
 in the world that in a survival horror game can you not be able to shoot down your enemies? I get 
 it that it also as stealth elements but does it have to take all the part of the game's focus? 
 I personally think that they took the survival part a bit too much seriously...
  
  mission originality: another problem consist that in every mission you go threw the same freaking 
 city so already after the 3rd one your gonna get that dja vu felling but that's not the only thing, 
 every mission consist of going to an objective without being spotted by vampires, and I mean every 
 missions, one or two missions like that would be ok but all the missions... give me a break! what 
 happened to the survival horror part of the game? It's basically like if they told themselves let's 
 make a stealth game but instead of normal enemies let's put vampires but that's not all as if 
 this game wasn't bad enough as it is no it has to be even more crappy... why is it that you have 
 to go threw every freaking missions alone? (or make that having to split up at the beginning of 
 each missions and for some unexplained reasons your always the one that ends up alone (yeah I know 
 video game plot) if the city is full of bloodthirsty vampires and that they are close to invulnerable 
 why in the world do you have to take every single mission alone? it's like if the whole team were 
 suicidal!
  
  in conclusion here's a game that had a good concept but it fell on it's face in the beginning of 
 the process creating one of the worse excuse for a video game of all time, it is to wonder why 
 they took the trouble of porting this on the PS3 with the new title altered species
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  yes buy it and u will regret it ur whole life!!!
  this game is cracked totally dude !!
  never buy it lousy gameplay ,story and graphics!!
  insane difficulity it may take 10 hours to 
 complete one mission and may give u a severe headache (dude even writing a review gives me a headache 
 =D)
  !! if vampire see u den u r dead in a blink!!!
  VAMPIRES dont die it takes almost every thing u got to kill one vampire !!
  very dark and confusing 
 u may not know where i am heading
  very very very lousy game !! i think "aq" had nothing left 2 do so they made this game
  this game 
 is not even worth 1/10 it is so broken !!
  **DONT BUY THIS GAME EVER U KNOW WHT DONT EVEN RENT IT IT WILL WASTE UR EACH PENNY U PAY**
  i 
 thank god that i rented this game and did not buy it otherwise i would hav wasted sixty dollars 
 !! so i also want u to save your money !!
  
  
  
  
  GOOD DAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is often attacked as being one of the worst games of all time, but really the game is 
 not that bad. If you try to play this game like a shooter, you are going to die. This game takes 
 a great deal of patience and time as you try to find ways to clear the levels. It is a trial and 
 error stealth action game where every wrong move means you are dead.
  
  Everyone likes to criticize the voice acting and story, and so they do not pay any attention to 
 them. So then they play the game and get pwnt. Why? Because your teammates tell you explicitly 
 to not engage the Nightwalkers; stealth is emphasized over action. This game is not like Blade 
 where the vampires can be killed en masse with silver nitrate rounds (Although the pistol fires 
 silver bullets, but they have almost no effect) . In Vampire Rain, your weapons are nearly powerless 
 and so you have to use stealth.
  
  Everyone likes to say the game is a rip-off of Splinter Cell and MGS. But in a game where you are 
 a government commando sent in with advanced technology to infiltrate and kill things, THIS is likely 
 how you are going to look, and so it shares a similarity with other stealth-action government commando 
 style games. Let's look at other genres for instance: 
  
  In WW2 games each one of them has Tommy Guns and M1 Garand rifles; does that mean they are all 
 rip-offs of Medal of Honor? 
  
  In Saints Row you play as a criminal who steals cars and kills policeman so is it a GTA rip-off?
 
  
  In the end the game can be enjoyable if you approach it with an objective mind. It does have some 
 faults, such as the graphics, music, and the fact that it makes you repeat a lot of the same things, 
 but none of them are enough to sink this game down to the level that it is often placed. I recommend 
 playing the game yourself instead of conforming to the opinions that the majority of reviewers 
 share.
  
  I give this game a 7.5\10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  
  Positive
  - Nightwalkers?
  - Good stealth action?
  - Might look interesting at first?
  - Not sure if these are good things
  
  Negative
  - 
 Level of challenge is horrible
  - Confusing action
  - Bad controls
  
  This is a game recommended only to hard-core vampire fans. The level of difficulty is completely 
 out of mind. The vampires, which in the game are known as "Nightwalkers" are tough and almost undieable. 
 There's nothing really fun in the game.
  
  As I mentioned above, the level of challenge is crazy. Still Vampire Rain suffers from other problems 
 like controls. Level design is too dark and you might end up stuck before you know it. Also you 
 might want to be far away from the nightwalker before it sees you since these things are almost 
 impossible to eliminate. Controls are kinda clunky. Still for those who like vampire and are extremely 
 patience can somehow appreciate its stealth action and roughness. Weapons are a complete let down. 
 If the game had some better weapons, maybe the level of insanity would have dropped a little.
 
  
  This is a complete waste of a game. If you want to waste your time playing this game but this isn't 
 anything like Splinter Cell. For those like me who played it, it's very unfortunate we did it, 
 there are more games as bad as this. Stay away from this game as possible. It's insane level of 
 challenge, blandness and control kill what is good in this terrible game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crescent_sf
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  The concept is good , so is the potential in the story, idea and game mood / feel. A story of vampires 
 or zombies usually rarely fails. In fact, I am a fan of games with a horror theme. 
  
  But here, the developer fail in bringing out the potential of the story. I am always look forward 
 for a great game with a horror theme. This game give me a impression that it will be another great 
 fun for me when I first saw it. This game sucks and is a totally waste of not only money, but also 
 waste of time. The game is tough. Weapons are useless. No point shooting once the vampires saw 
 you. You are consider dead, with a capital D. 
  
  Don't even bother to think of borrowing or renting it. Of course, unless you have plenty of time 
 to spare and there is no more games out there for you to play. I will rather bring out my old games 
 and play them again than playing this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief-Irons
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Strengths
  Rain effects, clear mini map, grading system add replay value, enjoyable stealth gameplay and great 
 action scenes.
  
  Weaknesses
  Poor boss fights, uninspired storyline, bad voice acting, lack of enemy variety.
  
  This review 
 will cover the single player experience as nobody is ever online.
  
  The American Information Bureau has received reports of several civilians who have disappeared 
 as a result of Nightwalker activity. These vampire-like creatures present a threat to humanity, 
 so in an effort to stop them, an elite covert ops team was born. You play as John Lloyd; a man 
 who had his team killed by these bloodthirsty monsters. The storyline takes time to evolve; putting 
 more emphasis on individual tactical tasks, rather then the bigger picture.
  
  Each mission has various different objectives such as: Go to point A, kill the Nightwalkers, retrieve 
 this item, act. Most of the early missions are simple tutorials; it does a great job of explaining 
 the controls, while introducing various abilities.
  
  Slow pacing and difficult missions seem to be the most popular objections to this game. Yes I can 
 understand both these points; however this will potentially isolate impatient players. Its not 
 like avoiding the Nightwalkers is that difficult, in fact once spotted a pier of eyes will appear 
 and get brief amount of time to hide. If they do spot you, they charge and unless you equip your 
 shotgun or sniper rifle, you're unlikely to survive.
  
  It is possible to kill the Nightwalkers by sneaking up on and using a special knife, unlike most 
 games these knife are disposable so it only can be used once! Missions tend to have items lying 
 around and are easy to locate on the mini-map.
  
  The mini-map works very well and makes quite clear roughly which direction to head to reach your 
 objective. In addition it shows the locations of items, scanned Nightwalkers (Along with their 
 line of sight) and other members of your squad. Good placement of objectives is always good, thankfully 
 Vampire Rain doesn't disappoint; with a simple arrow to indicate which direction to go. It's no 
 GPS, but it is suitable for purpose.
  
  As I have been nice to this game so far, lets look it the flaws in the game. Firstly the bosses 
 lack any kind of challenge, it relies on this repetitive old school boss mentality which is easy 
 to outsmart. Plus the voice acting is uninspired.
  
  Vampire Rain does have the best rain effects I have ever seen on the Xbox 360. Everything the rain 
 hits from pavements to people it responds and shows that they spend a lot of time and effect getting 
 this right. The gore scenes also look fantastic, with sign posts going through bodies, body parts, 
 and blood all over the place. Sick stuff really. Glitches can include models suddenly appear during 
 mission briefings, when civilians spot you they just cower and just sit there shivering and some 
 clipping issues when Nightwalkers hit you into boxes.
  
  The Nightwalkers come in a variety of different models, when they relaxed they look like normal 
 humans, but when hunting they look like the most angry Vampires I have ever seen. The satisfaction 
 of killing these beasts is second to none, especially when they are charging and you manage to 
 decapitate one with a shotgun, sometimes after that they will still keep moving and then drop down 
 a few seconds later. One small complaint is that the blood they leave causes damage, delaying the 
 gameplay.
  
  Replay value is quite high as every mission is graded based the time, the amount of continues, 
 damage taken and accuracy. Getting certain grades will also unlock bonus missions.
  
  This isn't going to be any fun for gamers who don't have much patience, but those who do will get 
 a good blend of stealth, action and challenging missions. Consider picking this one up used or 
 at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codemaster44
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This was a very poor excuse for a video game, from the bad game play to the stupid story this game 
 was a train wreck. When i first rented this game I thought that this would be like splinter cell 
 but with vampires, I was deeply disappointed. I think that the main reason i hated this game was 
 the poor story and the fact that you never got to kill many vampires upset me. i killed two vampires 
 througout the entire game yes just two vampires. The vampires are very close to being impossible 
 to kill and if they catch you your dead and thats the end. The graphics and music in this were 
 the only redeeming quality in this entire game. The voice acting was okay but the script they read 
 off of might have given gigli a run for its money in how bad it was. 
  
  The whole idea of vampires taking over a city and an elite group of soldiers going into the city 
 during a rainstorm to combat them seems like such a good idea but this good idea did not translate 
 to a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omsoc007
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  First of all, one thing I hate about this game is all the bad press it gets. A majority of all 
 the reviews on this site and others organizations rated this game terrible. Personally I don't 
 think this game is really all that bad. some people might say that this game is a Splinter Cell 
 and Metal Gear rip-off.... well it is..... but I don't have a problem with rip-offs as long as they 
 are done well. The story in this game is pretty basic: Nightwalkers are taking over the city and 
 the government sends in a squad to deal with supernatural beings. Like I said, very basic. I think 
 the level designs are well done. They don't stray too far from something 
  Splinter Cell might have. There are several different ways to navigate through these levels too. 
 Like jumping, crawling, climbing poles and ladders, rappeling, and using a zip line. The voice 
 acting in this game is just okay. I don't have a problem with any of the lines that are spoken 
 but the words definetly don't match the lips. The graphics in this game are not that bad. The environment 
 and textures for the objects are not that great and are definetly on the lower end of the graphics 
 spectrum for 360 but the character models in this game arre outstanding and the rain effects on 
 the player bodies are very realistic. The sound is fine. Spooky music and foreshadowing sounds 
 make the game tense. The difficulty for this game is hard. But hard in a good way. I mean this 
 is a stealth game. When the trailer for this game came out I will agree that this game did look 
 like some run n' gun acton game. I think that the reviewers made a big mistake on how they rated 
 it. If your gonna run through the levels and try to kill every vampire in sight of course your 
 gonna die. That is point of this game. Stealth. S-T-E-A-L-T-H. Find a way to navigate through the 
 levels without being detected! Overall I think that if Artoon spent a little more time on this 
 game they could have worked out the very few flaws it had. This game was great and added a new 
 genre to the Xbox 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyh15
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  you might be reluctant to try vampire rain because of the reviews saying it is terrible. i rented 
 it about a week ago and its not as bad as they say. yes it is a difficult game, but experienced 
 gamers need a more challenging game.
  the story- you are one of a team of government agents assigned to take down every nightwalker in 
 the city in one night.
  game play-if you've played other stealth games like splinter cell it will seem somewhat familiar. 
 the other reviews said you couldn't have checkpoints in the game when you die, but you do have 
 check points. when you die you get them afterward, and you will die often, because the nightwalker 
 can kill you in a single hit, so just try to sneak past them. there's twenty levels and each one 
 has it's objective, you mostly have to do the best you can to accomplish each one without dying. 
 it's mostly go there or eliminate this.
  the nightwalkers are really tough they can run like linebackers and can jump off roof tops. there 
 are four bosses, if you think the nightwalkers are hard you might think the bosses are impossible, 
 but they are basically pushovers. controls-the controls are pretty good, they do their job.
  sound-the sound track is nothing special, but voice acting is o. k.
  multiplayer-surprising online 
 multiplayer, up to eight players. pretty cool mode, lets you turn into a nightwalker when you die, 
 but sadly online is mostly dead, probably due to unjust reviews.
  overall- vampire rain is not as bad as the other reviews claim. so if your up to a challenge and 
 you like stealth games, this is certainly worth a rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bam746
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A TERRIBLE GAME. I FRIGGIN RETURNED IT THE FIRST DAY I GOT IT. FIRST OFF THE GRAPHICS SUCK 
 MAJOR B***S IT DOSENT EVEN LOOK LIKE A 360 GAME IT LOOKS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF A FRIGGIN PS1 GAME. 
 AND THE GAMEPLAY DONT EVEN GET ME STARTED, THE DIFFICULTY OF THE VAMPIRES ARE WAY TOO HARD, I HIT 
 THEY'LL KNOCK YOU DOWN THE SECOND THEY FRIGGIN KILL YOU! AND TO ADD ONTO THAT THEY ARE IMPOSSIBLE 
 TO KILL IT'LL TAKE MAYBE OVER 50 MAYBE EVEN MORE FROM A PISTOL TO TAKE ONE DOWN. ALSO THE AREAS 
 ARE SO FRIGGIN DARK YOU CANT EVEN SEE THE LIGHT OF GOD. I BOUGHT THIS GAME TO KILL SOME VAMPS NOT 
 TO AVOID THEM, THATS WHAT ALSO BREAKS THE GAMEPLAY. SO TAKE MY WORD FOR IT AND MOST OF THE OTHER 
 PEOPLES WORDS FOR IT DO NOT PLAY VAMPIRE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacsan456
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  IT all started on my birthday July,14 i was thinking what can for my birthday? i had to choose 
 beetwen The darkness or this so i went with this... thing they call Vampire rain so i playd it i 
 beat it and you know what? this is the most GODAWFUL game i have ever played and ive played superman 
 64
  
  First off the game is broken beyond belif the structers in the game and the graphics look like 
 superman 64 with gimmicy next gen hd.
  
  
  dont even get me started on the enemys these vampires if you could call them that are as strong 
 as if Chuck Norris was on steriods they kill you two hits (or one) what kind of a idiot would think 
 this is a good idea in a sthealth game WHAT WERE THEY THINKING!?!?!?
  
  the gameplay just blows theres is not one thing i like about the gameplay its broken your character 
 walks or runs in a snail pace while vampires just bum rush you and your thinking what about the 
 boss fights could they be as exicting as like mario brothers exiting? not even close these bosses 
 are as smart as rocks no! wait! a sack of rocks would be smarter than these morons.
  
  OH wait i forget you get weapons that dont do crap the pistol is useless in metal gear the pistol 
 is the most used weapon in the game the only you could fight the beast with is a. a knife that needs 
 ammo and b. a shotgun
  but they dissapear after each stage because some moron thought it was a good idea to make it that 
 way.
  
  graphics: suck NO COMMENT!
  characters: suck more AGAIN NO COMMENT!!!
  gameplay: sucks the worst AGAIN NO COMMENT!!
  
  You want a good vampire game? then get vampire 
 night!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games to ever burn my mind with it's magical crapiness. It must be magic 
 because there is no way that this poor of a game could have natuaraly evolved from the minds of 
 humans. My guess is that its the physical manifestation of Murktron the demonlord of suck-a-tude. 
 Some how a portal opened into our world and suckiness actually took physical shape. Amazing.
  
  Graphicly it is .............. do you know?........... come on, take a guess.......... yep, that's 
 right. They are god freaking awful! Somethings are shiny ,but shiny can only get you so far. Other 
 then that, everything from the animations to the world around you is.......... yep, bad.
  
  Gameplay.......... Imagine burning to death and the only water was across a field of screaming flowers 
 that emit the worst stench that has ever came into existence. Not only that ,but you had run across 
 this field stealthly. If not you will immedialy die. If this sounds fun then I have the game for 
 you.
  
  Story wise...... there's vampire's and......... okay, I don't really know ,but I imagine if there 
 was a story it would cause impotence in men and pregnant women to birth hell spawn flipper babies. 
 It's possible.
  
  You probably shouldn't even read this. If you ever see the words Vampire and Rain together, run! 
 Run like hell!
  
  Dollar value: $0
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rovers2007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  First off everyone will assume vampire rain is rubbish because of the gamespot teams' review. I 
 say different, vampires are cool, guns are cool everything about this game is cool!! Ok the vampires 
 are deadly, but vampires are meant to have superhuman strength and speed so it is realistic. i 
 think the whole vampire/horror genre is so cool, so i definitaly bought this game as soon as possible. 
 I have played the game through twice on normal and once on difficult - the difficult difficulty 
 is just insane but cool, i have got every single achievement. i think you should buy this as soon 
 as possible and don't listen to the 'official' reviewers because you should get to choose for yourself. 
 i have a friend who has completed it 10 times and goes on nothing else because he thinks it's so 
 awesome but i also have a friend who thinks its a load of bull. it is loads better than splinter 
 cell which is the normal package for a game but this is different, cool, brilliant, cool, supernatural 
 and cool!!!!!!
  
  Thanks for listening
  
  Rovers2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuessWutUrEmo
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  
  Bad games are released all the time, and some are worse than others. This is nothing new. However, 
 it really takes a special kind of awful to be considered one of the worst games ever made. So when 
 this special kind of awful makes an appearance, it's truly something to behold. Vampire Rain is 
 one of those rare pieces of work. Not only is it almost completely broken and blatantly unfinished 
 in nearly every way, but even if it weren't, there's so little of an actual game to be found here 
 that it would still be terrible. Vampire Rain is a game so astoundingly bad that it manages to 
 transcend nearly every boundary put forth by some of gaming's absolute worst of the worst and easily 
 makes it into that dubiously extraordinary category of being one of the most atrocious games ever 
 published. 
  
  
  
  
  If the goal was to create the world's most broken stealth game, then Vampire Rain is a resounding 
 success.
  Vampire Rain first and most grievous issue lies in its gameplay. Specifically, there isn't any. 
 
  
  In theory, Vampire Rain is supposed to be a stealth game based on a guy that is part of a special 
 forces squad to kill vampires. At least, this is what the back of the game's box would have you 
 believe. Let us make it very clear that these statements are all horrible, horrible lies. There 
 is no coherent goal in Vampire Rain. It is nearly impossible to kill vampires. In fact, there really 
 isn't anything much in the game. 
  
  The basic idea in the actual game is that you sneak around like a moron and try to take down these 
 things called nightwalkers, if they can die at all. That's it. However, Vampire Rain can't even 
 get this basic concept right. This is to say, actually, that none of the game's missions have a 
 purpose because there game is lame and unfair. You lose every single time. So unless you especially 
 like seeing a you phail! over and over again there is absolutely no point in playing Vampire Rain. 
 
  
  But let's assume for a moment that the Nightwalkers were more balanced, and you could get pretty 
 far in a level. Even if this were the case, the game still wouldn't be worth playing in the slightest. 
 The game provides no fun, and there isn't even an option to edit the default controls in any manner. 
 You die much too quickly to even be minutely realistic.
  Of course, the controls would only matter if you actually had a chance to live, which, actually, 
 is an issue. Furthermore, fun evidently doesn't actually exist, despite the fact that you can't 
 see it -- sneaking around any of the vampires results in you dying. Considering the fact that you 
 can die much to easily at the hands of nightwalkers. 
  
  
  
  
  Please do not play this game. We cannot stress this enough.
  The graphical problems don't stop 
 there, either. Vampire Rain is easily one of the worst-looking Xbox 360 games released in years. 
 The character models, have incredibly archaic-looking designs. The different environments all look 
 bad, too, what with their incredibly nasty-looking textures, their ugly and meaningless set pieces, 
 and their aforementioned clipping problems. As for the game's sound design, there isn't any. There 
 are literally no sound effects in Vampire Rain. The only sounds that present themselves at all 
 are a few unpleasant, looping techno tracks, and on a midrange TV and 360, we couldn't even get 
 them to play. 
  
  Just how bad is Vampire Rain? It's as bad as your mind will allow you to comprehend. It is so disturbingly 
 bad that even its budget price tag seems like a slap in the face. It really makes you wonder if 
 the company that put out this dreck even took so much as a half minute to glance at the game that 
 it was releasing. The game's creator does assert that the game was thoroughly tested on various 
 360's, but the end result seems to suggest otherwise. The fact is, even if you tried, you couldn't 
 play Vampire Rain the way it was seemingly intended to be played, and even if you could, you wouldn't 
 want to. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwjranger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  most reviewers gave it a bad review, i shall give it a good one, first off whoever says there superhuman 
 is an r-tard, this game is made to be played like splinter cell, even i can sneak past one without 
 getting spotted, every weapon can kill a nightwalker just aim at the head and don't miss, the machine 
 gun is great for killing 1 or 2 but if they havn't seen you... stick with the sniper, you cannot 
 go outside the levels boundrys unfortunately, but it is very simplistic where you have to go, really 
 don't believe the "this game suckS!" reviews, because they must play it like an idiot, this game 
 does grow on you (if you like the stealth survival games) and is great fun to play. 7.5 i say. 
 but some things people do say is correct, if you miss the head... well you're gone so don't miss! 
 the actual thing in this game is "whatever you do... don't miss" for a reason, and yes it's barely 
 free-roaming and most of the time you are on the rooftops.
  keyes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  There is a time for everything, and a place. The time is never and the place is in the nearest 
 trash receptacle. I anxiously waited for this game to be released and paid the full retail price 
 the day it was released; it turned out to be the biggest disappointment and waste of money that 
 I've ever had in the gaming world.
  
  I'm sure if you are reading this review that you will find it just a repeat of what other people 
 have said about the game. Killing the vampires is like trying to kill Superman with a BB gun; they 
 can leap tall buildings in a single bound and seem to be immune to all your weapons except for 
 the UV knife and sniper rifle with UV rounds. These weapons are only found in select areas and 
 don't carry over from level to level. I have a hard time understanding why you would be Special 
 Ops sent out on missions with weapons that won't damage your enemies. Another thing that is hard 
 to understand is how civilians can stand on the streets in plain view of vampires and go untouched, 
 yet, the same vampire can spot you hiding high on a rooftop and instantly attack. 
  
  I found the game not only disappointing but also unrewarding. I played at least a quarter to a 
 third of the game before giving up on it and never got a single xbox gamer point. As with any review, 
 it is one person's opinion; myself, I found almost no redeeming points for the game, I'm sure other 
 people may have the opposite opinion. Each to their own taste.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weird-al-fan
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible 
 trible game stay away it's ait's a horrible trible game stay away 
  horrible trible game stay away 
  
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible 
 trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible 
 trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away 
  it's a horrible trible game stay away it's a horrible 
 trible game stay away 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Basically this is yet another failed attempt to copy Splinter Cell's successful features and add 
 some new ideas. The game sounds cool in concept but it just isn't worth your time and money and 
 I doubt anyone can enjoy this. To cut straight to the chase it's a bad game and if you have any 
 taste in video games what so ever I'd suggest not even thinking about purchasing it. I'll talk 
 about the good things first; the graphics are all right and the controls are decent enough I suppose. 
 Other than that there is no fun to be had in the poor excuse for a game known as "Vampire Rain". 
 The game is insanely difficult, no matter how good you are at the game you'll be killed instantly. 
 Every vampire is nearly invincible; the only way to win each level is if you follow one single 
 route through the game one misstep and you have to start over the mission from the very beginning. 
 There are no check points throughout the entire game and to make matters worst every single weapon 
 is useless. What is a pistol going to do against a Vampire? The script is horrible and it has the 
 voice acting to match. The cut scenes appear all too often, the level designs are predictable and 
 too dark to see what's going on, it's not challenging just annoying. If by now you haven't figured 
 it out, this is a bad game. I don't care what price you find it at it's not worth it, I give it 
 a 2 out of 10 and that's just out of the kindness of my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaziantep_spor
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Vampire Rain I was excited when heard about this game because there was not much vampire games 
 around anymore.
  
  I bought the game started to play it seemed really good I've enjoyed it but it's just to hard to 
 complete the missions and hard to get around the vampires . I don't like fact that it's so damn 
 hard to kill the vampires, as soon as they see you you are dead. The vampires don't give you a 
 chance to even shoot at them that really made me upset. I like the graphics they are really good. 
 The character movement is really slow it's like for you climb on a building or running on the street 
 takes too long and just too slow. The boss fights are pretty hard and takes a long time to defeat 
 them. I hate the saving status of the game, you have complete the mission 100% or you don't get 
 to save your game. But it's really fun to play you could even say that it's scary when they are 
 chasing you, man it's freaky.
  
  From gaziantep_spor To All You Gamespot Fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I am unsure of where to start with this game as I know it has had a lot of negative reviews and 
 feedback from a lot of people who have bought it... and also from a lot of people who haven't played 
 it but just decided to comment.
  
  The game starts with you as a member of a special forces team who are assigned to meet up with 
 another squad and take out what is known as the parent waker who when you take him out will kill 
 all the vampires he has created. sounds simple enough but there are a lot of snags in the mission 
 and you and you're team are forced to go it alone with no backup or support from HQ. There are 
 a lot of twists in the story with loyalty getting changed and a bigger conspiracy to unlock if 
 you are willing to play the game through to the end.
  
  The gameplay is you average Metal Gear/Splinter Cell clone. Nothing really special but unfortunately 
 it doesnt seem to have been translated well into this game as it has in the above mentioned ones. 
 The controls seem a little clunky and uneven but are bearable and also the enemy AI is very slow 
 compared with other stealth games. They do not seem to want to investigate anything strange they 
 have seen and are walking along a set path which they only deviate from once they spot you. The 
 other problem is with the combat mechanics of the game. The vampires are able to kill you in two 
 hits which is fair enough but seem to take around two clips. This wouldn't necesarrily be a problem 
 if you had the ability to dodge attacks etc. Although I have pointed this out as a flaw it is also 
 a godd idea as it forces you to navigate the area as best as you can to find your way out.
  
  The graphics are a mix of good and bad. The rain effects look amazing and the framerate runs 
 relatively smooth but the environments seem so playing with not a lot of lighting effects. So really 
 unsure of what to make of the graphics.
  
  In all this game at its current bargain bucket price is a good buy. It is both challenging and 
 the story is interesting. I bought this game for less than 15 and was quite impressed with some 
 of the ideas that went into it. It's a shame it seems a little rushed and perhaps with a little 
 more development could have been a largely better game. If you love the campy acting of resident 
 evil of old then you will feel write at home here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeeLongstroke
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  The story gets better after playing a while. but in the beginning of the game, it is very sad to 
 know that this is a game for 360. i'm rating the total game down to the level as a game on the 
 nintendo 64. The characters are really slow and not much of a special-force guy when they are climbing 
 up and down different objects. a bad splinter cell look-a-like.
  
  The dialog is also wery weak. It's like listening to a bad soap serie. And the vampires are even 
 worse. The actors that make the voice of these creatures are really bad.
  
  The vampires are strange in every other way as well. when they walk as a vampire, couse they usually 
 walk as a human, they remind you of a zombie. as in they walk just like one.
  and if you use your thermalgoggles, they have this gas like thing coming out of them. why? do they 
 smell really bad or what?
  
  and last but not least. the vampires eyes are ridiculous. they say that it is the rain that weekens 
 their vision, but they are allmost blind! The good thing about the game thou, is that it is exiting 
 in a way. if you get spotted by a vampire, you get exited to try and run away. all in vain thou.
 
  and it's like ''dang, it got me''
  
  The sekond thing that keeps this game up is the lengt of it and that you get a sniper once in a 
 while where you can snipe the head of these nasty things. and when you sneak up behind then and 
 stab them with your UV knife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  So after renting vampire rain i can say WTF its like splinter cell stealthy but the enimies are 
 vampires and when they see you your going to die because its so hard just to kill one unless you 
 have a shot gun or sniper then its so easy to kill but with a games so hard diffuculty its was 
 a pain playing through it the multiplayer is a little better even though i just played it for achivements 
 You can be a human or nite walker in some game modes a nite walker is a vampire and you kill each 
 other with week wepons beside the shotgun and sniper... The sound is funny the voice acting is so 
 funny... Value rent it for achivements
  Gameplay 1
  Multiplayer 3
  
  sound 4
  value4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I will admit, I was that guy. Yeah I was the one in March when we were all talking about Bioshock, 
 Halo 3, Blue Dragon and Mass Effect who was saying "guys don't count out Vampire Rain, it looks 
 awesome" After reading the reviews I opted to leave it be, but once it hit the bargin bin I figured 
 for twenty bucks even just to see if its really "That Bad" would be worth it, and let me tell you... it's 
 that bad. 
  
  I tried to approach this game as though it was like Splinter Cell, Stealth being the key over typical 
 shoot em up gaming. For the first few levels I was able to actually convince myself that this was 
 the case. Sneeking around and avoiding "Deathwalkers" was pretty cool... then it all came crashing 
 down. The Vampires are almost unkillable.
  
  I am fairly certain I could sneek up on one while he was sleeping and unload a clip into his head 
 and then ran away I would be dead in a matter of seconds. Its not just the brutally hard Vampires, 
 buts its the super intelligent AI that makes a game like XIII's AI seem like it was out of Killzone. 
 
  
  
  They know you are coming all the time they will chase you till you are dead and even on easy they 
 NEVER make a mistake. The only advantage you can have on a Vampire is stealth, but its so rare 
 unless their is a giant van blocking their line of sight that you will ever be afford this advantage 
 and even when you are anything short of perfect leads to a brutal and quick death. 
  
  The graphics within the single player game are actually not bad, the whole concept of a game that 
 needs to be played out at night is very well done, although its as though on the multiplayer maps 
 this entire aspect was abandon in favor of meeting a deadline as you will find the maps available 
 for multiplayer may as well have been called "Generic Shoot Map A" 
  
  
  Looking at stills of the game it looks quite cutting edge but all that melts away in the brutal 
 frustration you will feel within a few hours of single player action. The story is actually not 
 bad, but the problem is that in order to progress the story you need to play the game and THAT 
 is a task that no story no matter how great is worth the brutality that is playing the game. 
 
  
  
  What is even more tragic is a game this bad should AT LEAST have some easy acheievements? But of 
 course many are online and you can imagine how bare and empty the online servers are for this game.
 
  
  
  For  20 bucks if its worth it for a laugh go ahead, just the weekend of sitting around with friends 
 listing the unlikely situations where you could actually kill one of these deathwalkers was worth 
 it to me. But if you want a game that you can play, walk away. Actually Run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Welcome, solider you are a new recruit in an elite team to kill vampires. Your mission is to hide 
 from every vampire you see and help nobody if they are under attack. If for some reason you have 
 to defend yourself from one of the undead we will supply just enough ammo to piss them off. We 
 would suggest harsh langue would be more effective though. But don't worry you will be dead before 
 your third shot.
  First thought, at least with the concept anyway this is going to be like Blade. That thought couldn't 
 be farther from the truth. I might have missed something in every vampire movie I have ever seen. 
 But I thought the idea behind hunting vampires was to find them and kill them not run and hide 
 from them. The graphics are ok at best for a next gen system its dark that's not too hard to make. 
 You sneak around all the time much in the style of metal gear solid but if you take a Vamp on you 
 are dead and I mean fast. If you think you can hide or be in a position that they can't reach you 
 guess again. The guns are useless like calling a bb gun a home defense weapon against a bear. Your 
 team and I use that term loosely are never around and if they were they just want to break up. 
 That way you along don't stand a chance and you will die. I can't think of one good thing to say 
 about this game. I ignored all the bad reviews and rented it anyway. WOW! I really should have 
 listened even as a free rental I paid dearly. This game is dreadful truly terrible in hell this 
 is the game you will be playing for eternity. For this game they should have a negative scale. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikedDeath
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, this game is not 'cool' at all. In it, you're Lloide, a member of a team sent to destroy 
 vampires. Lloide had an encounter with the 'Nightwalkers' a while ago, and was the only one left 
 alive. He also starts seeing a girl, mysterious...
  
  The game play similar to other stealth games like Splinter Cell, but that game is a whole lot more 
 easier. When the Nightwalkers see you, there is no chance for running away, they run a lot faster 
 than you. And when they hit you, there's really no chance because you are already dead. The concept 
 of the game was awesome, and it made me want it. But when I got it.... Well, words can't describe 
 what I felt. This game is bad. It is more than bad. I can't descibe this game in words.
  
  Now onto the multiplayer. Plays like the game, and you can transform into a Nightwalker at will, 
 well, only in Humans vs Nightwalkers. But once you transform, there's no going back, until you 
 die. Night walkers kill everything in 2 hits, and if there is a Nightwalker vs Nightwalker, chances 
 are, they're going to kill eachother at the same time. And there are only 4 characters to choose 
 from.
  
  This game is....   
 That's the only way I can describe this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  If there is one mythical group I'm quite tired of seeing in popular culture, it's vampires. Barely 
 inching out zombies as most overexposed monster characters of all time, vampires are certainly 
 living up to their immortal name as they never seem to go away. Whether in novels (Bram Stoker's 
 Dracula) , movies (Blade, Underworld, The Lost Boys) , comic books (30 Days of Night) , or television 
 shows (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) , no form of media entertainment is safe. Not even video games.
 
  
  While last week's BioShock review was an example of how great an X-Box 360 game can be, unfortunately 
 this week's is about how bad one can be. And that's not my vampire biasness talking either.
  
  And there is no mistake to be made that Vampire Rain, horrible Sci-Fi channel movie title and 
 all, is one of the worst X-Box 360 games around.
  
  The game takes place in current day Los Angeles as a war between vampires, known as Nightwalkers 
 , and an elite taskforce wages for population control. Players assume the role of John Lloyd, a 
 lone survivor of previous Nightwalker attacks, as he aids his fellow taskforce members against 
 the bloodthirsty creatures.
  
  On Lloyd's side, three generic squad mates are provided to keep the laughable conversations and 
 dull story moving. A big surprise is that these members actually have names, as they could have 
 easily been lumped into any sidekick genre for faster reference. Such genres include: the silent 
 one, the spunky one, the one that's adept at computers and high-tech gear, and so on.
  
  Once introduced to the other members of the team that become a constant source of simple requests 
 and idiotic ideas throughout the game, the game really starts to flounder. By stealing ideas from 
 classics such as Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid and capitalizing on none, Vampire Rain has 
 managed to create its own horrific world of 3rd person sneak and attack gameplay.
  
  While basic controls for stealthily moving and hiding throughout levels are surprisingly responsive, 
 other basic ideas that previous games have implemented with great success, such as shooting around 
 corners and taking potshots, are strangely absent. Regardless of the obvious omissions, controls 
 are unfortunately the last decent thing gamers will experience in Vampire Rain.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is its unforgiving difficulty. Even on normal difficulty, the 
 game tosses players to the wolves, i. e. vampires, right out of the gate where they will be mercilessly 
 slaughtered countless times in frustration. One would think that an elite taskforce with specialized 
 weapons for fighting vampires would fare better, but once a vampire has spotted players, it is 
 pretty much game over in two swings.
  
  And vampires will spot players... over and over. When players least suspect it, possibly hiding 
 behind a dumpster and feeling mighty secured, a pair of horribly cheesy eyes will flash on the 
 screen to let the player know that they've been spotted and death will surely ensue. Don't even 
 think about running or hiding elsewhere, as the simplistic AI of the vampire will not allow the 
 enemy to rest until he or she has utterly dismantled John Lloyd.
  
  The ironic part of the vampires' omnipotent clairvoyance is when a character alludes to the constant 
 rain that takes place in the game as having a dampening effect on vampires' five senses. This apparently 
 makes it harder for the squad to be noticed by enemies, but being spotted 100 yards away hiding 
 behind a telephone pole isn't my idea of a hindered sense of sight.
  
  While the game tries to do some things right, like using the superior over the shoulder aiming 
 scheme, the game just can't execute on its own strengths enough. Even with the addition of a somewhat 
 in-depth multiplayer mode, the chances of actually finding anyone who owns or is playing the game 
 are slim to none.
  
  Overall, Vampire Rain is a complete and utter failure at entertaining players and once again proves 
 that adding vampires into any form of media is just asking for a mediocre product to result from 
 it. I would say the game sucks, but I think that joke is a bit too obvious with the subject matter 
 and all. And the last thing vampires need is more publicity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Man this game looked awesome, the trailers and the gameplay videos, when i saw all the terrible 
 ratings, im like no way, this game has got to be awesome, so i rented it with my  
 were right, it sucks
  
  Graphics
  
  The best part about this game is the graphics, they are actually amazing, this is just a great 
 looking game, hands down.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Here come the problems, first off, this game is way to hard, once a vampire is charging at you, 
 you have no time you kill them unless you have the shotgun or sniper, anything else, and your screwed. 
 The Character models look nice but when you jump it's a very standard jump, it's weird actually, 
 the character jumps up... the body freezes.... then lands. It's weird.
  
  Story
  
  Eh not a terrible story, but it's not very well thought out. It's just vampires are taking over 
 the city, and you have one night to take them out with your squad.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The online is pretty good, some cool modes like capture the flag, which is more like capture the 
 flame, you get this blue flame, and your on fire, and you have to hold on to it for 100 seconds 
 without dying, then there's team deathmatch, deathmatch, etc. There is also one more huge problem, 
 THERE IS NOONE ONLINE, there is no one that plays this online, we only saw about 4 different players 
 online the whole weekend.
  
  Pretty much this game rips off Metal gear solid and Splinter cell too much, i heard its coming 
 to the PS3 as well, i hope they make the game better before releasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is more of a problem solving game, you go in and you will say well there is a vampire 
 here and here, and you have to figure out a way to get around them so they don't spot and kill 
 you. It is all about avoiding the vampires and playing it smart. When you do need to kill a vampire 
 it is usually more then possible, people act like this game is horrible because you aren't constantly 
 killing things and the vampires are over powered. This is a horror game not a shoot em' up game. 
 On a side note it takes two hits for a vampire to kill you, and usually the first one knocks you 
 down so hard they just kill you any way by hitting you again. The idea is never being seen and 
 when you kill a vampire make sure it is possible and logical. The voice acting actually isn't as 
 bad as every one says. They want you to believe that it is absolutely horrible. It is not the only 
 character that it is really bad on is the leading officer of your unit the rest are good, bad at 
 times, but from a video game every one did a great job. If you are looking for a game for strategy 
 and stealth, this is your game. However if you want a game to go around and kill vampires with 
 out reason this is not your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehEnergy
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game ever the be released for the Xbox 360 and probably will be for a long time 
 to come. If you are heaverly drinking this weekend download the demo if you want to laugh at how 
 bad this game is. Infact, I wouldn't even bother wasting your time. Go download the BioShock demo 
 instead.
  
  Graphics = Crap
  
  Gameplay = Crap
  
  Story = Crap
  
  Entire Game = Crap
  
  Take my word for it. Please don't throw your life away. Save yourself. 
 Run, now. Just leave now please, stop reading and go. Enjoy your life, go outside and life your 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDucky
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  it was more of a puzzle game then anything i mean you couldent kill vamps on your own in the game 
 and some how your char survived what they said was like one of the worst vamp attacks ever. game 
 could have been so much more then it was maybe next time a good company will get an idea like that 
 and do it right. this game was so bad i got about 2 missions in i think it was and just stopped 
 playing, i mean whats the point of being a vamp hunter if you cant kill a vamp granted human form 
 made them weaker but def not weak enough. you would think you could head shot the vamps with something 
 other then a sniper rifle you dont even get to use till later unless you play the downloadable 
 VR missions, i dident even get to multiplayer this game was so bad. this game was worse then my 
 punctuation now if only this game had spell check. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Ohh Vampire Rain what crap you have brought me what dissapointment what a bad game. I love Vampires 
 books movies comics all of it can't wait for 30 days of night (off subject) but this game is so 
 lmae it feels like an original xbox game trying to be splinter cell meets resident evil and that 
 is a shame to both of those brands as when you put this disc in your 360 it's a shame to your system 
 most def one of the worst game i have ever played the previews made it look cool but five minutes 
 in the game you realize that this is not gonna get any better so if you have played this one well 
 i think this company owes us all an apolgy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Vampire Rain (360) Review
  
  Pros:
  - Its got Vampires
  - Its got Rain
  - It looks fun
  
  Cons:
  - Its got vampires and rain...
  - While the game looks fun its 
 not
  - Very weak multiplayer
  - the game is flat out boring
  
  I would not recommend this game to anyone.
  
  Please don't buy this game its horrible.
  
 
  I rented this game just to see how bad it can get, and w/ very very low expectations this game 
 still was a huge flop.
  
  Game developers should take note, and do everything opposite of this game.
  
  I have to admit 
 though when I first heard about this game and saw some videos I was pretty excited it looked like 
 an interesting concept, and maybe if the design was better and the developers worked a bit harder 
 the game wouldn't have disappointed as much.
  
  Again please for the love of gaming do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAE85
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  It is way to hard, and the vampires is really hard to kill with a regular weapon, with a shotgun 
 it is a bit easier, but when you reload your weapon you get killed instantly. the vampires is very 
 strong and will kill you when thye reach you. the game is very poor build, and sometimes the game 
 seems like something from the start of 2000.. the idea in the game is pretty cool, but there are 
 to many mistakes in the game to make it something worth playing. my advise is that you spent your 
 money on something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Vampire Rain paces itself steadily while progressing through it's long story. Sometimes your objectives 
 are interrupted by other objectives, adding much added, tedious gameplay. Many may look at this 
 game and immediately think Splinter Cell or Metal Gear Solid. Games should be reviewed on their 
 own merits, and Vampire Rain stands up when delivering a freaky twist at unexpected moments, and 
 it's multiplayer is simple, yet very addicting:
  
  The Last Horse Finally Crosses the Finishing Line:
  Vampire Rain definately starts off very slowly, 
 but the story builds up as you play on. The story even manages to extend on everything. As soon 
 as you defeat the first Prime Walker, you are tasked with taking down three more, and even after 
 the final Prime Walker falls, you are further prompted to complete another, albeit easier than 
 the last Prime Walker, vampire, a Natural Walker.
  
  Graphics: Characters don't look great but they look nice from a distance. They look blocky up-close 
 and in motion.
  
  Sound:
  Creepy score over each city and village level. Vampire screeches definately sound chilling, but 
 the gun sound effects could use some work.
  
  Gameplay:
  Simple stealth action. The use of vision cones adds difficulty, and near invincible vampires further 
 increases the challenge.
  
  Value:
  Definately worth it for the lengthy campaign, many trials and unlocking all achievements may take 
 a while. Multiplayer adds more replay value.
  
  Vampire Rain, a pretty average experience that tends to get tiresome towards the middle adventure, 
 yet builds up to the climax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re4leon22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Vampire Rain is a stealth action horror game for the Xbox 360. i will start with the plot
  
  The plot is that in the past lots of people continually went missing over and over they were 
 all simply announced missing but then vampiric creatures called nightwalkers were discovered. these 
 creatures cannot normally multiply and so bite and kill humans turning them into nightwalkers as 
 the only way to multiply. As you could imagine the AIB (American information bureau) set up a anti 
 nightwalker combat unit for controlling the threat. you play john Lloyd who is a member of the 
 anti-nightwalker combat unit. hes the only one on his team who has combat experience with the nightwalkers. 
 This game is definetaly a stealth game before action or horror. the nightwalkers are like super 
 humans in a sense because they run very very fast and pretty much if they get close to you your 
 as good as dead unless you have some team mates and you get lucky. You can kill them though if 
 you take them on when theres only one in the area and if your pretty far away. so don't expect 
 to run through the game with guns blazing. as the actual gameplay goes this feels like splinter 
 cell with vampires in my opinion. there is tons of acrobatic parts in the games like climbing up 
 pipes hanging on ledges and even repelling occasionally. the shooting goes into an over the shoulder 
 view though you can move freely like in graw. on most missions you are equipped with an assault 
 rifle a pistol night vision goggles, binoculars (well sort of) , and necrovision (which allows u 
 to distinguish humans from nightwalkers) . you cannot perform stealth kills until a little later 
 in the game when you acquire UV knives (which are limited but semi plentiful) .
  
  Now for the actual review
  gameplay: GOOD: the stealth works great and is very realistic (compared 
 to most games anyways) . you have to be patient and move very slowly when going for a stealth kill 
 or just avoiding the nightwalkers, unlike most games you cant just RUN towards the enemy and expect 
 them not to turn around before u can get a kill which i like. the acrobatics while simple work 
 good. the weapons you start with like i said aren't great for killing nightwalkers but later in 
 the game you occasionally get to use weapons like shotguns and snipers. The shotgun (unless overwhelmed 
 in NW numbers) turns this into an action game the parts you get to use it at least. the sniper 
 is special because its capable of killing a nightwalker in a single head shot. the necrovision 
 makes it easy to identify nightwalkers so u don't get surprised if u normally wouldn't see one. 
 another thing i like about the stealth is if u are in range of a nightwalker seeing you and not 
 to close the game gives you 3 chances to get the hell out of there, Eyes will appear on the screen 
 and will tell u if u stay in the same place the nightwalker will see u and come for u (of course 
 if ur to close this wont happen and theyll come right for you) .
  
  BAD: most will complain that this game is to hard to all of you i say be more stealthier and have 
 PATIENCE! although i do think this game is hard mostly because of a lack of checkpoints since if 
 a nightwalker sees you, your pretty much dead so this is a trial and error type game for some people 
 so i would've like the ability to save checkpoints like in Hitman (with a limited amount of saves 
 too) the shooting in the game is a little plain, it doesn't feel like you are shooting a real gun 
 but more like a air gun, the shotgun feels like a real gun though.
  
  GRAPHICS: i cant say these graphics are up to x box 360 standards, more closer to ps2 really. but 
 some touches in the game are very nice like the rain effects on the character models and environment 
 look realistic. the games graphics do look dark and not colorful but I'm pretty sure thats what 
 the developers were going for. overall the graphics aren't very good but presentable because of 
 the rain effects and some occasionally good lighting.
  
  SOUND: the voice acting is bad not horrible but bad. the music fits whats going on but theres not 
 much variety. the gun sounds are ok, most guns are silenced but like i said most sound and feel 
 like air guns except again for the shotgun. there also isn't a lot of variety in enemy voices or 
 lines which is annoying. overall the sound is the worst part of the game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: the multiplayer is almost standard with the standard modes (deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 CTF, king of the hill.) but the twist is they let you play as the nightwalkers (you can transform 
 at will depending on the game settings though u cant go back unless u die) . the nightwalker stuff 
 makes the games multiplayer a lot funner then you would think and you get such a good feeling when 
 you take out a nightwalker when your being a human which will get u a lot of extra points apposed 
 to killing a human as a nightwalker ( just so you know the nightwalkers aren't as defensively strong 
 and quick depending on the game settings as they are in the single player) . overall the multiplayer 
 is fun and a nice edition to the game.
  
  OVERALL this is a very fun and deeply underrated stealth action horror game that anyone who like 
 vampires or stealth should definetaly check out. the only real problems with the game is the sound 
 and graphics but they can be overlooked by most. OVERALL: 8.3 (the new rating system wont let us 
 give something an 8.3 so 8.5 is the closest to it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogyboy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing that this game should definatly be considered a halo killer and a killzone 
 killer! Why do you guys dare rate this lower than a 10?! Vampire killing, Unsurpassed visuals and 
 gameplay, EXTREMELY scary soundtrack and a heck of a lot more. Why bother playing gaylo when you 
 can play this amazing masterpiece! Man not even MGS could bring down this game, this game should 
 just be considered the ULTIMATE game on earth! Ignore all those dumb reviews on how this game sucks. 
 Because they're lying. How could anyone NOT like this game? Even little kids would like this game!!! 
 Forget the ESRB and the parents who dont let their kids play Offensive games. I just dont believe 
 anyone who would like any other game other than a true masterpiece like this. In comparison, this 
 game would be like the entire universe and Big Rigs would be the tinniest speck in the middle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coneman1
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  That's all I have to say about this game, I rented it , and I'm glad I did. It really is a unplayable 
 game, the vampires are almost unkillable and the death scenes are all the same, plus it's so dark 
 and undistinguishable in all the levels, you get tired of using the night vision and necrovision. 
 I don't know, and the selection of weapons are a disaster! you almost have to have an act of god 
 to kill those blood suckers, better weapons would of helped for sure. I don't know, I guess I'm 
 just so dissapointed in how hard the game was to play and how difficult the vampires were to kill, 
 almost impossible! All I can say is I'm glad I didn't buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  On paper, the concept for Vampire Rain sounds great. Sneaking past vampires? It's both original 
 and sounds pretty exciting. Now it's finally out, so how does it fair?
  
  STORY
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game takes place in present day, Nightwalkers (that's vampires) have been behind a great number 
 of murders. They also took over Los-Angeles. Analysis have shown, that if they can't kill the nightwalkers, 
 then they will take over the world in 908 days. The Government, sends in a group of operatives. 
 You play as Lloyd, a guy whose friends has been killed by nightwalkers. His job (along with his 
 pals Kelly &amp; Hanson) , to rid LA of Nightwalkers, and has one night save the world. The story 
 may sound good, but it's told badly, and dosen't make any sense. For example, the nightwalkers 
 are qucik to kill every human they see, but the kidnap Kelly at one point and keeping her alive. 
 It also has a couple of horror clich&eacute; s, like there's a little girl who's appearing in some 
 levels (F. E. A. R. anyone?) . The character development is bad too, throwing in stuff about the characters 
 at random places, making them useless infomation. 3.5
  
  GAMEPLAY
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  A badly told story is forgivable if the gameplay is good. But is it? You sneak around, avoid nightwalkers, 
 killing them in scripted moments and killing some bosses. You really want to avoid the vampires 
 in this game, cause if they discover you, say your prayers, they kill you in 2 hits. 2 f****** 
 hits!!!!!!!! And once they discover you, it's either them or you, cause you can't get away from 
 them. Once they hit you, you're stunned and can't do s***, and killing them is nearly impossible, 
 unless you got a prober weapon. You start with your anti-nightwalker handgun, but it nearly dosen't 
 do any damage on them. You'll quickly get a machine gun, which evens the odds a bit. The best of 
 the weapons is the sniper rifles &amp; shotguns, but if you find one, you're going to lose it, 
 when the level is complete! (WTF!?) There's also a UV Knife, but, get this, it requires ammo! That's 
 just silly! The game dosen't have alternate routes either. There's only one way, and if you try 
 to find another, your going to hit an invisible wall and your pals get's angry on you, for trying 
 to leave the mission. So since the emenys are so hard, you'd expect the boss fights to be even 
 harder. Well they're easy to defeat. They have this robotic A. I. and do the same thing over and 
 over. They don't kill you in 2 hits either. On the plus side however, it not's all that bad, yes 
 it may be hard, but i think that's good, cause i found games like Metal Gear Solid &amp; Hitman: 
 Blood Money a bit easy. Even Splinter Cell was easy at certain spots, so it's good to find a hard 
 stealth game for a change.
  
  6.0
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game takes around 20 hours to complete (that's one heck of a night) , but that's because of 
 the difficulty. After it's over, there's 34 extra missions, they're surprisingly fun. Multiplayer 
 is nothing special though, it's got the usual deathmatch &amp; Capture the flame (Capture the Flag) , 
 the twist to the MP, is that you can turn into a nightwalking, but in doing so makes the mathc 
 unbalanced, since they got all of the abilites of the nightwalkers in the single player. The achievements 
 all give 50 points and requires you to play the Single Player &amp; Multiplayer, and you're graded 
 after every mission, but otherwise, there ain't so much reason to replay it.
  
  5.0
  
  GRAPHICS
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics are actually pretty good. Characters models are great, and thier animation are quite 
 good. The frame-rate isn't good though, it'll some time drop a lot, but not so it get's unplayable. 
 However, what brings the score down is the pre-rendered cut-scenes. They are a couple of them, 
 but we're on a next-generation console, so pre-rendered cut-scenes should'nt exist, yet..... it 
 does. 7.5
  
  SOUND
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The voice acting is poorly acted, but they don't have any emotions what so ever. They voices are 
 also pretty bad, there's even one character, who tries to sound like Michael Clarke Duncan. The 
 game is also full of bad dialogue, take this conversation for example. (thanks to IGN for that)
 
  
  ASSISTANT: Sir, is it true that if the outbreak isn't stopped, the world will be overrun with undead 
 in 908 days?
  COMMANDER: [Pounds fist on desk] Where'd you hear that?
  ASSISTANT: One of the lab boys, sir.
  COMMANDER: You see? This is why you shouldn't allow pencil 
 pushers to run a country! [Assumes grim, determined pose and facial countenance]
  ASSISTANT: I'm sorry about your family, sir.
  COMMANDER: So am I, son. So am I.
  
  At least, 
 the music isn't that bad, but there's not enough of it and when there is music, it tends to be 
 repetitious. The nightwalkers howls &amp; thunders are nice addition though.
  
  3.0
  
  OVERALL
  
 
  So with all that i've said about it, why the final score then? (yes, i know you already saw it) . 
 Well, i kinda like it, because it's a great concept, and for it's difficulty, it was good. Basically 
 i had a good time with this. If you wanna try it, then you'd better rent it first, cause it's a 
 love it or hate it game. There is a version comming for PS3 soon, so you might wanna wait and see 
 it that version is better or worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruellordsoth1
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  there are nothing that you want to do with this game apart from trading it in for any outer game 
 on the xbox 360 this is the worst xbox 360 game so far.
  if you down load the demmo of xbox marcket place and you can kill more then 10 zombiles vampires 
 then you have done better then me you have to aim for the head and hope for the best. oh and when 
 thay die thay will live acid blood on the floor and if you walk on top of it you will get stuck 
 and stand there and die. the online is imber as soon as you spawn you want to press the back button 
 so you can transform in to a fast high jumping vampire instead of beaing a pice of garbage SWAT 
 team member who walks around and the gun dose nothing to outher players if you get a kill with 
 a gun you should get an attchevment in the demmo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I gave it a try. Stuck with it for about seven levels. Only to discover that it completely blows. 
 Picture any sneak game such as MGS or Splinter Cell where you can't be found - can't be found on 
 an insanely idiotic sense. You'll have to play through about six full, linerar, except extremely 
 confusing levels until you get a gun (shot gun) that does any damage to a charging emeny. The only 
 way to set up a kill is to stand about 50 feet from a door and wait for a sentury to come out. 
 He'll eventually see you -- you'll set up a shot -- you'll wait unti he's right on you -- you'll 
 fire and hope to kill him with one shot. And here's a great concept... Hey guys, how about a melay 
 weapon that kills in contact? You know, like a fatal blow or a... a knife! A knife - that's it! 
 Only... it's a knife... that needs reloading! Awesome!!! Not.
  
  This game could have been promising. But, I promise... really promise. It's not. I love sneak games 
 and thought this would be an ok game but it IS not. Totally worthless, frustrating, and a waste 
 of time. You'll only play it in a situation where you rented it and don't feel like playing anything 
 else but are too buzzed to go get another game. Don't do it... Don't do it my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianhorizon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game took me a good while to beat, but i thought it was a pretty good game overall. It has 
 its ups and its downs. I like how you would have to go rooftop to rooftop to get to places, had 
 to be stealthy, climbing, hanging, to use whatever was around you to get to higher ground. Things 
 I thought that they shouldn't have done was, on a mission when you had to get ammo, then pick up 
 guns that can take out a nightwalker and maybe be easier to save the world . On the next mission 
 you wouldn't have them. Then they would say we are low on ammo when I went through that whole thing 
 for one mission and i don't even get to keep the guns. I thought that was an awful. I know it made 
 the game more challenging and what not but it was a pretty big let down to not have those things.
 
  
  Now on the multiplayer, it is pretty fun. It gives you a pretty good variety of game types to choose 
 from. You can either play with a team or you can go for an all out free for all. Aside from that 
 the maps are okay, there are only four of them, there are not huge maps but they are a pretty good 
 size, and you can climb to the very top of water towers where of coarse where the sniper is at 
 so you can take out the other team or everyone.
  Then with becoming an nightwalker. You have the biggest advantage, you know where every single 
 person is at on the map, and of coarse can run and jump faster than anyone else.
  
  So with al that said if you can put up with a game and what a challenge this would be the game 
 for you. Oh and if you are one of those people to play game just for the achievements, it is pretty 
 easy to get them for this game and each achievements is worth 50 gamer points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Ah... Vampire Rain. A truely amazing game from Artoon, a completely legitimate and credible name. 
 This is the same company that beat out Rockstar Games for best BS of the year. I don't know what 
 the BS means but it's probably a good thing. Story:
  
  Ah the story of this game follows a group of elite special forces that were totally copied by Splinter 
 Cell, not the other way around, hunting for vampires in a city that seems to have been completely 
 overrun. Totally plausible. I wouldn't be shocked to wake up tomorrow in a world like this with 
 the way things are going. Anyways, you play as a completely athletic, powerful, and wittingly interesting 
 character. I don't remember his name. He's so cool he doesn't have to have a name. Seriously. I 
 know there's a story in here somewhere, but I didn't notice because of the extremely awesome graphics, 
 sound, and gameplay.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics
  
  Man you think the graphics on Gears of War are good, wait till you see this. I saw them for the 
 first time at my home of course, and let me tell you, I hid under my couch because the graphics 
 were so real. From the completely realistic looking faces, the stiff and robotic animations, and 
 the insane running technique of most vampires, I was COMPLETELY IMPRESSED. Completely. You see 
 I like it. They make some of the animations crappy, but to me it means that Artoon is very confident 
 in how well the gameplay is and the story is. It's like they said, Why should we care about graphics 
 if we've made such an astounding and ground breaking game with every other part? Just because of 
 that, the graphics ace this section because they are that cocky.
  
  10/10
  
  Sound
  
  The sound, including the acting in this game, is unbelievable. I threw my PS2 out the window 
 because the acting was so good. Such as, Oh no! or Watch Out! Unbelievable. I swear, despite the 
 fact I don't have surround sound or anything, I realized I didn't need it. This game pretty much 
 makes you seem like you are there. I thought at multple times I was the character in the game. 
 The acting was and is completely unrivaled. Artoon is a huge genius for making such an unbelievable 
 game.
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game is so much better than Splinter Cell. Everything from Vampires seeing you far off in 
 the distance, despite the fact you were as quiet as possible to get by is priceless. I mean they're 
 vampires, what do you expect? The fact that if they do see you, you have no chance of living because 
 you die in two hits, I've heard some people complain that it's ridiculous. I like to say,
  
  Ridiculously challenging...
  
  You think your guns work? Think again. You can't kill vampires 
 with guns. That's just nonsense. It's about time a game made use of this. I slowly realized that 
 not only is this a great stealth game, but also a great third person shooter. More games need to 
 copy off of this one, just as much as every other company copying off of GTA. I swear, I think 
 Splinter Cell robbed a couple things from this game. Totally.
  
  10/10
  
  Well that settles it. This is the greatest game ever made.
  
  Not really. This game truely 
 sucked when I played it for around the short five minutes that I did, three minutes spent at the 
 main menu, marvelling at the stupidity of the menu itself. I'm giving it a ten though because I 
 just feel like it. -zombie44 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Me and my friends are fans of vampire movies, and in general, the whole horror genre. So, i decided 
 to be the first in my posse to check out this game, i rented it, and was stuck with single player 
 for 2 weeks (vacation in the middle of nowhere) . When i returned to my humble abode, i decided 
 to go back to the somewhat hillarious game. The multiplayer lasted for a while, but i decided that 
 life would be better if i just left it at that. But no, i got it for my birthday. Need i say any 
 more?
  
  Pros: The rain is superbly illustrated, and the multiplayer is exciting, and it puts a whole new 
 spin on the stealth game genre. Also, the whole story is quite intriguing.
  
  Cons: The vampires are not even slightly scary, the voice acting is like watching Sahara (persaonal 
 dilemna) , no fighting, just sneaking unless it's a prime walker, and the difficulty is unpredictable.
 
  
  Summary: The pain will never end, and neither will the nightmares of horrible gameplay. But, to 
 some people, the game is enjoyable. So do yourself a favor and rent it...... if you dare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of stealth games. On any normal day I avoid them like I would the plague. But 
 what drew me towards this title was the whole horror scenario surrounding the game play. Yes the 
 game is heavily based on stealth but the atmosphere and tension in this game is one that I love. 
 I am a big horror fan, I have been for nearly 20 years now.
  
  At times I found the game play to be a little testing, but only a few times (two or three to be 
 exact) . This could be because of my lack of stealth game skills. I learned that some of the levels 
 are a bit of trial and error kind of game play. I dont mind though, if you dont try something and 
 make mistakes, then how are you supposed to learn how to better your tactics at handling the situation. 
 If only more games out there had the horror vibe to them with stealth gameplay, then I would be 
 a part of the stealth game community that supports them. I support Vampire Rain all the way so 
 I do, all the way!. I dont see much wrong with it, other than not enough countryside or suburb 
 missions. Those types of levels (the suburbs and mines and construction sites) are my favourite. 
 I find that horror has a better atmosphere in a suburban or countryside setting. This is why I 
 like the levels that are not in the concrete jungle setting more. The city levels are good though.
 
  
  The controls were ok, there was no problem with handling the character in any given situation. 
 If there was for anyone then it is down to the person playing, not the controls. And even though 
 I made mistakes that got me killed a few times at the start through lack of stealth game experiance. 
 I soon got over it and it didn't happen nearly as often later on, in game. Practise makes perfect 
 as they say.
  
  The graphics are good as well, they are not anything amazing. But having the game play and atmosphere 
 in the game as back up, the graphics do their job sufficiently. And anyway, I always go for immersion 
 in games over flashy graphics. And this game Vampire Rain is really immersive through it's settings 
 and music. It has a great feeling when playing it at night with the lights out. It took me a few 
 nights to play it to the end. And when it ended the game, I was sad, as I loved the atmosphere 
 in the game that much. Oh well, I guess I can replay the game over to keep that feeling alive.
 
  
  If they make a sequel to this game, then I hope it keeps the atmosphere of this title. And also 
 I hope they add some more suburban and countryside missions to the storyline. Nightime in the rain 
 and vampires near by in the countryside would be scarier than in the city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  In the past I might have taken the time to try and get into Vampire Rain, but I just found the 
 story, game mechanics and over all difficulty just too much for me to handle. Besides, there are 
 so many other great titles in my library that I had not played yet that I couldn't rationalize 
 wasting time on vampire rain when I had no played my Gears of War yet.
  
  I have played games where a bad story was not enough to deter me from completing it. Eg: Lost Planet. 
 Terrible story with some pretty good game play. But with Vampire Rain it was just too much bad 
 story AND voice acting to stay committed.
  
  Your character of course managed to survive some huge vampire attack in the past and is the silent 
 brooding type that some how ends up back in active duty hunting vampires.
  
  Now the game is a stealth game, so you go around sneaking up on vampires and hiding from them too. 
 The problem here is the vampires are super tough and once you're spotted, you might as well take 
 your own gun and end it before they rip out your throat.
  
  One thing I thought was cool was the environment variable of the birds. You had to stay hidden 
 or distract the birds so that they would not draw attention to yourself which would then bring 
 a vampire to where you were located.
  
  There, I said something positive about the game. I can see how this game might be appreciated by 
 some, but I am not one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Actually a pretty good story with good twists and turns, long game, the vampires are 
 quite cool, challenging gameplay, nice CG cutscenes.
  
  The Bad: Challenging with a big C, good story executed bad, story not without it&acute; s flaws, 
 voice acting and dialog needs to be reworked, seriously it&acute; s frigging bad, bad Mutilplayer, 
 last gen graphics.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Vampire Rain........ Vampire Rain...... Great name eh? Well the concept of the game is great. You, 
 sneaking past vampires. See the good thing? Sneaking &amp; Vampires. The vampires are pretty much 
 like in Blade. When they are killed, they burn up, but here they turn into acid when they are dead. 
 Actually the game is a bit old. It was released in January in Japan. But you might have heard about 
 this game already. This game has received alot of negative feedback, and the something awfull forums 
 declared it perhaps the worst thing to ever be given existence as a three-dimensional object . 
 Does it deserve it? No. The wired thing is that, when i brought the game, i was a bit worried, 
 cause i had just brought a crappy game. But when i started playing the game, i actually enjoyed 
 the game, cause even with all the niggles, there&acute; s a decent game here.
  
  STORY
  
  You play as John Lloyd, a part of a special team, sent to an unnamed town, where vampires have 
 taken over. You are sent in to stop them. The story isen&acute; t anything special to begin with, 
 but the further you get into the game, the better it gets. Some parts of the story are flawed though. 
 Lloyd&acute; s past feels like it has been thrown in, and it&acute; s also explained bad. And just 
 what is it with horror, and little girls? Seriously, everything that&acute; s horror uses little 
 girls, and we knew that when the Silent Hill movie rolled across theaters, that little girls + 
 horror is old. LEARN IT!!!! But nevertheless, your left with an interesting story, that&acute; s 
 told bad. GAMEPLAY
  
  As said before, the game is about sneaking past vampires. This game can actually be described as 
 a Splinter Cell rip-off, only with dangerous vampires (called Nightwalkers) , instead of terrorists, 
 but the 2 games share another thing, that&acute; s been bad talk for both games. Difficulty. Splinter 
 Cell was hard, but this game is even harder. Don&acute; t get me wrong, there&acute; s nothing wrong 
 with challenge, but too much challenge is a problem. The Vampires you sneak past by, are tough 
 mothers. When they discover you, you&acute; r totally butt screwed. First of all, you can&acute; t 
 just get discovered and go hide, so they&acute; ll forget all about you. This isen&acute; t Splinter 
 Cell, or Metal Gear Solid. This is Vampire Rain, and when you are discovered, you better say your 
 hail marys. But then of coruse you have weapons, and with weapons, you can kill everything right? 
 RIGHT!!!??? Well wrong answer buddy. For once, weapons are next to useless. When you are discovered, 
 every Nightwalker comes running for your sorry butt. They are very fast, and are in front of you 
 in a matter of seconds. Your weapon don&acute; t do much damage, so think twice if you wanna battle 
 them. At the first few levels, you only got a silly handgun, and both fire rate, and damage are 
 pretty low. You do get sniper rifles and shotguns which makes you able to kill them later on. You 
 may be wondering, why are they so hard? Cause they can kill you in 2 hits. The first attack stuns 
 you, and the second attacks kills. It&acute; s dosen&acute; t help that their field of vision rarely 
 represents how much they actually can see. You can get spotted a mile away by a nightwalker, whose 
 field of vision, is represented as maybe 5 feet. Wen they see you, you see two flashing eyes on 
 the screen, and if they show twice, they are on to you. But if you get to cover before the discover 
 you, they won&acute; t even go to your location and see if you really are there. The only move when 
 they are sure you are there. You also get UV knifes which you can use to stab Nightwalkers from 
 behind, but even that requires ammo. And since you don&acute; t carry your weapons fom level to 
 level, your always screwed when you start your next mission. Then there&acute; s the level design. 
 There is only a single path through the levels. There are no alternate routes. It might look like 
 it, but you are always stopped by an invisible barrier if you try to find another route. The game 
 also has some trials, which is more like a mission mode, where you get different goals to complete. 
 They work good, but nothing special to write home about. The game also has mutilplayer, but that&acute; s 
 not really worth talking about. Actually the game isen&acute; t quite bad, despite of it&acute; s 
 challenge. It actually makes the gameplay intense, and gives you the right mood. Other reviewers 
 have talked bad about the difficulty, and how they never killed any Nightwalkers, cause it seemed 
 impossible (i&acute; m looking at you IGN) . I have killed plenty of Nightwalkers, and i still have 
 plenty to kill. If you give it some time, the game can be fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Low point of the game. The CG cutscenes, are the normal cutscenes all look good (especially the 
 CG cutscenes which are frigging awesome) but the graphics while you play are awfull. Movement looks 
 dull, and John Lloyd even copy&acute; s Sam Fishers look. The nightwalkers look cool, but that&acute; s 
 about it. The city in which the game takes place are pretty dull to look at. It looks so much like 
 PS2 graphics, but not even that prevents the game from time to time, taking serious hits at the 
 frame-rate. That should not happen, cause grphics like this, should be something that the X-Box360 
 should take without breaking a sweat. It reminds me of Phantasy Star Universe, which suffered form 
 the same graphic problems. SOUND
  
  Easily one of the worst parts. The dialog is bad most of the time, but it dosen&acute; t help that 
 you have some very cheesy voice acting. They pefrorm most lines without emotion, so it all feels 
 a bit empty. The music is good, but it&acute; s very repetitive. After you have heard the same number 
 for the 20th, you want to use your own soundtrack so bad.
  
  LENGTH
  
  Because of the hard difficulty, this game easily last 15-20 hours, which is a nice length for that 
 kind of game. The games trials and rakning system might not make you want to come back, as it will 
 most likely be the achivements as in any other 360 game. There are 20 achivements in the game, 
 and each of them gives 50 points. The bad thing is that 14 of the achivements are in mutilplayer, 
 which is won&acute; t even talk about cause it&acute; s so bad.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Vampire Rain isen&acute; t a bad game. This might sound like i&acute; m only see good things in the 
 gane, but i can of course many of the bad things. But the thing is, that i&acute; m enjoying the 
 game, and it has it&acute; s charm with the hard difficulty. The game is never going to be a classic, 
 nor disaster, but it&acute; s at least decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Graphics arent as bad as alotta posts are saying but umm... wtf?
  
  Great concept... really poor execution. Trying to be splinter cell w/ a syphon filter feel. Ummm... yea 
 (sarcasm) . The rain effedt was nice. Do I eally have to type 100 characters? Grrr. Ok the game 
 had a great idea but fell very short. Gameplay is weak, boards are repititious, the tutorial is 
 possibly the dumbiest I have seen in a video game to date. The character moves amazingly slow when 
 posted up against the a wall. Not smooth at all. DO NOT PAY OVER $20 FOR THIS GAME! There Im done. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Bad game might as well not even be a first person shooter. The combat is ridiculous~ takes a full 
 clip to kill a vampire and in about 3 seconds they are too you, with two hits your down. Sniper 
 gun is the only gun worth the time, and they never give ammo... no... What this game really is, 
 is a poorly made sneak around game, where sometimes being out of sight you are seen, and sometimes 
 when in sight you are not. Its Ridiculous, i'm so glad I only rented it. Which was still a waste 
 of time. Anyways, I could say more but it would all be just more forms of saying don't waste your 
 time. So ill just say that... Really... They dont even give easy gamer score. Its a huge waist 
 of time.
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay to this game is pretty simplistic.. lets see.. stay away from the nightwalkers! so 
 be as stealthy as possible.. it gets kinda boring and pretty repeadative. Well honestly it's VERY 
 HARD you get hit twice you die.. even if your seen if you run from there eye sight and hide they 
 still find you somehow.. there is really no way to fight back until the 6th or 7th mission.. so 
 just stay low dodge visuals and use as much cover as possible.. Graphics:
  
  The graphics to this game are'nt actually as bad as people are saying. They are pretty good it 
 just seemed rushed in a few spots. The rain on the suits and ground have a very realistic feel 
 to it especially with the surroundings. The lighting on the game is very abstract to the environment 
 but there is something missing from this game.. Shadows.. You dont have a shadow for some reason 
 with the lighting effects they should have added it. It would have been a good upgrade for the 
 game itself. But the online itself is very good.. just too many people complaining about there 
 ranks and crap.. who cares its just a game. Where ARE THE BIG TOYS? LIKE ROCKET LAUNCHERS? OR EVEN 
 A GRENADE WOULD MAKE ME MORE HAPPY.
  
  Sound:
  
  The ambient noises are great just imagine a city with vampires on the streets. The Sound track 
 to the single player game is very nice it has a soothing yet eerie feel to it. The soundtrack for 
 online is very different sounds like techno-ish porn music which doesn't go with death. Ohh yea 
 and for some reason alot of weapons are automatically silenced.. i want the vampires to hear me 
 coming so i want something with a BooM!
  
  Value:
  
  The replay value is very doubted. If you survive this game once thats about it for the rest of 
 its life. But the replay value on live is very good. Once you start you can't stop.
  
  Tilt:
  
  All and all its a pretty decent game you just have to be very stealth in single player 
 mode. Just try to stay away from the badguys and you should be good and KEEP ON EYE ON YOUR SURROUNDINGS! 
 You never know whats going to pop up. If you do plan on buying it wait for a price drop first because 
 when you spend 50-60 dollars on this you are going to think what the hell did i just buy. So wait 
 till the price is at 30. Buy i do recommend it for fans of Stealth/Horror games think of Splinter 
 Cell with people you cant kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Vampire Rain offers some good looking rain effects and a mildly interesting story, but overpowering 
 bad guys, bad animations and a lack of polish on the game in anyway, ends up taking more away from 
 a game that wants to be at heart a stealth game.
  
  Just to let everyone know, I am a Vampire fanatic. I have read all the Ann Rice novels, gone through 
 Dracula from cover to cover and have loved the Vampire the Masquerade PC and RPG games. So I was 
 all over this game for months, because good Vampire games are hard to find. Vampire Rain is set 
 in a different reality where Vampires have started to take over the world. Whole towns have been 
 infiltrated by the scourge of the Nightwalkers, so the government starts up teams that are trained 
 to kill vampires. But to be honest, the story is throwaway fluff at best. Never once does it make 
 any sense. We are never really given a reason as to why all the boss vampires are in this city. 
 None of it seems to matter after awhile. This becomes obvious when you end up playing levels over 
 and over again.
  
  While all the trailers show you shooting and killing vampires, you will find out that you only 
 perform those tasks sparingly at best. The game is far more of a stealth game than action. Most 
 levels have you sneaking around rooftops staying out of sight. This would not be an issue except 
 that if you make a game about Vampires, the last thing you expect is to have to sneak around them 
 the entire game. It becomes a bigger issue when you realize that you get no feedback on how well 
 you are doing. No sound meter, just a vision cone that shows you the Vampire line of sight, that 
 is wrong it seems. And the shadows are only there for looks, because if you get into their line 
 of sight, even in the shadows, you will be seen.
  
  The game is a mixed bag when it comes to visuals. Character models have a lot of detail in them, 
 including lots of facial animations. But the black outfits limit any sort of definition of the 
 body structure of your team. Vampires are fairly generic and beyond the bosses, have no real stand 
 out features. The environment is also very repetitive and drab. Some of this is because the game 
 takes place all in one night, but nevertheless, the game is just dark and unimpressive. The lighting 
 makes it near impossible to see your way around sometimes. This effect is good when put to use 
 correctly, but here it is just annoying, because it is used everywhere. Walking down a street and 
 I can barely see the street. Part of the problem is that the game takes place in a somewhat small 
 city, so you end up backtracking through familiar areas time and time again.
  
  Now anyone that has delved themselves into some Vampire lore knows that these creatures should 
 be somewhat tough. I mean they are impervious to everything barring sunlight, UV rays and some 
 silver. But the Vampires in this game are not only difficult, but insanely difficult. If they do 
 spot you, you might as well get your death sequence over with so you can go through the level again. 
 Vampires come at you like a freight train and when the catch up to you, one to two hits and you 
 are dead. Want to take one of these Nightwalkers down  you will have to pump 15-30 rounds into 
 them at times to get them to drop. And since most weapons will have to be reloaded at least once 
 while shooting at one, you normally end up dead. Occasionally, you get a sniper rifle, which will 
 take down a Vampire in one shot, but the weapons disappear at the end of each level, which seems 
 to make no sense.
  
  The sound in the game is fairly good. The main characters seem to do a decent job at times, although 
 they never seem to put too much emotion into their voices. At one point, your commander has to 
 kill someone that he finds close to him. When they are killed, he says that he is sorry and then 
 moves on to the next objective. Not even a whimper or a moment to reflect. The rain and lightening 
 all sound great and help give the game some atmosphere that the visuals end up forgetting about. 
 Weapon shots are all silenced for the most part, with the exception of the shotgun. It has a nice 
 sound, but nothing that stands out.
  
  Multiplayer is present but does not add much value to the game. You have your standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, etc. One kind of game that had some potential was the Death or Nightwalkers. It 
 plays out like Deathmatch, except that once you die, you turn into a Vampire. Sounds good until 
 you remember how powerful the Vampires are, so you end up decimating the competition once you become 
 a Vampire. Also, most of the achievements for the game are multiplayer related, so if you are an 
 achievement whore, you will have to get quite familiar with the multiplayer mode of the game.
 
  
  The game has a lot of promise, but just seems to fall on its face at every chance it gets. The 
 story starts to get all convoluted and you lose focus on it once you have to repeat a level for 
 the 10th time, because the game is unforgiving in its difficulty. There is no in-level save or 
 checkpoint system, so you have to finish a level or be forced to repeat it. Simple animations like 
 climbing seem awkward, and unfinished. Small detail, but it just takes you out of the game. Why 
 do the Vampires kill everyone in the city without prejudice, but let others go for no reason. Why 
 does my knife require ammunition that is found sparsely throughout any level? And when you get 
 to the boss levels, get ready for more disappointment, because they are patterned, so once you 
 learn their pattern of attack, they are quick to be defeated. Bosses should never be far easier 
 than their minions. The worst thing of all is how the comparison of Splinter Cell to this game 
 is used by everyone. That does Splinter Cell a disservice, because that is a good game that does 
 stealth right.
  
  Vampire Rain tries to recreate a stealth action game, while getting neither piece right. If you 
 want to get some good stealth or action, continue your search past this game. All you will get 
 from playing this game is a severe migraine that continues to plague me every time I think of this 
 game. The biggest downfall for this game started with the marketing that made it look like a solid 
 shooter, but in the end, it is a horrible stealth game. Save your money and look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Quinn
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Lately there have been very few major games released for the Xbox 360 which led me to buy Vampire 
 Rain, Its not my type of game but Ii thought I'd give it a try, maybe it will be like Resident 
 Evil I thought. Wow, I was so wrong, This game is unbelievably hard and frustrating. It is near 
 impossible to kill a vampire. For a next Gen game, the graphics are snes -like and it seems it 
 took the creators five minutes to do before they went looking on the streets for some desperate 
 random who was willing to do the voice acting for five pounds and a packet of fruit pastilles. 
 There is no sign of excitement or even human life in there boring voices which ads to the crap 
 characters and story. Really, playing the game isnt fun. its more fun seeing which one of your 
 mates can play it the longest without crying or dying. I must of played this game for about 3 hours 
 and it doesnt get better. all you do is climb pipes and even when you come into contact with a 
 vampire, your bullets almost give them health there that useless. To sum up, i warn you! if you 
 don't want to be put off by games altogether, stay away from Vampire Rain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorfulus
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I wanted to enjoy this game. I 'played' it for over an hour. NOTHING EVER HAPPENED! All you do 
 is climb up and down buildings. You actually have to AVOID any action. The graphics are okay, but 
 slightly on the cheezy side. The storyline is moronic. I bought it yesterday and I am returning 
 it today. DON'T WAIST YOUR MONEY OR YOUR TIME with this one! I think that there was potential for 
 a good story, and great action. You expect it based on the box. But, you start off with a gun, 
 that you are discouraged from using, and it doesn't kill anything. It's like throwing a crumpled 
 up paper at a charging elephant!@ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I would first like to make a request and then point out a few things. Gamers, please buy games 
 you are sure you will be interested in. I have seen TOO many gamers write bad reviews in response 
 being upset at Themselves for making Uninformed, Impulse decisions and then taking it out on good 
 titles! I also noticed a similarity in MOST of these Terrible rated games. The amount of time Claimed 
 to be invested on the game! 10 hours or less?? I for one have a brother-in-law who is a perfect 
 example of my next point. He played Vampire Rain for 10 MINUTES, said it was Too Hard, the Graphics 
 sucked and it was a rip-off! How does he and those sharing his opinion become what I like to refer 
 to as 10 Minute Experts ? After reading Mixed reviews, Mostly Bad ones, I decided to try Vampire 
 Rain for myself. I must say that I am stuck in the middle for Many reasons! First off, I gotta 
 ask, am I the ONLY person who not only plans which games I want but also rents before droppin $60+? 
 Also, I am NOT trying to be sarcastic, but is this game billed as something Other than a Stealth 
 Action Sci-Fi (Vampire) ? That being said, as a Vampire fan, I was excited prior to seeing this 
 game! What other Vampire games do 360 owners have? Do NOT say SOTN on XBL!! Finally, for my opinion 
 of the game itself. The graphics are not a masterpiece but are up to par with Most 360 titles. 
 The games storyline pretty much explains away MOST of the complaints I have read! You are playing 
 at night in the rain because it gives you a tactical advantage over your AI adversaries! Pertinent 
 details are given as needed. I will admit to V R having more than a few moments of frustration 
 with the too wonky control response, or lack thereof! I also agree that the game does suffer from 
 its linearity. It would be very nice to be able to have multiple directions to the objectives. 
 I feel that the voice actors' characters sound as one would expect military personell to (these 
 people are supposed to be soldiers, NOT be performing Shakespeare right?) . If you can find friends 
 that haven't been scared away by 5 minute reviews ( experts after playing a game for 5 minutes 
 Or Less!!) the online is pretty fun! You get most of the standard fare modes with some Nice twists! 
 There is already some FREE DLable content on XBL to boot! To wrap things up I would like to share 
 a bit of advice. It's free, so take it! (the advice, not the game!) If you like Stealth, Sci-Fi 
 Vampires, rent this game first! If you can get past its imperfect nature THEN go out and Buy it! 
 I for one am SICK of gamers complaining about a game they purchased with the money they had burning 
 a hole in their pockets instead of planning ahead! I Am NOT a big Fan of Pre-Orders!! At least 
 the ones made with NO research at all! This is when gamers usually find themselves the Most disappointed! 
 Folks please at least for yourselves Know what you are buying before you get home and decide you 
 didn't want it! This makes YOU write excessively Bad reviews and Misleads those of us gamers that 
 might've tried the title and actually liked it! Gaming is theraputic. It is a great form of interactive 
 entertainment! It is meant to be enjoyed! Please help fellow gamers out by writing Appropriate 
 reviews! Play B3YOND, XBOX For Life!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruescher
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  What exactly is VAMPIRE RAIN? That, I am sworn not to tell. This dark and gruesome action horror 
 sim is something that cannot and will not be ever accepted into mainstream culture because of it's 
 excesive dark appeal. There is something magnificent about Vampire Rain: The utter hopelessness 
 that it showers upon its players. The Nightwalkers are always in the back of your mind, watching 
 your every movement, waiting for you to cross their pathes... Will you solve the mystery of Vampire 
 Rain? Or will it ruthelessly control you like the shameles little **** you are? There is absolutely 
 nothing not to like a bout this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reboundxshooter
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  not worth a review please stay away stay well away do what ever you can in your power to not play 
 this awful game i mean for heavens sake they couldnt even get the copyright for vampire they have 
 to call them nightwalkers i think that sums it up. Did i mention stay away from this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 it may make you pour gasoline over yourself and light a match. It is also supposed to be next gen.... 
 yeah ok if you have dislexia and next gen means last gen but please there is one good point to 
 this game its repetitive sounds.... wow how about that for laying into this plie of rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard666
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes when i bought the game thinking it would be a very interesting game to play on 
 but i was sorely dissapointed, the game has real potential but the makers choose not use that potential, 
 it could have been a classic but instead you find yourself sneaking around trying desperately not 
 to get caught otherwise you dead man. Smoother gameplay, better controls and a different style 
 would have made this game a hit. For example, make it so its possible to kill the vampires if your 
 seen, make it so that if you sneak up behind one u can break its neck of something, you know just 
 something to give it a bit of excitement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javelin1872
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Set in a time the world lies on the brink of destruction, you are a special forces agent determined 
 to cleanse the earth of this new pandemic, vampirism. These deathly captivating add not only originality 
 and thrills to the game, but an entirely new concept of stealth action. Prevalent cutscenes also 
 add much fun and excitement, building upon the already great story.
  
  The graphics are on an entirely different plateau from previous games, its staggering 500 frames 
 per second really shut out the competition, leaving even great games such as Gears of War and Lost 
 Planet in the dust. While there are those unable to ascertain the complexity and innovation of 
 this game, that should not stop you from checking out this surefire winner for 2007 best game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Nuclear
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  There are good things and bad things that go with Vampire Rain. Ill try and keep this short and 
 sweet, so lets start with the bad.
  
  - The graphics were mediocre and some of the effects were flat-out terrible. For example, look 
 at the blood-sucking nightwalkers that feed on you when you die. The spraying blood... Pretty ugly.
 
  
  - The learning curve is ridiculously high. It took me a good few hours to figure out the controls
 
  
  - The default button layout makes no sense. Many games follow a similar style of button layouts, 
 but it almost seems like this game purposefully did the exact opposite. Even I got confused with 
 the controls and was always hitting the wrong buttons. It takes a while to get the controls down.
 
  
  - The campaign is very difficult especially for someone who only casually games. The first six 
 or seven levels are a joke. You have no means of fighting back against the nightwalkers (until 
 you get a shotgun in level seven or so) . I think this is why so many people gave it a horrible 
 review. The game itself is not horrible, but these first few levels are atrocious. I even contemplated 
 not finishing the game because of them. It takes sincere gaming stamina and patience to get through 
 the pointless frustration that Vampire Rains campaign can bring.
  
  - The storyline was not necessarily bad. What did make the storyline bad though was the fact they 
 did a horrible job letting us know what was going on. To make things even worse, the dialogue between 
 characters was horrible and made very little sense. I dont think there was but a few times that 
 I actually knew 100% of what was going on in any given scene. Very confusing.
  
  - The final boss was a bit ridiculous. It shouldnt take as many shots to take her down as it does. 
 Im not sure how many it actually is; I just know its a LOT. Not only that but it takes a ridiculous 
 amount of time to beat her. It was a bit infuriating when I died after spending five minutes just 
 getting her down to the last quarter of life.
  
  - The community for the Xbox Live aspect of Vampire Rain is very small, making it difficult to 
 get games started. The online play is decent though once you get a game together.
  
  - There are simply not enough maps for the Xbox Live multiplayer modes. Im sorry but if Im going 
 to play Deathmatch, I would like to play on more than four maps.
  
  Now lets move on to the good.
  
  - The idea for the game was actually pretty cool. Its not 
 that common that you see something like this put into a game. Thats why I got it in the first 
 place.
  
  - Once you give the storyline a chance and get past the first six or seven levels you can actually 
 fight back. It is still pretty hard to kill the nightwalkers, but its definitely not impossible 
 either. As long as you have ammo for the shotgun, youre good to go. It's much more fun when you 
 stand a fighting chance.
  
  Overall, I rate this game a 5.7. It is hard to learn the controls, difficult to get past the aggravating 
 first quarter of the game, but definitely picks up after that first quarter. If you have the patience 
 to deal with the painfully lame beginning of the game, it becomes worth finishing the campaign. 
 Im glad that I stuck it out long enough to beat it. The ending was actually pretty cool. And if 
 you care about gamerscore, you get a nice achievement for completing the campaign. Thats always 
 a plus, right?
  
  Lord Nuclear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  And just when we thought Hour Of Victory was the worst game of the year. If I had to choose the 
 worst horror action-adventure game, this game would take first place instantly. The guys who created 
 this game tried to combine Resident Evil with Spinter Cell. And guess what: they failed miserably 
 at it. What the hell is this game supposed to be? A stealth horror actio-adventure game? Or a game 
 that's earns the reputation for being an impossible game to play? IDK, you decide...
  
  The game is similar to Resident Evil series (except for killing zombies, you're killing vampires) . 
 Your objective is to rid L. A. of creatures known as Nightwalkers. That's all the good news that 
 I could bother to find in this game. The bad news? The game is insanely hard, the vampires are 
 nearly impossible to kill and the cutscene design is absolutely atrocious. Even writing this review 
 may give me nightmares about Vampire Rain . No, not about the vampires, but the atrocities that 
 riddle this game. If you want a better game, pick up any Resident Evil game or any Splinter Cell 
 game, because this game is an embarrasment to the human race and to the gaming world as we know 
 it.
  
  Trust me, I've played many bad games. And this one ranks right up there with that category. Please, 
 if you get the chance to play this game, don't, because this game will give you NIGHTMARES!!!!!!!! 
 No, not about the vampires, but the atrocities that riddle this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IM_NO_NOOB
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've read some of the other reviews, and it seems that a lot of people that gave this game a good 
 score, said you have to keep playing before you can enjoy it. Well that to me is just a dumb statement. 
 If I go to a movie and the first hour and a half, is crap, then the last 30 minutes is just ok, 
 I'm gonna say its a crap movie. So to say a game gets good, which in my opinion is stretching it, 
 about half way through. It makes it a crap game to me. I played this game, and I game it a chance. 
 I kept saying to myself its gotta get better than this, but no, it didn't. This game is utter crap 
 from start to finish ( i never did finish, I couldn't force my self to play long enough to finish) . 
 The graphics are bad, the dialogue is bad, the game play is bad, its just a terrible game. So if 
 you love vampires and horrible games then feel free to pick this up, however, if your a normal 
 person who enjoys games the steer clear. This is to date, the worst game I have ever played. This 
 makes Hour of Victory seem like a good game by comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilbreader
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I have played many stelth action games and this was by far the wost. While i was playing this game 
 i relised that the main chactor looked exactily like snake from metal gear solid and his life bar 
 was another rip off from that game it was very obtrusive to the metal gear saga as far a the mecanics 
 of the game thay were riping off sam fisher in the spilnter cell games, it is sad to see game developers 
 chirn out a game that has no originality what so ever and steal from other well known developers 
 who have pioneared the stelth action series because thay have know creative thoughts of there own 
 it is one thing to create a game that is based on some one elses work and in entirely diffrent 
 to create a game that mimics some one elses work. in my opinion dont waste 70 bucks on this game 
 if you do more power to ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Vampire Rain is about an splintercell look a like guy who is supposedly a vampire hunter but you 
 really actually dont fight that much vampires. A few bosses who are completely predictable once 
 you see their patterns are almost all the action you get where you kick some @ss. In each level, 
 You pretty much have to sneak by vampires but they like almost kill me every time. This game's 
 difficulty is extremly hard. I think I died 15 times on the third level until releazing I had to 
 sneak by them by walking around the whole level. Your weapons are pretty much useless except against 
 bosses. I mean the vampires are like mini bosses and once they spot you. You die in two hits before 
 you get a chance to run away. The gagdets feel like a complete rip off splinter cell. The game's 
 controls are a mess. It just feels like the game isn't complete. Another thing, Once you get an 
 effective weapon you cant use it the next level and they dissappear in like thin air. Which doesn't 
 really make a lot of sense. The vampires also kidnap your friend but yet they kill any civilian 
 brutally. That doesn't make sense. The whole fricken story doesn't make sense but the only positive 
 vibe in this game is killing vampires as a splinter cell look a like is pretty cool but the whole 
 concept is ruined from all the negatives I listed above. I recommend this game to stealth fans 
 but rent it first.
  
  Also online play is so-so but the game is more focused on the storymode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joninva1
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I really waited a long time for this release and as is the case with all new releases, I never 
 get my hopes up. Let's face it though- the screen-shots and videos looked down right cool. I buy 
 the game the day it comes out and play for hours.... and hours.... and hours.... The main problem: 
 You get weapons- Don't dare use them. You will die. The whole game thus far seems to be one big 
 stealth mission. And it's repetitive which equals BORING. There was one fun level where you got 
 to use a sniper and take the heads off of these night walkers . I've played the game including 
 tutorials up to the mission where you have to get the black box left by the advance team. I get 
 halfway through the mission and decide that this game... which I had such high hopes for... is getting 
 traded. It was definitely not worthy of being a 60 dollar release. I kept thinking, hey- It sucks 
 now, but I will hold out and play through some more to see if it gets better. I'm a pretty patient 
 guy- It's not getting better. Screw this game. On a scale of 1 to 10 I give this game a 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Fun online :: Gameplay is addictive :: Achievements mean you will want to come back to the single 
 player :: Nightwalkers take alot to kill
  
  ---GOOD STORY
  ---GREAT ONLINE
  
  THE BAD:
  Environments look bland :: Weapons don't sound authentic :: Nightwalkers take alot 
 to kill
  
  ---SLOW, DERIVITIVE GAMEPLAY
  ---BAD SOUND FX
  
  Splinter Cell, BulletWitch, Hitman, some game with vampire's. All of these have had some impact 
 on Vampire Rain, each contributing it's own part. But somewhere these parts had undergone some 
 surgery, resulting in a watered down version of each of these games. But what Vampire Rain fails 
 to deliver in the gameplay department, it makes up for in it's story and online multiplayer.
  
  One of Vampire Rain's main problems is it's gameplay. It's very slow paced and the action is 
 usually over very quickly. The stealth parts are fun, but since you'll be wandering around the 
 same city, each level is pretty forgettable. The main protagonist, John Lloyd, bares many a similarity 
 to Sam Fisher, of Splinter Cell, and Solid Snake, of MGS, though he doesn't really have much of 
 an attitude. The online takes care of the slow gameplay as you can actually play as a nightwalker 
 (vampire) , where you can run fast, jump high and kill with your bare hands. Vampire Rain's graphics 
 are nice, but a bit rough around the edges, though the characters feel smooth and ... wet. The 
 textures in the environment are pretty bare, but the rain covers them right up. The sound in the 
 game is also passable. A generic track continuously loops during multiplayer, but in single player, 
 it is usually silent, the only ambient sound being the rain, though the few music clips are pretty 
 decent and dark.
  
  Vampire Rain is like the B-Movie of games, but it's pretty decent and the achievements range from 
 easy to downright hard. So if your looking for a stealth game set in LA with vampires, VR is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  I had to write a second review on this game, because the more I play it and see the direction that 
 it is going the more I like it.
  
  First thing you will notice about this game is the graphics look a little dull. The dialog is terrible 
 to the point to where it feels like it was done on purpose. Your characters name is John Lloyd 
 and you will never forget it, since it is repeated every time someone talks to you. Lloyd, search 
 the area; Lloyd after that tag the dead bodies, Lloyd use the sniper rifle, Lloyd duck, Lloyd jump, 
 and it goes on and on. As for the other sounds in the game there are not that many. Most of the 
 weapons are silenced and don't sound too well and when you die it sounds like a cross between burping 
 and puking. The rain has somewhat of a calming effect on the mood of the game but the thunder could 
 have had more bass in it. And don't get me started on the animation, I cant even describe what 
 it looks like when you see a Vampire running at you with reckless speed or leaping onto a rooftop. 
 The idea is cool but it all just looks a little unfinished.
  
  There are a some good things about this game. The over all horror effect actually comes off quite 
 nicely. The eerie music along with the gory sight of a puddle of blood that used to be a living 
 person is done well. (Although it has been done before) . I also like the sudden pulse of the screen 
 when you are about to be spotted because it almost always catches you off guard because most of 
 the time you may not see who is watching you until you take a look around.
  
  When I think about it, if they put more effort into the graphics and the sound effects in the game 
 it would have made a huge difference. The concept of the game is not bad at all. You are in a dark 
 and rainy city infested with vampires and you have to try and get your missions done with as little 
 contact with them as possible ( At least this is how it is in the beginning) . You have to climb, 
 hang, crawl, descend ropes from off of roof tops to get from location to location without being 
 spotted. However, once you get deeper into the storyline (about the 5th mission) you will be put 
 into situations where you will have to take out some vampires with a sniper rifle or by sneaking 
 up on them with a UV knife. Its not until about the 6th mission do you get to se the more powerful 
 weapons. Although I do admit again there is something about it that keeps me playing, I don't think 
 it is for everyone. Perhaps because of the simple fact that there has never been nothing like it. 
 This is a very sophisticated game. It starts off very slow but as the story line progresses it 
 starts to come together nicely. For example: In the beginning you start off in the city streets 
 with nothing but week weapons and no info as to what is going on, so the first couple of missions 
 is just gathering information while at the same time getting use to the game play. This game will 
 make you think. Just because your objective is right across the street does not mean you can just 
 walk over to it. The city is infested with vampires that will kill you with a single blow and unless 
 you can empty a full clip in their head before they reach you, you are dead, let alone the fact 
 that there may be more than one. So you are left with no choice but to find a safe route by scaling 
 roof tops and things of that sort to get past the creatures unseen. A lot of people didn't give 
 this game a fair chance because it does start off slow in the beginning and due to the fact that 
 you start off with week weapons you do have to avoid the vampires at first; but once you get to 
 the point where you get UV knives and some more powerful weapons at your exposure you can start 
 taking out vampires but you have to be smart about it. This is actually well thought out if you 
 think about it because you are a regular human with special ops training fighting against vampires 
 with super human abilities so naturally you cant go in guns blazing, you have to have a plan of 
 attack. We have all played games with vampires and zombies and we had to blast through them. We 
 have also played games with specials ops agents where we had to sneak around in stealth mode, and 
 this games brings those two elements together in a Splinter Cell meets Resident Evil kind of feel, 
 or at least a halfway attempted at it. With some better next-gen graphics, sound, and animation 
 this game probably would have been an 8.0 or better.
  
  In case you do decide to try this game out be prepared to play certain parts over and over and 
 over. Once spotted by a vampire they are too fast and too agile to get a way from, if you are up 
 high they will leap right on you and all it takes is one strike for them to kill you. Besides the 
 sniper rifle or stealth kills with the UV knife, the weapons are pretty useless until you can get 
 to some real firepower. The only positive thing is that you will start right back at the most recent 
 checkpoint without much of a loading time. If you like a good challenge, you may want to check 
 it out. This is a thinkers game and it will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  You can easily pass up on this game as it delivers nothing but a basic story line and some lousy 
 and hard game play that you will be done with in about 30 minutes of frustration.
  
  This game as many hard levels are barely any way to do them, the AI is incredibly strong and will 
 always run up to you and do there best to kill you in any way possible that a human can do.
  
  The graphics is good of course being on the Xbox 360 but has nothing to back it up as this 
 game serves up a lousy price for a overrated game of $59.99 you can easily pass up this game and 
 get so much for when getting even Armored core 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Vampire Rain could have been one of the most promising games to date on the next gen system. But 
 it turned out to be a flop. Graphically I think its rubbish, cinematics look good but thats only 
 because it is pre-rendered and not using the games engine. Vampires do not seem real as no-one 
 in the right mind runs like that. Sound-wise yeah I think its accurate the guns sound realistic 
 i suppose. Voice acting is okay but could be better. I have no other comments on sound as I stopped 
 playing after the first mission.
  
  Story.... **** A city taken over by vampires... GET REAL! Someone should have noticed you don't 
 exactly go Oh we lost contact with Los Angeles... oh well! The citizens should have known to! Oh 
 I can't phone my friend next door and she hasn't been at school and mommy hasn't come back from 
 the shop in days... oh well! Vampires cannot run an entire city with absolutley no-one noticing 
 except the special forces. The only thing that really saves vampire rain, is that it is a proper 
 stealth game as you die in 2 slashes. And it is nice to see a realistic health system as you can't 
 take more than 2 shots or even 1 in real life.
  
  This game is only for people who love stealth games to bits and neglect anything else except the 
 stealth.
  
  I give Vampire Rain I think a fair: 5.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenpo13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I found the learning curve to be quite hard but once I was IN , the game picked up and it turned 
 out to be pretty cool.
  If you live your life for instant gratification and expect to kick tail right away, then this game 
 isn't for you.
  I find it a chess game of all the cooler titles mixed into several genres.
  Don't beleive the critics and dont believe the wanna bes that say,
  it's too hard ! whaaaah want 
 some cheese with that whine ?
  it's and ADULT game get over it or go play checkers
  Im going to give it a 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperEman
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  this game is so stupid, no its beyond stupid it practly special ed. or at least r the people who 
 made the game. i mean how ru gonna make a game where it seems like ur suppose to kill vampiers 
 but the truth is is that u avoid them completly and climb on **** i dont even know why they bother 
 giving u any type of gun, all they have to do is touch u twice and ur dead. NVER concider buying 
 this dumb game. its meant 4 no one. unless u want to buy a game where the first levle is to run 
 threw a lame city (if that) and go threw a boring sewer and still manage to get a B rating when 
 i have no idea how my brother could have done any better then this game is still not 4u cause its 
 that dam bad. but if u still want to play it and juss find out how bad it is then i suggest u borrow 
 it from one of your friends that you know that always buys stupid games cause we all have a friend 
 like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJDemos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game, Vampire Rain is a video game that puts you in the middle of a vampire infested city 
 on a mission to destroy all vampires once and for all. You are agent John Lloyd led by a teamleader 
 and two other agents on this dangerous mission to save humanity. The rain dampens vampire senses 
 and this is the perfect opportunity to launch this mission, hence the name, Vampire Rain .
  
  This is a game that has a very steep learning curve that can cause frustration once you begin 
 to play. However, once you get the hang of it everything comes together into one enjoyable experience. 
 This game is a great game that is very realistic. This isn't about running and gunning but intelligent 
 and cunning gameplay. In any movie- if you used a gun against a vampire, which is already dead- 
 it would actually just piss it off and rip you to shreds. This actually happens in the game if 
 you are silly enough to come into direct sight of a vampire or shoot them depending on the weapon 
 that you are using. The only way you are capable of taking a vampire out is with your entire team 
 or specific weapons that can cause severe incapacitating damage.
  
  The graphics are alright for the most part, however the environments seem recycled. But the rain 
 and its droplets and how it falls on the characters in the game is actually impressive.
  
  The games atmosphere, which is similar to Metal Gear Solid or Splinter Cell , absorbs you into 
 the various missions and provides an eerie mood that is remanicsent of resident evil.
  
  The vampires are actually scary and give you more reason to try to stay as far in the shadows as 
 possible. When a vampire spots you a pair of eyes sets on your screen and you must dart back into 
 cover before it can recognize you as a human. Once they do they transform and chase you across 
 the environment leaping upon buildings. They even give chase like , for example, if your on a building 
 and the vampire leaps upon the building and you jump down and continue running they jump from roof 
 to roof to follow you. I believe the gameplay is amazing- and if your a fan of the genre I personally 
 recommend that you purchase this videogame for yourself- or even rent if you want to see how the 
 game plays out for yourself. However I would doubt that a fan of the genre would be disappointed 
 by the game.
  
  Those who don't appreciate the game believe that the game deserves an unfair score of 1.0 and lower. 
 This is far from the truth. This is a game you have to play forself to believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty niffty. Why?
  
  Check it out:
  
  1) Vampires are fast and super strong, bullets piss them off. Realistic to what a vampire should 
 be
  
  2) you have weapons but none of them truly work alone, so you have to shoot 1 vampire with a team 
 to get it down. Very realistic
  
  3) The idea of sneaking is brilliant. Why? Would you want to run up on a vampire in real life with 
 a gun? I thinks not Terrell, I thinks not.
  
  4) Reward for learning to hide. The reward is being able to kill a vampire eventually from a distance. 
 Great Stuff
  
  This game is hard, and if you have no patience no love for ambience and a game that puts you into 
 the roll, dont buy it. But if you want a challenge and to feel like you are in a vampire infested 
 city, pick this up. Again its not for kids or people that want to kill everything, no. You have 
 to THINK, and use your surroundings to your advantage. Any game that comes out that will allow 
 you to just kill vampires is lame. This is putting some realisim to the genre. Not that this game 
 does not have a few flaws and a few how come I cant .. you know.. but overall its a pleasurable 
 experience that is challenging and rewarding at the same time. Just being able to figure out how 
 to get around is great.
  
  One thing i dont like is how easy it is to kill a vampire once you get the modified PSG-90. One 
 shot. All though sometimes you have to angle just right so you are not seen before you shoot!
 
  
  I love the game the graphics are great, the sound ios excellent, the feel is erie.
  
  If you are an adult and enjoy a good challenge pick this one up. If you want to kill everything 
 pick up Earth Defense 2017, another game that is just plain killing fun. However, if you are on 
 the immature side and have no love for what a vampire should be... I think the PS3 games are on 
 sale... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  last few weeks two bad games hour of victory and now vampire rain. the summer of gamming looked 
 so good, but now it is like they are just making half baked games, and taking your hard earn cash, 
 i am at the point i am just going to buy grandtheft auto 4 and thats it for 2007. vampire rain 
 is just to hard you die so easy you get so upset at the game you just want to take it and toss 
 it out the window, 65 bucks for this i was hoping so much for a great game, i just hate that feeling 
 of being ripped off you get home you have a new game you are thinking cant wait put the game in 
 with in 30 minns you are like nooooooooooooo nooooooooo what is this hell noooo my 65 bucks, oh 
 its a nightmare, want a nightmare i tell you how to have a nightmare just spend 65 bucks on vampire 
 rain and you will have nightmares, then if your wife finds out how that 65 bucks flew out the window 
 you will have nightmare number 2, stay away from vampire rain its awful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Vampire Rain has gotten a lot of negative attention from people here, and the main complaint is 
 that it is too hard. When you start the game, you are not supposed to fight right away, because 
 you die, they're vampires and are way stronger. But later in the game, you have plenty of ways 
 to kill vampires. If the vampires were weak, they wouldn't have taken over a city so the premise 
 is that you have to find a way to kill them. Try to look inside yourself and find your inner vampire. 
 Then put on your XBOX360 headset and contact Luke on the Death Star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Chaos7
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Vampire Rain was a disappointment the moment I reached the main menu first of all it only responds 
 to the d-pad and even that is shotty, second everything is so dam green, third it just looks bland 
 and last minute. By the time I actually got into the game it felt clunky especially the wall hug 
 system where I couldn't get our hero off of the wall unless I faced the camera directly infront 
 of the wall and pressed a button. (Take some lessons from Epic they know how to make a cover system.) 
 The camera is terrible especially in close encounters which pretty much means every gun fight with 
 a vampire, you can't aim or even see where or what the heck is attacking you and whats worse is 
 that the moment a vampire gets close you enter this animation where you get instantly killed. The 
 weapons in vampire rain are terrible if you shoot a vampire in the head with an assault rifle it 
 doesn't blow their head up or even significantly damage them.. no they just turn around and maul 
 you or just plain out maul you. The only good weapons in the game are the shotgun and the sniper 
 because you pretty much require a one hit kill to survive even the simplest of encounters. The 
 Vampires themselves however are just terrible to look at some look like fast zombies from the Half-Life 
 series and the rest look like retarded chain smoking monkey action figures with a blood craze. 
 All in all if this game was $20 I'm still not sure if I could recommend someone to purchase it 
 the most I could advise to you to do with this game would be to rent if for a weekend with some 
 friends so you can hopefully find a way to enjoy this game... by watching your friends scream CHEAP!!! 
 or HACKS!!! after being killed 30 seconds into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NorthernSolo
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Terrible game - camera is just all over the place - combat is virtually impossible - and what's 
 the point in having vampires in the game if you have to constantly try to sneak by without engaging 
 them lest you be destroyed in 5 seconds flat!?
  
  Graphics are good - and sound is decent - even tho it's just rain mostly in the background.... The 
 vampires look more like zombies than anything, and the blood factor is over the top. Def not worth 
 buying - much less even a rent! If you're looking for a good stealth type game - try any of the 
 SC series. If you want outright undead killing - pop in Dead Rising for a half hour or so and go 
 to town on the zombies in the mall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I just got this horror third-person shooter stealth game yesterday, on the release date, and boy 
 is it hard. The objective of the game is to basically complete objectives while trying to avoid 
 vampires and humans, but sometimes they cannot be avoided. You play as Lloyd, a vampire hunter, 
 to do a mission for the goverment in a vampire infested city. The vampires are hard to recognize 
 to, impossible actually, to recognize them from regular humans until they have spotted you, in 
 which they transform into their vampire form, in which they run at high speeds and can jump great 
 distances and heights, which is why you need to avoid them. In order to spot them, they usually 
 smoke, and also if you use your vampire-seeking goggles, you can identify if they are vampire or 
 human. All in all it is a fun but hard game. You must use the shadows, stealth, and the weapons 
 you have, to stay alive and complete your objectives. Thankfully, if you die, you start off from 
 your last checkpoint, and you do not have to restard the mission unless you choose to do so. I 
 reccomend it if you like Splinter Cell like games..... and for some reason, Lloyd looks like the 
 guy from Splinter Cell. Funny, isn't it? Well, anyways, it is an all-around good game, and i reccomend 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  A Special Force against vampires, roaming through LA trying not to get caught by them, that being 
 cool 'cause puts a challenge to the game and makes vampires terrifying... well, that sounds cool 
 on paper but when it's poorly executed, it's worth a headache (which I got after 20 minutes playing 
 this so-called video game)
  
  Developers tryed to give it a bit of stealth, unfortunately they didn't put much of an effort to 
 it. Vampire design a-la-Buffy style makes you feel kind of sick (like inside a hybrid of Buffy 
 and Angel... damn!!!!) , and I don't even wanna talk about graphics (OK, they're some of the worst 
 I've seen in a 360 game, 'nuff said) . Sound's fair, it's not gonna hurt you.
  
  Vampire's a fantasy or mythology character that's so cool, that this game turns out to be an insult.
 
  
  To anybody who reads this, PLEASE!!!! DON'T BUY THIS GAME (but if 'u want an excuse to feel annoyed, 
 go ahead and rent it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmothehound
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is not really all that bad. Thats not too say it's the best game ever. Listen to people 
 that actually own the game or rented it. Most of the player reviews on gamespot are by people who 
 think the game will suck so other people wont play it.
  
  graphics- not really all that bad. Animation is good. Graphics are smooth if somewhat bland (because 
 of it always raining) . no graphical glitches i have seen.
  
  gameplay-fun simple stealth gameplay that is flawed because of the early weapons. dont expect to 
 go in commando style like in splinter cell (face it missions you can kill in are amazingly easy) . 
 the pistol and smg and maybe the rifle (depends) are not good to kill with. the sniper and shotgun 
 are the weapons you will be using most of the time.
  
  sound- rain effect is good. voice acting is so bad its funny so thats a good thing. walking and 
 vampire noices are also good. nothing godlike though.
  
  multiplayer-plenty of people play and matches are quick to fill up. very fun if not simple deathmatch 
 and ctf. playing as a nightwalker is the easiest way to get kills. but playing as a human with 
 uv bombs will take out a nightwalker real quick resulting in about 100 points (it all depends really, 
 from my experiences it seems that kills from behind get more points)
  
  overall- a simple fun game that has a high replayability and a good way to get a nube started in 
 the stealth genre or have a gaming expert (me) have some good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatchoKing
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I played this game with a mediocre expectation. And i got a mediocre experience. The first thing 
 i thought was great when playing the game were the amazing rain effects. Really, it was one of 
 the few things i actually liked about this game. Overall the graphics aer reasonable good, but 
 nothing special compared to gears of war or other graphical achievments. The story is pretty straight 
 foward. You play as one of an elite team of 4 special ops who have to eliminate the vampires known 
 as night walkers , who in a few years will over populate the world, where there will be more night 
 walkers than humans. Of course there are many diffrent snags on the way to acomplishing the ultimate 
 goal. You will spend most of your time acomplishing the differnt objectices by sneaking past the 
 night walkers rather than trying to go through them. But it is nearly impossible to kill a night 
 walker anyway, which is one fo the most frustrating parts of game. You can rarely ever kill your 
 enemy. The stealth mechanics are reasonable good, but youll probably only use your gun shot locked 
 doors or other ways around your enemies. The multiplayer consists of your regular multiplayer modes 
 such as deathmatch, and team deathmatch. You play as either the night walkers or the special ops. 
 The multiplayer isnt anything special, not great, but not bad, but definitly not vampire rains 
 selling point. The game of course has been done before, but the fact that the enemies are impossible 
 to kill, and other annoying glitches, make this stealth game below others such as metal gear solid 
 or splinter cell. Overall, the game brings new things to the stealth-action-horror genre, but weve 
 seen it before and to be honest it really isnt very fun to play and very frustrating at times. 
 If you really want to play it, rent it first, or you really will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Pros 1. its amusing to hate about
  2. everyone knows its bad Cons
  1. game play basically puts you into stealth much notibaly like splinter cell
  2. vioce acting 
 is very repetetive and not very realstic (they speak alot like robots) 3. last gen graphics 4. 
 pathetic movment animations (characters move alike each other) 5. enemies are basically stupid 
 but they just deliver a very hard blow.
  6. weapons you normally get are useless (only the shot gun and sniper actually kills)
  7. simplistic 
 game desgin 8. could be cheaper, on second thought it should be!!!!!
  9. maps get quite repetetive.
  10. multiplayer is boring last words
  Just sad i stopped playing 
 right after the 5th level and dont even think about buying bullet witch!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: droppin_plates_
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Remember the good old days of the original Splinter Cell? Back when it was the best graphics that 
 money could buy? When it was the leader of stealth action? Vampire Rain is an emulator of Splinter 
 Cell, and instead of fighting terrorists, you fight Vampires.
  
  Great premise, right? Yes, it is a great premise that takes great risks. But, did AQ follow through 
 with the premise? No. It was close, but it could've been pulled off much better. There were some 
 negative aspects, but there are also some positives. The water graphics in the game are excellent, 
 down to the rain trickling off of your wet-suit. Another good thing about the game is the balance 
 of weapons. Pistols will barely do damage to the vampires, while a buckshot to the face will be 
 an instant kill. Also, the difficulty was enjoyed thoroughly by me. The negatives outweigh the 
 positives in this game though, as there are many unfinished animations - the main character will 
 snap onto a ladder if you're to the right or left of it instead of right in front of it. Also, 
 the textures seem to be uncompressed, which makes for a last-gen graphic experience. Something 
 else that should be looked at is the fact that the camera will snap around when around pillars, 
 non surrounded ladders, and many other open areas. Another problem is the clunky controls. You 
 will not feel at home if you've been playing Splinter Cell -- the controls are completely different. 
 Finally, the dialogue is horrible. The voice acting is just completely terrible, down to enemies 
 speaking monotonously... even when they spot you.
  
  Vampire Rain is an enjoyable game if you're in a good mood, but is frustratingly difficult at times. 
 To be fair, the premise of the game is a good one. But the game itself is not great.
  
  If you don't enjoy a hard game, don't pick this up; if you're up for a good challenge though, be 
 sure to give this one a try. Vampire Rain is an okay game. If AQ were to make a sequel, they should 
 take all of the constructive criticism given to them, and make a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  God this game sucks. Plain and simple. Rent it first.
  
  I was waiting for this title when I heard about it last year, around when Dead Rising was released. 
 Starts hard, gets hooky then towards the end, eventually it gets easier. I'm sure many will claim 
 it takes some getting use to or takes some skill to play through, games should be enjoyable and 
 not overly frustrating. Grown-up realistic gameplay? Vampires? Dumb people who live a city infested 
 with super vampires? Thats adult realistic? Pleeezee
  Anyways, theres a whole bunch of pluses and minuses to chose from depending on what you like in 
 a game and I'm not check marking any list, if you like making things hard on yourself, like untying 
 your shoelaces so you can trip and stumble on them all day, then this adult game is for you.
  Overall, I think this game sucks hard. My suggestion is Rent it first and decide if you want drop 
 3 twenties (minus tax) for this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Basically. I picked this game up without seeing any reviews at all. I had seen some previews and 
 thought it looked okay. so I decided to get it... Bad mistake, I started up the game. The presentation 
 was nice and the cut scenes looked pretty nice. But then I started actually playing through the 
 game and i gotta tell you. This is a piece of crap. It's all stealth based and you don't really 
 see that much action until a few long hours into the game. And also. It's way to difficult. Be 
 warned. You will die... A lot. The controls were pretty much average. They are pretty basic. It's 
 like any other shooter on 360. This game is not unique at all and it's just not worth while playing. 
 Dont pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  C'mon Guys!!! this game just sux! The music is terrible (there is not music)
  The character is slow
  There is no way to scape to the vampires once they caught you
  Once 
 you've failed a mission you have to re-start from the beginning this is FRUSTRATING!!!
  
  The history is just good, nothing new down the sun. The only thing i liked was the snipper.
  
 
  and also c'mon the character is a Copy-Cat of splinter cell!
  The map is the same!
  also if you can begin with a full map that will be great... but it is not!
  
  and the Graphics 
 are not from Next Gen console....
  
  well sorry for being that mean, but we have to recogniza at least this new company did a not to 
 bad try.
  
  So in my opinion this is a good weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, I will start this review with a breakdown of what I thought of each catagory.
  
  GRAPHICS
  -----------------
  
  Some effects in this game look somewhat good. For example; 
 the thermal vision effect and the screen blur are very well done, but others, are just plain bland. 
 For this day and age, you would expect a console of this caliber to not only be able to map textures 
 onto walls, but add some detail to them; however Vampire Rain does not do that: When you are walking 
 down a street, all you see for a building (or a representation of a building) is a tall block with 
 just a flat texture, no bump mapping, in other words, boring.
  Furthermore, this game manages to bring it's graphic appeal lower by introducing great skyboxes! 
 A completely black sky with no stars, clouds, moon, anything. This feels like the MGS simulator. 
 In essence all this game is, is a low (very low I might add) polygon game that was first meant 
 to run on a P2-400. Enough said about the bad graphics, I believe you get it already, time for 
 the good graphics! The good graphics in this game are spread thin, like delicious jam on moldy 
 bread: The rain and the wetness detail look very well done, you could actually argue that it is 
 lifelike. Also there is occasionally some good lighting, occasionally.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  -------------------
  
  Bad. This game is very poorly done, it has limited fun factor - due 
 to the fact that all the darn Vampire's keep on biting me and its a near-insta-kill. But one thing 
 I liked was the ability to turn into one of them, that's what I thought was really interesting 
 about this game. The gunning gameplay is very poorly done, all the guns feel like you are shooting 
 a BB gun and really have no satisfaction . Also, This game feels incredibly like MGS, without most 
 of its good qualities, a very poor adaptation.
  
  VALUE
  -------------------
  Value - what's that??? when it comes to this game. For $60.00 you get a very shallow game, with 
 all the mentioned shortcomings, plus a tacked on multiplayer, Plus you can beat this game (if you 
 manage to not die every ten bloody seconds!) in about 8 hours, and with a tacked on multiplayer, 
 it feels like you are playing a constant insta-gib match anywhere and everywhere. Finishing comments.
 
  ------------------------------
  
  Don't buy this game. Or if you like Vampires, ateast give it a rent, don't just go to the store 
 and buy it, I warned you.
  
  (*) SIDE NOTE (*)
  -------------------------
  
  What the heck is up with the green DOS-based interface??? It is messed up! Not to mention that 
 pretty much all of your team mates are baled! In addition to that, why is this such a poor ripoff 
 of MGS? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
