-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viking: Battle for Asgard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/vikingbattleforasgard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat can be amusing for a few hours.
 Portals make travelling easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 After a few hours, the combat gets dull.
 Objectives and missions are repetitive.
 No payoff for exploration.
 Camera is horrendous.
 Audio is sparse and disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.0, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,597 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Action
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to Viking: Battle for Asgard's mundane and tedious gameplay, the only battle you'll wage 
 will be a losing one against boredom. 

  Learning about the adventures and deeds of Vikings, such as Erik the Red or Leif Eriksson, was 
 always the highlight of any world history class in school. After all, these were true stories about 
 men who explored the unknown, conquered new lands, and often killed mercilessly. With such strong 
 material to draw from, it would seem that a fictional game based on Viking lore would be a sure 
 thing, but Viking: Battle for Asgard completely fails to capture what makes Vikings -- or even games 
 for that matter -- interesting. Those who enjoy mindless killing might find something to like here, 
 but everyone else will find Battle for Asgard monotonous and dull.  

           A game can only get so far on violence alone.      

  There's a story here, but it's 
 barely worth mentioning. You play as Skarin, a Viking that has been called upon by the Goddess 
 of Light to fight the forces of Hel, whose undead army is killing people to create a new Valhalla. 
 There's also something that has to do with Skarin having haunting visions and some anger toward 
 at least one of the gods -- you know, like in God of War. The story is told via cutscenes that are 
 reminiscent of the graphic novel  300 , but they're typically quite short, hard to follow, and 
 fail to tell the game's tale in any coherent matter.  

  Without a gripping story, all you're left with is Viking's gameplay, which is occasionally enjoyable 
 but usually just plain mediocre. It's a third-person action adventure that focuses on combat while 
 mixing in fetch quests and unfulfilling exploration. Your main task is to go to enemy encampments, 
 kill the bad guys, and free the soldiers who are imprisoned there. Once you've freed enough soldiers, 
 you can attack an enemy fortress. This triggers a huge battle with hundreds of soldiers onscreen 
 at once. Heavenly Sword did a fantastic job with encounters of this size, but during Viking's epic 
 battles, the last thing you want to do is fight because it's so easy for enemy soldiers to gang 
 up on you. Your best bet is to simply run past everyone, kill the shaman that protect the area, 
 summon a dragon to fry some guys, and beat the boss. If you master this once, you're good for the 
 rest of the game because every battle after this is  almost exactly the same --just a little longer. 
 Other than that, the only other things you'll be doing are fetching items for people and finding 
 gems so that you can summon the aforementioned dragons. These tasks play out in much the same way 
 as freeing soldiers, but instead of letting soldiers out of a jail after you've killed all the 
 enemies, you open a treasure chest.  

  The game is broken up into three levels, each of which is a large world that's reminiscent of Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion, but on a smaller scale. Having such a large area to explore is initially 
 exciting, but this excitement quickly turns to disappointment and then boredom. The problem is 
 that there's nothing to do and very little to see. The only optional quest in the game is to find 
 barrels of mead, and other than that, the only thing you're rewarded with for heading off the beaten 
 path is gold, which is quite easy to acquire. There are also several occasions where you'll find 
 yourself lost or confused as to what to do next because either the game didn't make your next objective 
 clear or the map was difficult to read. At least the game doesn't force you to walk around too 
 much, thanks to its liberal use of portals that allow you to teleport from one area to another. 

  So missions are tedious and exploration is unfulfilling; how about the combat? It's a little better -- at 
 least at first. Skarin is armed with a large sword and axe with which to make short work of Hel's 
 legions of undead soldiers. You attacks are initially limited, but upgrades can be purchased as 
 you progress. Skarin can briefly power up these attacks using his rage mode (a handy way to break 
 shields) . He can also collect red orbs that represent the souls of the vanquished, as well as unleash 
 elemental magic, such as lightning, fire, and ice onto his foes.  

  It can be fun for a few hours to run around, indiscriminately beating on undead soldiers, knocking 
 them off of cliffs, and sneaking up behind them to stick a sword in their backs. You can do all 
 this and lop off their heads with a press of a button, but combat still gets repetitive. Although 
 you have a fair amount of moves at your disposal, you'll wind up performing the same moves repeatedly 
 throughout the game because there's no reward for mixing things up, enemies can gang up on you 
 to kill you in no time, and the best attacks are typically the easiest to pull off. The game tries 
 to mix things up with the addition of several button-pressing minigames during important fights, 
 but this mechanic is played out and not much fun.  

  There are also instances where you'll need to use stealth; these are hit and miss. When everything 
 comes together, it can be a lot of fun moving from cover to cover silently chopping enemies in 
 half, but too often, your plans are laid to waste because someone saw you through a solid object 
 or noticed you killing someone else from far across the area. If you're spotted and everyone heads 
 your way, you're in for a rough time. That is, unless you can lure a few guys away from the action, 
 kill them, trigger a few more to run your way, kill them, and so on. Thankfully, the game's inept 
 AI is easy to exploit; otherwise, you'd be hard pressed to make it through some of the more challenging 
 areas.  

  Battle for Asgard is one of those games that looks great in screenshots but not so great in motion. 
 The biggest culprit is a horribly incompetent camera that is zoomed in so close and moves around 
 so much that it can't even show a functional view in a wide-open field, much less any location 
 with walls. You're constantly forced to manually manipulate the camera while getting attacked by 
 and fighting off enemies that are offscreen. Each of the game's three worlds is quite large, but 
 the first two levels look virtually identical, and other than the occasional enemy, fortress, or 
 camp, they're completely devoid of animal life. It's possible to run around for minutes at a time 
 and never see a living thing; just trees, flowers, grass, and some ugly mountains. The undead soldiers 
 are interestingly designed and look appropriately menacing. However, there are only a handful of 
 different kinds of soldiers and their animation is often limited. The only time the visuals are 
 impressive is during the huge battles at the end of each level. Hundreds of soldiers will clash 
 while dragons fly overhead shooting fireballs and wreaking havoc. It's too bad that the best parts 
 of these battles are the cutscenes because once they actually start, the frame rate takes a dive, 
 and you'll notice that most of the soldiers are standing around or running into each other.  

 
           It's a huge world... with almost nothing to do.      

  Subpar audio rounds out Viking's disappointing package. Other than an epic orchestral piece that 
 plays during the end-level battles, there's almost no music whatsoever. Wandering around this barren 
 world would be boring enough with music, but it's even more tiresome without it.  

  If mashing buttons to kill hundreds upon hundreds of enemies is all you're looking for in a game, 
 you very possibly may enjoy Viking: Battle for Asgard. However, if you like original ideas, a story, 
 meaningful exploration, a working camera, or fun, you'll want to take a pass on this one-way journey 
 to boredom.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (122 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WaterLord0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Game play
  
  - if you like God of War but it is more restrictive
  - A- quick attack
  - X-strong attack
  -Y- jump
  -B- action button
  -game consist of many quick time event to 
 defeat high level of enemies
  - camera get in the way in tight areas
  -feels like a long period of time in between each strike
  
  Graphic
  
  - are average
 
  - plenty of gore
  - great player animation
  -draw distance is average
  -some graphical pop ins
  
  Story
  -story dull noting special
  -you will find the story 
 is just an excuse to take you from one place to another
  
  Player commentary 
  
  - if you play for achievements you can rack up around 700 in one play though in 7-10hours on normal
 
  -Combat feel lack luster compare to game like God of War 
  -rent if you have noting better to do. But if you haven't played God of War play that
  
  
 
  Verdict- 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FerdiF
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  this game was the reason for me to buy a Xbox360. In Trailers, you'll see Dragons and extreme fights 
 and many other things and all let you dream about a super game.
  FORGET IT!
  
  Don't understand this wrong, the game is ok, but it's like you play a game with only side missions. 
 The game shows you at last 3 Maps/ 3 Worlds/ 3 islands. You can Hack & Slash and when you fill 
 all conditions you can play the big fights with many men.
  Dragons are only in the big fights and you can't fly them, it's only a "i killed somebody, now 
 i can tell the Dragon to kill some importent", that's all.
  What a let down. And after one or two hours you will see that the Developers ran out of ideas. 
 The story of the game is bad, and sometime you don't understand that happend. The presentation 
 of the Story is bad, no animations, no XBOX360 Generation.
  
  At the end of the game rise the difficulty from easy to super hard.
  Because the End-boss send 
 you hundreds of Monsters and you have to think about strategy, but all combos you'll learned are 
 useless. You have to use a defend and one slash strategy, and thats the only strategy to win.
 
  
  But the game has more to complain. There are no Animals! The world is only you, the bad guys, the 
 good guys, caves, and buildings. You can't ride a horse or something else, no birds, no flys, nothing. 
 And our Hero has to much light in his face/body and it looks like he didn't suit to whis world.
 
  There are no "real" side missions. nothing beside the Story or something to have "other" fun.
 
  
  At the end of this review, the game has fun, but also his boring side.
  This game was made without love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiltonaino
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Many official reviewers gave this game a fairly bad rating, complaining of shallow gameplay, and 
 a boring overall presentation, and I have to disagree on a few fronts. First of all the gameplay 
 is a bit underdeveloped, but it is competent enough to allow for brutal and precise kills, as well 
 as sweeping destruction in the large conflicts. The qualm I have is the fact that your character 
 is not made to fight many enemies at a time, without help. You will fight one, and be hit in the 
 back by another, turn to fight them, and then be blindsided again. But, with practice you can switch 
 enemies fast enough to avoid this. The massive landscapes are detailed well, albeit a few quirks. 
 The travel around those Islands is made easier by portals that link to one another and these are 
 generously placed, although some tedious walking is needed at points. The massive battles in this 
 game are the highlights, with hundreds of units on the screen at a time, both allies and enemies. 
 Also the help of dragons through a cool targeting systems adds scale to these fights. The tremendous 
 number of characters onscreen is slightly overwhelming, but gives a sense of anarchy and battle 
 confusion. This game does everything well, but nothing great nor awful. It could be more, but I 
 am satisfied enough to play this one to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_french_cool
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  im a massive fan of the hack and slash genre.... ive played devil may cry, lord of the rings and 
 even a couple of dynasty warriers, and i have to say that this stands on its on to feet and happily 
 the goes the twelve rounds against its rivals.
  
  the concept is a different one... a free roaming environment where you have to win many mini battles 
 in order to raise enough troops in order to lay an assault on an enemy fortress or stronghold.
 
  
  graphically its o. k..... there is a good draw distance and you most impressively see a good hundred 
 or so warriors or so on screen at the same time during some of the larger battles... this manages 
 to create a real sense that you are involved in something big... rather than devil may crys 5 on 
 1 situations.
  
  the only downside is that perhaps theirs not enough variation in the combat compared to devil may 
 cry. but other than that... if you see it kicking about in a bargain b in somewhere.... give it a 
 try. u wont be disappointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joaq1999
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  I didn't buy this game, not even rented it before, due to the Gamespot critics, I'm not going to 
 believe Gamespot anymore at all. The only thing I'm sorry is how late this review is coming.
  
  Why a game like Assassins Creed get rated 8.5/9.0 and Viking 5.0? I just don't get it.
  
 
  By comparison, Assassins Creed combos Sucks -even assesination is much more interesting in Viking 
 than in AC, action and fighting is thousands of light years ahead in Viking, and is not a game 
 about it-, In AC the flags quests sucks, graphics are awesome but action is awful, and the story 
 also sucks.
  
  Last night I was playing Viking -for rental, because I saw such bad reviews- and a column of enemy 
 soldiers was marching in my direction. I ran into a cave, hide myself and let them pass -while 
 looking-, in the context of the game "it was real" -I felt like Frodo in Mordor-, I had to hide 
 or I would be killed. I never before saw such moment in a game... never before -because it wasn't 
 planned, it was just part of the enviroment created-, neither I was ever part of a massive battle 
 in a RPG/Action Game, with hundreds of soldiers actually fighting, and being a hero who can make 
 the difference.
  
  I don't understand why they say Viking is all repetition, every game is repetition after all, but 
 in Viking you have infiltration missions, regular assault missions, Epic Battles and more! Something 
 not ever seen before! The graphics are excellent and the combos are fun.
  
  I just don't understand why other games get much so better rate than this one. Also I can mention 
 Force Unleashed to compare. In Viking you have a huge map to explore, but you also have a navigation 
 system and you always know what you have to do. I hate games where you can't really explore, but 
 you just go level after level. In Viking you explore, you decide the order you solve your missions 
 (although of course, there is certain correlation) . But the important thing is, it is not just 
 about walk a long hallway from level 1 to 10, or whatever.
  
  The game could have used a little bit more music, but I didn't find it significant, probably different 
 weapons and maybe classes, besides that is one of the coolest. The controls are easy to play, graphs 
 good, story fun, Comic Style Cinematics very original (that has to account something or a lot) . 
 
  
  This may sound weird, but those who made this game, liked it, and somehow its noticeable. In general, 
 I would give this game 8.5 maybe 9, but not less than that. I'm giving it 10 because it is so much 
 underappreciated.
  
  At the end of the day, almost every game is repetition, 50% of console games (or more) are somehow 
 just Back&Slash. Viking is a VERY GOOD BASK & SLASH, a Diablo II formula with evolution, but the 
 way you fight and kill is really fun.
  
  Would I recommend it... for sure!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HershalCrusto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  I don't know why, but for some reason I got real excited about this game, and then had a little 
 bit of a let down after playing it. This is why I classify this game as disapointing. That being 
 said I did enjoy it for a bit when I first started playing it but then it got really repetitive. 
 So I took a nice 4 month break from the game and played the third and final island 2 days ago and 
 really enjoyed it. 
  
  In terms of gameplay Viking did a pretty good job the fighting is fun and has no shortage of blood 
 and gore, the slow motion finishers are pretty cool too. The missions do get extremely repetitive 
 though. Liberate an army, do something else for them and they will help you in a big battle. The 
 other problem I had with the gameplay was a few issues here and there with the camera.
  
  Presentation is where this game lost some serious points with me though. When you are running around 
 the islands that graphics are alright, nothing to complain about. But when it goes to cut scenes 
 it almost seems like a regular x-box game and the sound is even worse. It shows the guys going 
 in to battles yelling and getting all fired up, but it doesn't make any noise. I guess your army 
 and the beasts you're fighting for the most part are mutes. The story really isn't worth talking 
 about, it had potential but didn't really follow through.
  
  All in all if your going to play this, do it a little bit at a time, I found this helped to hide 
 the repetitive nature of the game. I gave it a 6.5, probably and 8.0 on the gameplay and gameplay 
 graphics, but a 4.5 on presention and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard wasn't a bad game at all. I had quite a few problems with it though. 
 I'll get those out of the way first.
  
  Viking was a repetitive game. The combat was button mashy, and you hardly ever had to use the skills 
 you learned to advance. The missions were recycled themselves over and over again. There wasn't 
 enough character models, so you'll fight the same Vikings over and over again, or see 500 of the 
 same Allied Vikings on the battlefield with you. The world wasn't very imaginative at all. You'll 
 find caves, an ice area, a fire area and a wooded area. That's about it. The story was pretty much 
 forgettable. The sound was completely off too. 
  
  However, I loved how open the world was. I loved how there were hardly any load times. I loved 
 the non-linear take on the missions. The massive army battles were fairly cool. The gore was over 
 the top and fun. 
  
  Viking, even with all the problems, is still a super fun game.
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Viking is a standard God of War-inspired Hack and Slasher. 
 Your character, Skarin, only equips a sword and an ax. He doesn't equip anything else, but he can 
 eventually upgrade his sword a couple times. You can learn new skills at an arena, each Island 
 has atleast one arena in it. There are only 14 skills in all though.
  
  When Skarin kills someone, he will get red power orbs. These orbs charge Skarin's power meter. 
 When you have some power, you can unleash up to 3 magic Rune attacks. These attacks power up your 
 sword with an element, like Ice, Fire and Lightning. If you're surrounded by allies, then they 
 also gain the Rune power too. 
  
  Most missions require you to recapture land from the evil Vikings and to rescue your captured allies. 
 When you rescue an allied viking, they join your army. When your army is prepared enough, you can 
 unleash an attack on the bunkered in opposing army. This war is pretty cool, and from the outside 
 looking it, might seem like a Dynasty Warrior game, but it's closer to the battlefield in Kameo. 
 Your peon allies really don't add anything other than eye candy. If they die, then they're regenerated 
 to fight again. You usually have one goal and that's to kill a Shaman that is regenerating the 
 evil forces. However, once you do this once, you're forced to do it again and again and again. 
 During the game, you can find Dragons that will help out in these parts by showering the battlefield 
 with flames. 
  
  There are a few God of War-isms that annoy me. If you fight a Champion or Giant, then it's a standard 
 basic God of War fight. You melee attack then until they're weak, then you can grab ahold of them 
 for a Quick Time Event. The QTE is easy and predictable, and there is hardly a punishment for messing 
 up. Another God of War-ism, and the most annoying one, is button mashing to open chests, opening 
 doors or to active warps. I can understand the chests and doors, but when you're activating a warp, 
 there are NEVER enemies near you. It's just a waste of button tapping energy and it's annoying.
 
  
  There is no possibly way to die, and no real penalty for dying in this game. If you're in the middle 
 of a mission and get overwhelmed by enemies and die, you get warped back to the start of the island. 
 However, they place convenient warp stones across the entire map, so you can warp near your last 
 mission pretty easily. While they do regenerate all the enemies you killed, you get to keep all 
 the loot you find during the mission. 
  
  This game also uses alot of stealth too. Stealth in this game is super simple and only just adds 
 to the gore factor of the game. Basically all you need to do is sneak up behind a character, and 
 since Skarin NEVER MAKES A SOUND EVER, he can kill whatever is in front of him. Sometimes, he can 
 dismember a character 2 feet from another Viking and they don't even notice. The AI in this game 
 is just plain DUMB sometimes.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Skarin, a fallen Viking revived on the battlefield by Freya, a Goddess of Love. Hel, 
 the Goddess of Death, is on a quest to take over Midgar. Skarin is granted immortality by Freya, 
 so he can put a stop to Hel's take over. Skarin has to re-conquer each fallen piece of land one 
 by one before he can challenge Hel.
  
  Holy crap the story is awful. The plot sounded ok, its just how they place the storyline in the 
 game. Skarin is a silent protagonist, so he doesn't have a personality. You can talk to NPC in 
 towns to get quests, but they never have anything worth saying that advances any storyline. Most 
 of the "storyline" is advanced by Freya when she speaks to you from the Heavens. The storyline 
 is completely generic and forgettable.
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Ehh.. The graphics are touchy. I can see some impressive ideas, but aesthetics of everything seems 
 boring. I'll start with the good. I'm impressed about the lack of load times. Besides the main 
 load screen, you won't see another load through out your game play. I love how they masked it. 
 Sometimes you will see textures slowly pop in, like trees or blades of grace, but it's not a big 
 deal. The draw distance is HUGE. I also love the fact that you can scale a mountain, and still 
 see little ant like Vikings walking around. The gore is over the top and fun too. The massive armies 
 clashing is really cool aswell.
  
  On the darkside of things. The character models of everything, including Skarin, are just plain 
 boring. You'll see alot of repeat characters in your towns. You'll fight copies of the same enemies 
 over and over again. There are only 5 main types of enemies, and about 3 rare mini-boss type creatures. 
 The final boss is basically a recycle of two of the mini-bosses. Lame. 
  
  I liked the world layout, I just everything about it looks about Xbox quality. They didn't put 
 enough effort into the "art" side of things, obviously. It's just boring to look at and easy to 
 get lost in.
  
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  Oh man, the sound. The music is basically what you would expect in a Viking themed game. Alot of 
 drum pounding and crap. It's pretty forgettable actually. The voice overs are ok, but I hate talking 
 to an NPC and you have to manually click the text over, but the voice doesn't stop talking. So 
 you can lose your spot in the text bubble. Not a big deal though.
  
  My weirdest complaint is there isn't any sound effects for your main character. He'll grunt and 
 you can hear his weapons clashing, but there's no sound of him running. He can run through water 
 and you wouldn't hear a thing. It's just weird.
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map consists of three giant islands. What impresses me the most about the islands is 
 there is no load times while you're walking across them. You can walk from one end to an island 
 to the other end without seeing a load time. That is freaking sweet. However, once you beat an 
 island, you can never go back to it, which pissed me off. There was no warning of such either.
 
  
  The map is pretty basic though. You start off in a town on each island. You can shop a couple places, 
 and talk to a handful of NPC. They will give you a couple quests. When you open your map through 
 your menu, you can view all your quests and where to find them on the map. If it's a red dot, then 
 that means you need to complete that quest on the map, if it's blue then that means you're done.
 
  
  One cool thing about this game is they give you a ton of freedom to do what you want. While you 
 do have to complete certain tasks to advance the story or to unlock more of the island. You can 
 do most quests in any order you want. 
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  ??:??
  
  No idea how long this took me. The game doesn't record your time, which is so freaking 
 stupid. I spent my sweet time searching for all the times and stuff, so it probably took me about 
 13 hours at the very most. No bonus for beating the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  Im am conan and I'm.. aaa ihsaasbdjj. Conan is nothing to this game and it in no way beats viking! Viking 
 allows you to roam a open world ripping your enemys to pieces, it allows you to explore caves, it 
 allows you to take your time, it allows you to fight in LENGENDARY BATTLES! The battles are great 
 with at least a thousand people on screen on at once! The AI is Great! And the game is very fun and 
 addictive!
  
  
  Now the combat is very great allowing you to control your axe and sword with great might. Allowing 
 you to do quick moves or powerful moves. As you learn new moves via training at an arena you'll 
 be able to do lighting quick moves or moves that make enemys blow up!
  
  Now about the battles... THERE EPIC! The music is really great for them and in battle's is where 
 you will see what next gen is able to do.
  
  All in all this game is great and fun in everything it's got. The only annoying thing is when enemys 
 gang up on you and even kick your axe away and another one quickly hits you, but suddenly one of 
 your men comes and helps you, then you get mad because they gang up on him and you end up hitting 
 3 in the larva before jumping in yourself followed by some enemys who coulden't cope in battle. So 
 NO this game IS great in everything it's got.
  
  10+/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilgodmonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Having just finished Fallout 3, I think I was experiencing a mild case of PTSD. My head would hit 
 the pillow at night and welcome in dreams of Super Mutants marauding through my house, sticking 
 eviscerated bodies to the ceiling.
  
  A quick visit to the Gamestop and I was driving home with a stack of discount games to clear the 
 taste from my mouth (for the record - I did love Fallout 3) . For some reason all the screenshots 
 on the backs had lots of vibrant blue and green in them - you'd almost think I hadn't seen a tree 
 or pond in days.
  
  And thus begins the Epic of Skarin (who you play) - a harrowing tale of heroism in the face of 
 desperate odds. Er, or that's what the box would have you believe.
  
  While Viking isn't exactly the grand epic it purports to be, it IS a moderately fun action / adventure 
 title. As Skarin you act as the goddess Freya's errand boy in the eradication of Hel's Legion. 
 This consists of hacking the heads (and limbs) of Legion troops and freeing Vikings - rescue enough 
 Vikings and you can trigger a massive Dynasty Warrior-esque battle sequence to capture larger enemy 
 positions. And that, is the entire game in a nutshell.
  
  Action is of the hack-n-slash variety, though you only have two buttons (and the left bumper modifier) 
 to execute moves. Despite this simplicity, you don't notice the lacking controls till later in 
 the game when actions become too repetitive to ignore. This is due in large part to the necessity 
 of sneak - when enemies are close, Skarin drops into a crouch and can viciously off unsuspecting 
 Legion (which never gets old, by the way) .
  
  The first two islands progress nicely - you pick up new moves, encounter new enemy classes, power-up 
 your spells, etc. Basic objectives remain the same - kill Legion, free Vikings, crush Fortresses.
 
  
  All of the gains made by the game through the second island are completely thrown to the crows 
 on the third, which is just about unplayable - all of the minor flaws you could laugh off before 
 come into glaring focus. The final battle itself isn't just disappointing, it's straight awful 
 - long, frustrating, un-fulfilling, and anti-climactic. In fact, if you liked the game at all up 
 until this point - don't play the last level.
  
  On the whole, Viking is certainly worth the $12 I paid for it. If you have an afternoon to kill, 
 enjoy splitting enemies in twain, and can keep your expectations relatively low for a few hours 
 - this is your game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metalhed4lyfe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  So there I was in Gamestation after Christmas looking for decent deals, and Viking catches my eye. 
 I'd heard mixed reviews, and thought I'd try it for myself.
  
  I'd played Creative Assembly's first console attempt, Spartan, and loved it. Viking is similar 
 territory, with huge battles with hundreds of soldiers on screen at once, but now includes free 
 roaming maps with skirmish and infiltration missions, and while these areas aren't always fully 
 realized, they contain a satisfying learning curve.
  
  On each island (3 in total) , you start out with a base camp, a place where you will return to regularly 
 to buy throwing weapons, upgrades and potions. From there, you must attack enemy encampments or 
 capture key landmarks and free viking prisoners who are added to you army. Once all the battle 
 criteria are met (which include summoning dragons and sabotaging enemy supplies) , you can attack 
 a fort or castle. This is where the game excels, with battles of epic proportion. However, these 
 battles also contain the games worse points. There are often so many men on screen that the game 
 turns into a simple button basher as opposed to a sophisticated fighting game, and with no penaly 
 for death, there is no real threat.
  
  Other faults include similar looking environments, an almost complete lack of music when free roaming, 
 cut and paste models and 'tacked on' stealth sections.
  
  However, the upsides include and intricate grasp at Norse mythology and a well implemented fast 
 travel system, as well as a steady and fun stream of achievements to unlock.
  
  It wont win any awards, and is definitely not the best game out there, but Viking: Battle for Asgard 
 supplies a solid number of hours' gameplay and can be found at very cheap prices. 
  
  I would recommend Viking, but don't expect too much from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniwisdom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Viking is by no means an amazing game that will blow your mind away and it does not rise to the 
 challenge of other games in the genre, but it offers an enjoyable playing experience, especially 
 considering the current price.
  The game is divided in three parts, each taking place on a different and larger island. Once advancing 
 to another island there, is no turning back, but each island plays in a similar ways: free vikings, 
 collect items and lay a siege. All the missions are designed along the same lines - you have to 
 free vikings from the enemy encampments that vary in difficulty to increase the size of your army, 
 recover some items and then lay a siege to a heavily defended settlement. Along the way you can 
 upgrade your weapon and learn new moves. Also, the changing in the weather pattern once an area 
 is freed of the evil forces makes each of this missions more rewarding.
  This might seem rather boring, but the combat system and especially the finishing moves add a lot 
 of flavor to the game and make the time fly very fast. One of the nicest parts of the game is the 
 assault on enemy settlements. At this point, you are transported on the battlefield and all your 
 army will join you against the legions of evil. In order to win you need to take key positions, 
 either by yourself or by using the awaken dragons. The epic scale of these battles is just breathtaking.
 
  Overall, Viking could use some improvement but considering the current price and what it offers, 
 this is a very good bargain
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  I got this game after playing Conan, thinking that it looked like a similar game but more open 
 world and for the most part thats exactly what it is but theres just too much missing from this 
 game to keep you interested.
  
  The story is just pants. its the typical viking BS that were all used to, theres no surprises or 
 anything of interest here and the story dosnt connect well with the game play, to clarify, when 
 your playing the game its very hard to find a reason or any point in doing it other than because 
 your super bored and fancied chopping up some bad guys.
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing spectacular, there dosnt seem to be any break up or frame rate issues, 
 probably because its so dull and nothing happens to test the performance.
  
  Character interation is very poor. You meet people along the way who ask you to do this and that 
 on your travels but i just cant find any reason why i would want to help these idiots other than 
 because i have to in order to progress through the game. Its not like Oblivion where you get involved 
 and interested in the various plights of the characters you meet, its just lackluster and boring 
 and leaves you feeling like your just the errand boy taking on all the tasks that others in your 
 clan just cant be bothered with.
  
  The enemies in the game are very easy to defeat but often you will find that they are grouped together 
 in numbers which makes them very difficult to defeat. The worst part is that you cant out run any 
 of the enemies, even the huge slow looking guys can easily catch up to you and give you a good 
 beating so once your caught in a crowd your screwed.
  
  Another thing that makes this game totaly pointless is that when you die you simply reappear at 
 a spawn / teleport spot and you just carry on with no consequences. I know most games these days 
 just let you respawn somewhere but in this game its just too easy and makes you wonder why you 
 care about the fate of the lands considdering your immortal anyway.
  
  The combat system isnt bad. You can buy new moves at various spots where you learn them at a price 
 from some grumpy old dead warrior who comes from valhalla, but it always leaves me thinking why 
 am i learning from a dead guy ? if he is that good then why isnt he still alive ?
  A good thing is that certain moves offer certain advantages such as some are shield breakers which 
 does come in handy and makes you think about your combat rather than just bashing buttons.
  There is a magic element to the combat too where you can infuse your weapons with the power of 
 lightning, fire or ice, each of which has its own benefits but none of which have any good effects.
 
  Finishing moves in this game are similar to the ones in Conan but instead of having to parry an 
 attack in order to pull one off all you have to do is hit your enemy a few times and then an X 
 appears above his head letting you know you can finish him off. Its not a bad system but its so 
 much more satisfying the way Conan does it and the finishing moves are very limited and get a bit 
 boring.
  
  In conclusion this game is just plain dull ! If you dont have Conan then go buy that instead.
 
  If you do buy this game then be prepared to be bored of it after a couple of hours of play.
  I just cant see any reason to play this game, its unsatisfying, dreary and boring and all of its 
 features are done 10 times better in other games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  First of I'll say that I'm going to try to be unbiased about this game, only because I love it 
 so much.
  
  Viking: Battle for Asgard, takes place in the realm of Midgard in Norse mythology. You have been 
 chosen by Freya (Goddess of War) to protect her realm from The Legion, which is Hel's (Daughter 
 of the God of Mischief) army. 
  
  You are Skarin, and like most main characters, he doesn't talk. It doesn't take away from the fun 
 of this game though.
  As you progress through each island, the next seems to be bigger (not seems, it is bigger) . Each 
 island has an arena where you summon an ancient viking and buy skills from him (I wonder what a 
 ghost does with money?) You are also able to upgrade your weapons with lighting, fire, and ice 
 (again, by using gold) . Gold is found scattered around each island.
  
  The types of missions there are is not enough, for there are only a few.
  save vikings that have 
 been tied up by the Legion. Here you find an enemy camp and fight them off by sneaking or just 
 jumping at them like the viking you are.
  
  Save vikings that have been put in a cage made of bone (apparently Skarin can break this, but about 
 fifteen men can't) . There are usually larger than the other camps, and I can say that it's fun 
 to sneak in and break them lose and have a miniature little battle. This usually leads to another 
 quest.
  
  These other quests lead you to either send for reinforcements to aid the place where they were 
 captured, take down a base, or bring them an item.
  
  Collect kegs of mead on the beach. What would the world be without it? Can't let your army go dry. 
 Collect them and bring the to the barkeeper to gain some gold.
  
  Assault on an enemy territory. This is an all out war, I can't count how many people are on the 
 battlefield (maybe I was too busy dying) . Each side has a shaman, to resurrect the dead (I'm guess 
 so that the war seems larger) . You have dragons, magic and the aid of your army. You must kill 
 the enemy and reclaim the city.
  
  The combat in this game is not very deep, it's fun.. But not very deep. Imagine the stuff that 
 a hydrophobic viking can do with an ax and sword. Just take the time... Imagine all the people.. 
 Oops sorry. But the animations are great. I never get tired of seeing Skarin decapitate legion 
 scum. 
  
  Scenery is great too, it might not be as good as Gears of War or Mass Effect. But it blends perfectly 
 with the game.
  
  The controls are very easy to learn and animations are clean. I haven't had a glitch on this game.
 
  
  There is no music in this game, so you might have to come up with your own soundtrack if you wish 
 for music.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 8/10
  Scenery: 9/10
  Story: 6/10
  Controls: 10/10
  SFX: 7/10
  Multi-player: N/A
  Replay Value: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  In Viking: Battle for Asgard you play as a viking named Skarin. You die in battle but get resurrected 
 by Freya to continue waging the war against Hel and her legion army. You will be waging war on three 
 islands against lots of stupid enemies that pack quite a punch.
  
  Well, the story, if there is one, is lame. Skarin never speaks, so the only emotion comes from Freya, who 
 keeps moaning in her hateful voice about how nice that certain place where you are was before the 
 legion took over and her speech usually ends with "kill them" or something like that. Hel almost 
 never appears throughout the game and Skarin gets random vision attacks from someone.
  
  Thats basically what happens throughout the game, but here and there you find something out about 
 the Skarin himself. Problem is though... nobody gives a damn.
  
  The gameplay is pure simple hack and slash, so all you will be doing is spamming out the few combos 
 in the game one after the other until you end the game... which sucks. Because you don't actually 
 earn anything after killing your 50th enemy so you will later feel like your wasting your time 
 decapitating the poor buggers.
  
  I bet your curious now that I mention "decapitating", right? well yes, you can cut their limbs off. 
 Just like in Ninja Gaiden 2, every time the enemy loses a limb, you can do a finisher on him. The 
 finishers are plausible.
  
  you can free roam the three big islands if you want to. Its quite fun to be doing things your way, but 
 every mission is a main one, no side missions. Most of the missions consist of:
  
  1. go to this place
  2. two ways: go in stealthy, but end up fighting everyone at the same time 
 or go in and fight everyone at the same time
  3. free prisoners
  
  done
  
  sometimes there is a fourth part: do fetch\kill special enemy mission for the leader of the clan 
 you saved.
  
  some missions force you to go get something and go use it at this place. and some force you to 
 get stealthy, which just sucks because the AI will usually see you.
  
  And the worst of all, go "upgrade your sword" which actually does nothing.
  
  and there my friends, I 
 just said what you will be doing the whole game through (I think I missed a few special ones though)
 
  
  so why do you do all this crap? to get enough stuff to wage a war of course! now this is where 
 the game gets good. after completing everything you can go attack the main camp or town with your 
 army. The battles are huge! but a bit too huge though, the framerate takes a dive quickly during 
 the fights. But its still playable and a lot of fun! The dragons also show their skills here by 
 toasting the main targets (you need dragon stones though) . Didn't encounter any harsh bugs so far, just 
 enemies that spawn out of nowhere at the end.
  
  one last thing:
  
  the AI is crap. At the last boss fight, after retrying it for the sixth time, the last enemy I should 
 kill to finish the game just stood at some place I couldn't go, and no matter how hard I tried to 
 get its attention, it didn't budge so I had to commit suicide and try everything over again. AARRRGH!
 
  
  Thats all I can say about it though so
  
  Conclusion: fun when playing it in short bursts, repetitive when playing it for hours in one sitting.
 
  
  so, rent the game first. or do something every happy person would do: waste money on one of the 
 new upcoming games (fallout 3 or fable 2, or far cry 2)
  
  but under any other circumstances: DON'T BUY THE GAME 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  In Viking: Battle for Asgard you take the role as Skarin, a viking who's home lands of Midgard 
 are being taken over by the Legion forces. Freya, a God brings you back from death to give you 
 the power to stop Hel and her terror to Midgard. The story is good and helps make this game great. 
 The gameplay is a big plus. You walk around in an open world with many places to visit and lots 
 of Legion to slaughter. The fighting system is great but basic. At first there are only basic combos 
 but you can learn many new moves that are cool looking and help you out in the battle. The main 
 goal in this game is to save viking troups all over Migard to increase your army for battle. There 
 are also side quests to help get inn and stores opened and so on. Other then getting your army 
 ready, you also try to find stones to summon dragons. There are many different dragons in the game, 
 and can help you in battle in a big way. Now to the best part of this game, the main battles. When 
 you have summoned a dragon and have increased your army to the needed amount, you must battle in 
 big territories to advance to new lands. These battle are great. They consisit of over 100 troops 
 or more based on the size of the battle. All of your toops on your side charge at the Legions troops. 
 You get right into the action as you are fighting hundreds of Legion as your army is fighing beside 
 you. You can also use your dragon to shoot fire as shammins and the battle are epic and long. This 
 game is mutch better then a 5.0 and you can tell by my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElderonWise
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  I believed when i was on the 1st island that this game looked amazing, the death, the blood, the battles, however 
 after I'd done the 1st island, and moved onto the 2nd island, the repetitiveness kicked in, EXAMPLE: 
 1st island has a farm and a quarry but so does the 2nd... and the 3rd, I think the developers were 
 a little lazy and had no imagination for the enviroment. Battle sounds and music are really kind 
 of repetive also which does bring the experience down by quite a lot.
  
  The big end of island battles on the other hand were absoulutely amazing, exquisite even, so many 
 men in 1 area and each attacking each other... so much blood, a big thumbs up for that though. :)
 
  
  
  
  Overall, end battles are great, getting there is repetitive and boring after about 20 minutes of 
 the same thing, but there are better games in this genre.
  I'd recommend renting this game 1st before wasting money on buying it :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imightymouse
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost before anybody is considering purchasing this game consider the following. Viking 
 is an Action / Adventure game set in the Viking Era where you play as a hero that goes by the name 
 Shakrin. According to the Storyline, Shakrin was believed to have been killed when the Hel (armies 
 of the underworld) invaded Asgard. Shakrin is brought back to life by a Goddess under the condition 
 that he fight on her side to liberate the land of Asgard. As you proceed thru the game you power 
 up your character, acquire items, and learn new moves by spending gold that you have collected 
 throughout the map. The map being a sort of open ended platform allows some freedom of movement 
 but you are limited to boundaries, The free-roaming feature of this game is not as expansive or 
 detailed as a franchise such as GTA, However there are some slight similarities between this game 
 and other free-roaming games, such as side quest, purchasing items from vendors, and interacting 
 with NPC throughout the game.
  There is however some issues to this game, such as while you are playing the there is not much 
 sound or background melody, which degrades the quality of the game because there are points where 
 there is complete silence. Controls can get frustrating at times, for example when you initiate 
 an attack and you realize another enemy is about to strike you. It is near impossible to block 
 the attack even if you press the block button 1-2 seconds prior to the attack. This game is considered 
 a "Hack and Slash" type game, and every gamer knows that eventually repetition will be a problem. 
 The "Brag Factor" is not big in this game due to the fact that some of the achievements are easily 
 accomplished, if you are a gamer that enjoys bragging about how hard a particular game was, then 
 stay away from this one. 
  There are also some good concepts in this game. Such as there is gratification in knowing that 
 you have just liberated a land from an oppressing force and freed the people even if it is just 
 fantasy, the storyline is interesting and will provide some entertainment and will keep you trying 
 to find what goes on next. Overall this game is a good idea that needed a little more management 
 if not budget and it is for anyone (13 yrs and older) who is looking for a game to play, while 
 waiting for the big hit to released. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartonGhost
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard looks like a very cool game at a glance, it's very misleading though. 
 I'll start with saying the visuals are very pretty and bright but we all know that good graphics 
 is not everything in a game. They could have made a few more character models so it doesn't look 
 like everyone has a twin brother, at least no one looks as bad ass as your character. Enough about 
 all that though, onto the story. You are Skarin, a viking warrior who dies in battle but is then 
 resurrected to do the bidding for your Goddess, Freya, against her rival Hel. So any guesses what 
 you must do? Gather an army of course! and a few dragons and you are good to go. The way you do 
 this is a lot of free roaming around to different areas of strategic importance, an example of this 
 is when you liberate a lumber mill to create siege weapons to be used against Hel's defense. Overall 
 you'll be running quests for Freya and the various leaders on your side/other viking clans to gain 
 their trust and help to increase and ready your army for a big assault on Hel. The formula goes 
 like this, rescue more men for the war effort already captured by Hel's forces initially taking 
 back your lands, get a specific rune stone to summon a dragon to help, infiltrate the enemy's base 
 to sabotage it before the big fight, duke it out in a huge slaughter. Now onto the combat, this 
 game is very gory. Killing enemies almost never gets old because doing the finishing move on what 
 they have left of them is so satisfying (a. k. a. cutting off an enemy's head whose already lost his 
 arms) . Shockingly, stealth is a big part of this game which they failed to mention about it. Alot 
 of it is sneaking and killing untill discovered and then duking it out. The duking it out part 
 can be frustrating at times because the difficulty level is a bit on the rough side if you are 
 by yourself, its alot better to fight alongside your men, but definitely the phrase "No Mercy" 
 is all over this game. The only problems with the combat is that it can get very very laggy during 
 big fights, although the fights are epic scale. This game had alot going for it but it just did 
 not live up to the expectation, a big letdown. If it catches your eye then buy it for your bargain 
 bin because a few more achievement points couldn't hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  This game... is a load of garbage. It's linear, graphics reminding me of old PS2 games and gameplay 
 which is both horrible and acceptable at the same time.
  I'll keep it short, for this warning needs to get out.
  
  So, you play as Skarin, some blonde, 
 long-haired hardcore viking with amazing muscles and rocking tatoos. You're the silent character, 
 meaning, the only sounds you make throughout the games is the occasional grunt when you get your 
 bum kicked. I really don't have anything against this character. The fur-lined leather armor and 
 the sword and axe sitting nicely seathed on his back makes him look sort of cool. Skarin is apparently 
 having visisions (which you get your small taste out throughout the game, and they are really just 
 pointless) and he is also the servant of Freya. Servant? More like her slave. She says jump, you 
 say how high. Well, not say. Perhaps sort of indicate it with your hands. You get my point.
  
  The game begins with Skarin getting killed by a big champion called Drakan, whom is Hels servant. 
 Hel is the main antagonist of the game, raising armies of undead Legion and making the land sour. 
 Anyways, Skarin is then ressurected and rejoins the battlefield. Yeah. Over the game, you will 
 visit three islands. The first one is smaller, the second one is bigger, the third one is the biggest. 
 Sadly, there is no real change in difficulty. I remember dying most on the first island, before 
 learning the gameplay and the techniques. After that it's just rinse and repeat. Literally. Rinse. 
 And repeat. On the first island, you have to complete several tasks to build an army big enough 
 to take over the enemy head base, which is a big viking town. So you go around, liberating viking 
 camps, opening up the supplies (Which you do by liberating lumber mills and so on..) and summoning 
 a dragon. Now all of this sounds pretty nice for a start. Going around, killing legion with awesome 
 moves, cleaving them in half whilst liberating viking camps. But no. You will realize that when 
 you get to the second island, it all starts over again. It's the exact same thing, only now you 
 have a bigger island to liberate, and two towns that you have to take over. And the exact same 
 from the transition from second to third island. It's awful. It makes you want to put the controller 
 down nicely on your bed, then walk outside and hope thunder strikes you. 
  
  And the battles. The battles for towns. They are also the exact same throughout the game. The point 
 is that, your enemies has the shamans, which summons new Legion to fight you all the time. So you 
 have to take out those shaman, and then get to the portal to the end of the town to summon your 
 shaman there, so that she can convert the portal, making the town yours. Sounds odd? Yes it is. 
 Does it sound like you will do this more then you want in this game? Yes, that's true. In every 
 single fight you kill some champions (or giants) , get some dragon runes, get the dragons to kill 
 a shaman, and then go kill the last shaman yourself. Over and over again.
  
  Throughout the game you can collect money from sacks of money lying on the ground, urns or treasure 
 chests. You can also earn money from handing in kegs of mead to the local innkeeper, but that is 
 just random luck finding a keg. Because trust me, you don't want to run around looking for them. 
 You want to complete this game as fast as possible. Anyways, with this money you can buy upgrades 
 and items from your nearby shops. You can by runes to imbue your weapon with magical powers. These 
 runes are either fire, frost or lightning. However, these effects are not constant, and depletes 
 some sort of magic bar which is filled by collecting red orbs from slain enemies. You can also 
 press and hold A and X simultaneously to unleash a more powerful attack at your enemy, which depletes 
 more of this "magic". Now, there are four upgrades for each rune, and since I was watching the 
 achievements for the game whilst playing, I saw that there was an achievement each for unleashing 
 the most powerful runes power onto an enemy. So, I was hoping that, wow, there would be some awesome 
 graphics when I unleash my powers onto the enemies. No. It's the EXACT same graphic as the first 
 rune. Oh for the love of. Anyways... The other items range from health upgrades to potions to throwing 
 axes to treasure maps.
  
  Since this being a game of exactly the same thing all over again, guess what happens when you have 
 to upgrade your weapons? Well, firstly you have to find a shrine to stick the sword into. Then 
 you sort of glow for a moment, and so does your sword, and then you pull it out. Crossed fingers 
 it will have ugpraded somehow, looking more cool then before.
  No. Just no. Nothing happened. Nothing at all. Everything looks the same. Did they not THINK whilst 
 doing this game? It's like they "Oh hey, I know, let's make a game about vikings!" and then they 
 made ONE level which they just copied three times, added some colours and WHAMMO, they had a new 
 game. This game had ALL the potential of being a great game. Why did they have to screw it up?
 
  
  There's just one thing this game exels at. Slicing enemies in half. I just love cutting an enemy 
 in half in slow motion. Sadly, since the enemies are also about the exact same throughout the whole 
 game, these moves also remain the same, meaning they get pretty boring after a while, maybe. Nah, 
 it's fun slicing things in half.
  
  So, all in all, this game is a piece of crud. The only reason this should be played is wether you 
 enjoy playing really bad games, or for the pretty easy 1000 gamerscore. However, I felt nice so, 
 this game is a 4.0 by me. It has certain things that works, but it's just mostly bad. Real bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crackpack
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is visually amazing during the cinematic scenes but fails to carry through 
 to the gameplay. 
  
  Quite frankly, it looks as if it has been cut from the same mold as God of War, with similar moves 
 and battle action-button sequences. 
  
  The gameplay is tight but I found that most of the time, especially when traveling through Legion 
 territory, the blackness and not being able to see anything grew more and more annoying. 
  
  I like the idea of the battle arena, where the gold you find can be used to purchase new moves. 
 The lightposts used for teleporting around the map is also good and saves time. Although, honestly, 
 the map isn't that big to start with and running around the islands does not take that much time 
 anyway.
  
  As a recent 360 convert from the Playstation world, I found some of the button mashing confusing, 
 especially when taking on the finishing moves, but 360 veterans should be okay.
  
  Overall, I must admit that there is some disappointment when I play this game. But as far as button 
 mashing action genre games go, I can think of a few different games that I could recommend before 
 Viking: Battle for Asgard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball234
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I went in to this expecting absolutely nothing, and was pretty impressed with what I experienced. 
 
  
  First off, this game doesn't try to re-invent the wheel. You've seen everything this game has to 
 offer before, in the most obvious comparison God of War. However, Viking: BFA does everything so 
 well, you'll forgive it's shortcomings.
  
  The graphics are absolutely beautiful! The world looks great, as do the characters. Zones are dark 
 and rain crashes down, while occupied by enemy forces. Liberate these zones, and they light up 
 as your army takes over. This surprisingly never gets old, and will keep you plowing through the 
 zones in each area.
  
  Single player combat is great. While it is repetitive, it's completely satisfying ripping through 
 hordes of baddies with your sword and axe. You really feel the power, when you plunge your sword 
 into somebody's stomach, while cutting their head off with your sword. It's great.
  
  Group combat, not so much. Once you have an army built up, you will be able to have some big battles, 
 where you pretty much sit back and watch your army slaughter everything in sight. You can fight, 
 but you will never know who you're hitting. It's friggin' chaos. Thankfully, these moments are 
 brief, and rather easy, so you won't be bothered too much.
  
  Can't really comment on the story, as I haven't finished the game, but so far it's servicible. 
 Don't expect Mass Effect-like storytelling or anything, but it's fine for a game like this.
  
  It's a nice little hidden gem, and hey, when's the last time you've played a good viking game? 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is an example of a great game with bad reviewers with negative opinions 
 which are ALL false! Playing through this game is an experience in itself; from the graphics, sound, 
 to the overall game play; all balanced, and FANTASTICALLY EPIC! 
  
  This game's graphics have to be seen to be believed. The water effects of the ocean looks real, 
 with the surrounding forest areas even more startlingly photo realistic. I loved it all, and so 
 will you. 
  
  The sound really drew me in from the fluttering of bird's wings, to dried leaves falling out of 
 trees as I walked underneath, to the sound of a giant dragon as it fried the enemy with scorching 
 flames; no other game comes close to this. 
  
  As for game play, I enjoyed the game from start to finish. Blood and gore fans take note- this 
 game is for you! With over a dozen deadly slashing moves with swords, knifes, axes, and even one 
 special move where you call in a dragon, Viking does it all and does it well! 
  
  Overall, Viking is an excellent game. I take my hat off to Sega for bringing such a well balanced 
 and magically superb adventure to my little gamer fingers! Well done!! 
  
  The Bottom Line: Viking: Battle for Asgard is for fans of blood and gore. This well made game gives 
 the player a truly epic experience that should not be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tenkahubu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is much better than the Gamespot review would have you believe. The reviewer 
 must have gotten out of the wrong side of bed or something. He has written a highly subjective 
 experience was obviously quite different to my own, perhaps he never actually tried to enjoy the 
 game, nor recognise it for what it really is.
  
  What it's not:
  This is not an RPG or even an action RPG. Judging by the the Gamespot reviewers comparisons to 
 Oblivion and lack of interesting quests it seems that he had false expectations. This is not an 
 exploration game really. The gameworld is large, and you can look around it at your own pace, but 
 it is not designed for RPG style adventures. 
  
  What it is:
  The game is hack and slash combat. You have to battle against large numbers of foes. They are supposedly 
 undead vikings but are quite similar to the Orcs from The Lord of the Rings. It is quite possible 
 to imagine them so if you wish, and the giants are similar to LOTR Trolls. The game is quite reminiscent 
 of the Return of the King game, and you will get a similar feeling of excitement at facing desperate 
 odds as in that game. The mayhem of being in the thick of a large conflict is well done in Viking. 
 This is the real point of the game. The specifics of combat are also well done. Good timing is 
 essential, as well as judicious use of special moves and runic powers (which must be unlocked with 
 gold) . Button mashing will not cut it against stronger enemies, especially if you play on hard 
 mode (which you should) .
  The results of combat are gory, but not as shocking or gratuitous as has been written elsewhere, 
 nor any worse than in other like games of the past. 
  
  What are the flaws of the game?
  The usual criticisms of poor story, repetitive gameplay, 'meaningful exploration', camera woes 
 etc all have an element of truth, but with equal validity can be leveled at games such as Assassin's 
 creed which mysteriously received a much higher review grade of 9/10. None of these problems detract 
 from the game a great deal. 
  
  I recommend this game to most, I don't think many people would feel cheated if they bought it, 
 and you should be able to get it for a discounted price now. 
  
  It is nothing innovative but good old-school fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Probably the first thing to keep in mind is that Viking more or less falls under the "hack n' slash" 
 genre thats ruled by the God of War games. If you have absolutely no interest in this style of 
 game then I can't guarantee that Viking will be for you, but it may be worth a look. Being a GOW 
 fan I played Conan for the 360 a couple of months ago and found that to be enjoyable, if a bit 
 rough around the edges. After watching a preview of Viking I was immediately interested, and despite 
 Gamespot's mediocre rating (5.0) I was still determined to give this game a chance, and I'm glad 
 I did.
  
  Story (7.0) Unlike RPGs, it can be debateable as to just how important a good story is to an action 
 game. If the action can stay entertaining the story can get away with being so-so, at least IMO. 
 The story behind Viking isn't particularly memorable. You play as Skarin, a viking warrior picked 
 by the good goddess Freya to battle the forces of the evil goddess Hel, who seems intent on destroying 
 the world.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8.5) - Basically you'll have three islands to liberate from the forces of evil, with 
 each island made up of many different key areas that you'll need to go to. There is a decent amount 
 of freedom as far as wandering wherever you want to go, though you'll find that many areas are 
 set up in a logical fashion as to what order you want to take on. You'll liberate a lumber mill 
 so that they can produce siege weapons for an upcoming battle, for instance. Most of this will 
 involve approaching these areas cautiously and trying to take on only one to three enemies at a 
 time by avoiding setting off any alarms that would bring the entire stronghold at you, at least 
 until you can reach the caged prisoners. The combat works pretty well, with fluid movement and 
 a decent amount of easy-to-do combos. Similar to Conan, pulling off combos will give you spectacular 
 scenes of decapitations and dismemberments that just never get old. As the game goes on you'll 
 have the opportunity to learn quite a few different combos. After release the prisoners will join 
 you and generally clean up the area pretty quickly. In addition to the side benefits of liberating 
 these areas there is also the important benefit of constantly adding more troops to your army for 
 what will be the huge confrontation that comes at the end of each island. These battle are truly 
 epic and will involve you leading literally hundreds of soldiers against an evil army that will 
 include giants and shamans. While some of the battle will be more hacking, it also involves strategy 
 in that you get a limited amount of help from dragons that will target and completely destroy a 
 few areas that you must choose from. I guarantee that you will not forget these battles, as they 
 can be quite spectacular.
  
  GRAPHICS (9.0) - Viking has some of the most beautiful scenery I've seen on the 360. From the grassy 
 hills to the stark cliffs overlooking the ocean, from small farms to a gigantic evil fortress, 
 it never fails to impress. Also noteworthy is the view distance, as you can see both buildings 
 and enemies from a far distance. The characters are nicely detailed as well, and the slow-mo death 
 animations are top notch. There may be a bit of slowdown on the huge battles, but never enough 
 to be a distraction.
  
  SOUND (7.0) - The weakest aspect of Viking. Skarin never speaks, and the enemies never do as well. 
 It could represent that these are minions brought back from the dead and simply can't speak but 
 it does result in much of the game being a bit too quiet, with only the sounds of weapons clashing, 
 and it almost seems like the developers just skipped a bit on this area. Key allies will speak 
 to you, and their voice acting is good overall though they tend to have British accents as opposed 
 to the Scandinavian accents that I was expecting. The background music was decent but not memorable.
 
  
  VALUE (8.0) - For most people this game should take between 15 -20 hours to complete, which is 
 a decent amount of time compared to most action titles, which usually can be completed in under 
 10. I picked up this game for $25, and if you can get it for $30 or less then I feel you're getting 
 a good value, though there is no multiplayer. As for replay, there is as usual the higher difficulties 
 to play at that will garner additional achievement points.
  
  SUMMARY (8.0) - Though I did have some hope for this title I have to say that overall I was still 
 pleasantly surprised at how much fun I had in light of the low score that Gamespot gave it. As 
 I stated at the start this is mainly for action and hack n' slash fans, though it is done well 
 enough that it may win over a few gamers that might not have previously been big fans of the genre. 
 It's a shame the GS gave it such a low rating as there are probably a number of gamers that haven't 
 given this game a chance that should. Definitely recommended for fans of the genre, and worth a 
 look for those who aren't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1max
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Viking battle for Asgard, for some reason i played this game... and this game does feel cool in 
 the beginning, but it is very repetetive and quickly gets dull. the gameplay is above average, 
 and the story, well... it isn't some thing you would remember. the gameplay feels fun occasionally 
 , there is plenty of enemies and it can be fun dismembering your foes for a short time. the game 
 even tries to be like god of war, with context sensitive buttons and story involving gods... but 
 it is not even half as good as god of war.... in the end. this is a mediocre game and buy it only 
 if you must. there are a lot of boring and dull parts in the game, the best thing about the game 
 is combat, which is not very good to begin with. this game is a big disappointment .. playing as 
 a viking isn't cool
  
  5.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  As the main heading suggest, this game is not really a bad game, but at the same time its nothing 
 to rave about. 
  
  The best thing about this game is that, unlike a lot of games, it doesn't have its head up its 
 own ***. There's very little stuffing around with it. You are given a brief intro, then you just 
 get straight down to hacking the enemy into as many pieces as possible. Its very simple fun, and 
 thats about it.
  
  The graphics are 'Meh', the controls are a bit lop sided, and the gamplay is about as easy as it 
 gets. The biggest let down for the game is the sounds. It seems that every one on the team did 
 a moderate job, but the sound guys were on vacation. There are some good ideas here that were just 
 not realised which is unfortunate. 
  
  Overall its a bit of a no brainer, that is good for killing a few hours of boredom, but thats about 
 it. After the first completed mission, the fun has worn of & you can return it to the video shop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Viking is far from being as interesting as it sounds. While the concept of taking control of a 
 Viking and running around an open world, hacking and slashing beasts sounds fun, it isn't really. 
 The game's main selling point is the so called "epic battles" that divide up the levels, and though 
 they are fun, they are few and far between. Story wise, the game has little to offer and even less 
 than you might expect. You play the character of Skarin, a non-customisable Viking who dies at 
 the very start of the game in an skirmish against undead Vikings who've risen up to take control 
 of the land of Asgard. These beasties have been called forth to reek havoc on the land by the Goddess 
 "Hel" who has a personal issue with another Goddess "Freya". Basically, Hel attacks Freya's land, 
 and in retaliation, Freya saves Skarin from death in order to raise and army and defeat Hel and 
 her forces. You will then spend the rest of the game, wondering a relatively large world fighting 
 undead Vikings, brutally chopping them into bits, and freeing the live Vikings. There are 3-4 main 
 levels which basically islands. Each island has a number of outposts, guard towers, places where 
 your Viking fellows are being held captive and a massive castle. Once you've done all the "side 
 missions" and freed enough Vikings, you can assault the castle. This is where the main battles 
 come in. You spend most of the game saving up troops to have a massive battle at the end of the 
 level. The battles are long, pretty fun and big. Unfortunately, there aren't enough of them to 
 make up for the boring "free the Viking mode" in the middle. 
  This game has all the right ideas, but nothing more. You can roam a cool looking Viking world, 
 collecting gold, finding treasure and helping out fellow Vikings. It has big battles and a varying 
 number of different enemies. After that, there really isn't much left. The game is long, but in 
 the slow and boring way. The world is big, but with no sprint button it takes ages to get anywhere. 
 The world looks nice, but there is no sound effects save the footprints of Skarin. The world feels 
 dead with poor music, no ambient life noises or anything. The fighting is fun with plenty of limb 
 slashing combos, but it gets old fast. You quickly find yourself repeating the same moves over 
 and over. You also have difficulty taking on large groups of foes, which kind of ruins the "hero" 
 feel. The game can hold a tremendous amount of AI units running around, however you can only ever 
 engage with 5 or 6 at a time before you die in a glitch. By that i mean one of those glitches where 
 once you've been struck once, the enemy will lay into you repeatedly till you are dead and you 
 never have a chance to recover and counter attack. Not due to lack of skill, but due to the 1 second 
 delay between getting hit and your character being controllable again. If you get hit again before 
 you regain control of your character, you will take hit after hit with no chance of escape. That 
 said, you can never escape, even if you aren't being hit. Skarin is a lumbering oaf of a hero who 
 runs so slowly that if you find yourself in a battle larger than you can handle, you cannot run 
 away because he moves so slowly, your enemies will take chunks out of your back. 
  The worst part of this game is the ending. While i could tolerate the game up until the very end, 
 the final moments were frustratingly annoying. The last battle is possibly the worst one in the 
 game, being short, boring and uneventful. Once that is complete you have to climb an enormous tower, 
 covered in baddies. While this isn't so bad, climbing the tower probably takes between 30-40 minutes 
 fighting the entire way up carefully. If you die, you restart at the bottom of the tower and have 
 to do it again. There is no checkpoint. Fail on the 30th minute and on the last bad guy at the 
 top, you will start all over again. Then there is the boss at the end (Hel) . . . I'm going to say 
 one thing. If you've made it to the boss at the end then you have amazing perseverance. To complete 
 the boss at the end you need something else entirely. It's bad game making. 
  In conclusion, the game starts well and ends extremely badly. Very few games work out that way 
 but this one does an excellent job. Avoid this game on principal that it is an insult to gamers. 
 Playing it ends up being a waste of time. Its not a good hack and slash, and it certainly isn't 
 an RPG. Everything is so shallow and un-rewarding. If Elder Scrolls: Oblivion or Fable is the ocean, 
 Viking: Battle for Asgard is the kiddie's paddling pool in the back garden. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Viking tells the tale of an exotically named conannny lookin fella who comes into contact with 
 lots of other exotically named viking folk. His boss apparently gets styling tips from princess 
 leia, and is trying to beat down her unruly goddess cohort, or sybling, or colleague? and she's 
 named hel. yeah, i thought it was misspelled everytime i read it throughout the game.
  
  Your job as mighty Skarin, is basically, to hack up a lot of dudes who are terribly reminiscent 
 of the Uruhkai (spelling) orcs from the lord of the rings films. No worries, i expect they paid 
 Pete Jackson for the likeness rights. In any event there's a lot of hacking and slashing, and not 
 so much blocking... which is a bummer. you get hurt a lot early on, but a strangely gta-like auto 
 respawn is helpful. except the thing is works so fast, you kind of feel like you can't die, which 
 hampers any feeling of tension, unfortunately.
  
  A major bullet point of the game is epic combat. And this they do pretty well. Unfortunately any 
 epic nature still oft times results in a healthy dollop of slow-down... and viking is no exception. 
 it's too bad, it's awfully pretty, but on the bright side, with all the slowdown you have plenty 
 of time to watch all the pretty evisceration.
  
  The game has been touted as a nordic mercenaries... well it's not. the world is not so much open. 
 it's relatively linear and directed in it's intent. you should go here, do this and come back. 
 annnnd, now let's repeat that... a lot. way too much in fact.
  
  The redeeming bright spot is that the combat doesn't wane is excitement. the enemies are pretty 
 good at staying both scary and relevant throughout.
  
  This one's a rental all said and done folks. no multiplayer, no online, no need to replay, but 
 the achievement points are wicked easy, and very straightforward. Alas all told I won't be recommending 
 this one. Hel's legion can keep Asgard. I'm not willing to fight for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biladdar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited for this game before it came out, and then came the Gamespot review of it. Gamespot 
 painted this game as a horrible, steaming pile of garbage and completely tore it to pieces in their 
 review. Sadly, this deterred me from buying this game on release. Looking back on it, that was 
 a bad decision. I recently found Viking for sale for less than $30 bucks, and I decided to give 
 this "terrible" game a try. I was happily surprised to find out that this game was a very solid 
 hack-n'-slash action-adventure game. While definitely not revolutionary, Viking serves it's purpose 
 within it's genre. There is NO WAY that this game is a 5.0! If anything, the score Gamespot assigned 
 to Viking just goes to show how arbitrary and ridiculous their rating system is. This ordeal nearly 
 caused me to lose all faith in Gamespot reviews. I guess I'll give them a few more chances to prove 
 how incompetent they really are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is a bloody, violent, mediocre game. That sentence pretty much sums up 
 the bulk of the entire game, which thankfully, doesn't last very long. With such a high pedigree 
 from a famed developer, it really is a shame to see a game that could have been another Spartan: 
 Total Warrior turn into a dumbed down Dynasty Warriors with severe problems.
  
  Battle for Asgard stars the drone and buff hero named Skarin. Right from the start we see Skarin's 
 land being ravished by an evil woman known as Hel, who has unleashed various demons and beasts 
 across the land to destroy. Skarin, who at the brink of death, see the Goddess Freya arrive to 
 help. Freya then hands Skarin a device known as the Brisingamen, which lets Skarin call upon forces 
 of Viking warriors to fight alongside him in the thick of battle. The story is the highlight of 
 the game, which delves heavily into Norse Mythology and the surrounding territories. Many references 
 to ancient lands and characters from old books are often talked about, but it's a shame that many 
 of these once powerful figures had to be destined to such a travesty of a game.
  
  The core concept of Viking is to travel to each land of Midgard and rally up Viking recruits to 
 help you in battle against Hel. The scenarios themselves sound fun, such as infiltrating an enemy 
 camp to rescue Viking hostages, and watching as they kill their captors with the swing of their 
 blades. However, once you finally free the captives from their bonds, be prepared to rinse and 
 repeat that pattern over and over and over again. Nothing changes in the basic concept of objectives 
 than the levels, which needless to say, aren't that inspiring to journey through anyways. Gathering 
 up fellow Viking warriors makes up the bulk of the game considering you cannot advance until you 
 complete these objectives. You need to get enough troops together so you can stage a massive siege 
 on one of the main ports scattered around the world.
  
  These siege battles can get monstrous, with hundreds of people on screen fighting together. On 
 one side we have Skarin and his mindless drone of Viking warriors and on the other, Hel and her 
 mindless drone of legion warriors. The AI in Viking is terrible, with allies who run after the 
 enemy swinging wildly and enemies who do the same exact thing. It was the first time we really 
 ever saw two AI controlled NPC characters run around like chickens with their heads cut off for 
 countless minutes. Hilarity definitely ensued, but it can often turn to frustration when more than 
 one person actually does it. What makes these siege battles often tiring and dull are the fact 
 that you can't often determine who is on your side. There are no indicator markers or icons to 
 represent friend from foe, which usually just leaves you swinging blindly through the crowds, and 
 since you can't hurt your fellow Viking friends, not much skill is involved to achieve victory.
 
  
  The combat in Viking is average at best. While there are plenty of options to undertake when you 
 engage in combat, you never have to rely on much more than simple hack-and-slash attacks, which 
 more than gets the job done. You can stop by the Battle Arena and purchase new upgrades which definitely 
 look and sound cool, but their execution is frustrating beyond belief. How so? Just imagine pushing 
 the block button to stop attacks and than having to hold down that same button to execute a power 
 combo. It's that type of broken gameplay that will have you mashing on the controller to try to 
 either block or execute a power move, when you just want to do one or the other. Using light and 
 strong attacks is easy enough to handle, and most of the enemies will fall by using those anyways.
 
  
  To make matters worse in combat, Viking is constantly plagued by an uneven camera that swings out 
 of control when multiple enemies pile on screen and enemies that hit you from off-screen as well. 
 This can be incredibly annoying when you are fighting hordes of enemies at once and trying to manage 
 both the camera and invisible enemies. There are some platforming segments in various portions 
 of the game too, where Skarin has to climb on top of towers and ruins to retrieve amulets and gold, 
 but the unreliable camera often makes these navigating segments hard to manage as well, with tight 
 corners turning into death traps and easy jumps looking like a game of Pitfall.
  
  The land of Midgard is huge and there is plenty of it to explore. While a huge world is surely 
 every action players dream, exploring Midgard is a chore and a half. Skarin only has one speedrun 
 slowly. He can't sprint at all, making going from Point A to Point B an often long and arduous 
 challenge. Plus, with the lack of a sprint button, escaping from enemies is never easy since they 
 run twice as fast as you. Of all the times we accidentally ran into a pack of enemies we never 
 once escaped to safety for we either had to stop and fight or get killed in order to end that nasty 
 predicament. There are leystones scattered around Midgard that once activated will let you warp 
 instantly to that location, but there are just so few of them and the time running from each on 
 is just so tiring and repetitive.
  
  The audio is some of the worst we have ever witnessed. For starters, Viking offers various tongues 
 of dialect. Australian, English, Irish, and Scottish were all the different accents heard throughout 
 the game, not to mention Skarin never talks once during the entirety, making his presence somewhat 
 welcome in the often bizarre vocals from the rest of the group. The music also sounds awfully familiar 
 to something out of a Hollywood film, which is a shame considering the rest of the effects, such 
 as sword-fighting and dialogue all sound half-assed.
  
  The visuals themselves are hit-or-miss, depending on which area you look at. The FMV cutscenes 
 are brilliantly performed, offering a God of War spin-off with still drawings that act out the 
 scene before you. The characters and enemies might all look the same, but there were never any 
 moments of slowdown or freezes apparent during any battles. The same can't be said about the locales, 
 however, as they are dull lifeless places. Since all of the places are supposed to be ravished 
 by Hel, they are look basically the same, black darkened areas that are often hard to see and with 
 no redeeming qualities. The game slows down in various parts just running around the environment, 
 which is quite ironic for a game that uses the same backdrop in every single location.
  
  The Creative Assembly already had a winning formula for an action game set in stone with their 
 past hit, Spartan: Total Warrior, but it seems their over eagerness to try something new got the 
 better of them. Viking: Battle for Asgard falls short on various fronts, and never delivers a truly 
 nonstop action game that we have come to dream of from such a talented developer. With so many 
 problems, unbalanced combat, and no multiplayer, it is hard to recommend anyone to buy this game, 
 let alone rent it. Give it a try if you are a fan of the subject matter, if not, there are plenty 
 of better action titles out there for you to enjoy instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_8790
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is a game that was hyped up about by very few. I bought it when i saw 
 it being 1/2 off, and i looked at some of the gamespot review and i have heard alot of different 
 reactions about it. overall, this game is fun but some of the killing is very repetitive, and mainly 
 mindless killing. Some of the killing takes some strategy. this game has alot of exploritability, 
 and this game has some of the largest battles i have seen on any games on 360. If you release all 
 your fellow vikings, it helps you alot with all of it. You can get runes to empower your weapons 
 with fire, ice, and lightning, and also you can get health potions, throwing axes, and also some 
 flaming thingies that you throw to kill the legion. Also for all of you players who like to buff 
 up on their achievements, i got like 10 in my first maybe 3 hours of playing. You manily just get 
 achievements for playing the game at all.
  
  If you die at all you just start back at your first town, and at a leystone so you can go anywhere 
 in the map. If you do die with a full red bar to release your powers, you lose it, but that is 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Power_Wrist
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I had gotten Viking hoping for a bloody good romp through norse mythology and some decapitations, 
 dismemberments, and eviscerations. Mostly, however, I got the latter. 
  You play as Skarin, an epileptic viking berserker. 
  That's about all that's said about the protagonist. 
 The rest of the plot focuses on some sort of undead army, the end of the world, Ragnarok, blah, 
 blah, blah. Lets discuss the fighting. 
  Sega attempts to spice up the humdrum fighting with an open-world "Sandbox" feel. Although this 
 is not enjoyed to the fullest extent, as the main character can't seem to move at anything faster 
 than a disinterested jog. The "Fatalities" are as bloody and satisfying as can be expected from 
 this generation, and the combos are very tactile, and also very quiet (It's as if the developers 
 didn't want to add music) . 
  Too bad the combos stay the same for the entire game, and in the battles with hundreds of combatants, 
 you can only ever hit ONE ENEMY. 
  Also attempting to spice things up are the prerequisite elemental powers, which are never explained 
 how to use. 
  IF you're a fan of the Hack 'n Slash genre, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey1982
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The gore, the monsters, the story, this game is awesome! and also the only game that is about vikings. 
 I love to rip monsters apart with my blood covered sword! RIP AND TEAR!!! RIP AND TEAR!!! *cough* 
 Doom comic *cough*
  
  This game is good and I recommend it to anyone who owns all the games and needs a new one.
  
 
  (100 hours? lol. I dont keep track of the time spent.)
  
  .............
  
  I keep having issues with the 100 words thing.  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard, was one of the many games that I was hyped about. It wasn't number one 
 on my list but it was somewhere in the middle. I recently got this game after seeing it for half 
 off and finally gave into buying it. Overall the game is a fun, mindless game that people will 
 enjoy if they don't mind anything but violence for around 20-25 hours. This game, if you go deeper 
 then that tough, has its good and bad qualities as a game.
  
  First, I will start with the good. The game is very simple so even casual gamers shouldn't have 
 too much of a problem with this game. Also, the graphics are gorgeous and the environments are 
 done fairly well and surprisingly the frame rate is good. I had one slow down throughout the entire 
 game which lasted for about five seconds. The game has all the brutality and violence you would 
 expect from a video game called Viking so you won't be disappointed by that. This game also features 
 a fairly large area for exploration across six islands in three large areas that you must go through 
 to complete the game. This game also features some of the most large scale battles I've seen in 
 my years as a gamer even rivaling those of the Lord of The Rings games. Whenever you get to the 
 end of an island you try and take control of a major city. Now as you progress through the game 
 you have more Vikings and thus there are more enemies so when finally can attack a city you may 
 be fighting one enemy at the time but you can see hundred of Vikings and enemies fighting around 
 you which can make it feel like you are really in the middle of a huge battle.
  
  Next, I'm going to talk about the games biggest feature, the combat. This game has your simple 
 A for quick attacks, X for stronger attacks system along with sixteen advanced moves and three 
 magic attacks you can use. The thing you notice right away tough and for the first few hours may 
 find incredibly fun to use are the fatalities. Now when an enemy is so close to death a single 
 hit will kill him, you can hold X to kill him in some brutal way. Not only does this look cool 
 but it raises your magic meter three times as much. So it is an important thing to use since some 
 of these magic attacks that you are building up your magic for can save your life. These three 
 magic attacks are a line or fire that burns all enemies in front of you, a magic attack which freezes 
 all enemies who are very close to you, and a lightning attack that absorbs the life from an enemy. 
 So this game features a unique combat system that isn't too basic but isn't too advanced it's just 
 right.
  
  Third, would be the story. At first you are thrown into the game without much knowledge of what's 
 going on besides there's an evil God trying to take over Asgard. Sadly, this really is as far as 
 the story goes. Evil God's soldiers take over Asgard. You liberate Asgard one camp and city at 
 a time to help the good Gods. That's it.
  
  Finally, time to talk about the bad. The game is very easy since there is no punishment for death. 
 Either, you are trying to prepare for a city attack and you die then go back to your main camp 
 where you can teleport back to what you were doing or you're in a large scale battle for a city 
 and you die and just go back to outside of the city and carry on the battle. The combat will get 
 old by the time you get to the second island unless you are someone who enjoys mindless brutality. 
 The story is very, very basic. They do give you large areas for exploring but sadly, there isn't 
 too much to look for except for a few gold bags. Otherwise, there is no point for exploring. I 
 also wasn't too fond of the camera. It is so close to your characters back that most of the time 
 if an enemy is behind you, unless you know he's there already, he's going to hit you before you 
 see him. There is also the occasional minor glitch but nothing too major. You also will never play 
 this game again.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Viking: Battle for Asgard and would say it is worthy of at least a rent. It 
 has its flaws but if you enjoy the mindless fun this game has to offer, you will be able to get 
 past that. Viking: Battle of Asgard, receives a 7 out of 10 for offering some mindless fun but 
 nothing more then that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  There's nothing spectacular that makes this game incredible or addicting. However, sometimes that's 
 a good thing. There's very little complexity in the combat system, the combos aren't insanely hard 
 or difficult to acheive. There are a few times when you'll find yourself thinking about which attack 
 to take next which includes a small portion of strategy within the game. If anything, it reminded 
 me a lot of the old LOTR games.
  
  The camera is very sensative and aggravating at times but didn't take me out of the game too much. 
 A big portion lacking from this game is the absence of an experience system. You find yourself 
 letting your army mow down the enemy as you sit back and watch or just press random buttons simply 
 because it doesn't matter how many you slaughter, the game still advances the same. 
  
  All in all, this game is enjoyable. It's a step back in complex gaming, but that's all right. So 
 for those of you hesitant about this one I'd say give it a rent, because it's not one of those 
 you'll pull off the shelf later and give another shot, but it's a decent rent and it'll keep you 
 occupied for the time being i loved it very fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shomemiss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  There's nothing spectacular that makes this game incredible or addicting. However, sometimes that's 
 a good thing. There's very little complexity in the combat system, the combos aren't insanely hard 
 or difficult to acheive. There are a few times when you'll find yourself thinking about which attack 
 to take next which includes a small portion of strategy within the game. If anything, it reminded 
 me a lot of the old LOTR games.
  
  The camera is very sensative and aggravating at times but didn't take me out of the game too much. 
 A big portion lacking from this game is the absence of an experience system. You find yourself 
 letting your army mow down the enemy as you sit back and watch or just press random buttons simply 
 because it doesn't matter how many you slaughter, the game still advances the same. 
  
  All in all, this game is enjoyable. It's a step back in complex gaming, but that's all right. So 
 for those of you hesitant about this one I'd say give it a rent, because it's not one of those 
 you'll pull off the shelf later and give another shot, but it's a decent rent and it'll keep you 
 occupied for the time being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Even a cursory glance at the reviews around about this game, could have you scratching your head. 
 They are, extremely polarized.
  
  Sure its not a great game, but it's definately worth a rent to form your own opinion about it.
 
  
  Alot of the critisism aimed at this game is well deserved. The camera can be a bit of a pain sometimes. 
 mostly when you are using the evade move against a boss. The story is a little weak and the frame 
 rate does tend to drop in the big battles.
  
  In my first hour of play I found myself agreeing with alot of its critics...
  
  Then something 
 happened. I am not sure what but I think it was about the time I started really getting a grip 
 on the combat and had just slaghtered a group of baddies skillfully and with much visera, I had 
 been sucked into it.
  
  The combat is simple and slightly repititive but it still has alot more meat on its bones than 
 the terrible KUF: Circle of doom released last year. there is a bit of strategy here if you care 
 too delve
  
  The large battles are a nice touch, hopefully we will see some more of this from action games in 
 the future, it really seems like CA tried to innovate the genre, maybe their next effort will garner 
 more respect.
  
  Definately try before you buy, but if you have no expectation you may be pleasantly surprised.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eko_Eko_Azarak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Though this isn't the greatest game around, it's extremely fun IMO. Skarin is a pretty cool character. 
 The gameplay will be repetitive for some considering there's only so many combinations you can 
 do in the game, but it was plenty of hack and slash fun for me. The graphics are above average, 
 with the humans and Legion being more detailed than the enviroments. The larger battles do lag 
 but it's nothing that can't be dealt with and doesn't happen too often. The large battles in the 
 game are quite epic and extremely fun. There are also several fetch quests but none of them seemed 
 tedious to me at all. The story isn't great but the gameplay is fun. People that enjoyed the Diablo 
 series will enjoy this game. This is a great game to tide people over between shooters and is IMO 
 just old fashioned hack-and-slash fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efielret
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  First of I'll say that I'm going to try to be unbiased about this game, only because I love it 
 so much.
  
  Viking: Battle for Asgard, takes place in the realm of Midgard in Norse mythology. You have been 
 chosen by Freya (Goddess of War) to protect her realm from The Legion, which is Hel's (Daughter 
 of the God of Mischief) army. 
  
  You are Skarin, and like most main characters, he doesn't talk. It doesn't take away from the fun 
 of this game though.
  As you progress through each island, the next seems to be bigger (not seems, it is bigger) . Each 
 island has an arena where you summon an ancient viking and buy skills from him (I wonder what a 
 ghost does with money?) You are also able to upgrade your weapons with lighting, fire, and ice 
 (again, by using gold) . Gold is found scattered around each island.
  
  The types of missions there are is not enough, for there are only a few.
  save vikings that have 
 been tied up by the Legion. Here you find an enemy camp and fight them off by sneaking or just 
 jumping at them like the viking you are.
  
  Save vikings that have been put in a cage made of bone (apparently Skarin can break this, but about 
 fifteen men can't) . There are usually larger than the other camps, and I can say that it's fun 
 to sneak in and break them lose and have a miniature little battle. This usually leads to another 
 quest.
  
  These other quests lead you to either send for reinforcements to aid the place where they were 
 captured, take down a base, or bring them an item.
  
  Collect kegs of mead on the beach. What would the world be without it? Can't let your army go dry. 
 Collect them and bring the to the barkeeper to gain some gold.
  
  Assault on an enemy territory. This is an all out war, I can't count how many people are on the 
 battlefield (maybe I was too busy dying) . Each side has a shaman, to resurrect the dead (I'm guess 
 so that the war seems larger) . You have dragons, magic and the aid of your army. You must kill 
 the enemy and reclaim the city.
  
  The combat in this game is not very deep, it's fun.. But not very deep. Imagine the stuff that 
 a hydrophobic viking can do with an ax and sword. Just take the time... Imagine all the people.. 
 Oops sorry. But the animations are great. I never get tired of seeing Skarin decapitate legion 
 scum. 
  
  Scenery is great too, it might not be as good as Gears of War or Mass Effect. But it blends perfectly 
 with the game.
  
  The controls are very easy to learn and animations are clean. I haven't had a glitch on this game.
 
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 9/10
  Scenery: 9/10
  Story: 6/10
  Controls: 10/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Multi-player: N/A
  Replay Value: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayoung01
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I've read the "official" review of this game and I have to agree on a few points, but for the most 
 part this reviewer missed the mark. I understand his job is to analyze the game but I think in 
 doing that he missed the fact that this was never intended to be more than a fun, Schwarzenegger's 
 Conan style hack em' up.
  
  First off: The Good. 
  
  The Graphics:
  The game is beautiful. I played this in HD and I was really amazed at how beautiful the game looks. 
 Especially the water. Seeing the sea foamed, huge waves rolling into an alcove or towards the beach 
 really showed how far technology has come. The only thing I was bummed about was that the water 
 didn't smack the rocks or cliffs and spray. That would have really been amazing.
  
  The Combat:
  The combat is easy to pick up and fun. The PC has combos and finishers that sever, 
 dismember and decapitate enemies. Sometimes these finishers play out like a scene from 300, time 
 slows down and limbs and heads are being hacked off and are thrown into the air. As you progress 
 through the game, you can purchase new moves from the Arena. These new moves deal more damage and 
 some are particularly useful against specific enemies, like a move the smashes the shield of an 
 otherwise very well protected enemy. Yes, the overall game play is repetitive, but it is fun as 
 hell and with new moves, one hit stealth kills, a variety of different finishers, throwing axes 
 and firepots, it still feels fresh.
  
  The Battles:
  Exploring and liberating camps increases your army's ranks. Once your army is large enough, you 
 enter a huge battle. Literally hundreds of enemies and fellow vikings are engaging in battle. This 
 is the best part of the game to me. It is a refreshing change to actually be part of an army instead 
 of a one man wrecking crew. During the battles you can call in a dragon to take out some of your 
 enemy's strategic positions, but I really found it fun to fight my way in. My only complaint is 
 that there isn't an option to re-play a battle from the main menu. It would have been a nice feature 
 to add replay value. Pop the disc in, select the battle you'd like to engage in and go. As far 
 as frame rate, I didn't experience any slowdown unless it was due to the intentional finisher slow 
 down.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The Camera:
  I have to agree that the camera can be frustrating. At times a wall or tree blocks your view and 
 you can't see anything. This is easily remedied by moving the right analog stick to get a better 
 view.
  
  No Battle Replay Mode:
  The huge battles are the best part, but you have to explore and liberate camps for a good 45 minutes 
 or more before your army is bug enough to start one. It really would have been great if the developers 
 would have added an option to replay a battle from the game once the game had been completed.
 
  
  No Music:
  Again, I do agree that a nice sound track would have added a lot to the game especially during 
 the exploration. I ended up just playing a custom soundtrack off of my Xbox's HDD. I recommend 
 LOTR, Kingdom of heaven, 300, or Braveheart sound tracks. Again, problem solved there too.
  
  Summary:
  Overall this is just a fun, ultra gory hack & slash. Throw in some nice visuals 
 and some EPIC battles and they you have it. I personally enjoyed the fact that It was so simple 
 to play and have fun. No HUGE move list to learn, no need to visit the shops to buy new weapons, 
 no long drawn out tutorial, just good fun casual gaming style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Georg_Maximus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  While Viking has little to do with the historic vikings and their mythology, the game offers a 
 handful of fun as you play Skarin, Freya's champion against the undead forces of Hel. The game 
 comprises three chapters, each of which is played upon a separate map with a number of submissions 
 you take on in the order that suits you best. In these missions, Skarin liberates captive vikings 
 to raise an army strong enough for the epic battle that completes each chapter. These battles are 
 also the game's selling feature, as they involve hundreds of characters on-screen at the same time 
 that really conveys a feeling of being upon a chaotic battlefield.
  
  However, most of the missions you must complete on your own, which means a lot of button mashing 
 as you encounter your foes in hand-to-hand combat. These fights are spectacular in all their gore, 
 yet the fighting itself is a bit uninspiring. You can purchase more advanced and spectacular fighting 
 techniques at arenas, but the game doesn't invite the player to use this very extensively.
  
  However, it doesn't serve the game justice to simply label it as a fighting game, as going 
 into battle with full force often means a quick death. Several of the missions are better completed 
 by sneaking into enemy encampments undetected, and reaching your goal with as little sword fight 
 as possible. These missions are in fact a lot more intense than the pure fighting, as the level 
 designers have carefully designed Skarin's path in-between hiding places and patrolling guards. 
 It's really rewarding to observe your enemies from a distance, work out a strategy on how to proceed, 
 and silently kill the enemy one by one as you proceed deeper into his territory.
  
  This way, the game is a semi-linear mix between free-roaming around the map outside the missions, 
 and more linearity within the missions themselves. It enables the player freedom of movement, yet 
 presents carefully designed challenges. But there are really no reasons why you should free-roam 
 the map, as there is very little to see, apart from some generic natural landscapes. If you play 
 Viking for the exploration aspect, you'll be disappointed, but it works well to frame the missions 
 and create an atmosphere around them.
  
  The missions themselves could have been more fleshed out, as they're completed quite quickly once 
 you've figured out how to approach them. The enemy seems to be quite ignorant of what goes on around 
 him, and could have an increased awareness level if you made a mistake. I threw an explosive fire 
 pot into an enemy crowd, and besides the guys who died, nobody seemed to be alerted and alarmed 
 to investigation. But if the enemies do detect you, they'll be on your back at once, and as Skarin 
 runs a bit slower than his enemies, trying to escape won't help you.
  
  Viking doesn't revolutionize level design and gameplay, but it nicely combines stealth with fighting 
 in a free-roaming context, with those large battle to spice it up. It's very entertaining if you're 
 happy with a little sneaking, sword fights and plenty of gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael39238
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  While its nothing revolutionary, Viking: Battle for Asgard does what it does perfectly. Its a simple 
 adventure game with some great visuals, and its one you can pick up and put down easily. Sometimes 
 that's exactly what you want!
  
  The quests are simplistic and they are always available on the map, and you spend most of the game 
 exploring a variety of nicely designed areas. The daytime graphics are bright, lush and pleasant, 
 the dark enemy areas gloomy with an air of fear to them. Typical, but done right. Once you've taken 
 over an area it becomes green and bright again and under your control as a camp or outpost.
  
  While most of the game involves basic one-on-several swordfighting, there are mass combat portions, 
 some basic puzzles, and times when you need to carefully sneak around to avoid fighting an entire 
 encampment, opting for fights you can pull into a corner.
  
  The gold and upgrades in the game are extremely basic and don't require much thought; just about 
 the only thing you'll need to learn is how to use some of the combos. While you could get by button-mashing, 
 the combos let you deal with different types of enemies more effectively. This in turn allows you 
 to fight larger groups without getting mobbed to death. Essentially the attack types differ based 
 on if you're fighting a shielded or armored opponent; other than that there are a few stuns and 
 basic spells that help you with large groups or bosses.
  
  The army sieges are fun, and the game seems to handle hundreds of soldiers running around (and 
 colliding) with ease. In certain fights its rather amusing to see bottlenecks of your men vs. undead 
 soldiers trying to push their way through each other. If you're overzealous in these larger conflicts, 
 you can get yourself in trouble, by attracting the attention of too many bad guys. Escaping the 
 wrath of the mob is also fun, as you dive into a crowd of your own soliders and hope they set sights 
 on your assailants.
  
  The game is a bit linear and doesn't have much of a "campaign" feel to it, but again that just 
 serves to keep it simple. Even though you can't return to former lands, within each act of the 
 game the map is more or less entirely open, and you take on objectives in whatever order suits 
 you. The main objectives are to free captured soldiers and towns, securing their loyalty to pad 
 your army ranks. By the time these goals are complete, its time to lay siege on the main objective.
 
  
  Overall its worth loading up and playing; a good diversion and one that doesn't require a lot of 
 investment of time. In short: fun and nice to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotmonkeycake
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game with reasonable expectations. Being a man disposed to Vikings that element 
 attracted me, even if the protagonists lack of beard slightly put me off. But what was that to 
 stand in the way of Viking themed hack slashery? None!
  
  And so there's the intro, fancy looking drawings, that's good. Brian Blessed! That's very good! 
 Uh... the plot... that's less good... but I guess I'll excuse some of the slight inconsistencies with 
 the mythology. It doesn't have to be exact, after all. And it's not that far off really, so hell.
 
  
  Pow! The game starts. I'm running around, I have no idea what I'm doing. Ah, exclamation marks 
 over the heads of people, I know what that means: these people have something to say to my half-naked 
 Viking man! Now how do I talk to them? Would have been helpful to have been told this. Ah, B, I 
 see. Fair enough.
  
  And so I gain a rough idea of what I'm meant to be doing (after faceplanting off a cliff) and set 
 about running around trying to make sense of the area. One thought is foremost in my mind: Oh my 
 this game is nice to look at. Seriously. Skies, waves, wrecked ships, mighty mountains, snow, huge 
 fortresses it even had be gawping at one point so full credit there. The animation is very good, 
 too. Wins points for having a character actually look as if they're standing on an incline.
  
  Then the enemies came and I was thrust into the combat. Or, more accurately, thrown face first 
 into the combat. Once again it would have been very nice to have some kind of tutorial or at least 
 introduction to this as it took me a while to even understand it, let alone gain a knack for it. 
 Cue numerous deaths, but once you got the hang it's satisfying enough and most excellently gory. 
 Could have done with a lot more of those fatality moves as having just finished the game I've seen 
 them SO MANY TIMES.
  
  And so through much combat and running around we progress through the game, saving vikings and 
 recusing facilities in order to help launch assaults on strongholds full of bad men. It works well 
 enough even if the experience doesn't vary at all for doing any of it. And why do we have to tap 
 B when we do anything, exactly? Eh, I guess it could be worse.
  
  The assaults themselves are so-so affairs. Massed combat is an impressive sight and no mistake 
 it would just be nice if telling friend and enemy apart was easier; this is a very dark game and 
 all the Vikings helpfully wear red and earthy colours while the bad guys wear black. The bad guys 
 also all look largely the same, which is another gripe. Would it have taken that much for a few 
 more skins?
  
  Then the big bad guys! Chieftans, giants and so on all require much beating up until they're so 
 knackered they leave an opening and your little musclebound Viking leaps into actions and slays 
 them with quicktime. There are a few of these events for Chieftans but doing the same sequence 
 for every giant gets annoying by the fifth or sixth one. Especially when the last boss is EXACTLY 
 THE SAME as every other giant before only with an... added extra that requires a little bit more. 
 In fact the last boss battle in general was a real letdown. 
  
  You rarely, if ever, see the main antagonist (Hel) and so when she appears at the end for you to 
 slay her it really doesn't feel that impressive. That and her voice actor just sounds annoyed rather 
 than malevolent and evil and all that.
  
  Despite my numerous, numerous gripes I did have a reasonably amount of fun with this game and the 
 violence was satisfying. But having finished it I have unlocked nothing and have no reason to play 
 it again and so this is going to help towards my next purchase, I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with this game. No it's not the best game of its kind but it plays well, looks 
 very good and has some of the larger battles I've ever seen in a game.
  
  It's a hack and slash. So if you are looking for depth than you've got the wrong game. It is just 
 a fun excursion from the huge wave of Sci Fi games and FPS's. Plus chopping of heads and arms is 
 always fun!!!
  
  One of the biggest complaints is that it is repetitive. However it's only as repetative as you make 
 it. If you just want to charge in and kill everything every time (witch is fine) . Then I can see 
 how that would be the case. If you take the time to find the locations and scout them out you will 
 find that there are other ways to handle the freeing of your army and other tasks with stealth.
 
  
  As you gain money you can buy new attacks to help along the way. All are very easy to learn and 
 start using right away. The major fault in the game for me was the inability to find new items. You 
 upgrade your weapons a couple times in the game but they are the same weapons just more powerful.
 
  
  So at the end of the day I would say to rent this game because it is a good time. If you are thinking 
 of buying. I would hold off until you can get it used or they drop the price. I would also add that 
 you may want to play on the hardest difficulty to make it more challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Viru
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Of the many settings hack-and-slash games could be set in, you'd think that by now someone would 
 have exploited the brutal lives of Vikings and their Gods, yet it is only recently that these have 
 begun to pop up here and there, and Viking is in the Vanguard of these. Story wise this game lacks, 
 but basically some big evil b***h called Hel has decided to make war on humans with zombie Vikings 
 and unlucky Skarin, you, has been picked to be the champion of the opposition, and this basically 
 entitles you to go around three islands beating up some undead ass.
  
  Now these three islands are actually quite similar in some respects, namely they each have usually 
 about 2 mini-islands and about 5-10 objectives on each other these. These objectives are usually 
 the same, go here, kill some dudes, free your brother Vikings, do them an odd-job then have them 
 join your burgeoning army, and as repetitive as this might sound, it ain't. Each area is differently 
 modeled, allowing you many options as to how to get in, do you sneak in kill some guards then rescue 
 the men who will kill the survivors or do you just waltz on in with your axe and sword doing all 
 the work yourself, its your choice, and this is a big part of the game, you choose the order you 
 do things in, so are you gonna save those Vikings at the farm, are you going to save the ones at 
 the Lumber mill instead or are you going to go off searching for gold, you choose.
  
  Which leads me on to my next point: this game looks lovely, it might not have the realism of Unreal 
 or other engines of the type, but it makes up for this in the sheer lavishness the design team 
 at Creatie Assembly must have put into the environments because they are STUNNING. Before you liberate 
 an area it might be a dark, spooky forest with owls hooting and nothing but shadow around you, 
 liberate the are however and the forest will become bathed in light, with birds singing around 
 you and green trees swishing in the wind. And then you could arrive at a city and walk around in 
 the fully realised town with Vikings just illing around you, some going to work, others to drink 
 and others just there cos they want to be.
  
  My next point about this game is the combat. There is a reason this game is an 18, its violent 
 to the point of ubsequious goriness. Combat in this game mostly involves the loss of limbs, heads, 
 heck you can even slice your opponents in two. Yet throughtout it all you don't feel pressurised 
 to do combat in a certain way, just do whatever you think is best for the situation or preferences, 
 if you like to just beat your enemy down until you can slice him up with one of the games varied 
 finishing moves you can, or perhaps you like to do ranged combat and use some throwing axes or 
 flame pots (primitive grenades) , heck you don't even have to swing your sword you can instead push 
 legion off cliffs to their doom if you want. And none of this gets repetitive as you are always 
 in a different position to the last big fight, which reminds me: the higlight of this game is the 
 huge sieges. 
  
  These sieges are almost taken directly out of films like Troy or Lord of the Rings, they are EPIC. 
 Flying in the air around you are dragons which are at your command, you are surrounded by literally 
 hundreds of men, while opposing an enemy force which rivals, if not beats the size of yours. However 
 you don't have to worry about the little men, your focus is instead pushed towards the destruction 
 of certain bosses of which there are three types: Sword-swinging Champions who are just as good 
 with their weapon as you are with yours, magic-wielding Shamans who have the annoying ability of 
 constantly summoning new legion from the underworld, making getting close enough to these guys 
 to kill them a pain, and lastly there are the giant.... well Giants who might be dumb, but can 
 still wipe you out with their brutal punching and kicking. As you complete certain objective on 
 the battlefield you are taken to the next are to do the same again until eventually the fort is 
 placed under your command.
  
  However this game isn't perfect as it does have some bad points. Firstly there is the shambles 
 of a story, which may as well not exist in the first point. The game continues the story in bad-voice 
 acted cutscenes and although nice-looking, non-sensical still picture scenes at the end of levels. 
 There are also small "visions" which are timed for the most annoying areas and occasions and make 
 no sense often. With the potential to have been much better the story is a major letdown. The next 
 bad point is that however epic the siege battles are, there is lots of lag, not to the point of 
 being unable t move, but you will be cursing you TV often enough while watching Skarin ever so 
 slowly cut down the legion you clicked for about 2 minutes before. The last bad point about this 
 game is that once you've liberated a major area you will often have to do a side-quest for that 
 certain group of warriors, and these are really annoying as they often feel as if they have been 
 tacked on to extend the games shelf life a bit longer and are often simple but slow to compete 
 as they are set far away from the present area.
  
  So in conclusion then, this game does have its bad points but its good points far outweigh these 
 and help to keep you interested to play the entire game through at least once and manages to keep 
 your interest in hacking and slashing just that bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  The long waited game by Sega is finally released. It was promised that it was going to be the best 
 hack and slash game on next-gen consoles and fantastic as God of War. Is it really the best hack 
 and slash game and great as God of War? I don't think so.
  
  A game published by Sega, developed by Creative Studios which you play the role of an immortal 
 viking called Skarin, who was once dead but now resurrected by the Gods to fight against the Hel's 
 legions. You will play in three different worlds with different layouts and missions. You will 
 start every world in the middle of the main camp. You can buy weapons, items and elemental powers. 
 There isn't any choice of buying new weapons or armors to increase your defense. After finding 
 the arena on the map, you can buy new moves that makes the combat easier. Talking around with the 
 people gives you tasks to do such freeing a village from the legions or retake the archery tower, 
 or enter the cave and take the dragon stone from champion fighter. 
  
  Liberating villages allows you to increase your army. You liberate the village by killing the legions 
 face to face or using stealth kills. Then in the middle of the village, the captives are held as 
 prisoners. All you have to do is free them by breaking the door. Search around the place to find 
 bags, urns or chests filled with gold. If you are having hard time in finding them, by a treasure 
 map to see them on your mini map.
  
  In each world you will summon one dragon which will help you to make a total war between the vikings 
 and the legions to retake the fortress or the main camp which filled with legions. With your army 
 you can easily annihilate the legions or fighting against a thousand legions by yourself is incredible. 
 During the front lines, you may fight against a champion or a troll which rewards you with dragon 
 runes. With dragon runes, you can order your dragons to attack specific places in war zone such 
 aiming at archers on towers or shamans that summons infinite numbers of legions. After killing 
 all the shamans you will face to fight a boss. Bosses and minor bosses are only defeated by mini-games 
 like in God of War. Although the button sequence is the same. Memorizing them all makes the mini 
 games very easy and not challenging at all.
  
  The fighting in the game is pretty tactical. You have light and heavy attacks. Some of your enemies 
 are clever in fighting such as surrounding you or blocking o your attacks. You can push them of 
 the cliff or cut them into half by making a drop slash or stun them by punching or even them into 
 pieces with special moves. If the enemy is near death, press X to make an execution that rewards 
 you with 3 red souls instead of 1 by killing normally. With the red souls, you fill up your MP 
 and cast a spell on your sword: ice freezes your enemies, fire burns your enemies damaging their 
 HP overtime or lightning to stun your enemies every time they attack you. Increasing the your elemental 
 power increases its effectiveness. Blocking and evasion is main key roll in the game. Since your 
 attacks are not radial, you can't kill 5 enemies with one slash. You have to take them one by one.
 
  
  The main annoying part of the is falling from high places and not being able to swim. Just falling 
 down from 10 meters causes you death. If you fall right in the middle of the sea, you are dead 
 since if you are immortal. Jumping, climbing and hanging adds some adventure in reaching secret 
 areas where you can find gold. The worlds are well designed. Beautiful forests, caves, quarries, 
 farms, seas, river, waterfalls, beaches etc. adds nice presentation to the games. The weather changes 
 every time you visit a new area. Teleporting makes traveling easier through Leystones that you 
 have discovered in the map. The graphics are clear, shiny and colorful but the sound effects are 
 not that so strong. The only sound that you can hear the clash of the swords. No background music 
 while traveling nor being in the main camp. You can only hear during war. Animations and cutscenes 
 are not that so great as in Conan.
  
  After all, it is a good game for hack and slash fans. Exploring and fighting can be fun for a time. 
 You will unlock lots of achievements during the game as you play along. I suggest you to rent it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burney77
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Viking Battle for Asgard displays certain qualities not many other games have for example you are 
 involved in large battle but you only have to control yourself, whilst the other men do their own 
 thing. The game sets many challenges and it requires you to really think about how each of your 
 moves are going to work. It is a great game for those who like logic and not so good for those 
 who lack it. Although the fight scenes are bloody and brutal they do not show enough realism in 
 the way that nearly none of your men die and all of the other teams men are destroyed.
  
  The game its self is easy and you can select from two difficulties at the beginning of the game 
 'normal' or 'hard'. The names dont really mean what they mean and when it says hard it has to mean 
 hard, not you running around like a little girls killing everything in site, thats just gay Unless 
 your play Grand Theft Auto but now im getting of topic.
  
  The game is good other than the skill ratings and its more for eight year olds with no brain despite 
 the MA15+ rating.
  
  signing out
  Burney77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince132
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Well I saw videos of this and was under the impression this game would be jumping into large fights 
 with the main protaganist. Sounds great fun. 
  
  Lots to see and it's a beautiful game, but there is lack of depth in fighting. Gets rather tiresome 
 wandering around doing subquests. Even if you do have tremedous patience, you will get bored stomping 
 around to get to your next objective.
  
  First playing the game is smooth animation with big characters. Its fun to chop a few legion soldiers. 
 I watch the animation of Skarrin chopping each arm and then the head clean off. Impressive. And 
 then a new one... everyones favorite-cleave him in 2 and his legs are still trying to walk for 2 
 secs then they fall down. Who goes to work designing games and says I'll design that death scene?
 
  
  So why are you doing this? The Legion are the enemy. Legion of the undead warriors who were not allowed 
 into Vahalla and went to Hel. Why must you do this? Cos Freya says. Thats why. Why? Cos she has a falling 
 out with Hel the goddess of the underworld. So why me? Just do it and shut up.
  
  You were dead. Now she brought you back to life, so you can fufill your destiny. That is the story. 
 Ok motivation over? For the rest of the game Freya will yap in your ear about freeing vikings in 
 order to get rid of Hel from her wonderful land. If its so wonderful Freya.. why don't you lift your 
 finger then.
  
  Characterisation is lacking here and it comes across a bit lazy. All the vikings sound like farmers 
 saying macho such as "eeee by gum I am need of drink but I'm too scared to go out there get the 
 crates myself Skarrin-you go get it."
  
  Feels a strange lonely disconnected affair as your character has no personality. Should have got 
 Brian Blessed to do the voiceover for Skarrin. We never know what hes thinking. Story is told through 
 graphic novel flashes give a little bit-not enough. I am sure more story could have been told about 
 the 2 goddess and we could have had Thor and Odin make an appearance :
  
  Killing can be done by learning 2 combos that you can use throughout the whole entire game. Skarrin 
 can shoulder charge all enemies the same size as him so once you knock em off balance stick the 
 axes in. Thats it!
  
  Skarrin does not get any new weapons which is a disappointment. Damage can be upgraded through 
 magic of fire, lightning and ice. The main weapons are increased in power through forging in specific 
 temples and hard to reach places which are usually miles away on the map.
  
  In order to level up your combo set you must FIND the Arena. His later moves suck. You can get by 
 the whole game with a couple of moves only. The gameplay hinges on a rage meter. If the rage meter 
 has nothing you cannot do the special moves you learnt. So do the basic ones always. Why have special 
 ones if they use so much rage?
  
  The game gets tiresome for the lack of variety and not enough thought to gameplay. Let me explain. 
 There are 2 modes to play. Normal solo play where you fight the legion on your own to free your 
 men and other objective summon the dragon by getting its stone. The objectives are like a dog and 
 disappoint me. Go here fetch that . In other words free the imprisoned vikings and get them all 
 together for a good invasion of the main base. There are 3 dragons in the game which involve alot 
 of faffing about in order to get each of the stones. These can be used as an aerial bomb when you 
 are invading the base with ur men.
  
  Back to gameplay. At the end of collecting all your vikings and dragon stones. You can invade the 
 main legion settlement. Then you do it again on the next island. Only you have more guys to free 
 on a much bigger island. Damn more walking and more of the same. Variety is sadly lacking in this 
 game. Even Beowolf and Conan have more different types of enemies than in this game. Here they are 
 Soldiers, berkserkers, soldiers with shields, soldiers with horns, assasins, champions, giants, 
 and shamans. The AI is strange. Hit them and run away a little bit. The enemy AI is thick. They 
 only follow you for a short time and give up. So you can lead a few from a pack and pick them off. 
 Skarrin will die easy if he has many soldiers at him. Not exactly Beowolf is he??
  
  Invasion play is what was advertised on the boxes and shown in the videos. Many characters on screen 
 having a good bash, with massive enemies and it looks appealing. But its shallow when doing it 
 in-game. Why? Because you-Skarrin. Must kill the Shamans. Why? Because they are like Gauntlet generators. Spewing 
 more and more soldiers. So run through everyone to get to the shamans and kill them. Battle over.
 
  The map is sometimes unclear above/unground situations. The inventory is fine. The camera is too 
 close and enemies hit you off screen. 
  
  Getting from place to place can be alot of exploring, seeing an empty expanse of map. Transport 
 quickly is done through loadstones, but these must be found, and are thin on the ground later in 
 the game. A horse would have been nice. This could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: db53481
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD STUFF: GORY-lots of blood and finishing moves. PRETTY-bad azz graphics. LARGE SCALE BATTLES-lots 
 of enemys on screen.
  
  THE CRAPPY STUFF: OLD-gets old you find yourself doing the same things over and over again. MUSIC-hardly 
 any music but, when there is it sucks you might as well put on some nickleback instead. STORY LINE-Blech.
 
  
  
  So at the beggining of this epic tale you start off as some tough azz viking to whome i canot remember 
 the name. Well anyway your this viking that goes around slashing, haking, and Mourding undead legionares 
 and giants and such. The only flaws i saw was the way the game repeted itself over and over time 
 and time again. The gore can only get you so far after a while the finishers are all the smae and 
 the battles hartless. not so bad at the beggining but then you start seeing the same old pattern 
 over and over again and again again again again again.
  
  This review is complimenteary of :Gods reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  You knew all of these summer films right? They are all basically the same thing, not a lot of depth, 
 a lot of clichs, but are still fun to watch right? Well, I just basically summed up Viking: Battle 
 for Asgard for you. It follows the same action/adventure formula that so many games have used, 
 but it is an enjoyable game... mostly.
  
  First of all, The brutal combat and the epic battles are fun. As well... um... that's about it.
 
  
  Throw in some tedious missions, a lack of story, no multiplayer, minimal replay value and techinal 
 problems, and you have the greatest game of the 2008.
  
  If you did not get the sarcasm above, the violence make the entire game worthwhile which is offered 
 by a variety of different moves that give you a lot of freedom and control. Its just a shame that 
 their is so much filler between the fights and all of the other bugs are present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 11, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Norse Mythology goes about how brave their Gods are, for they are aware of their demise from the 
 very first moment they were created. That begining of the end happens with the death of Baldur 
 and imprisonment of the architect of his death, the treacherous god Loki. Loki has two suns and 
 a daughter: Fenrir, Jomungandr, and Hel. Fenrir is a giant wolf, Jomungandr a giant snake, and 
 Hel is the daughter of Loki with a giant woman, she's also a giant, all three children have the 
 ability to change form, like their father, but he stabilished certain forms for each of them. When 
 the almighty Odin found out about the children he sent out the Gods to terminate them, but things 
 didn't turn out as expected. Hel got sent to rule the underworld (also called Hel) and the souls 
 of deadmen who didn't have a honorable death. Fenrir was cast to darkness and bound in chains, 
 and the Snake hid itself underneath the sea (circling Midgard/Earth) . It is said that when Loki 
 himself escpaes from his torture and imprisionment he'll call forth his children, and they will 
 call their army of the damned, who will begin their raids against Midgard and Asgard (land of the 
 gods) and finally break in Walhalla (the castle of the gods) , that is called the Ragnarok, The 
 Twilight of the Gods, in this final battle all gods will die, and a new era will rise for mankind, 
 aeons after that it is said that Baldur will come back from the dead to bring a new era of peace 
 for men...
  Viking: Battle for Asgard puts you in the role of a mysterious character named Skarin, as the game 
 begins Skarin is chosen by godess Freya to be her champion against the Legion of Hel, Hel has invaded 
 Midgard and plans to take over Asgard afterwards. Other than that story there's the tale of Hel's 
 champion and of Skarin himself, unfortunately both stories are very weak and do not add up to anything.
 
  The game consists of a series of conflicts to reach two big battles per island which will then 
 allow you to travel to a new island (3 Islands) and do it all over again. Fortunately this consists 
 of many different tasks which range from freeind viking clans to summoning creatures and upgrading 
 your weapons. Also, the freed vikings always ask for something else so they can join your army, 
 that usually means killing a traitor, freeing some other guys or even getting them some food so 
 they can strength themselves for battle. After you do everything you'll go to a major battle, this 
 time you won't be alone, but accompanied by every army you freed and even dragons you have summoned.
 
  But not all that glitters is gold: the game features no music or decent soundeffects for most 
 of its duration. You'll be running in an open world with a huge NOTHING of sounds and real bad 
 soundeffects. The major battles however carry a great soundtrack, but don't expect anything else.
 
  Graphics are great when it comes to the sculpting of enemies and main characters (Skarin, Freya 
 and Hel) , however, when they engage in some kind of conversation you realise there's no life to 
 them, their eyes don't move, their mouth do not correspond to what they're saying. This is BAD, 
 really bad.
  Scenario is gorgeous and very credible, being one of the few good points of the game.
  Gamepaly 
 is pretty bad, sometimes the camera will twist in the worng angle and you'll hit the wrong enemy. 
 Also, everything you do (open a door, a chest, etc.) requires button smashing, that tech is pretty 
 good when you're fighting Giants, Champions and other enemies, but makes no sense when you have 
 to open a normal door. Every time you hit an enemy too hard you'll be prompted to do a "fatality", 
 which are really cool and very brutal, and if you're fighting a giant or a champion and some other 
 tipes of enemies you'll have to go through a sequence of button smashing instead (killing giants, 
 most of all, is really neat) .
  The game loses itself however when you reach the final battle (that's why I said the game is HARD) : 
 I went through the whole game on hard difficulty and never had to use a single potion to restore 
 health, but I almost gave up on the endgame. The final battle isn't hard, but frustrating, the 
 camera is awful, the enemies come at you in absurd ammounts and well, if you quit the game and 
 come back again you have to go through the very begining of the battle again (almost an hour) , 
 that's simply no fun. I managed to end the game after trying a lot, the final sequence is cool, 
 giving a solid end to the game, but the battle is really frustrating.
  Another bad point to the game is that it has no CGI or anything of the sort, everywhere you could 
 expect an animation you'll get a bunch of still comic-book-like images with an old man narrating 
 what is happening.
  This game is only reccomended to those who are REALLY fans of norse mythology and won't care about 
 the true norse plots being twisted in one or another place. For everyone else this is a bad version 
 of God of War. And for anyone at all, make sure you play before you buy it. What aggravates the 
 most in the game is that anyone can see that it had potential to be amongst the best, but the weak 
 development of the game is sad at the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Muscular, masculine males equipped with a little less than a handful of pixels as amour are a common 
 feature in today's gaming design, but extremely rarely has a Viking warrior taken the honours as 
 such a protagonist. Now the Norse men have their chance to invade your living room in a game with 
 as much grace as a one-legged, drunken hippopotamus.
  
  Assuming the role of disgraced warrior Skarin, you are assigned to travel the land in search of 
 troops who will aid you to eliminate goddess Hel's forces who has set her sights on mankind. Cut 
 scenes will remind you of why your slicing 'n' dicing, but you'll mostly be skipping them all as 
 the story consists of being the good guy and wiping out the evil. Not that it matters, let us tell 
 you why..
  
  The gameplay is as brutal, nasty but just as satisfying as a couple of stuffed crust meat lover's 
 pies from Pizza Hut. You will carve off limbs, decapitate hordes of heads and see blood spray on 
 every wall nearby in a quest to rid the land of Hel's army; it's typical hack and slasher combat, 
 however, it is both entertaining and well produced to save it from monotony which so often plagues 
 the genre.
  
  Your control pad will take a good pounding as you travel the lands, but timing single button combos 
 in true God of War style will see Skarin complete special attacks which unleash his real fury. 
 You will also need to unlock and use more advanced attacks if you want to defeat the many larger 
 enemies in the game, as well as master dodging and a few upgrades  the upgrades which are actually 
 of use, unlike the lightning magic which seems to do little else than make it look a bit more exciting.
 
  
  You will lead Skarin over three large islands, each occasion seeking out fellow troops until you 
 have sufficient numbers to engage in colossal, limb shredding climaxes which involve literally 
 hundreds of raging Nordic warriors. Although your control over combatants is very limited, it is 
 a fantastic sight seeing battles on such scale. You also play a pivotal role during the chaos, 
 which is one of the game's largest achievements, as you gratifyingly rip through dozens of Scandinavian 
 hearts.
  
  Surprisingly, these huge battles aren't the finest parts of the game; they suffer from tremendous 
 reductions in frame rate which almost bring the bloodshed to a standstill. However, they are still 
 made highly enjoyable because of the combat and the ridiculously fantastic amounts of gore.
  
  It is interesting seeing a free-roam game mixed with a hack 'n' slasher. The results: mixed. 
 Midgard is a pretty place with a large amount of places to explore and, while entertaining to choose 
 an enemy strong hold to pick off next, it grows repetitive due to the complete lack of variety 
 in the tasks. On each occasion you must eliminate a few enemies and either save some captured warriors 
 by a) untying them from a post, or b) unlocking them from a big rib-cage thing by hammering the 
 b button; there aren't any side missions so to speak of, just the same missions over and over. 
 Stealth sections lack any real tension, either, but they rarely occur.
  
  This is the predicament Viking: Battle of Asgard finds itself in: it's a one trick pony. Sure, 
 the audio may consist of minimal sounds, the missions repetitive and the story lackluster, but 
 the core gameplay is strong enough to sever past these short comings in an adventure which will 
 see you cringe with delight as you battle your way to Nordic freedom.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkelf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Viking Battle for Asgard, is another game out there trying to make a foothold in the vast multicultural 
 genres of games out there. Its definitely one of those games that only a true gamer can come to 
 appreciate. All those people out there that are waiting for the next big and bad game to come out 
 will be disappointed by this game, and come to think of it by any game cause the companies out 
 there always have to top each others games and they don't want it to be "too good" cause then they 
 wont by multiple games and only be stuck on that one game for a while. With that said, you have 
 to be familiar and diverse in the games that you play to understand the concept behind creative 
 assembly madness. This game for instance has a mediocre story line and typically using some relative 
 content from other games like Total War and Lord of the Rings and kind of rolling into one. Now, 
 are they copying? No. but you can definitely see the relation and similarities. But, what can you 
 expect Total war and Lord of the Rings, for example, are really BIG games and cover a lot of content 
 and technically can be copied by any game from some point of view cause of the similarities.
  
  Viking has its strengths like the detail to combat and the simplicity of the controls making 
 the learning curve about 10-15 mins. But, the downside to the game just like hundreds of games 
 out there the storyline could of been put to more thought. This is the number one reason why most 
 gamers buy games now days is because of the story line and how good it is. If the game catches 
 the attention of the gamer and sucks him in.... well then you got your self a selling game. Viking 
 has and doesn't have that catch to it. The combat is awesome and can be fun when you get to fight 
 a lot of people at once. But can have its down side as well when the combat becomes repetitive. 
 But everyone knows that single player fighting games in this type of format can be repetitive, 
 and thats why folks you have to have a great story line to contradict that con. Viking Battle for 
 Asgard is a good game and it has its up and can be exciting when you give it a chance. Play it 
 all the way through and appreciate it for the game it is and you will come to value the games meaning. 
 Thx Monkelf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  If you plan to make a game that is generic you have all the foundations to make it great,
  
  Lets make a big open word with just about nothing in it.
  Jump of a cliff is about the best 
 way of getting around cos you end up at a portal and just go from there.
  
  Looks great but it is not always about that ,targeting system makes you slice at grass most of 
 the time you only need to use two buttons at a time but that does not even work as planned.
  
  this could have been such a great game but someone must have been off sick or out on lunch. it 
 is not finished guys
  
  If back in the day this game was sold as mead the Vikings would have your heart for lunch.
  
 
  Steal the worst from the best and you end up with this, Cry your heart out and they will give your 
 money back Not...
  
  Unsatisfactory product, save your fingers rather watch a good horror film. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpwagener
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I had to chime in since there are lots of naysayers lately. If you are looking for mulitplayer 
 then you will be sorely disappointed. If you are interested in a single player campaign, then give 
 the game a chance. I suggest renting it since there is no multiplayer. 
  
  I, too, didn't enjoy the first few minutes of play, because it is different using these controls. 
 But (like every game on the planet) once you take a few minutes to learn them it's fine.
  
  The game develops a bit slow, but it gets quite interesting as it goes along. It is kind of a hybrid 
 open-ended & linear composite, since you need to fulfill some quests to get to the larger battles 
 and open up more of the map. The open ended part means that you can choose which quests to do, 
 so long as you complete them all to open these large-scale, fun battles.
  
  The graphics are very enjoyable and the gameplay is fun. The maps are large, but there are teleporting 
 leystones to shorten the journeys, once you discover them. Some missions are stealth while others 
 are through the front door. The concept is that you need to free enough imprisoned vikings to create 
 the large army for battle.
  
  It is very much hack 'n slash, with a little magic that you don't need to use if you aren't into 
 it. Death is no big deal because you just respawn back at the base, which is nice for those times 
 you find yourself overwhelmed in battle.
  
  This game sets no records for greatness, but it does fill a nich. The concept is well thought out 
 and the viking genre is well represented. I recommend giving it a try, but give it a good hour 
 or two to get used to the controls and to see if you like it. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollercrombie
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that you shouldnt really waste your time on this game. I myself didnt even understand 
 the plot... so im saying right now.. That you shouldnt buy it, dont even rent it. Not worth spending 
 10 or 60 bucks. Even the graphics werent that decent, i mean the game looks cool from far away 
 but in all else dont even even waste your breath speaking its name. By far the most appraisal i 
 can give for this game is the ability to slash someone's head off, by far the most appraisal im 
 giving. Im really dissapointed in the creative assembly for trying to make this game a least fun, 
 which i had a hard time achieving while playing it. Eh.... i wish i coulders about this game speak 
 wond i wonders about this game, but then i would be lying to you and myself. So lets all take recovery 
 from this horrific game and just waitpatiently for GTA IV to come out... yeah that sounds good 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishHunta007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The only thing I personally like about this game was the graphics... I really wanted to like this 
 game. The concept is really sweet. Kinda like God of War type deal, only Nordic style!! Yet, this 
 was not what the game was. The charcaters had bodies like people in the original fable (big feet, 
 hands, and weapons) .
  
  The buttons on the controllers really felt misplaced. Skarin was really yhard to manuver sometimes, 
 and the obstacles you could jump over or jump and grab didnt seem consistent! Like I jumped from 
 on side a bridge to another, but then I tried doing that jump on what seemed to be a smaller scale 
 ledge to ledge, and I couldnt do it!
  
  The kills were cool, but seemed pretty repettive. MAybe I needed to learn more moves or something, 
 but played for a couple of hours and it couldnt keep my interest.
  
  Im sure this game appeals to some people, but I couldnt get into it. I gave it a 5.5 because if 
 you beat the game I couldnt really see any replay value in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogdeifiedgod
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  So Viking: Battle for Asgard had potential to be a fun little game. It had a decent premise, a 
 fair combat system, and an attempt at an open world environment.
  
  However, there are also some serious drawbacks.
  
  First and foremost, the game is ridiculously 
 short. The main campaign can be torn through in very little time, the type of short where if you 
 sprain your ankle and have a a day or two where you're better off not walking anywhere, rent it, 
 beat it by the end of the second day, and you can return it before your limp stops being completely 
 noticeable. Did I mention there's ZERO multiplayer? Yeah...
  
  Secondly, the combat system in the beginning of the game can be painful. You've got your basic 
 attack button and you're finisher attack button. Now, although the finishers are gratifying, and 
 it really feels good to hack an enemy until his hand flies off then with one button chop his other 
 arm off before decapitating him, it's still overly simple. Thankfully, you can spend gold at certain 
 spots throughout the game to unlock new moves that range from using the finisher button to end 
 combos with the basic attack button to "rage attacks" (not too mention the fact that you can, nay 
 you HAVE to unlock jump attacks) , plus the absolutely necessary stealth kill move. 
  
  As the game gets going, the combat really does get fun... for a while. But back to that later. The 
 other things that gold can be spent on include items (such as health potions, or thrown weapons) , 
 an increase in your health bar, and, the all important elemental runes. The runes give you the 
 ability to charge your weapon, as well as those of any NPCs around you, with either fire, ice, 
 or lightning. The fire makes enemies writhe in flames for a minute after struck, and ice makes 
 them slow, which can both be useful in big battles. The lightning... well I'd like to think it does 
 more damage per hit instead of adding a status effect, but there's no way to tell. However, any 
 of these abilities can, at times, be lifesavers when surrounded and they charge reasonably quickly 
 as long as you keep killing enemies.
  
  The game is sometimes reminiscent of Assassin's Creed in that the majority of the game is completing 
 simple tasks, such as find the thing, or rescue the people until you've gotten yourself ready for 
 the Big Mission. Except, the Big Mission in Assassin's Creed was an intricate, sneak in, assassinate 
 the target all stealth like, then make your daring escape. In Viking, you're a Viking, so the Big 
 Mission is considerably different. The Big Mission is, in fact, a massive battle. Enemies and allies 
 alike are all over the place battling it out, and your objectives for each stage of the battle 
 boil down to "Kill the shaman so he can't teleport in more bad guys". You're not alone in the battles, 
 however, you also have the ability to make your pet dragons (rewards for finding the thing) obliterate 
 certain targets, which gives you that warm and fuzzy "I love the smell of napalm in the morning" 
 feeling.
  
  The last bit of the game gets a bit tedious. All the enemies have massive health, or giant shields, 
 or their attacks require completely different timing to counter from everything else you've faced 
 thus far. Then, after you complete the final battle, you get a solo tower ascent that could be 
 worse, followed by a boss fight that can only be described as a reason not to finish the game. 
 It's impossibly hard if you have no health potions, and there's no way to get more once the battle 
 has started, so if you use some, or heaven forbid all, of them by the time you get to this point, 
 you're out of luck. The real kicker is that if you get to this point, recognize you're in trouble, 
 so quit out, you will still have no health potions and only whatever money you had before the battle 
 started, and with the auto-save feature in full effect, that's a game breaker.
  
  So rent it if you want some stupid fun, beat it if you don't screw yourself, and enjoy it if you 
 can, but if you buy this game... don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josepiphus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  As I played through the first third of this game the negative reviews simply baffled me. The game 
 play was sharp and satisfying, guts we're torn from evil abdomens and the grass was rich and green. 
 The voice acting was engaging and the battles we're epic. The side quests we're varied and interesting. 
 The NPC's seemed, if not alive, at least an interesting backdrop to my violent rampage. What with 
 they're punch off's and random prayer sessions or perhaps they just had too much mead. Either way, 
 I was gleefully carving a path of carnage and might when I completed the first island adventure. 
 I delighted in the dragon attacks and cackled gleefully as I sliced through Hel's champions. And 
 then
  
  As I played through second third of the game I realized that indeed, this game has some issues. 
 The NPC's became more and more boring as the various outposts and camps I visited looked and felt 
 nearly exactly the same. The side quests suffered from this feeling of repetition as well. Not 
 to be deterred from having a good time I pushed forward and found quality enjoyment from the beautifully 
 modeled world, the not to varied but still sharp and satisfying combat and the somewhat disjointed 
 feeling plot. That said each and every large battle was epic and astonishingly fun. The glee and 
 sense of accomplishment felt when watching as your dragons turn hordes of baddies into catapulting 
 flaming chunks of meat cannot be understated. But alas the battles don't last forever and eventually...
 
  
  As I played through the third and final Island I was very disappointed. I had resolved myself to 
 the dead NPC's and repetitive side quests. I had come to terms with the fact that the game play 
 wasn't going to change dramatically with new super moves or powers. Yet still I was having fun 
 and looking forward to beating the snot out of Hel. This was also the exact moment that the pop 
 in and draw distance went to @#%$. I found as I traveled through what should have been an impressive 
 environment that all my eye kept going to was the hundreds of little shoots of grass that suddenly 
 popped up when I was finally within the 10 feet the engine required to draw the little buggers 
 in. This is when I realized that I was going to have to grind through the entire island while watching 
 grass magically grow in front of me to reach what I hoped would be the pinnacle of the game, the 
 gigantic battles of the last island. It was also the moment I realized that this game could have 
 been amazing with a little more time and a little more budget. That said the large scale battles 
 in this stage are still epic and some of the most fun I've had adventuring in a long time. All 
 in all a good game that got rushed.
  
  Disclaimer: My blatant dislike of the issues I've described should not be taken as a "don't buy 
 this game" warning. More as a "don't buy this game unless your a fan of the genre and can forgive 
 some flaws" warning.
  
  What I find truly heartbreaking about this is that because of the overzealously negative reviews 
 (undeserved when compared to truly crap games rated similarly) a sequel that solves these problems 
 is nearly out of the question.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbo22
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  
  Since Sega left the console-building world, it has been a decided underdog in the games software 
 market with revenues hopping about more than Boris Johnson on a bendy bus. This month sees two 
 new outings for the 360, Viking  Battle for Asgard and Condemned 2. In Viking you find yourself 
 cast as Skarin, a be-stacked Norseman with a mysterious past. The gameplay is Fable-like, complete 
 with the voices of Somerset farmers and spookily similar sound effects. Skarin spends his time 
 running about some islands, collecting neglected mead and bashing some Hel's Legion sword fodder. 
 It's an RPG wannabe that doesn't offer you many choices but the fight scenes are rather well thought 
 out for something of this scale. Expect slow-motion beheadings and an abundance of assault combos. 
 On the subject of combos, there's a theme of 'B' tapping and after a few hours this left me feeling 
 like I'd been trying to poke Boris Johnson in the eye a lot. 
  
  The second instalment of Condemned is altogether more convinced of its identity than Viking. Ethan 
 Thomas staggers into your controller breathing his acerbic, booze-ridden breath all over your screen. 
 After you've wiped down prepare for a tense,  ride through the 
 pits of human hysteria and drugdom. The game has a healthy dose of hallucinogenics. It could be 
 Ethan's Special Brew-induced coma or it could be his first real experience of lucidity. One still 
 can't help but feel a pang of guilt as you lop another possible innocent over the head with a prosthetic 
 limb. Of particular note are the exploding dolls and mannequin 'incidents.' Condemned 2 is challenging, 
 terrifying and brilliant. 
  
  If you're sick of mayoral candidates, and even Ethan Thomas doesn't electrify your Underground, 
 then why not try an Army of Two? It's another military game with some big guns and bigger boys. 
 As usual the Americans are out saving the world from the bad guys and this time it's Rios and Salem. 
 The 360 is still lacking in single console, offline multiplayer games so it's great to see one 
 on the scene. There's no doubt that engaging in some banter with your mates and playing co-op is 
 one of the best things about a console. This game is built around that idea and you'll have no 
 problem finding the funny side of the homosexual undertones. Unfortunately the constant high-fiving 
 and man love can get somewhat repetitive by the sixth mission. In all: banterrific fun, not to 
 be taken too seriously but probably not quite worth the hefty 49.99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koknarr
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  While if I try hard, I can understand why gamespot reviewed it mediocre, but the fact of scoring 
 Conan 7.5 and Viking 5.0 is beyond any logic of evaluating a video game. Viking is a game That falls 
 under the category of fine next-gen console titles. First of all its fun. I read about how combat 
 can get repetitive but this game is about combat and you can make it diverse yourself by using 
 different moves and trying to fight each enemy differently. I mean, was not God Of War in some way 
 similar? There were about 10 moves in your arsenal that you were actually using more frequently. 
 At some point you have to use same move again. Of course Viking is not as good as God Of War but 
 it has its moments. Graphics are just fine. This is a good looking game. It is not short for an action 
 game and will last at least as long as most of other titles in genre. You can read Gamespot review 
 to learn about the story of the game (not that great but gives the idea of why you are fighting) . Overall 
 Viking is a good action game and if you liked god of war or other action games of same style (there 
 is really nothing that is on par with God of War, nevertheless the genre includes some excellent 
 titles like Heavenly Sword) there is a good chance you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Epic large battles, satisfying gore and open world, Viking: Battle for Asgard as everything the 
 fans of these sort of games are looking for, except for a multiplayer mode.
  
  When you start, the combat is pretty basic, but as you buy more techniques it becomes better and 
 better, I, for one, don't find it boring and is, on the other hand, very exciting. 
  
  There isn't much of a developped storyline but the addictive combat makes it up for it and the 
 time going around the island to find bags, urns and treasure chests for more gold is, not like 
 one would think, far from being long and boring, as maps are available to buy showing yellow dots 
 on the radar where they are.
  
  The missions are repetitive but the amount of combat, with just a bit of stealth (only if you want 
 to take them out one by one instead of fighting the lot of them at the same time) makes it for 
 the better.
  
  Not like games similar to let's say, Dinasty Warriors, you can't take on an unbelievable amount 
 of enemy on your own. Unless you have the army of viking backing you, trying to intercept one of 
 the Legion patrols of 50+ men is suicidal (and it doesn't even have framerate issues when you see 
 this huge amount of enemies walk by) , and this adds to the feeling you're not a god, even if you 
 were blessed by one.
  
  So if you like brutal games where you fight great battles with a dragon and an army of bloodthirsty 
 warriors backing you ... Viking: Battle for Asgard is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simulator_Shock
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts about this game when it first came out but then again I couldn't help but noticed 
 that it looked like a Scandinavian version of God of War. 
  After debating whether or not to buy it, I said what the hell and took the plunge. 
  When I got 
 home and started playing I thought it would be cool at first but then I quickly changed my mind. 
 I found this game to be pretty fun and innovative once you get the controls and gameplay down. 
 The combat in the game is all real time and at first its confusing and seems too hard but once 
 you get down the block and counter system it gets a lot better. The only game I can compare the 
 combat to is Fable. The combat in this game will feel very familer to that game to those of you 
 who have played it. Another really cool part about this game is the face that you can run around 
 the big maps (yes big) and free kidnapped vikings and then build up your army and attack enemy 
 bases and take them back for yourself. The army battles are really really cool because there are 
 literary hundreds of of npc's running around everywhere and it really gives you a sence of being 
 in a huge battle. I give Sega props for that because I havent seen too many next-gen games do that 
 unfortunately. But anyhow, to sum this up, if you like God of War and didn't mind the combat in 
 Fable, then chances are you will enjoy this game, but it might not be your thing, so rent it if 
 your not too sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoidbergUK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle For Asgard
  
  
  Developed By: Creative Assembly
  Published By: Sega
  Release Date: US - Mar 25th, 2008 AU - Mar 27th, 2008 EU - Mar 28th, 2008
  
  Rated M for Mature
 
  
  
  Overview
  
  The goddess of the Underworld, Hel, is bitter about being banished from Asgard and unleashes her 
 hordes upon the mortal realm of Midgard in hopes of releasing Fenrir. Freya, Asgard's goddess of 
 War, appears to one wounded viking named Skarin to make him her champion and tasks him with stopping 
 Hel from bringing about Ragnarok. It's up to Skarin to free his fellow vikings, raise an army and 
 fight against Hel's forces in Freya's name to save Asgard and the Gods.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Viking: BFA is a third-person action adventure game that features brutal & bloody combat, some 
 elements of open-ended exploration as well as large scale assault battles featuring literally hundreds 
 of characters onscreen.
  
  Skarin must secure three seperate islands by completing tasks such as liberating lumber mills and 
 clearing out enemy fortifications, eventually leading up to one final large scale assault. Each 
 island has approximately two to three large assaults. Island exploration basically consists of 
 finding smashable pots with gold, sacks of gold, chests containing gold and also finding the occasional 
 keg of beer..... That's it.
  
  Combat is extremely simple yet satisfying purely for the fact that gratuitous amounts of limbs 
 will go flying as Skarin charges into battle. Skarin dual-wields his sword and axe to great effect, 
 with plenty of dismemberments, but unless players learn to utilize their blocking skills they will 
 die rather quickly as enemies can gang up on you fast! Skarin can power up his weapon with runes 
 (Ice, Fire & Lightning) with three varying levels which conjointly power up any surrounding vikings 
 in your army. Stealth kills may also be performed but many times the enemy will notice you for 
 no reason and ruin your sneakiness. Advanced combat moves may also be unlocked, but in my opinion 
 the combat can become repetitive.
  
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Viking: BFA look great to be honest. For some reason the style of art really reminds 
 me of a hyper-polished version of Fable. When you liberate a section of land from Hel's grip the 
 environments are nice and lush, with bright colors and nice bloom lighting effects. Most of the 
 time though you'll be trudging through a rainy and dull landscape fighting Hel's minions. As great 
 as the graphics look though it kind of detracts from the game when you're constantly in only one 
 of two environments.... either sunny and happy or rainy and dark.
  
  
  
  
  Controls
  
  Very simplified combat controls make Viking easy to pick up without having a steep learning 
 curve to adjust to. Advanced combat manuevers are also easy to pull off, but you may find yourself 
 using regular attacks most of the time. Biggest complaint in this section is the absolutely horrible 
 camera angles that this game subjects you to. Expect to fidget around with the camera controls 
 quite a bit throughout the game, and even with all your attempts you will probably still die once 
 or twice from off-screen attacks you didn't notice. It would have been nice to have a zoom feature 
 because the camera feels just too close to the screen sometimes.
  
  
  Sound
  
  You'll be hearing footsteps for weeks after playing this game..... yup, I said it.... footsteps.
 
  
  Ok, now that you're thoroughly confused allow me to explain. Viking: BFA is so drastically missing 
 a soundtrack that sometimes you wonder what's going on, all while listening to Skarin's footsteps 
 slapping across the islands.
  
  Footsteps on grass.... footsteps on snow.... footsteps in water..... footsteps on wood.... it's 
 all here and available for purchase on CD! Well, maybe not a CD release, but it will make you wish 
 for some battle music to accompany the ambient sounds like the rushing wind and birds. This isn't 
 to say that there isn't ANY battle music, it's just very few and far between.
  
  And what the HECK is Skarin doing when he "Summons" a Dragon? I'm not sure if it's grunting, yelling 
 or what. Trust me, when he gets down on his knees and throws his arms up in the air the first time 
 he summons one you'll probably laugh.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  None. No leaderboards, no nothing.
  
  
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Zoidberg says 7.5 out of 
 10
  
  Viking is a fun romp through Norse mythology but it's short and a bit on the repetitive side. It's 
 a no-brain hack & slash game that seperates itself from the rest through it's use of large-scale 
 battles as well as Skarin's penchant for dismembering bad dudes and stabbing them in the head repeatedly. 
 Expect to complete the game in 6-14 hours depending on playstyle, exploration and difficulty level. 
 This game really does not have any replay value either, with no incentive to go back through the 
 game again with better weapons or anything, so you might as well try to complete it on Hard on 
 your first playthrough. Viking: BFA is definitely worth checking out as at least a rental if you 
 enjoy mindless violence and bloodshed, but I can't recommend a purchase due to it being short, 
 lacking a soundtrack and abysmal camera angles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator702
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  I started playing this before GS reviewed it, and while I was playing it.. i predicted GS would 
 at least give it an 8.0. So to my surprise it was a 5.0. Anyway I just beat it a few hours ago... and 
 its AT LEAST a rent. If you have the $60, go ahead and spend it. I myself just rent alot of games 
 that i'm unsure of, but if I would have known.. I probably wouldve bought this. It's actually insanely 
 fun to have bullet time-esque Viking/Monster gore. The battles are really epic too.. frame rate 
 is only a MINOR issue. It's not as bad as it's made out to be because it doesnt slow down all that 
 much.. although I do agree with these next gen consoles they shouldn't slow down at all. Anway, 
 if youre a fan of Viking lore, lord of the rings, medieval times, etc. Play this.. it shall not 
 dissappoint. There is fun to be had with this game, that I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Alright.. While Viking: Battle For Asgard may not be the most innovative, nor the most graphically 
 amazing game ever, I've enjoyed every moment I played it... Well, except for those times where 
 you get surrounded by... more than 5 units... and cannot escape. Or fight. Or live. Luckily, you 
 can revive and infinite number of times, so, it's no biggie if you die. 
  
  "If at first you don't succeed, try, try, and try again, then finally succeed in bashing those 
 bastards' heads in!" ...
  
  (I think that's how it goes, anyway.)
  
  Viking may not have the best combat system... (... Okay, it downright sucks.) 
  But, once you 
 figure it out, it's generally fairly easy to kill off dozens of opponents; even when surrounded! 
 However, until you get some better moves... The game is going to be hell in combat. (Tip: BLOCK. 
 Block all the time; quick two-three hit combo, then BLOCK. Basically, being a turtle is extremely 
 useful in this game.)
  
  And while Viking: Battle For Asgard's graphics aren't the most amazing I've ever seen... they are 
 tastefully done. I mean, they aren't anywhere near the quality of some of the games I've played... 
 (Oblivion, after Oscuro's mod, and about 30 other mods, for one.)
  
  I've got no idea why, but the music is actually fairly nice, even if it is only the same few pieces. 
 It's reminiscent of Lord of the Rings; orchestral music. You might think murdering hundreds of 
 enemies would get boring after a while (... or not.) , but, the music just adds so much to the game. 
 
  
  I personally found the ability to use the "Runes", the "Magic spells" in the game sort of useless. 
 I mean, wow, you gather red orbs from enemies you kill, and can activate this power that makes 
 your attacks light people on fire, or freeze, or be electrocuted. It's pretty much worthless for 
 everything -- EXCEPT SIEGES. Whenever you're going to assault an enemy base, make sure you have full 
 Rage or whatever they call it. You can easily gain ground just by activating Fire or Ice, or even 
 Lightning. 
  
  Personally, this game was pathetically easy. I mean, it's so easy that on Normal, someone who's 
 under the age that one should be when playing a Mature game (I'm not gonna judge people who do, 
 as I really, really don't care) would find it easy. It's that simple, the game can be won by pretty 
 much anyone with some patience. 
  
  This game is not cream of the crop, nor is it the best game that has ever been made. It's an alright 
 game that didn't get overhyped, nor will sell that well; especially because of the Gamespot official 
 review.
  
  The game has potential, but the developers didn't quite finish it... I don't mean that the game 
 doesn't feel unfinished, but it feels like they rushed on some areas... I mean, come on, what viking 
 drowns in under ten seconds? (You can't swim. INCREDIBLY irritating.) 
  
  Alright... The game gets a 7.5 from me, because I don't judge a game just because some missions 
 are repetitive. I judge a game by how much fun I had playing it. I enjoyed playing Viking: Battle 
 For Asgard. It's not innovative, it doesn't have a ton of original content, it just has one Viking 
 who has been chosen as Freya's champion. (The game feels like it wants to be God of War, but with 
 Norse mythology.) 
  
  [SPOILER]
  
  I'm going to post my favorite segment in the game. Those who don't want any of it spoiled, scroll 
 away from this part.
  
  [YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED...]
  
  My favorite part in the game is the first Siege; the last major battle of the second world, where 
 you have battering rams, archers, and so many units... Not to mention having two dragons at once, 
 it's just... Something about this siege, fighting through a castle, fighting through countless 
 hordes of Hel's undead minions with my viking brethren just... It was one of the best moments I've 
 ever had; it actually drew me into the game world, which is probably what saved the game from getting 
 below 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lots of gore, well balanced overall, huge worlds, forgiving difficulty
  
  The Bad: Gets repetitive for some, too few animations, too short, the game is missing a few key 
 elements
  
  I just played Viking anyway because it was getting great user reviews, and I'm glad I listened. 
 Viking may not have much story, it may be repetitive sometimes, and the graphics may not outdo 
 every game out there, but it's just fun! The story is something about a Viking clan battling the 
 Legion over who gets Asgard. While the story fills you in here and there it's confusing, and pointless. 
 The game consists of lots of hacking and slashing, and Viking takes this literally. You can lop 
 off heads, slice torsos in half etc all in detailed gore. The levels you explore are HUGE and thanks 
 to the "Leystone" warp system it makes things easier. While you travel around the 3 huge islands 
 you discover these Leystones and they let you warp about. The game is built around missions that 
 are easily located on your map so you'll NEVER get lost, yet gives you the challenge to find the 
 right hidden paths. Some missions have you sneaking into places (it works) , and you can perform 
 stealth kills (more on the upgrade system soon) to sneak in quietly. What I loved was that you 
 never get lost sneaking into these HUGE bases so trial and error doesn't exist. The paths are easily 
 laid out for you, but you have to search to find them. This is just another reason of how well 
 balanced this whole game is. You also have a magic system which lets you charge up your sword with 
 either fire, ice, or lightning and you can lay waste to foes with this. I, personally, never used 
 these much because the regular hits do just fine. You can use throwing axes, fire pots, and I also 
 played through the WHOLE game without using one single healing potion. This doesn't mean the game 
 is easy it's just that the game is so forgiving about checkpoints and the Leystone system just 
 works so well. The best part about this game are the large scale battles. When you've gathered 
 enough forces to raid each fort you engage battles with thousands of people on screen and you also 
 have dragons helping you. This is where some RTS gameplay comes in. You have to kill Shamans in 
 order to advance to the next part of the fort. You get "Rune stones" by killing enemies in red 
 so your dragons can take out enemies. Each type of enemy requires a certain number of rune stones. 
 This makes the battles both easier, and more interesting. This game does have many faults. There 
 is slow down in places you wouldn't expect, and the framerate drops in the single digits. I felt 
 like I was playing on an old computer sometimes. While the combat system is good it's missing a 
 dodge button. All of the abilities you learn are well balanced, but some can't be performed right 
 due to enemy cheap shots. The graphics are nice, but are repeated over and over and aren't anything 
 unique. The sound is pretty scarce (GS did get that right) . There is only good music during massive 
 battles. The game is pretty short closing in on 10 hours. I also can't help but mention that the 
 game felt like parts of other games. The exploration felt like Oblivion while the combat felt like 
 Lord of the Rings and certain "button sequences" were ripped straight from God of War. These aspects 
 are welcome but aren't done as well as said games. This game is a great weekend rental, but nothing 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard209
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  okay, the pluses: great graphics, and fun combat in single player.
  minuses: pathetic story, repetition, poorly done battle format, terrible camera angles.
  
  
 i'm a huge fan of the total war series, so when i heard creative assembly was involved and that 
 there would be large scale battles, i was very excited. the majority of the game, where you're 
 by your self, is well done. though the quests you are sent on are very repetitive, the gameplay 
 is very enjoyable. hacking up undead soldiers, chopping there heads off, slicing them in half before 
 they know you're there doesn't get old. where this game fails is in the battle sequences. it's 
 utter chaos and with the terrible camera angles you can hardly see who your focused on. then there's 
 the foolishness with the dragons. they don't do anything unless you have runes stones which you 
 can only get by killing champions, giants, or shamans. if i have a dragon on my side, i think i'm 
 going to mop the floor with anyone. it's just a poor piece of gameplay. the way the game works, 
 don't even bother with health potions. just fight till you die and come right back at the battle 
 again and again.
  
  if you want to play this game, rent it only, never bye. there's no reason to ever play it again 
 if you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillipz2
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't agree with giving it a 5 as it is a fun game, reminded me of God Of War which i liked 
 a lot. At first it seemed like my kind of game, good story, free roam, world looked quite good 
 and there was lots of blood and gore. However this assumption was premature as the story was poorly 
 told with a terrible ending (i wont spoil it, the game does a good enough job of that) . The free 
 roam was lacking because it gave the illusion that it was Oblivion-esque but i was disappointed 
 at how small it actually was, it did look quite good though. Very limited side missions, and as 
 a massive GTA fan i felt a bit cheated by that, and as a result replay value was non existent which 
 seemed a bit of a rip off as game was quite short and too easy. The fighting was quite fun but 
 the weapons weren't varied enough, with the only option being upgrading the weapons you already 
 have, and even then i didn't notice a significant change. My main problem with the game was that 
 the creators could have done so much more but didn't and as a result it all felt a bit rushed. 
 I haven't completely slammed it though as i did enjoy it in places but i would definitly rent before 
 you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpkeatings
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  viking is a throw back to the days of Golden Axe. sure the game is nothing to do with Golden Axe 
 seeing as for some reason i can relate the characters of Golden Axe closer to the Conan and Red 
 Sonya films but you get what i mean. The game reminds you of the days were you play as a big beefy 
 man barely wearing any armor and taking on god knows knows what from god knows were! 
  
  STORY
  
  Viking starts you off as a recently resurrected Skarin after having his ass royally 
 kicked by a legion member. A Norse god called Freya brings you back to life in order to fight the 
 forces of Hel, an other semi god thingy who well pissed off about being banished for allegedly 
 trying to over throw Odin, Top god of Valhalla. She wishes to take over Midgard in an act of revenge 
 or something, to be honest i never totally understood her motives to any great extent rather than 
 just domination. Now were was i.... ermm o yeah! Right so Freya bring you back to life in order 
 to be her champion to fight against the legions of Hel on midgard and to restore order and prevent 
 the end of all things! So what do you do? well you get you viking ass in gear and tear up some 
 legion hides and try and stop Hel's forces! As for plot strength its not the most original concept 
 im sure anyone could think of that, its really the ending that sort of catches you slightly off 
 guard. But solid enough plot for you to have motivation to kill legion scum rather than just the 
 obscene amount of gore (which is just crazy... in a good way!)
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in a sense seems really simple, not too combo heavy in other hack and slash games 
 such as Ninja Gaiden but still fun enough to play around with. The combat is made up of quick hacks 
 and slashes to shred the enemies. As well as these kick hits you can charge up a powerful combo 
 by holding down the heavy slash button once when unleashed Skarin is going to go flying at the 
 legion whacking them a few times. Once you get an enemy down enough the heavy slash button will 
 appear over the guys head allowing you to do a really insane execution. (nasty looking but unnaturally 
 satisfying!) On top of these moves you can get different weapon runes that will effect the weapon 
 in a standard way. Ice rune freezes, fire rune ignites the bastards and lightning shocks the bastard. 
 Each rune has a powerful attack when u hold down the two attack buttons that will kick ass in their 
 own respective ways. As well as this when you use a weapon rune in mass combat your allies will 
 in turn be effected by the power and will have minor usage of these powers. As well as these runes 
 theres a sort of simple attack system by holding s shoulder button and pushing in the attack buttons 
 a certain amount of times, Skarin will unleash a powerful attack breaking shields or just kicking 
 the crap out of the enemy.
  
  Mass combat work out as you and your army with your shaman run toward the enemy trying to take 
 their shaman in order to halt their defense and close the Hel portals. Taking out these shamans 
 can be made easier with the taking down of champions in order to get dragon runes in order to lay 
 down some crazy ass dragon fire on top of those shamans head..... hmm i like extra crispy... The 
 taking down of these champions plays out by weakening them then entering a button sequence kind 
 of like God of War or shenmue (yes thats right there was a **** game that used button sequences 
 before God of War, don't believe me? go look it up) my main concern with this was that the majority 
 of the time depending on champion the same sequence played out, the least they could of done was 
 made the buttons that appear abit more random to make it more of a challenge. An other issue i 
 had some times what that there was slight FPS drops in these mass scale battles but i found they 
 sorted out after a few seconds.
  
  Before you go near a battle you need to do quests! o yes you got to get your ass in gear and liberate 
 your fellow viking to amass an army to challenge Hel and her forces! This is done by liberating 
 the men from bone prisons and killing the legion members holding them. Other times the ungrateful 
 bastards will opt out of helping you unless you do an other task (i mean cheeky bastards, you break 
 open a cage, kill their oppressors and they tell you to **** off unless you do more for them?!?!?!) 
 truth be told though they are not all bastards some give you further tasks that help you by giving 
 you items or further locations for more vikings for you. You locate more vikings through your world 
 map but truth be told that thing to me is abit cryptic at times and i was off dandering in some 
 direction the objective wasn't in!
  
  The big problem that sticks out for me with these quests is that well.... you do them far too often 
 over and over again in a different matter or different isle so you slapped with the wet fish of 
 repetition abit. I personally forgive this as the lay stone system helps traveling around abit 
 easier and chopping up the bastard in obscene manners is just how i like my sword wielding madness!
 
  
  VISUALS
  
  From a graphical stand point the game looks super sweet, the environments look super detailed and 
 the terrain has this cool shifting effect when you enter you terrain which turns really vibrant, 
 while if you enter legion territory it turn all murky and blackened. however theres a slightly 
 problem with the graphics technical stand point theres a few bits of glitching in life action cut 
 scenes in situations were your taking down a giant. Other situations were you go to execute an 
 enemy near a cliff or is standing near a drop, he will sort of glitch away from an execution.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  In the end of the day viking will appeal to those gamers who love Conan style hack and slash games 
 with abit of Dynasty Warriors thrown in when it comes to the mass battles. The game could of used 
 maybe a month or two of extra time to polish it up abit graphically and playability when it comes 
 to the mass battle. As well it could of used a online multiplayer for co-op action. Seems one of 
 those things that seems like a reason addition to the game the designers didn't put it in due them 
 them thinking either it wouldn't work or did not have the time to add. The game is worth a play 
 through even if its only once esp if you have the xbox version as i managed to get just over 800 
 achievement points by playing through on hard :P go go achievement whoring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaellogan123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Briefly, It was fun. I like these types of games for what they are... real easy to pick up and 
 play. I could put it down for a couple days and pick it back up without missing a beat. It was 
 super fast pace in my opinion and I always felt like my character moving forward, progressing to 
 some conclusion. I liked the pseudo stealth elements. I say pseudo, because when someone mentions 
 stealth, they think Metal Gear or Splinter Cell, this is a little more tame than those hardcore 
 stealth games but really fun. The graphics are clean and crisp and the large battles are neat... I 
 liked the chaotic feel. The fighting animations were bloody and reminded me of movies like Conan 
 or 13th Warrior... also a little bit of those early Samurai movies are definitely an influence here... dismemberments 
 are the norm here. 
  
  The only thing I didn't really like, but only towards the very end, literally the last hour or 
 so, was repetitive button sequences for killing the Giants and Legion Champions. But in the end, 
 it sped up the action so it's definitely not a deal killer. Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suvcon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  action game is not such a pop game kind. so the Viking will meet the lack of financial capital and 
 dev time. but the developer of viking: BFA made a smart choice. the sound is really not good, but the 
 money goto the graphic and system design. the quantity of model is limited, but the developing time 
 have been spend on gameplay enhancing.
  The design of map is very impressive! such a crowd place with so many scene and hot spot. good job!
 
  I feel this game have a special game style and mixed game fun. It is really make me happy. This 
 game is better than COA.
  The gamespot is blind for her hight light, and judge her with the dull score system. shame!
  We 
 cannot only wait and play the PEFECT game. 
  IOW: This game is good, but can be better. you should buy it! Viking: Battle for Asgard is amazing 
 and fun for a true gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNAKE8153
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I know this game was rated pretty low, but it is pretty fun. The only part that I had a problem 
 with was the cut scenes, they were drawings... way to go Sega... way to go. I enjoyed the ease of 
 this came. If you do the foot work in the game you can gain about 43 of the 50 achievments. I enjoyed 
 the gory details and the boss fights. There are several upgrades for your charecter, none of them 
 are comestic however. You get dragons but the only time they are used is during huge battles. Its 
 just swell seeing all the people you rescued on the screen at once fighting your battles. These 
 battles can also be frustrating. Getting to an objective in these lagged times will at times leave 
 you with no health. If you want a game that is a breeze yet is surprisngly satisfying and gives 
 your gamerscore a boost try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotRINSANIAC
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Well i have to say when i first heard about this game, i was excited for a similar deathtacular 
 adventure found in Spartan: Total Warrior, Creative assemblies previous hack n' slash. I said to 
 myself, "gee it would be great if they fixed the problems in my beloved Spartan." That game had 
 class with, this one is a load of @#$!.
  
  It would have been great if they kept you the godlike warrior you were in Spartan. But in an effort 
 to make the game more "realistic," the developers opted to make you a normal viking. Enemies gang 
 up on you and cut you down in about 10 seconds if your not careful. Also, to make the combat deeper, 
 they decided to give you the ability to purchase numerous combos. The shield breaker is the only 
 one worth buying. I also thought that they would fix the annoying boss battles in Spartan, but 
 instead they all but removed them. It would have also been cool if their was any semblance of a 
 character or story in Viking. At least the Spartan spoke and had a personality. Oh and talk about 
 anti climatic, the final battle was the only two parts... took me about 5 minutes to complete.
 
  
  Outside of the final battle, the other battles are the highlight of the game. I can overlook the 
 slowdowns because of the dragon air strikes and epic feel to all but one of the battles.
  
  If your a die hard Spartan: Total Warrior fan like me, you'll feel let down. If your anyone else, 
 just go play God of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonybeast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I saw the ad for this in GI and was instantly intrigued. Eveyone loves a cool viking game, though 
 no one has ever seen a cool viking game. I started checking reviews for this game and all the websites 
 (like gamespot) gave the game a terrible rating. I guess this game isn't buying up ad space from 
 these sites because the sites (like gamespot) have it all wrong. This game is awesome. Gamespot 
 said the map pretty much sucks. Not true, the map is really easy. Gamespot said the sound sucks. 
 Not true, the sound is great. I usually agree with the gamespot review but they are dead wrong. 
 This hack n slash takes some brains, you can't just run into enemy camps and start slaughtering 
 bad dudes, it takes some intelligence. I agree with the consumer reviews on this one. It's awesome. 
 I gave it an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaeden555
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  i personaly think this is one of the best games ever made on ay console because there never has 
 been a game were you are a viking and you go around and chopping people in half in some of the 
 most brutal ways. the way skarin chopps them in half and thier limbs is just the kind of violence 
 anyone would want in a game and when you hit them it accually feels like you are making contact. 
 and in the huge battles the frame rate doesnt slow down or start to skip and you dont lose yourself 
 like you think you would. this game is just truly amazing. if you dont like the game viking then 
 there is something wrong with you because games like these are the best. even if you have to walk 
 a long way to get to a place its well worth it because the senery is just truly amazing and captivating. 
 even if there hardly is any backround music you cant really tell because you are in the heat of 
 battle and you dont need to hear music to kill people and all you have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fellwinter
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I can not believe the review this game has received. This was such a fun, well made game! It's 
 beautiful to look at, the gameplay is fluid, diverse and challenging enough to keep you interested, 
 and the action is just so rewarding! I finished this game over a weekend, I could not put it down! 
 
  
  I love myself a good action-adventure game, so maybe I am a little biased, but from the moment 
 I started the game I knew it was special and I was in for a great time. I loved the open-ended 
 feel of it mixed with Conan brutality. The enemies were not mindless and dull, and the special 
 moves and rune magic gave me enough variety to develop my own style and mastery of the gameplay, 
 which left me yearning for more bloodshed! I also loved the elements of stealth that I used in 
 certain sections of the game, it was a nice change up from the hack and slash. Oh how I loved to 
 sneak up on fools and chop 'em in half, or impale them with my sword, or maybe just throw an axe 
 or a fire bomb from a distance. So fun.
  
  I just do not understand how you can give Viking a 5.0 and then see a game like TiQal, which is 
 PopCap-esque puzzle game we have seen a derivative of 1000 times, get a 7.5... What the heck are 
 you guys thinking over there??
  
  Oh well, I guess its all subjective. I'm just glad to see other gamers out there are with me on 
 this one. And for comfort, look at Games Radar review, they gave it an 8... and so do I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esswell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Viking: BFA was quite repetitive, however if you like a hack and slash game you will like this 
 one. It does remind me of World of Warcraft with enormous landscapes but doesn't require you months 
 on end to play, thank god.
  
  The battle scenes were a breath of fresh air in terms gameplay. Although it was still "H n S" there 
 was a sense of difficulty to it (after 4 deaths you actually have to start over) , and it wasn't 
 just to free some soldiers, or for gold, or any other quest, but simply to destroy the bad guys.
 
  
  Pros
  - Huge detailed landscapes
  - Fun moves
  - Stealth missions into enemy camps
  - Battle scenes with hundreds of soldiers
  - Numerous 
 portals
  
  Cons
  - REPETITIVE
  - Stupid "find ALL the barrels" quests
  - Weapons were generic all the way through the games even though you do get to "upgrade" the sword.
 
  
  All in all, it was fun but it's been done before. There's definitely potential for an awesome sequel 
 if the developers fix a few flaws, add more varied enemies, more weapons, more complex moves and 
 allow you to fly a dragon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets start off by saying that VIking: Battle for Asgard isn't anywhere near the best game I've 
 ever played but its definetley better than a 5.0. In my opinion Gamespot just focused a little 
 too much on the weak points but i definatley think that its worth picking up.
  
  You play as the Viking Skarin and in the beginning of the game he is defeated in battle and then 
 a goddess brings him back to lead the other Vikings in an effort to liberate the world of Midgard. 
 This is the main part of the story and every so often a cutscene comes up and some voice tells 
 a little more of the story. At first they won't make sense but they start linking into each other 
 and if you pay attenion you should understand the story.
  
  I agree with gamespot when they say the combat gets a little old after a while but the good thing 
 about this is that about this time you gain the ability to use magic like fire, ice, and lightning 
 to blow your enemies away and along the way you'll encounter battle arenas where you are taught 
 new moves which will keep combat slightly fresh. But fighting the grunts is whats boring. Every 
 now and then you'll encounter one of there super units like Legion Champions or Giants. These fights 
 are pretty challenging and require more skill than normal fights. And if that doesn't keep the 
 combat fresh then the battles definatley will get you a little more involved with the game. Hundreds 
 of soldiers on opposite sides battling looks cool with you leading the charge of course. During 
 these you must kills shamans (magican units who revive fallen soldiers. During these battles you 
 can control a dragon which can be used to attack soldiers and strategic structures.
  
  But the story is pretty weak and even though the world is huge with great realistic-looking scenery 
 there is mostly nothing there and there is also absolutley nothing to do other than collect gold 
 apart from the main objectives. All in all Viking isn't a bad game it just needed some more time 
 to be developed and it could have been much better. I give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samius115
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  First off to say the combat in this game is hard is ridiculous, I find myself able to take on up 
 to 8 guys and come out without a scratch, it's all about skill. The gamespot reviewer just must 
 be an awful gamer.
  The story is pretty weak but that does not matter in the context of the game, this game's story 
 is all about something happening over a matter of days in the here and now rather than making a 
 big legend that is meant to have built up over many years, and it's a refreshing break to be honest 
 (no, I am not someone who hates deep storytelling, mass effect is one of my favourite games of 
 all time) .
  The gameplay is alot like fable on the original xbox which was an amazing game. Yes the objectives 
 are a bit samey but that again does not matter because you still get an overwhelming sense of self 
 satisfaction as your army grows or you summon a dragon or you face off in a slo mo fight against 
 a champion. This game seemed terrible in the first five minutes and had me wondering why i bought 
 it but once i got into it and realized the layout, it became a massive load of fun, carving peoples 
 arms off just for s**ts and giggles has never been this good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for 'first impression review" - here you go.
  
  (btw, my wife has that stupid lie detector show on in the background and is watching the tevo of 
 it - is there any other reason to believe that the 4 horseman of the apocolase on riding up on 
 us than the stupid show?)
  
  Anyway... Vikings is a pretty good game. 5.0 is a brutal review. If you consider that a considerable 
 amount of effort went into this game than it deserves better than a 5.0. I realise that effort 
 does not always = a good game but this does show signs of hard work. For example, this game has 
 tons of voice acting. Every player-character voices their dialog all the way through vs just having 
 to read it and I appreciate the effort this must take.
  
  I just a few hours in, maybe three or so, and I will say this game is pretty good. The action is 
 kind of what I was expecting from 2 worlds (yes, I felt that game sucked) . Pretty good hack and 
 slash and pretty good graphics. However, one line the Gamespot review took was that this game looks 
 better in screen shots and I have to agree. It does not look nearly as good as a screen shot of 
 the game when you play through - it is pretty good though.
  
  A few aspects I dislike so far are the feeling of being a bit lost. You don't really know exactly 
 what to do and the map is weak. You can't zoom so you don't always know where to go. Also, I assume 
 that further in the game you can unlock the ability to attack multiple enemies. But starting off, 
 if you are up against a few guys, you can get pummeled as you attempt to fight individual enemies. 
 You have to focus on one guy because the action prevents you from fighting two guys at once. As 
 I said, I bet the more I play, the more powerful I will become and therefore, be allowed to engage 
 and attack more than one person.
  
  The upside of the game is that it is a nice semi-RPG / hack and slash and there have not been too 
 many of those on the 360. If you like Oblivion, and want a 60% equivalant of that game, you'll 
 like this one. 
  
  I bought it and I don't know that I'd recommend the same. However, it's defenately worth a rental.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seinfeld64
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game, this is one of my favourites! i've beaten it once and i am half way through 
 it again!!! it is really addicting and I can't put the controller down!! So don't believe in at 
 what all the review site's give it and all these people who give it a three, or four, or five, 
 because viking: battle for asgard is a great game that you will be hooked into for hours and hours 
 of fun hack and slash gameplay. I will just let you know that the graphics are pretty good and 
 the game really reminds me of Fable only with head decapitations and limb removal. when you get 
 the game make sure that you look out towards the ocean and look at the beautiful water and the 
 draw distance. it is all pretty amazing looking. I would say though that Viking does have blood 
 but if you have played conan it isn't as good but in the end I like Viking alot better!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toon9110
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  So I was walking in Gamestop the other day and saw this game. The cover cought my eyes, blood, 
 violence, intestines, COUNT ME IN! But when I got home, not what I expected.
  
  So I start playing, I get used to the controlls after 5 miniuets of gameplay, which I'm already 
 done with half of the first area. So, first thing I noticed, this guy dies, then magicaly gets 
 brought back to life justto save the viking empire. Yay... typical save the world storyline by killing 
 demons... when is a new "save the world" senerio going to be introduced?
  
  Anywho. Combat is easy, but when you get into mob fights of 7-8+, its gets a little aggressive. 
 You are out numbered, they attack at random times while you are attacking so you cant block them, 
 and defeating them takes away alot of health. And some of the combat is just the same old thing, 
 you get a flaming sword.... how old is that one? Then you get lighting and ice... WHAT ABOUT THE 
 MAIN ELEMENTS? Water, earth, fire, lightning, and air? That's what I call selection.
  
  So then I meet the shop keeper, you get throwing axes, bombs, potions, health upgrades (which are 
 are a little disapointing) , and maps. You get gold that is lying around randomly by trees and bushes 
 and no-one has any idea that one is next to them and they wont collect it just for a few extra 
 gold.... right... and who leaves gold lying around in the first place?
  
  So after an hour of gameplay, I'm stuck on the second of 5 islands. Oyu have to go in to a base 
 sucidial, getting chased by 100+ enemies, and have to get to the top of the hill with out dying 
 and no getting seen just to plant a bomb......**** that ****! Thats like going up against the Army 
 of Two by your self with nothing than a 9mm pistol.
  
  This game was horrible of me... if you liked it fine... just you'll hate it soon enough. Thats my 
 final answear... goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcondemned
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Well.. the title sais it all! After hours of playing and PLENTY of walking/running (the guy is 
 too buffy so the speed with which he runs is like a normal person's walk) , killing and dying, I've 
 finally reached the 3rd and last island of the game! I was exited at the first island, I was new 
 in the game so I got surprised that finally a company made a game that looks like a gory version 
 of Fable (which is a great game btw...) . But when I reached the second island I just couldnt wait 
 for the missions to pass so to get to the great battle (there are always 2 major battles in each 
 island and obviously the second 1 is the longest) and move on! Now I'm at the 3rd island and I 
 got bored of the game..! It's basically all about freeing hostage soldiers from the evil "legion", 
 so they'll join your army and go to the great battle! And thats about it! It has some touches of 
 stealth.. (it looks odd though that a buffed up Viking with overpumped legs can stealth around) 
 infiltrations in hostile villages/camps and stealth kills... But thats about it! Its either infiltration, 
 or 1 man army go kill anthg that moves, or great battles! Its a HUGE world with a lot of walking! 
 (thank god there are teleport stones here and there! the bad thing is that u have to find them 
 first in order to use them!) In fewer words.. if u liked Conan the barberian, then u will like 
 Viking: Battle of Asgard! The only difference is that Viking is not a platform game its a free 
 world game! Oh! and a really good thing is that it has only 30 sec. of loading... and it loads 
 the entire island! Until the time comes to change islands the game won't load again!
  PS: it has plenty of dismembering! (except of the Austrelian version, I think..) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asz_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  To start off simply this game delivers what it set out to... huge battles, blood and guts and alot 
 of hack and slash.
  
  The reviews up to date and mainly gamespot/IGN (big names to say) have left this one underappreciated. 
 
  Lets get the bad stuff out of the way first...
  1) Sound, probably the one biggest problem with the game, it doesn't have enough music, and had 
 it had a musical score similar to god of war, i think reviewers would've changed scores easily 
 up to 7.5-8.
  2) Flow speed, hack and slash could've been slightly speed up, although this is minor and combat 
 is indeed very satisfying.
  3) characters look taken from lord of the rings ( a good or a bad thing just lacks originality)
 
  
  The good...
  1) Huge battles, these are definetly the higlight of the game, epic in scope and can be very immersive, 
 Framerate drops have been OVERexaggerated, and are hugely improved over others like N9.
  2) Combat is gorey, very immersive although in my opinion can be slightly speed up, and finishing 
 moves gets a thumbs up!
  3) Stealth moments mix up the action and make you anticipate battle more.
  
  All in all a great 
 game which has very neat moments from huge army patrols too god of war styled death moves 8.5!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: julius_deific
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was really excited to hear that Creative Assembly, with Sega, had kicked 
 out a game on Xbox 360. I am a huge fan of the Total War series on PC and was really looking forward 
 to the huge battle scenes that were supposed to be in this game. At first, I was mildly impressed 
 with this game. I thought I was going to have to sit through another "Oblivion" knock off. As the 
 game progressed I started to get into the slashing and dicing of the main character and could even 
 deal with the cheesy story line for a bit, but the more time I spent on the game the more the horrible 
 camera view and repetitive nature of the game started to test my nerves and bore me to death! I 
 started to feel like it was my limbs getting hacked off by having to press the same buttons over 
 and over again as if I was playing some 90's version of "Mortal Kombat". 
  I don't think I wasted my money in renting this game, but I definitely won't be purchasing it either. 
 Too bad though, I was really rooting for Creative Assembly on this one (maybe Sega is to blame) . 
 Stick to the PC guys, you'll do better with "Empire: Total War" later this year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barryunf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is not a perfect game. The camera can sometimes kill you, the story is 
 bland, npc's have no feelings and appear brainless, and it feels like a game that is behind its 
 time. However despite that Viking is very very fun. Sega is great at making arcade style games, 
 ex. The Club. Viking is a hack and slash single player game thats takes place across multiple islands. 
 Fighting in the game is done by pressing a for a standard attack and x for a heavy attack, you 
 gain abilities and moves from arenas, and use magic to kill your foes. Button mashing will get 
 you no where you have to pick your attacks and block your enemies. When you hurt enemies enough 
 an x appears above their head allowing you to perform a fatality moves that dismembers your opponents 
 in all of it's slow motion glory, it's almost 300 esque in it's use of slow motion. You get to 
 see all the blood spurts and limbs flying that you want. Not for the faint of heart or those who 
 should not be playing it. The quest are divided up in areas that you must take back from the evil 
 hordes. After taking places back your army gets bigger and when your army gets big enough you attack 
 a stronghold. The graphics are good enough, and the controls are good except for the camera. This 
 game is fun do not let gamespot guide you to not trying this game. If you like hack and slash style 
 games def. check it out. I do not like these style games but I do enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teddycooper
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game rulez. One of the best of 2008 on the 360 until now... much better than some other sh*t.
 
  I cannot believe this low score. I bought it after a TV review where it got a 93% and this is 
 a right score for this game. It is not Diablo but it is so funny to hack and slash - to search 
 4 everything and difficulty is just right.
  I read ... Thanks to Viking: Battle for Asgard's mundane and tedious gameplay, the only battle 
 you'll wage will be a losing one against boredom. Euh? This reviewer had to be drunk or wtf ???
 
  I prefer it to Condemned 2, Rainbow Six and so on that get a 8,5 but bored me already after 1 
 hour or so.
  OK battle gets repititive and sometimes it is frustrating to die again but you have unlimited lives 
 so they have to have something too. |
  The story itself is also fun and what about the beer ????
  Who dislikes a game with beer? Not 
 me ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Some arguments in favor of the game:
  
  1) It looks fantastic, it has a great blooming effect giving it a dreamy fairytail like look that 
 really suits the game and gives it atmosphere ! 
  
  2) Combat IS NOT button mashing. Try button mashing your way through a group of 5 or more enemies 
 to see what I mean. 
  
  
  2) Unlike similar large scale combat games like 99 nights and Spartan: Total Warrior your strikes 
 are ALWAYS aimed at 1 individual soldier. 
  In case you don't get my point:
  
  It's not like 99 nights where you hit 5 enemies with a single swipe. cutting them down by the dozens. 
 You can't run through wave after wave of enemies. 
  
  You actually have to think about positioning yourself because once you are surrounded by 4-5 enemies 
 it's over... This means your fellow soldiers are actually of use unlike in 99 and Spartan.
  
  3) Rating Conan higher than this is just plain rediculous... lol
  I've played both and this 
 is a far superior and more polished product.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XIG4METIM3IX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  The truth is, it wasnt really either. Viking: Battle For Asgard was a game that had some ppl churning 
 to get for awhile since its announcement. Well, the game is finally here, and after playing it 
 I can give you some point outs about the game's pros and cons. Some of the good things about it 
 is that Viking is a good solid hack and slash game, with astonishing graphics with the enviorments, 
 water, trees, etc. The character models are well detailed, and at some points, you feel like your 
 ally vikings are actually "alive." Watching their movements, a group of two vikings that I saw 
 conversated, went, sat down and had a drink and laughed, and then after that went, drew their swords 
 and started practicing battle with eachother. Some of the downsides however, is the lack of a good 
 target system, where you will find yourself on top of a cliff, and you will slash foward towards 
 an enemy, and make yourself fall of the cliff, killing yourself. This isnt a big a problem as it 
 is annoying, because you have points that you can warp to when you find them, around the world. 
 Another downside is that some parts make you Think. Every once in a blue moon when your not slicing 
 ppls arms, head, legs, or bodies in half, you will be wandering around like a incompatent fool 
 trying to find out where to go. The final thing, is there is no sprint button, which can make far 
 distance travel slow moving. Overall, you have a good variety of skills, and areas, and things 
 to do in the game. Its not a must-have, but if your into hack-and-slash games, this is definetly 
 a game you would want to think about geting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgh0lx
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was negative, but after playing it a while longer I found it rather 
 fun. Not overly hard or ambitious and it definitely could have been a lot better but it's not bad. 
 If you want to run around and hack people up it's good for that, but that's about it. There is 
 no music and hardly any sound effects half the time which makes me think they rushed the game out 
 and didn't have time to finish it. This also seems to be the case since the frame rate sucks in 
 the large scale battles which was the big promise of the game. There could have been a lot more 
 done with this game and it has the potential to be truly great, sadly it's just mediocre. It did 
 hold my attention longer than dark sector though, which i stopped playing on chapter six just because 
 I got bored of it. If you are a fan of hack and slash games like conan and god of war than check 
 it out, otherwise stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzaro_stormy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  like i said before it is not technically the best but it is so much fun to play the large scale 
 battles are great fun the fact that you have to take out targets while in battle was a good touch 
 and the fact that you are the only one with air support makes it easy to take out problem targets 
 while the quests are a bit repetitive but you never get tiered of cutting people in half not even 
 the button mashing was that bad if you wanted to there was a variety of moves for you to learn 
 but you could get by just button mashing the story was ok not particularly in-depth but I guess 
 you need a reason to kill millions of deformed golem looking things the fact that there was a stealth 
 aspect to the game was awesome cause you have this glowing thing that follows you through out the 
 game and yet know one ever saw me coming so yeah it is not the most intellectual game but it is 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is an adventure game and not to bad at it either. You have quests and some side missions 
 that are a bit pointless more of less you can purchase treasure maps. The game is a bit linier 
 and missions have to be completed in order. The graphics are good and the army battles are great. 
 Very vast and with a lot of people fighting in them. Fighting is a lot like dynasty warriors meets 
 Road to Rome. Big armies hack and slash plus the arms and legs fly every where but most of the 
 time your on your own. You have to advance with your army or you will get jumped and die (even 
 though I don't think you can die really) . The down side is the controls and the camera angles, 
 ok the Camera angles. The camera doesn't center you like Assassins Creed or widen like some others. 
 Instead it sits behind you or on the side. You tend to get blind sided a lot no I mean A LOT! There 
 is a lot of playing time and its fun but it does get old. I would definitely rent it and not buying 
 it. I can see this game getting old in the future. A solid game with a few flaws but far from great. 
 One is wondering around for hours because your lost. And you are not quite sure where to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I wasn't really looking forward to this game when I saw it in adds and reviews but it just looked 
 interesting enough for me to pick it up last week. I was surprised to find a really fun game to 
 play. Sure it gets repetitive at some times and the games camera angle gets funny from time to 
 time but I would find myself time after time playing the game more than I really should. I would 
 give myself a hour to play and then whoops, there goes two hours. Not all games do that for me. 
 The story is interesting enough to keep me going thru the game, the obsessive compulsive in me 
 loves to try and find all the gold bags, jars and chests. Hacking up some of the legion in new 
 and interesting ways after getting new moves never seems to get old. This game really has no replayability 
 after you finish the storyline so I'm not sure about recommending purchase but I think it is rent 
 for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BellXross
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Background
  
  For a company that's in the middle of redefining its main franchise, it probably comes as no surprise 
 that Creative Assembly's Viking is as 'safe' as it is mythical. Whilst not being the most ground-breaking 
 of action/adventure RPGs, like Spartan: Total Warrior before it, Viking certainly has its charm. 
 
  
  Based in 'Midgard', the mortal realm of men from Norse mythology, Viking has you travelling through 
 three islands on a mission to take back man's dominion from the evil forces of Hel - a rather good 
 looking goddess on a power trip. Aiding you is the equally attractive Goddess Freya, ruler of Midgard. 
 The basic theme of the game is to free any brethren held captive by Hel, and kick the 'Legion' 
 back into the underworld.
  
  First Impressions
  
  Anyone with preconceptions of how this game might play out is in for a bit of a surprise. There 
 is no flashy opening with fire and brimstone, despite the pre-rendered 3D images on the box. Instead 
 the beginning sequence is a more subtle affair: a mix between the narrative style and in-game cinematics 
 of Fable, and the storyboard imagery of 300.
  
  Indeed, anyone thinking this game will be a simple hack 'n' slash will also be surprised. Stealth 
 elements are frequently added into the game, usually in the form of quests that require you to 
 sneak in and out of strongholds instead of killing everything in plain sight. Paired with some 
 other features it proves to make a more dynamic game.
  
  The combat system can take some getting used to if you're unfamiliar with the dynamics  a button 
 combo system similar to God of War. However as you play, you realise that half of the game's fun-factor 
 comes from this system: pulling off a successful combo is certainly satisfying  especially when 
 it goes into a slow motion death-blow sequence, again in true 300 style.
  
  On the other hand, sometimes it goes a bit too far  especially when all you want to do is open 
 a crate or use a teleporter. The action, or 'do things' command, is attributed to the 'B' button 
 in this game and you may well find yourself sick and tired of mashing it just to do simple things. 
 A commendable attempt at getting you more involved with the mundane, but still pretty annoying.
 
  
  Graphically, Viking is stunning. The backgrounds are well defined, and the texture of your surroundings 
 is detailed down to a single blade of grass: realism is the tone. However everything does look 
 a tad 'shiny', like the cell-shaded effect you could see on 13 or Wind Waker. It really depends 
 on your tastes whether you like it or not.
  
  In-depth
  
  Apart from combat and quests, Viking has little else to offer in terms of mini-games, side-quests, 
 or any other form of game mechanic. Barring quest items, gold is the only thing you can find in 
 jars or chests. Finding ale barrels enables you to trade for more gold, but it's pretty basic. 
 Upgrades are few and mostly focus around combat, and there are only two methods of travel: walking 
 and using 'leystones'.
  
  This simplistic theme does nothing to harm the game, but it does nothing to flesh it out either.
 
  
  As mentioned before, the game's fun comes in two halves, both to do with combat. The other half 
 of the fun in this game is derived from the quests, and the different situations those quests put 
 you in. Freeing a group of Vikings is simple enough, but the real juicy bit is when they ask you 
 to ambush a horde of baddies before they agree to join you. These choreographed sequences are one 
 of two of such sequences that really make this game stand out from both its predecessor and the 
 rest of the genre in general.
  
  The second type of sequence is really what sold the game in the first place  large scale RTS type 
 battles in a third person action style. To trigger one of these epic clashes, you must first complete 
 quests, raise an army, and do the usual preparations. Once all the conditions have been satisfied, 
 it's time for the main event
  
  The forces of good are always the attacking side. Your army lines up in front of the town gates, 
 whilst the enemy's own battle lines sally forth to confront you. Both sides posses 'shamans' that 
 resurrect more troops for their particular side. The way to win is to kill the shamans, thus driving 
 your enemy back into the town where you begin the process again.
  
  You can gain advantages over your enemies by using special powers or by calling on dragons. It's 
 easily the best bit of the game, and these events usually serve as a climax for that particular 
 section of the game.
  
  Summary
  
  All in all, Viking is fun. Whilst a bit slow to start, the game certainly picks up pace and any 
 disappointment you may feel at the beginning gradually fades away as it grows on you. Unfortunately, 
 since it only spouts two difficulty levels and little leeway on how you actually go about playing 
 the game, its life-span is short. Be prepared to find yourself trading it back in for something 
 else before too long.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerin
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard is the latest hack-n-slash game splattered with RPG elements to hit the 
 market, and really, until some new innovation in the genre shakes things up, do we need more of 
 these? The plot, such as it is, has been done elsewhere and better many times over. Brief summary: 
 DeityA (in this case, Freya) is offended by the actions of DeityB (Hel) and chooses a mortal as 
 her champion and instrument of revenge. No, this isn't God of War, Kid Icarus, or any of those 
 other games... this is Viking. Keep that straight. 
  
  The core of this style of game is the combat system, and Viking fails to deliver anything of note. 
 While the visuals of the game are downright stunning at some points, the overall feel is more of 
 a "been there, done that" response that taints the entire experience. You have the standard weak-fast 
 attack, strong-slow attack (with a charge up option) , and jump. To add a bit of spice, the designers 
 have thrown in a rage mode that allows you to execute more powerful moves that you purchase from 
 the Arena. These moves require Rage Crystals to power them, but these are plentiful, as nearly 
 every strike of an enemy generates one. The magic system presented here is the tried and true method 
 of adding elemental attacks (ice, fire, or lightning) to your weapons, allowing you to do more 
 damage or even freeze/slow an enemy temporarily.
  
  Where Viking truly falls short, however, is execution. The game tries to do several things and 
 in doing so, falters in nearly every category. The open-field combat with the player fighting several 
 monsters at once, is slow and ponderous. The slow animations of even your fast attacks can cause 
 you to expose yourself to counterattacks from the numerous foes around you constantly, causing 
 you to need to rely on the block/dodge defense far too often. Viking is not for those who wish 
 to just wade through the masses of enemies, slaughtering at will. Combat is slower paced than it 
 needs to be, and this can be grating after several fights. The moves purchased in the Arena help 
 alleviate this somewhat, but it quickly degenerates into the same button mashing pattern for nearly 
 every foe, creating a "Why bother?" perception that's hard to shake.
  
  The large-scale fights where your Viking leads his army of rescued compadres against the hordes 
 of Hel's soldiers spattered about the game as story-line movers are interesting at first, but they 
 are generally so chaotic that it's hard to even tell what's an enemy and what's an ally. The 360 
 handles the large number of moving bodies well, for the most part, and that's a redeeming quality, 
 but when you just need to stand in the midst of moving bodies and press "A" hoping you hit something, 
 it feels a bit pointless. Each of these large scale battles has specific objectives to meet, and 
 at times those prove challenging and interesting, saving these encounters from being completely 
 useless as a game experience.
  
  Where the game truly lost me, however, was on the "stealth" levels. This seems to be a trend in 
 the industry that these games must include areas where, instead of hacking your way through the 
 bodies of your foes, you sneak around them, avoiding confrontation whenever possible. In a game 
 designed for this (Metal Gear Solid franchise, I'm lookin' at you) , the system really works. In 
 Viking, it feels bolted on and counterintuitive. Every area in the game has at least one of these 
 missions, and they truly bog down the flow of the already uninteresting and derivative story line. 
 I'm certain there's an audience for these missions somewhere, but for my tastes, this was not what 
 I was expecting out of Viking.
  
  In summary, Viking: Battle for Asgard is nothing you haven't seen before, but dressed up to be 
 prettier than most. If you're looking for a fine way to spend an afternoon, it'll do, but it's 
 likely to be forgotten as soon as the disc is out of the drive. Had the combat been streamlined 
 or made more interesting, we might have had a contender here, but as it is, it's a hodge-podge 
 of genres and styles that needed a bit more polish.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: temjinyui
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  The last time Creative Assembaly and Sega got together to make a game it was Spartan Total Warrior, 
 which was a large scale battle game was really heavy on button bashing!
  
  This time the've gone Viking on us. The game is set in Midgar were Hel, the goddess of death has 
 decided 2 declar war on asguard Home of the Norse Gods. Hel and her Fallen Undead army unleash 
 there might on midgar sluatering all that stand in there way, The viking were push back to there 
 last defence were Skarin (the main character) is fighting of the horde but then Skarin is put to 
 the sword by Hel's Harbinger the fight carry's on when Freya (A goddess of Asgard) Resurects Skarin 
 and declears him her Champoin, Freya banishers the horde back to there fort. Now it is up to you 
 Skarin watch over by the gods to charge forth leading your Viking Brothren aginst Hel's Army.
 
  
  After playing the game 4 about 20+ Hours i can only say one thing AMAYZING. I started of in a camp 
 talked to a couple of people, i got a mission off a shaman to get the guardians on my side which 
 happens to be a Dragon (!! Sweet!!) after free many Vikings from Hel's prison camps, (which increases 
 the size of your army) ambushing a very large patrol, sneaking in to the enemy main camp to charge 
 up the dragon rune so i could summon a Dragon it was time to assualt the enemy main camp!
  
  There it was the enemy main camp and O....... thats a big army there , but not 2 worry i got 
 my own, i start to run forward and my army follows and then there army starts to run as well. As 
 there army got closer to me i noticed a very large behemoth of a man leading there charge... i 
 charge at him like a cruse missile only to find out that he was a pro baseball player and that 
 i was the ball.... Ouch, after being b^t*h slaped many times and noticing that the rest of my army 
 and there army circling around me to create an arena i knew i was on my own (Why me god why me!!) 
 after some intence doging and crafty stabings i noticed the enemy captain looking very fatigued, 
 he then pick up is sword in tryed to do a mighty cleave on my head luckaly i doged it and i notice 
 that the B button was flashing at me (Cinamatic Finnisher) after pressing the right buttons my 
 character jump on the captains head stabed his sword in to teh captians neck and started twisting 
 the blade until the enemy captain was put down 4 good i then recived 2 dragon runes which allows 
 me to command my dragon, i told my dragon to attack there archers postion on the wall it then switched 
 to a cut scene were you c the dragon swooping in and lather the archers in fire sweet!!.
  
  All in all this game is great the graphics arn't cutting edge, but there not bad either, the prepertaion 
 you have to do the get a battle ready army is wel thought of and fun to do and the large scale 
 battles that you do are AMAZING. I to give this game a very BIG THUMBS UP!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spookymoose
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  What is best in videogames?
  
  "Surely a high poly count, and fine texturing beneath you. "
  
  hmm.
  
  "A fine story, 
 spun as of the bards of old"
  
  hmm.
  
  "A rousing score, symphonies penned to swell the mood and touch the heart"
  
  Hmm. Fine things 
 all. Skarin! What is best in videogames?
  
  "CRUSH YOUR ENEMIES! SEE THEM DRIVEN BEFORE YOU! HEAR THE LAMENTATION OF THEIR WOMEN!'
  
  Yes.
 
  
  This game is many things. There are elements of rpg, and there is a good helping of the standard 
 hack and slash gameplay seen in games like Conan and God of war (although there is nowhere near 
 the variety of moves) , and yes, there is the 'button sequence to finish off the boss' mechanic, 
 and there are the frankly magnificent battle sequences when towns and castles are invaded which 
 call to mind dynasty warriors, and, curiously, battle for middle earth. In short, it draws from 
 many sources and while no one element is quite original, the overall effect is refreshingly rich 
 in vitamin awesome.
  As you play, you begin small, with your standard rpg mini quests* which builds up your army and 
 gets you accustomed to the controls. The overall feel during these portions brings to mind Mark 
 of Kri and Soul reaver - smooth animations, satisfyingly visceral combat and a large, frequently 
 stunning world to explore at will. Gold can be found in crates or bags and exchanged for improved 
 moves or weapon upgrades but for the most part the enemies are easily dispatched with the basic 
 moves and weapons you start with, at least until you face your first champion or run into one of 
 the patrols. Ah, the patrols... Take a moment and picture serried ranks of Hel's forces, five abreast, 
 marching past where you crouch, biting chunks out of your axe with the frustration of not ploughing 
 into a sea of the enemy laughing like a madman swinging a blazing axe and sword like the fury of 
 the very gods themselves. Then remember that you have NOTHING to loose by dying. You just re-spawn 
 back at the start point, and can use the ley-stones to teleport back to roughly where you were. 
 Oh sure, there are some stealth bits** you'll need to begin again from the start, but in general? 
 ... Mua ha ha. 
  There is nothing quite like the feeling of diving into a sea of belligerent orcs*** and slicing 
 them into a fine paste.
  Thing is, the game builds toward the large battles, raising anticipation with each mini-mission. 
 When you free up siege weapons you imagine them smashing city gates and say yes. yes that will 
 be awesome. When you persuade a dragon to join your cause the tendrils of anticipation start to 
 massage the awesome receptors in your brain, when your army swells and the ground shakes with the 
 sheer vitriol of your forces biting at the bit, baying like wolves for the foul, tar-like blood 
 of your enemies you may find the concept of a pitched battle appealing, and the battles do not 
 disappoint. They are chaotic, gloriously blood-soaked symphonies of screams and splintered shields. 
 Bosses (champions) are thrown into the mix and will cheerfully whittle down your forces until you 
 whittle down their legs and give them a face full of axe. Killing these champions powers your dragons, 
 which can then in turn be used as artillery of a sort, clearing out hard to reach archers or shamans 
 (spawn points) with gouts of infernal vengeance. Nice.
  The score does let the side down a bit, though. When it's there, it's great, atmospheric orchestral 
 pieces and whatnot but for the majority of the game there is no music, just the sound of birds, 
 footsteps and the occasional wet smack of steel into flesh. Sometimes, albeit rarely, the sound 
 for events fails to show, which isn't really a dealbreaker but does pull you out of the game somewhat..
 
  Overall the game looks great, the worlds are nicely laid out and the learning curve is pretty 
 forgiving. The story works well, but probably won't be up for any awards. If you're a fan of 3rd 
 person sword-wrangling this will be one of your favorites, but even if you're not it's still worth 
 a look given the variety of gametypes that are seamlessly blended here.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  * [find the beer, untie the vikings etc Although they never quite wander into zelda 
 territory where every single wizened peasant with a curiously shaped stone or similar has you mowing 
 the lawn or painting their house or battling huge goddamn monsters to retrieve something they lost 
 in the woods or whatever.]
  
  ** [Well, strictly speaking you don't have to be all that stealthy, but there are areas to get through 
 where discretion is, truly the better part of valour. Eg, you get your arse handed to you by a 
 horde of the undead if you show up shouting and waving an axe in the air]
  
  *** [or legion or whatever. They're pretty much orcs. When they spot you from a patrol they're all 
 "FIND THE HALFLING" and it's extra-awesome.] ****
  
  **** [Ok fine they don't say find the halfling or anything, it's just me shouting 'find the halfling' 
 at my tv at 3 in the morning. happy? point is they're legions of ugly humaniod monsters who chop 
 up real nice and just so happen to bear a passing resemblance to the fighting uruk-hai when they 
 march in formation]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I am still trying to figure out why my magazines and numerous websites overloaded us with ANYTHING 
 about this very boring TITLE, done in typical sega fashion a button mashing game that doesn't even 
 look good.... A open ended world that I would guess was suppose to have a "free roam" although the 
 only thing you want to free roam for is a couple gold coins, come on already, what is this 1990 
 where Link is looking for the fairy to put in his jar.... Nobody wants to free roam for gold coins.... Getting 
 from one ENEMY grounds to the next, which is all you do, is a complete beating and you better collect 
 the stones so you can travel back after being killed, WHAT HAPPEN TO "RESTART MISSION", why do 
 we have to mash the B button and collect a stone to RESTART..... This game has absolutly nothing 
 to offer, you learn a new move the comence to button mashing in order to free warriors, over and 
 over again..... The ability to sneak would have been other than you have a LIGHT attached to your 
 back and enemies will attack you regardless of the fact that you were sneaking..... And you will 
 fight plenty of enemies at one time and die..... This is a bust and shame on everyone involved in 
 its creation...... This game gets one big BOO!!!! No I did not beat it, it beat me..... to death..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Viking.. ohh i like this game. The basic premise is save the world from Hel. The bad guys have 
 taken over Midgard and it's your job to clean the mess up. How do you accomplish that you ask? 
 Hack and slash baby.. lots of it. The game is divided into 3 large islands (levels essentially) . 
 You will have free roam of the land to complete objectives as you please. As you complete the objective 
 (which all involve killing bad guys) the land is returned to it's natural state. At the mid point 
 of each level you will be thrown into a large (very large) scale battle. Thousands of bad guys 
 Vs. thousands of good guys and you. This is a very cool break in the small scale action. And it 
 is very well done. Think about the end of the two towers movie. 
  
  The graphics are pretty awesome. Lush environments are full of detail and nuance. Snow flakes falling 
 and dragons circling make you feel right at home. The animation is superb and you are never taken 
 out of the action. The combat system is the highlight of the game. You start out with a very simple 
 combo and block system that grows over time. Each combo can be finished off with a flurry of body 
 parts. I can't even tell you how fun this is. Decapitation never gets old!! 
  
  All in all this is a great game and worth the money. Total play time is about 20-25 hours. I don't 
 see going back and playing the game a second time though. The achievements are pretty straight 
 forward and easy to get. You can get the 1k on one play through if you play on the hard setting. 
 I recommend for a rent or buy if you are a collector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhegs
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I want to begin by stating that I really enjoy this game. However, I do believe it does only deserve 
 an average score. The graphic brutality of the fights will keep you playing long after you realize 
 that you have done all of this before. You see the very nature of the gameplay is wash, rinse and 
 repeat. 
  
  If you have read the other reviews, you understand that is your duty to rid your home world of 
 the evil that plagues it. You travel from village to village killing hordes of enemies and feeing 
 your fellow norsemen. Who, in turn, will fight by your side when you face the boss battle of each 
 zone. You do not level up like you do in a traditional RPG ... you learn, er buy, your trade in 
 the arenas. When all is said and done you will find 5 or 6 attacks that work for you and you will 
 find yourself using them throughout. You also gain the ability to call down dragons and imbue your 
 weapon with either fire, ice or electricity. All very cool elements indeed but window dressing 
 at best because at its core Viking is a hack and slash, pure and simple
  
  Although the gameplay is VERY repetitive ... It is, in fact, very immersive and fun. Pulling off 
 some of the finishing moves is incredibly amusing and never get's old.
  
  The graphics are very well done, both environmentally and character wise. As stated earlier the 
 death animations are some of the best around!!
  
  Sound is good and the voice work is very well done.
  
  I give this game and average score because 
 it is an average game that, for someone like me, is very enjoyable and re-playable for a guilty 
 pleasure in between more immersive titles in your library. But all in all it never rises above 
 an average hack and slash game ... and for that I give it a respectable 7.0. ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickstar28
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Scores of this game go from 4/10 to 9/10 so it's hard to figure out if this game is actually any 
 good. I was looking forward to this game so I went and baught it on its promises alone. I'm about 
 halfway through the game and I am enjoying it definatly but there are some things that are really 
 annoying me, well mostly just one thing really, the sound, it sucks. This game has to have the 
 worst sound design in any game released over the past ten years.
  
  This is a free roaming game set on 3 different islands, the islands are identical in features (so 
 far up to island 2) . The first island and what looks like the 2nd has you traverse the medium sized 
 and well modeled islands going from point a to b freeing prisnors and killing orcs as you go. The 
 enimy design is very Lord of the Rings, which is a bit of a shame really, that film has turned 
 out to be too big of an influence on fantasy-culture, it seems that you can't have a film or game 
 with fantastical evil creatures without them looking like the cave troll from LotR, even in res4 
 you fight giant lumbering ogers str8 from the hands of Peter Jacksons art team. That aside though 
 they are a good foe, they are definatly evil and need to be killed in slow-mo with as many decapitations 
 as possible.
  
  After freeing prisnors by using mostly completely offensive tactics and a little very tense  
 stealth, you are gifted with an epic battle, and the battle is epic, at least visually. Many hundreds 
 monsters and your ammased army duking it out at the same time. It's your job to take down the foundations 
 of the opposing side by taking out specialist units. This works well because you genuinly feel 
 like your friends are going to get battered if you dont do your job propperly.
  
  The free-roaming aspect works well, you have your objectives clearly displayed on the map and it's 
 up to you to decide what order to take them. I have found no reason to go off-mission and just 
 have an explore because the maps are perfect for the size of the mission, any exploring you do 
 will probably end up in you running into an objective that you had to do anyway. I like this, its 
 refreshing after the hours of trawling through grass aimlessly in Oblivion only to come accross 
 a bandit, a wolf and some goblins who all try to kill you just so you dont realise how bored you 
 are.
  
  Visually the game is similar to Oblivion, imagine Oblivion but with a a good 3rd person camera. 
 The sea's giant waves look great from a distance even though you can never fkin hear it until you 
 actually stand on the beach where you a treated to the sound of a gentle calm shore exsisting in 
 complete contradiction to the monsterous waves you can see.
  
  The sound is so bad. I'm sound student and this game really frustrates me. Some of the sounds are 
 awesome, the tones hum of a portal-stone thing is nice and the lion-growl of the orcs are powerful. 
 The quality of the sounds is not the problem, its the lack of sounds. In one cutscene the camera 
 pans over your army of a thousand men, they are marching with animations suggesting that they are 
 cheering, shouting, waving their arms readying themselves for battle, but all you hear is the fkin 
 music, which is average. There are no army sounds, no shouts or screams. This is supposed to be 
 a war against ultimate evil, the sound design sounds like if you were to shut your eyes and listen 
 to it you'd think you were in a blunt-weapons testing arena with 20 people gently sparring with 
 each other. It totally sucks, the sound design is so unimmersive it actually seems like a barrier 
 between you ejoying the game as it was intended. The art team got it right, the level team nailed 
 it and the composer did a good job just the sound design team fked it all... up the arse... 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan6978
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  First off let me state that Vikings are badass, and they rarely get the credit that they deserve. 
 On a bad day Vikings would absolutely massacre Pirates and put up a pretty damn good fight against 
 Ninjas. But I digress, this game does nothing revolutionary, but what it does do, it does great. 
 The graphics in the game, while not breathtaking, (see Mass Effect or Uncharted) , are nice to look 
 at. I did however run into a minor problem with the frame rate during a few of the massive battles, 
 but it did not deter at all from the gameplay. The most impressive aspect of the visuals are the 
 environments. In the game there are three different worlds, and you have the freedom to roam around 
 the landscapes, which are gorgeous. The massive battles are one of the most impressive parts of 
 the game. You get to take on massive armies of Legion, and in battle you get the aid of your fellow 
 Vikings as well as Dragons. In battle you have goals that you have to achive in order to achieve 
 victory. These goals include taking out enemy shaman and taking down giants and legion champions. 
 The missions in the game are usually liberating former Viking strong holds which usually entails 
 going around and cutting up Legion soldiers, and while it is repetitive, hacking up bad guys with 
 your axe never gets old. I would say that this game is work a look, while it is nothing innovative 
 or new it is fun as hell, and contains a good 10 to 12 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The vikings were not known for their skillful swordplay. As such, viking follows suit by being 
 clunky, monotonous, ham fisted, repetative and ultimately unlikeable. The character you embody 
 throughout is awful. He has no personality. Friendly charcters point you in the right direction 
 and tell you exactly what needs to be done and how to do it and shake their heads disapprovingly 
 (probably) as you lumber off like the big, lumbering, mute piece of meat that you are. Learning 
 about them at school and listening to Led Zeppelin made me beleive that being a viking would be 
 great fun. Viking: Battle for Asgard has rid me of this wide eyed innocent view, violently wrenching 
 my eyelids into a narrower more cynical thousand yard stare. It is normally about this point in 
 a review that I opt to say something nice about the game I just spent a fair amount of time crucifying. 
 But I am struggling to find appropriate and honest praise for this game. I shall try anyway. After 
 playing Viking I........ well I am still alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I have been playing through a lot of the game and have to say I am very suprised. 
  
  When I first saw the game I thought it would be another mindless slaughter, hack and slash.... 
 now don't get me wrong because that is right up my alley but, this game has a lot more to it. From 
 the start you will notice the maps are absolutely huge and you can go anywhere you want unless 
 a quest item such as a key is blocking a part of the map. Eventhough you have to hack your way 
 through hundreds of enemies its not like you can take them on yourself. You have to engage them 
 in small parties and at times "pull" small parts of a group away to fight them with out interference. 
 At times the fights are very tough and challenging but you have some capabilities to help you along 
 the way. You can learn special moves that actually help instead of just massing the X button. I 
 particularily like the stun charge which will knock your opponent to the ground. This is very helpful 
 when surrounded which you will be a lot.
  
  Weapons wise you never change out your sword or axe but you can carry 10 throwing axes, 3 healing 
 potions and 3 pots of fire. The throwing axes are like one shot one kill except for elite opponents. 
 The fire pots do area effect damage and help a little when dealing with groups. My advice is to 
 not deal with groups and try to "pull" enemies away to fight them in more manageable numbers.
 
  
  You spend your time travelling the map freeing settlements then doing a mission for the settlemet 
 so their population will join your building army. Once you have an army large enough you can assault 
 a fortress on the map with the assistance of a dragon.
  
  Getting dragons involves a few missions to obtain stones. Once you get the stones you can summon 
 the dragon to help fight the fortress. In order to use your dragons you will need to collect runes 
 by killing particular enemies in the opposing army such as shamans, gaints and champions. When 
 you kill one of these you get runes which allow you to tell the dragons to shoot something on the 
 battlefield such as another shaman, archers and so on. 
  
  The fortress battles are something quite amazing. Imagine the Lord of the Rings movies large scale 
 battles. Now imagine you are the hero of the moving and your in that large scale battle. Thats 
 what its like and I'm not kidding. It is very impressive and there is a lot of strategy involved 
 from charging your mens weapons with ice, lightning or snow to using combos to work your way to 
 a gaint or shaman. 
  
  If anyone has said the game is 10 hours long they are by far wrong. I have started the game on 
 hard and have had a great time playing and have been playing for over 30 hours. This game is not 
 short and the maps are enourmous. Think of the world of Oblivion and just a fraction smaller than 
 Oblivions world is what just one map is like in Viking.
  
  There is a lot of fun to be had with Viking and I would recommend getting it.
  
  Have fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriddle89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Great graphics, water effects look good, waterfalls are nice to look at. Blood looks 
 like blood, and intestines look like intestines. The graphics matches the gore well. Scenery looks 
 nice, from the forestry to encampments to forts.... The HUGE battles are great especially since 
 the game can handle hundreds of people at once a la Dynasty Warriors but it actually looks good 
 at doing it and I haven't experienced a hiccup yet. 
  10/10
  
  Sound: Sound is good, great battle sounds and the battle scenes sound like you are there. Only 
 problem here is the fact that music isn't really a big part in this game. I know this sounds weird, 
 but some games have music that sets the mood for what is to come, and not having this is really 
 noticeable. Some sort of upbeat tempo would've been nice to have.
  9/10
  
  Control: Awesome controls, first 15 minutes and you will be playing like you are a pro. Easy to 
 pick up, never a point of frustration due to controls. There is little to no lag between you pressing 
 the attack button and Skarin executing that attack.
  10/10
  
  Story: Its not God of War but there is enough here to keep you going. Really you won't be concentrating 
 too much on the storyline when the gameplay itself is so intriguing you won't need to complex of 
 a story. It is a little frustrating that the main character is pretty nonexistent since he talks 
 in the game maybe twice?
  7/10
  
  Gameplay: Definitely the best part of the game, since there really isn't any other game with this 
 type of premise. You play in an island given certain objectives you must complete but allowing 
 you to complete them at the pace you want, most important is increasing the ranks of your army. 
 The last mission of each island is a HUGE battle scene like taken out of Hollywood.... watch Troy 
 or Braveheart and you will know what I mean. First time you do it, you will be amazed...
  10/10
  
  Fun Factor: This game is so worth the money. If you have the money then get the game, 
 but if money is a problem, then rent... But you must play this game. 
  10/10
  
  Overall Average: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xPaStorTroyx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok I read the reviews... I was in doubt but I can honestly say this game came to me out of no were 
 it wasnt like most games getting hyped up and what not. So I check out a few videos and I see clips 
 with like 100 npc's on screne at the same time which I haven't seen since E3 tech demos when company's 
 were talking big about the power of next gen n what not. Long story short I got interested.. said 
 to hell with it and brought the game, and omg.. THIS IS NOT A BUTTON MASHER... by far, you will 
 get you a$$ handed to you, lol if you like FABLE, the old LOTR EA games, Mark of Kai, and had some 
 enjoyment in KUFCD, YOU WILL LIKE THIS...! Honestly, this took me back to fable a little.. and 
 I did not know this was an OPEN WORLD game .. its all free roam and the maps are big as sh**t , 
 and you can do what ever you want when you want.. I tried to take over a position with out my army 
 and sat their for like 45 min fighting trolls or whatever they are.. the games controls at first 
 I was like sh**t I cant get this.. then after dieing like 30 times and learing the block and attack 
 moven and when to strike, once you learn it, It makes you feel unstopable, you can sneak up on 
 enemys and just butcher their a$$'s .. they even have a counter system that throws it in a sorta 
 slo-motion shot that looks off the chain.. and then the big battles OMG.. the production is on 
 point the voice acting is on point.. hell Ive heard worse and the transition from the in game movie 
 to the battle is something you just have to see for your self... their are no cut scenes just ingame 
 movies which I think they did a great job .. graphics are a 9 at best Im serious go to the beach 
 were you have to save your army on the first stage and look how gordgious the water looks.. rolling 
 into the beach .. sun reflections etc.. Bottom line if you liked fable minus alot of the character 
 modification and buying houses good bad crap etc.. you'll love this.. you might get frustrated 
 at times because how the save points work but once you figure how to use it to your advantage you'll 
 respect it .. I've played games with real crap save points back in my nes and sega days so im ok 
 with it.. I havent even finished the first stage/ map yet and its on normal.... and I have been 
 playing for about 7hrs.. yes MAP, a Big map... and yes side missions and all.. Make your own review 
 I dont think people realize that you are letting someone else tell you what to like when you listen 
 to these sites... its what one person though of a game whether they like games like that or not... 
 hell I dont like playin turn based games so I might give it a 3.0.. you might though.. you need 
 to go out and play it for yourself and make your own review... its Open world, some Rpg touches, 
 great sound, great to pick up and play.. with nice tight controls, that are always responsive... it 
 has a stratigic control scheme, that is really rewarding .. might not be your cup of tea so to 
 say but I say check it out.. Beats Conan by a long shot.. but Conan really wasnt that good an liener.. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  When I first rented this game I thought it was going to be a very plain hack and slash game with 
 no flash or shine to it. But when I put that disk in and started playing I was Highly Impressed. The 
 graphics literaly reset the bar for what I thought the xbox 360 could do and overall it's very 
 fun and addictive. All the details are extremely goergous and this game and the water graohics are 
 the best ive seen.
  
  This game is serouisly an awesome hack and slash/rpg free rome game that I really recommend to 
 anyone thats played God of War, Fable, Conan, or just enjoys hack and slash and free rome.
  
  The game has 3 major battles where there are hundreds of enemies on the screen at once and 
 it really is alot of fun. Boss battles are alot of fun too as they give you buttonmashers that you 
 have to do in order to pwn the boss.
  
  Even though Viking is an amazing game it does have its weak points.
  
  the 3 major battles 
 you do are EXTREMELY FAST and only last about 50 seconds to be honest. And the game has basicly 
 has completely terrible weak physics. the game doesnt even poses ragdoll. also there isn't all 
 that much music to be heard in the game.
  
  But overall its a very fun and unique game.
  
  The Good:
  Amazing Graphics *major battles are fun to be in *amazing world to explore *really 
 fun combat system *super bloody and violent.
  The Bad:
  Physics are terrible *major battles are too short *not much music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  ok so the story is bland and ends kinda bleh, sorry for the kinda spoiler. The epic battles are 
 awesome awesome awesome. the game is fun and the rpg elements are a neat add on. I have never played 
 anything like it and I enjoyed being a Viking thouroughly, but anyhow I suppose I would interested 
 in playing another game similar to this one. The thing is I dont think that there are any games 
 close to this one in style, no it must be a one of a kind. I hope they take this gameplay and bring 
 it into a larger rpg/fantasy genre. It would be fun to play a greek game like this one, hmm not 
 quite god of war, but something new would be neat. I mean another samurai type game would be cool 
 if it were done like this one, cause there is nothing like this game. GO PLAY THIS GAME, RESCUE 
 THE CAPTIVE VIKINGS, BRING DOWN GIANTS IN EPIC BATTLES, UNLEASH DRAGON FURY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sappyman15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a massive field full of fools ready to get mauled by a viking army. Now imagine leading 
 the charge into the fray and unleashing a flurry of gory moves and elemental powers. Sounds cool 
 huh?
  
  Viking Battle for Asgard offers this and more. Personally I have been looking forward to a game 
 that immerses you in massive battles full of the blood and gore we all love. Gameplay is great 
 and isnt to repetitve, but towards the end you may find yourself getting a little tired of some 
 of the moves. Finishing moves are brutal and have a God of War type feel to them which is a good 
 sign.
  
  Graphics are nice but not to their full potential. The game struggles with some framerate issues 
 in the large battles but it isnt unbearable. The water looks amazing but unfortunatly you cant 
 go prancing into the water without drowning shortly after. 
  
  Story isnt to bad but lately games have been a little short in this area. If you want a story go 
 read a book. Overall this game is great and very fun to play. Worth the 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaram1050
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The answer is that it's a little of both. Overall it is a decent game but I have found a few issues 
 with it that detract.
  
  Graphics and Mechanics: While not an extraordinarily beautfiul game like Mass Effect, the graphics 
 are what one might expect for a next-gen game. They're all right but not spectacular. My issues 
 with the graphics are the style and the slow motion effect. For the first the somewhat bleached, 
 bluish look doesn't do a whole lot for me and would have preferred more gray or when it is dark. 
 As for the latter, slow motion is overused and becomes a little annoying when every finisher that 
 you do it activates. I prefer the approach that Dynasty Warriors uses with regards to slow motion 
 and only on bosses. Also the 2-D cut scenes aren't what I expect and kind of take away from a game 
 like this. If the rest of the style resembled the 2-D scenes it wouldn't be so bad.
  
  Camera: Horrid. Although it is similar to Dynasty Warriors, it works with DW because attacks are 
 faster, there are more enemies, and in general it's not so annoying. In Viking the control scheme, 
 well attacks anyway, seem slower and because of this you need to be thinkng a couple steps ahead 
 and the camera does not help in this. The perpetual darkness beyond a certain radius, while a cool 
 concept, may be a factor in limiting your planning ability the camera just does not help.
  
  Story: All right but quite shallow so far. The side quests make sense and fit but for me only 
 attempt to flesh out a character missing some element and this fleshing out becomes useless. I'm 
 only on the second of what I think will be 3 islands & if that ends up being the case it is short. 
 However I may reconsider as I play more.
  
  Controls: As mentioned before, when it comes to attacking they seem slow. The slow attacks make 
 it somewhat annoying. The elemental attacks & rage meter are nice.
  
  Overall: The closest comparision game that I can think that it resembles is Dynasty Warrior. The 
 only real difference is that overall it is slower paced and when confronted with dozens of enemies, 
 you are dead. Combat seems too slow and the story needs severe fleshing out. My suggestion to anyone 
 thnking about buying the game, rent it first & then make your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yhordi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Viking: Battle for Asgard, I noticed a couple of things. Mainly that the game 
 represents a Nordic version of God of War. Although, it does many things to separate itself.
  
  I was led to believe by the box that it was an open world game, which is true technically, 
 but the player cannot visit previous areas once beaten. To be fair, I think that a true open world 
 setting wouldn't do much for this game unless much more work was put into it.
  
  There are basically two areas of aspects to this games game play. The first is that of running 
 around, killing bad guys, and building up your army of vikings to fight Legion, a horde of undead 
 vikings. The second is the battle between your vikings and Legion, which is roughly the same as 
 adventuring with a few differences. Mainly running around in large groups of allies, killing large 
 groups of enemies, while destroying objectives.
  
  I can't say much for the story, but I didn't really expect much going in.
  
  Basically, Viking 
 is a fun Hack and Slash without a lot of depth, but plenty of gore.
  
  If you are torn on paying full price it is definitely worth waiting a little while to go down in 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krol_gow_champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  okay i bought this game yesterday and today i really got in to it.
  
  it starts out kinda slow and you'll only face about 5 enemies at once.
  your moves are VERY limited 
 at first, but as soon as you unlock the arena you can earn 18 new combos. New combos cost gold 
 wich you find around the islands.
  
  The first good thing to buy is the 3 treasue maps so you get all the gold. You can also spend money 
 on med packs (meat) , throwing axes and fire pots. Theres also some other stuff but it aint worth 
 mentioning. After a while you'll start to get into bigger battles and on some missions that theres 
 so many enemies that your only choice is to sneak through the level. This is one of the games good 
 suprises. The stealth element is actually really good.
  
  The sound in the game is okay but nothing special at all. The gameplay is by far the greatest part 
 of the game and the combat is incredible. It's really fun to plan your attack, you can for example 
 firts stealth kill the archers and then take the ground troops head on. 
  
  Theres not many different enemies. Theres your regular warrior and the archer edition. 
  Then 
 theres the shielded ones that can really be a pain if theres more than 3 at once. 
  Theres also the assassins wich is a monster walking/jumping around on all 4 legs and have deadly 
 claws. One of theese scared the hell out of me when it jumped out of a tree 
  
  Then theres two sub-bosses wich is the champions and the giant. The champion is a warrior with 
 a really big sword.
  The giant is, well a giant.
  
  The assaults on castles are epic. This is like the lord of the rings and thats one of the most 
 satisfying moments in gaming historys.
  
  the storys is boring and pretty stupid, all you need to know is that hell is running over and you 
 won't let them take over your islands
  
  i give it:
  sound-6
  gameplay-9
  graphics-8
  story-5
  overall-8.5
  
  feel free to ask questions about the review or game
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solonel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I had no expectations for this game when I rented it but after the opening cut scene I thought 
 there might be some promise. I haven't played Fable but I have played Oblivion and in terms of 
 graphics, this game is impressive. The graphics fall in-between what you see in Oblivion and what 
 we've seen in Conan. If you need a game to compare it to, I'd say it's a close tie to Gears of 
 War set within a Norse mythology setting. Character animations lips move and the voice acting isn't 
 that bad for a game like this.
  
  As another poster stated, the water is gorgeous even though you can't go splashing around in it. 
 You can however, drown so don't go swimming off to any islands in the beginning of the game. 
 
  
  In some places you can't fall off the cliff because the game will display an animation as if you 
 were catching your balance to prevent from falling. In other places, such as the hill in the first 
 part of the game (north of your starting location) , when you kill one of the guards, you can push 
 him off the cliff and if you go to far you can join him by falling to your death.
  
  The game might grow on you if your a fan of regular non-Japanese RPG's. The combat is real time 
 similar to Conan and God of War and the enemies descend on you quickly. Once combat starts, it's 
 difficult to tell who is who but at least he game won't let you attack your own comrades. 
  
  I didn't consult the manual because when I rented it, there was no manual so of course I spent 
 all of my money on runes not knowing that there was a store that sold potions and other useful 
 items further on in the game. 
  
  The camera gives me a headache and I get an uneasy sensation in my stomach from it while playing 
 this game. I didn't really see a problem with the mini-map other than the fact that it doesn't 
 show your enemies but then either did Gears of War and it just wouldn't make sense as to how you 
 would see your enemies on "radar" to begin with so I don't fault the game for that. 
  
  The game play is fluid. I didn't have any problems learning combat and you can improve your character's 
 combat skills buy purchasing them. Immediately after your purchase, you can begin practicing the 
 move so you know how to use it. 
  
  It's almost impossible when you are surrounded by multiple enemies on both regular and difficult 
 mode. Sometimes holding left trigger works to block and other times it doesn't. 
  
  Overall it's a surprisingly fun and addictive game. I haven't finished the game yet but I'm considering 
 buying it. It's just that fun. I haven't gotten bored of it yet like I have with Conan and there's 
 a bit more going on in this game than something like the Dynasty Warriors series of games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Viking
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  After playing through the first of three zones in Viking, it seems like there's plenty of promise 
 in store. But as you get deeper into the game, the small annoyances that could have been smoothed 
 out never are, and potentially awesome features never become fully realized. It's clear that the 
 mechanics are built around fighting four to five enemies, not taking down armies or participating 
 in the half-assed stealth and platforming objectives seen here. Missions consist of extremely repetitive 
 fetch quests and jailbreaks. Massive sieges are virtually impossible to lose, catapults and battering 
 rams are only represented in cutscenes, and gaining multiple dragons is useless since they all 
 strike the same spot. The pointless story is told through static concept art. Bosses are all just 
 reskinned standard enemies (even the last one) . And I'd kill for some kind of run button or horse 
 to ride. In fact, killing yourself is the fastest way to get around in many cases. There are so 
 many more awful things to talk about so I'll just leave it at this: do not buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khariss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  o. k to start of i just want to say because of reviews of this game on other websites (ign mostly) 
 i nearly didn't get this game.
  thank god i did this game is a good old hack and slash but mixed with full scale war. 
  sure 
 it doesn't add much but it gives you enough in terms of combos. but the real mind blower is the 
 end of island sieges as a total war fan ive always wanted to go down to street level and pwn some 
 fools but you cant.
  this game gives you that. plus it gives you dragons which are cleverly implemented as a kind of 
 artillery which you earn for killing champions and shamans which are both like bosses (big bosses 
 lol) 
  
  now for the bad which i have to say isn't that much but the most noticeable thing to any rpg fan 
 is the lack of diolag when speaking to characters and the story isn't one to be remembered 
  
  but all in all this is a great action game with plenty of fun and amazement to be had.
  
 
  plus as a side note for you total war fans the water in viking bears a striking resemblance to 
 that of upcoming empire total war. i would be shocked if this wasn't an early version of the of 
 the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaterFly
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  For fans of the genre, this game is a must have. Great characters, beautiful levels, enjoyable 
 combat. Those that didn't enjoy it for those as mentioned various reasons, I'm sure that if they 
 have a sequel, issues will be addressed accordingly. Overall, a very fun game with a lot of enjoyable 
 aspects. Will keep my eye out for a sequel. Fans of this style of game I'm sure will be pleasantly 
 suprised having read the more negatively slanted reviews. Not many games out with nordic references 
 and story lay-outs. Good first! The only thing that would have been a noteworthy addition would've 
 been if they had included higher levels variety with the style of combat, which is still very solid 
 as it stands. Also, a little more attention to music structure within the game. Complimenting the 
 combat scenes accordingly. There are positives to the ambience that is strewn about, however, there 
 are moments where greater levels of attention to sound and music would amplify the experience even 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exhxguitarist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of RPG games, i have been waiting for Viking to come out for months. I was excited 
 how there was finally a game for Norse Mythology, seeing as not a lot of people are into it as 
 much as Greek and Roman Mythology. As for the gameplay, it is FANTASTIC!!! When you are in combat, 
 and you hit someone, it makes you feel the strike and the pain you just caused them. And it feels 
 so satisfying to use an ending move such as stabbing your sword through their chest and chopping 
 at their skull with your axe. This game is very bloody and gory, considering you can cut off limbs 
 in regular combat. The game controls are easy and quick to get used to. Viking reminds me a lot 
 of Fab; e because of the opening scene and the accents, and the graphics are exactly the same as 
 fables if not, a little better. The reason this game didn't get a 10 is because it is very hard 
 tograsp at first. like when i first saved soldiers, i followed them for a while, just to find out 
 that they dont follow me into combat, also the mini map could use some work, i like how it doesn't 
 display enemies so it is sort of a surprise when Skarin pulls out his weapons and the music changes, 
 and you get that feeling in your stomach that's like "oh Sh*t." and you look around to find an 
 enemy about to hack oyu when you block and then slice their limbs off one by one. Overall this 
 game is one of the best RPG's i have ever played, besides Fable and i would definately recoment 
 itto those like me, just looking for a fun RPG to play over and over again. The only reason you 
 shouldn't have this game is if you are really squemish. It is definately a game to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllBOOMSTICK
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  God of War had a one night stand with Ninja Gaiden. Then 9 months later neither one of them wanted 
 the baby and Sega adopted it and became its new father. This game is that bastard offspring. It 
 takes the fun combat of God of War and places it in a Norse setting. The moves are very similar 
 and it can be quite tricky at times. The game play is open and deep, as this is not your everyday 
 button masher. It takes quite a bit of strategy when dealing with enemies and money management. 
 The gold is quite plentiful and the quests are challenging. The story is almost nonexistant but 
 who plays games for stories anymore. Want a story, see a movie. The real meat here is the flying 
 chunks that fly off of enemies and onto your greasy Viking god which end up providing enough lubrication 
 for the next goon that gets run thru. There are a few good ideas here that can be built into a 
 franchise in the future making this another action/rpgish/strategy game. The lack of any mounts 
 here is kind of a let down but you can however, teleport using rune areas to parts of the map you 
 have been to before. Things that keep this game from a perfect score are:
  1. The game looks really shiney.
  2. The voice acting is a little silly seeing as how most of 
 the voices sound Scottish and not your normal Viking.
  3 Treasure chests are a bit old as well as smash and grab pots.
  4. Funny camera control at times.
 
  5. This is not a FPS :) .
  The rest of the game plays great and provides enough replayability to earn a position on top of 
 the 360 as you will likely play this over and over. The finishing moves are fun and look very brutal, 
 yet sometimes get repetitive. All in all you cant go wrong picking this up to round out your collection 
 or to get some freeroam type gameplay in before GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOnlyValius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard has a deep compelling story that really brings you on the same emotional 
 level as the main character. The only part of this game I found lacking was the gameplay... oh, 
 Sorry wrong game.
  
  Viking: Battle for Asgard is game that unfortunately lacking in story. You are Freya's champion 
 and as such required to smite Hel's Legion from Midgard and free you fellow Vikings.
  
  The gameplay on the other hand is simple, but fun. The moves are quick and filled with beautiful 
 gore. After successful completing a combo on an enemy or just pounding his face in you get the 
 chance to hit the X button and watch a slow-mo Fatality. The one downfall of the gameplay is towards 
 the end of the adventure it can get kinda repetitive, thought he game does continuely give you 
 new moves that can be learned at arenas to keep it kinda fresh.
  
  The graphics in this game are another feature of it that shine. The water graphics can be amazing. 
 Sometimes I can just look and stare at the ocean in this game. The scenery is top notch and is 
 really a nice environment to play the game in.
  
  The best thing about this game is the large scale sieges that take place at the end of each of 
 the three islands. These battles are huge and involve hundreds of soldiers and require you to strategically 
 call down dragons and take out different enemy strong points.
  
  At first managing some of the multi-enemy battles can be a pain and make this game kind of frustrating 
 and hard, but once you get some new combos and rage moves it makes it alot more manageable.
  
  All in all I can only describe this game with one word: BRUTAL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Like I said; this review is just my first impressions of what I have seen so far. I will most defiantly 
 be playing more, so this is like a living review, continually growing and changing. I have played 
 through most of the first part of the game. Don't worry no spoilers here!
  Right of the bat the graphics amazed me. Clean, crisp, beautiful. The game starts with a real nice 
 cinematic that lays the ground work for some fairly good story telling. The only frame rate issues 
 I have seen so far are when the achievement pop-ups appears (which to my surprise happen frequently, 
 65 g-pnts in less than 2 hours) . Nice lighting and textures give the environment a nice look. Visually 
 the game is amazing.
  As for the story telling; The voice overs are great. I swear I heard Patrick Stewart or Ian McKellen 
 in there. The one thing that sticks out is all the Vikings sound like they are Scottish... oh well. 
 A good mix of mythology and fiction blend well to create a nice back drop to the unfolding events.
 
  Vikings scores big when it comes to game play. Just like all of the great titles in the Action/Adventure 
 genre, this one has the right mix of hack and slash, strategy and good RPG elements. The RPG elements 
 are well thought out and integrated nicely. Runes can be added to weapons so magical specials can 
 be used. These runes look to be upgradeable as the game progresses. Health and magic also are upgradeable 
 through items purchased at the various shops in the main town. The open world eliminates any linear 
 feel. Certain tasks are required to open up other maps, and these seem to be able to be completed 
 in any order. One early mission has you looking for a battle horn. But you can't rush in. Upgrades 
 for weapons and extra items are a must. So gold must be found first, which can be found a number 
 of ways. There is where some strategy comes into play. Don't blow all your loot on runes cause 
 the next shop over has potions and the such.
  The combat is pretty basic, so there is no learning curve at all. The special death blows are nice 
 and bloody. 
  My only beef is with the camera. No zoom in or out can make keeping track of bad guys weird. Rotating 
 the camera becomes a must and can kind of interfere with battling the numerous enemies around every 
 corner. 
  Vikings on a whole has a nice feel to it that in some ways reminds me of God of War, but is no 
 way a rip off. I can't wait to play it some more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masaru_Kato
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  So, I really hadn't looked into this game all to much before it came out, but from what I had seen 
 I really was expecting this game to be just another awesomely bloody, fast pasted, no-story-having, 
 beat-em-up. well... I was wrong -kinda. from the get go I was shocked, literally shocked, that 
 this game looked SO much like Fable. Now don't get me wrong, this game has many many differences, 
 but for me, the look and feel of this game was very much borrowed from fable. the start menu, the 
 environment, even the way some cutscenes are conveyed with the 2D artwork - was all very much in 
 the style of fable, but enough of that as I'm sure people will debate about how wrong or right 
 I am.
  
  the pacing of the game for me was strange, it starts slow... REAL slow, 
  the story line- eh it doesn't start off too badly
  the character movements - wow... they are slow, 
 not because of frame rate, but just because.
  the developement... eh
  
  now all of this is kind of minor but my biggest problems with the game are sound and characters 
 and the mini map
  
  Sound - for a game that uses hundreds of characters at once in battle there is almost no sound 
 fx for it and the game suffers from it. even in the cutscenes, some actions that clearly require 
 sound fx just dont have it.
  
  Characters - in battle you just can't tell who is who
  
  Mini-map - Its useless for exploring, which there is a lot of. I constantly found myself pressing 
 the start button to get my bearings
  
  what I did like:
  
  the graphics are really good, the water LOOKS great, despite not being interactive.
  once the 
 game does pick up it is pretty good though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
