-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtua Fighter 5 Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/virtuafighter5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Totally functional online mode.
 Very sharp graphics.
 Terrific gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game's menus could have been condensed and made much more friendly.
 Sound effects and voice occasionally sound tinny or muffled.
 Have to invest in at least one $60 joystick if you want the ideal way to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,033 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sega-AM2
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
To answer your two questions: Yes, this is a solid port of Virtua Fighter 5, and yes, the online 
 play works just fine. 

  It's been a bumpy ride with its share of disappointment, but the quest to bring fighting games 
 kicking and screaming into homes with smooth online play seems to be nearing its end. And it's 
 just in time because the ability to find competition anytime, anywhere is just the sort of thing 
 this style of game needs to be successful. Sega's Virtua Fighter 5 is the next fighting game to 
 take the plunge into online play, and it does so quite well.  

           Heeeeyyyyyyy!      

  The online mode lets you take on another competitor in ranked 
 or unranked matches. How well it works is solely dependant on the quality of your Internet connection 
 and the quality of your opponent's connection. Because the game will match you up with other players, 
 some games will run nearly perfectly, while others will be almost completely unplayable... unless 
 the problem's on your end, of course. On a regular, consumer-grade DSL connection, we had a good 
 experience, with many more smooth matches than rough-looking latent ones. The game keeps track 
 of your wins and losses in ranked mode, as well as clumsily ties it into the game's existing profile 
 system in the process. While the online play works, the menus leading up to it certainly could 
 have been handled better. It starts by asking you if you want a ranked or unranked match, then 
 moves on to character select, where you can opt to use one of your customized characters from another 
 mode, but only their appearance carries over online. Your personal comment and ring name don't 
 show outside of quest mode.  

  At that point, you can choose to create a match, which puts you on the left side, or join one, 
 which places you on the right. If you create an unranked match, you can invite a player from your 
 friends list. But regardless of how you find an opponent, you're dropped back to the create/join 
 menu after every match. The inability to change characters and stay in an unranked match with a 
 friend is annoying. Also, the game would have benefitted from tournament options or at least the 
 ability to have more than two people in one game who could swap in and out as players win or lose 
 fights.  

  Virtua Fighter 5 on the Xbox 360 is based on the Version C revision of the arcade game. The arcade 
 versions of VF games typically undergo some slight changes and rebalancing over their lifetime. 
 For reference, the PlayStation 3 version is built off of Version B. The differences feel negligible 
 to the average player and an in-depth discussion of the changes is outside the scope of this review. 
 Beyond the version change, the rest of Virtua Fighter 5 is on par with what the PlayStation 3 release 
 offered from a features standpoint. You can play the game in arcade mode, which faithfully duplicates 
 the computerized opponents you'd face if you were to drop 100 yen in an arcade machine, visit the 
 dojo for the game's passable practice mode, or go to VF. TV mode to set up computer-controlled fights 
 between any two characters or view replays. This mode could have been awesome if some of the online 
 hooks were applied because watching expert-level VF players face off is a real sight to see. Instead, 
 it's a little flat.  

  But the more interesting single-player component is quest mode, which gives you a map filled with 
 different arcades, each with a reputation for attracting players of different skill levels. You 
 can visit any arcade and start fighting. As you go, you'll earn money that can be used to customize 
 characters, unlock items, and get invited to tournaments. All that stuff is great, but it's really 
 more interesting because the artificial intelligence of your opponents is more varied and interesting 
 to fight. In arcade mode, the game has a very robotic response to your actions. In quest mode, 
 the fighters you face are all given ring names, as well as comments -- just like a human player would 
 have -- and they tend to fight differently. The higher ranking quest mode AI can be challenging and 
 the quest mode can keep you busy for a good, long time. But it's no substitute for actual competition, 
 which, thankfully, is only a few menus away.  

  The only other thing that gets in the way of the fun is the Xbox 360's D pad, which works well 
 enough, but just isn't quite up to the challenge of the game's fast-moving action. Sega and Hori 
 have teamed up to release a joystick called the EX2. This joystick duplicates the ball-style joystick 
 and convex buttons typically found in Japanese arcades. It's also a solid piece of hardware that 
 works nicely while still having most of the standard 360 accoutrements, such as a guide button 
 and a jack for your headset. It's a good piece of equipment that serious players should consider, 
 but also be warned that this is a $60 joystick. At least it has six buttons on the face, so if 
 you have any other 360 fighting games with buttons you can remap, this will work there too.  

 
           If you aren't already good at Virtua Fighter, expect to rack up losses online.      

 
  Visually, the game looks about the same as the arcade version, which is to say that it has great-looking 
 characters, picturesque backgrounds, and quality animation. About the only thing that looks a little 
 funky is the mouth animation, which pops up when characters speak after a match. The character 
 voices are a little hit or miss too, occasionally sounding a little tinny and low-fidelity. The 
 music is the same sort of electronic-tinged rock that you'd expect to hear from a modern fighting 
 game.  

  Virtua Fighter 5 is a great fighting game and the addition of a good multiplayer mode only makes 
 it better. But keep in mind that the game is geared toward players who have experience with the 
 series and isn't always friendly to new players. If you've been playing Virtua Fighter for any 
 length of time, this game is worth adding to your library. However, even if you're a fan of other 
 fighting games but aren't already familiar with the series, it's likely that you're just going 
 to keep on wondering why there is such a fuss about Virtua Fighter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: carbine97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This has got the Hardest, Most Painful, Dream Crushing Fighting Game I have ever Played and that's 
 why it's Brilliant. This game will Eat you up. In your first few minutes of playing it you will 
 think of it as a Broken, Overcomplicated mess of a Game but you just need to play it more. When 
 you're at least Mediocre you will LOVE IT. Let me Explain....
  
  Button Masher + Virtua Fighter 5 = 9 year old Swearing and Crying
  L33t + Virtua Fighter 5 = 
 Awesome Game Played right
  
  Repeat 
  This has got the Hardest, Most Painful, Dream Crushing Fighting Game I have ever Played and that's 
 why it's Brilliant. This game will Eat you up. In your first few minutes of playing it you will 
 think of it as a Broken, Overcomplicated mess of a Game but you just need to play it more. When 
 you're at least Mediocre you will LOVE IT. Let me Explain....
  
  Button Masher + Virtua Fighter 5 = 9 year old Swearing and Crying
  L33t + Virtua Fighter 5 = 
 Awesome Game Played right
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  With the continuation of Virtua Fighter there has definitely been a strong line of improvement 
 along the way in both mechanics and visuals but nothing on the side of story and interface to be 
 precise. 
  
  Foremost, what makes this game far away from the pedestal of perfection is the basic fact that 
 there ISN'T any storyline concerning the characters' origins aside from second party references 
 thrown out hither that may not even be entirely verifiable in the first place. I understand game 
 mechanics are the most important part of a game themed by fighting but there has to be a reason 
 why a particular character is in the game, what their inclinations and motives are and so forth: 
 we can't simply take a few people who seem like they would make cool characters based on their 
 appearance and throw them in without a second take on logical proofing. As can be inferenced here 
 there isn't a story mode, only an arcade mode.
  
  The first mode in VF5 is Arcade Mode -- a mode in which you combat against various opponents, two-rounds 
 each, up until the final character Dural -- a non-texture based female statue that can fight [let's 
 keep going further away from the logical proofing my good friends Sega!] -- who, if beaten, will 
 give you a considerable bonus on your overall point value through the arcade 
  
  The second mode is Quest Mode -- a mode that consists of a large multitude of 'tournament agencies', 
 which are small building structures that allow you to infinitely fight against randomly ordered 
 fighters until a tournament is announced on the screen, giving you the option to either decline 
 or accept. This mode has a win-loss ratio system in place and a traditional fighter ranking element; 
 you can simultaneously customize your character's clothing, headgear, the sort before participating 
 in any match. It all sounds pretty decent but Sega happened to kill it with the strongest sense 
 of monotony I have ever seen before in any fighter game's attempt at replay value, so it would 
 be best not to spend much time here.
  
  And the final mode aside from standard training is an online mode that requires 1 vs 1 matches -- either 
 ranked or player match -- without accommodation. The positive is complete avoidance of almost any 
 lag at all while the negative is your inability to switch your character without creating a new 
 session and the lack of any variety in the online interface.
  
  Now for the essence of the game, its mechanics. Each character has a standard number of combos 
 to offset any non-originality, but their aren't too many transitions and the combos your character 
 initiates can never be stringed with another combo nor broken off whenever you want. Variety is 
 pretty great in VF5 but the execution doesn't ever differ very much; you can even play Quest Mode, 
 spam a cheap technique over and over again, and you will defeat the AI like a typical joke no matter 
 how far you progress. There is also a counter system in VF5 that virtually has the same command 
 input as DOA4's, which is one of the few positives I see from it. The character fluency is a great 
 showing for the mechanics too. Overall it isn't for the casual gamer, and even for a player who 
 took the time out of his/her hands to steep over the learning curve of the game spamming still 
 seems to be a very practical approach for success no matter who you are playing as. 
  
  The voices is in this game are few and only incorporated within the three variable victory poses 
 for each character and their introduction stance. The melodies are few but usually highly upbeat 
 in accordance with their narrative while the sound effects become obnoxious over the course of 
 time upon each hit you land on your opponent and are somewhat like Tekken's.
  
  In the end this game is classifiable as 'good' but it still has many down-turning qualities that 
 were left out without marketable reason. But the primary redeeming quality of the game lies more 
 in its graphics, not so much in the gameplay since the overrated technicality of it can still be 
 defeated by general spam and is outdone by the string and transition mechanics of a better fighter 
 like Dead or Alive 4. Even if this game is not exactly the worst it still has notable faults, that 
 is why I'd recommend going for Dead or Alive 4 instead despite their difference in release dates.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nessus11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  No button smashing here. With VF5, it's an all new ballgame. You really need to learn all the moves 
 for the character you have selected. This is made easy through the Dojo. After that, it is best 
 to learn about the engine (guard buffer, fuzzy guard, frame advantage/disadvantage, etc... all obtainable 
 at the official virtuafighter. com site.) Very technical game, stimulates the mind very well... 
 If there is one very valuable asset you will need in order to win in this game is definitely "SKILLS". 
 So for whoever likes challenges, this is the game for you. If you have never played fighting games 
 or was never really into fighting games, try this one. Good for beginners and experts. I didn't 
 like fighting games at first, but after learning this one. I was lured into the fighting game genre.... ha 
 ha. Also, get yourself a fighting stick controller for that is how fighting games are suppose to 
 be played. And set the buttons to the default arcade setting. This game will keep you challenged 
 and on your feet, especially when you start fighting online. Plus you can record your matches online 
 so you can learn what you did right/wrong and improve your strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter five for the play station three ( and it is for the X Box three sixty and some other 
 video game consoles ) is a game with beautiful graphics, from the players faces and facial expressions 
 to the settings in the background and the arena that they are fighting in. The game is very similar 
 to Soul Caliber IV and all of the other soul caliber games, but with out swords or weapons or anything 
 like that. The camera is great and the game has some variety. The bad part about the game is that 
 it gets boring and it gets boring pretty quickly. Well, at least in my opinion, thats all. The 
 demo of the game really let me anticipate the game, but was kind of let down when it came out. 
 I would recommend this game only if you like this type of genre of these games. If you are not 
 into some what shallow fighting games, than you should not play it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisSpartan117
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Virtua Fighter, it was VF4: Evolution on the arcade machine. A fluid gameplay 
 design and decent graphics made it fun to play, but I found myself playing Tekken 5 more. Now, 
 we have Virtua Fighter 5 Online, ported from the PS3 version, offering an online mode, slightly 
 improved graphics, and more items to change your character's look.
  
  Now, when most VF fanboys see the score, they're going to think, "Oh, he's just a button mashing, 
 Soul Calibur-loving moron." Well, SC2 is one of the best fighting games ever, but I have never 
 seen such great gameplay in a fighting game ever. VF5 offers the deepest gameplay in any game, 
 because there's so many moves to every character, and there's almost a countermove for every attack, 
 offering very balanced gameplay. What's better is how good every character is. You will never find 
 a match where you can instantly see an advantage over another player due to characters chosen. 
 
  
  What makes it better is that in this game, you just can't ring out everyone you meet, because a 
 good chunk of the arenas have either railings, or walls preventing any chance of doing a ring out.
 
  
  Another good thing about this game are the graphics. Damn, they are good. They look sharp and detailed, 
 and it's really cool to see interesting particle effects when a character is slammed to the ground.
 
  
  One more interesting point is the customizing system. The 360 version was given more items to customize 
 with than the PS3 version, and it is very fun to use, because you can give your character so many 
 different appearances.
  
  But what's the problem tbat brings this game down to an 8.0? It begins with the non-existant story. 
 There's no story in this game unless you read the manual, but the story's so horrible that you 
 don't want to. El Blaze's story is the worst story ever made in the history of gaming. 
  
  And then there's the godawful voice acting. I'm going to make this short: These VA's make the Dragon 
 Ball Z VA's look Oscar worthy.
  
  Another thing that bothers me is the overall value. Basically, if Quest Mode doesn't interest you, 
 you will get bored of this game quickly, unless you play online.
  
  And finally, the presentation is a little lacking. It's not bad, but it's very simple and uninteresting.
 
  
  In conclusion, VF5 is a good game, but it's overall lacking. Just go get VF4: Evolution for the 
 PS2 if you want your Virtua FIghter fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustofwind
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  At first you may start playing this game and pick out it's "flaws" such as it being alot slower 
 than other fighting games, e. g. DOA.
  
  But any gamer who isn't influenced by gimmics should soon realise this game superiority, the game 
 is much more realistic than other fighters with the exception of the character Dural so it is only 
 natural it should go at a slower pace. In all honesty speed just promotes button bashing and is 
 a gimmic itself.
  
  If you want gimmics then you've purchased the wrong console, the nintendo wii is for you.
  
 
  The game has much more depth than your average fighting game, it would take years to truly master 
 it.
  
  The game does have its flaws, the characters themselves are not too interesting, nor does the game 
 bother to explain their backgrounds.
  At the end of the day though, it's a fighting game if you're picking up a fighting game for it's 
 story you're not very bright, try an rpg.
  
  You have the option of customising the characters, there's a wide range of items so you can make 
 the characters more personal to yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattss78
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  well this game was ok but get old at times. like online is has hard as heck. but i like the story 
 was good and the grapice are out off this world. i love love love the fighters like the monk. his 
 3rd comstome is amsome like in the millartery. and the hottey with the milartey jactett is amsome!!!!! plus 
 her police suit. and the main charter on the cover with the white robe is kick butt like crazy. plus 
 on the stages on the street is great grapice. and the one with the mounten in the back ground with 
 a brige. the stages are amazing!!!!!!! but the #1 that wrong with this game is get old. i played this 
 for only a mouth bec this was kind of boring game. i mean how would like to battle the same guy 
 again and again and again. i mean how would???? you got be stuiped to like that. plus the story is 
 like untlimed story. that is what i like. untlimed story is man im in glad that they did that. but 
 this game was a little hard but not to hard. if you like ation game were you can bet the crap out 
 off your foe. very easy to play. not hard to get used to. and good game. well that all foks. see you 
 later!!! -wattss78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ne0man
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter was not only the first true 3d fighting game but it was one of the first 3d games 
 out there. it was the standard for any "not street fighter like" fighting game. it set the way 
 for tekken (half of the development team was composed of ex am2 guys that went to namco after developing 
 VF) but it is a underappreciated game nowadays. This situation is compreensible since sega never 
 promoted the game well enough at least over here, cause in japan and due to the huge arcade scene 
 over there the series is as big as ever. on the western side of the planet the likes of tekken 
 and soul calibur (and even street fighter) still prevail. well its a shame that most people are 
 so biased towards tekken that will never give a chance to this game, and to be honest Tekken was 
 my favourite 3d fighting option until Virtua Fighter 4 Evolution. But to end the history class 
 (kind of) let's talk about this one:
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is at least the best 3D fighting game ever so far.
  Graphically its as good 
 as it can get. the facial expressions are realistic, the character's movements are fluid, little 
 details like people cheering on the background of some stages, the cherry blossom trees, the sunset, 
 the snow, the waterfalls... this game will stun you visually, but you can judge that for yourself 
 with the gameplay videos and screenshots provided through gamespot.
  
  Gameplay wise, it retains the 3 button layout that is still untouched from the first installment 
 until now. Guard, Punch and Kick. though this may look overly simplistic and bland you may be fooled, 
 cause what sets VF5 apart from all other franchises is how deep the combat system is. Combinations 
 of the three buttons let you grab, throw, change stances, and the combo system is one of the most 
 complex i've ever experienced. One of the things that got me caught in the game is the simple fact 
 that the more you play the more you can notice your own skill growing. another thing that sets 
 this game apart from the competition is the roster of characters, one of the most diverse and balanced 
 out there inspite of what you may have read in most user reviews. A fast and accessible character 
 like Jacky can be a lame punch-punch-punch-kick machine for novice players, a 4 hit combo- dodge 
 character, and if you're experienced it can be unbeatable due to the fast paced type of gameplay 
 that character can offer. You got a muai-thai like character, a shaolin monk, the slow but powerful 
 wrestler Wolf and its rival Jeffry, a advanced throw judo killing machine... you name it. Also this 
 installment adds two new characters to a total of 19. El Blaze and Eileen, a fast light wrestler 
 and a monkey kung fu girl respectivelly. You'll probably try your luck with a bunch of characters 
 and then you'll find the perfect one for you, and spend a lot of time practicing your skills with 
 it.
  
  The xbox360 version stands out with a great online mode, you'll also find the single player arcade 
 mode, an excelent tutorial and practice modes, and the quest mode where you'll fight through arcade 
 clubs spread through japan sparring against AI characters based on real players's statistics. Here 
 is another of the game's qualities, the AI is refined and you'll encounter novice players on the 
 first arcades and when you move to arcade where experienced players meet you'll find challenging 
 AIs that never get predictable and can detect patterns in your playing style to keep you from winning 
 with "random button smashing" and last resort lame techniques. In quest mode you'll also earn money 
 and costumes to customize your character. the possibilities are almost limitless: haircuts, hair 
 colors, necklaces, earrings, pants, boots, t-shirts, contact lenses... you name it!
  
  To sum up, it is the only 3D fighting game that you need in your shelf, and it is one of the greatest 
 games of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  The 5th (6th if you count evolution) in the franchise and brings 2 new characters in the mix
  
  More characters the better Virtua fighter may not have a billion characters but, what it does 
 have is a fighting system that is unrivaled when it comes to complexity. For one if you are used 
 to say Tekken it may take awhile to get used to over 130+ commands for every character. All the 
 characters have different fighting styles and it is very evident because no one NO ONE controls 
 the same. Can you button mash some characters? Yes, I mean no fighter out there has an engine so 
 complex that you can't button mash at all. Quest mode returns from Virtua Fighter 4 evo or if you 
 didn't play that one just remember "Kumite" from the original VF4. Highly customizable with items 
 out of the wazoo for every character and on the Xbox 360 you can even download more items.
  
  The music is ok... it could be much better. It is generic with no real amazing music.
  
 
  Online for 3-d games is tough as it is and this is no better it still lags and its only one on 
 one! DoA4 had rooms with up to 16 people that was understandable why it lagged some times but, 
 when it comes to this its just wow. 
  
  With online aside its still an amazing fighter
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  ~INTRO~
  I'm not going to lie here; Virtua Fighter hasn't been my favorite fighting series. In fact, its 
 not even a close second; I've always enjoyed two main fighting series over VF: Street Fighter and 
 Tekken. I don't have a problem with VF on the contrary; I think it's a vibrant fighting series 
 with a great history. I've just never been able to get into the series. That was until VF4 came 
 out for the PS2. Easily one of the best fighting games released on the PS2; everything shines in 
 VF4: graphics were mind blowing, gameplay was super in depth; combining a realistic real with tactical 
 wisdom. Beside Tekken 5 and Street Fighter Anniversary collection I would have no problem recommending 
 VF4 as being one of the best fighters on the PS2. As time went by, I like most gamers would inevitably 
 be faced with VF4 successor VF5. I most say Sega has really fallen in recent years; creating piles 
 of poopy so deep that I honestly believed no company could ever climb out. An the smell would be 
 so god offal that all their employees would eventually off themselves. Yet, Sega-AM2 always seems 
 to rise above and poopy and create a game that's a staple to every fighting game to follow.
  
  ~GRAPHICS~
  The graphics look great, both on the PS3 or 360. The most noticeable enhancement 
 is the character models which are ridiculously detailed. The environments though nice can't compete 
 with the character models. The coolest part is that every character model can be modified with 
 different items. But unlike most games, (I looking at you Tekken 5) the items are as detailed as 
 the models. There is also so many different items that you can literally morph your character into 
 a completely different person.
  
  ~GAMEPLAY~
  The gameplay in VF5 is extremely solid but unfortunately not as inviting as other games such as 
 Street Fighter, Tekken and even Dead or Alive. The problem is realism; most fighting games don't 
 bother with the concept. Now don't misunderstand me; this isn't a perfect recreation of a realistic 
 fight. Juggling opponents on walls and flying up in the arm to do some ground damage is still as 
 over the top as ever. No, what's realistic is the core fighting mechanics: dodging, real life countering 
 and Timing. Every other fighting game is based around unrealistic mechanics, which isn't a bad 
 thing at all. I enjoy countering somebody's mid level kick and throwing them on their back or breaking 
 their neck after countering a high punch. In my opinion, DOA and Tekken are movie choreographed 
 scenes; VF5 is a boxing match or UFC fight. You don't see people counter punches in real life with 
 wannabe Bruce Lee moves. They use positioning, timing and reactions to best their opponents. This 
 is the exact mentality used within VF5 fighting engine. Though it is extremely satisfying to grow 
 as a fighter in VF and see your skill level adapt to new skillful tactics. The learning curve is 
 pretty high and very unwelcoming. Out of 4 friends that I know that have actually tired VF for 
 the first time. One won actually invested the time to develop some skill; the other 3 got frustrated 
 with the initial learning curve to enjoy the game. That's the biggest draw back to such an in depth 
 system; most fighting games are shallow in depth and technique but offer an easy entry. VF5 is 
 the exact opposite; this will surely alienate most causal fighting fans and instantly appeal to 
 the hardcore fighting geeks. VF 5 fits the niche for games that are looking for something a bit 
 more realistic but be careful; this isn't a game you will be able to invite your friends over to 
 face off in. This isn't brawl or any welcoming fighting game; again this is no button masher!! 
 
  
  ~CONTROLS~
  I usually don't comment on the 360 controller in my 360 reviews but something must be said. Do 
 not attempt to play this game with the regular console controller. Be advised, you must purchase 
 the arcade stick to truly master the finer points of VF5. There is simply no match for having all 
 three main buttons: Punch, Kick and guard ready to be pressed when using the Arcade stick. Compare 
 that to your slow fat thumb being used on the original controller. Unfortunately, this presents 
 two sides: Good - it adds that extra level of classic arcade feel. The game is enhanced using the 
 arcade stick and moves can be pulled off better. Bad - the game and arcade stick will run you around 
 a hundred plus dollars which isn't a very welcoming hand for most gamers. Trust me, (this is for 
 non-hardcore fans who obviously already know to buy arcade sticks with their fighting game collection.) 
 you wont regret buying the arcade stick. 
  
  ~FEATURES~
  Let me start by saying that the 360 version is by far the best version of VF5 on any consoles. 
 Two main reasons: online and latest version from Sega-AM2. As most VF fans know, Sega-AM2 loves 
 to update the arcade version of VF with different gameplay tweaks and items. VF5 is no exception; 
 since the 360 version came out later than the ps3 version it obviously had the benefit of receiving 
 the latest and greatest version of VF5. Now, I will admit that the online play though awesome to 
 have isn't up to par to say Dead of Alive 4 (that other awesome fighter with super hot asian chicks 
 with fun bags that could support all of africa's starving babies twenty times over!!) DOA 4 has 
 a lobby system and an old school mentality. Basically you sit around an artifical arcade cabinet 
 and watch as your friends battle it out. The coolest part is the options including: tournaments, 
 King of the hill, Loser stays, Winner stays, etcetera. VF5 has none of this; here is a typical 
 match on VF5: 
  1) Select Unranked, wait 10 minutes to find no opponents. 
  2) Select Ranked Match, find somebody that has over 1000 wins
  3) Get your ass kicked, cowboy 
 style. 
  4) Save the video of you getting you cheeks kicked in. 
  5) Return to the main online menu. 
  
  Though this online style may have been acceptable 3 
 years ago, now a days with DOA amazing online model there is no reason why VF5 has to feel so unintuitive. 
 It's awesome to be able to play online but that isn't the reason why this game should get the praise 
 it so rightfully deserves. Its the single player mode that places this game into the stratosphere. 
 Sega-AM2 basically recreated the early 90's scene in a fun new digital way. You start off by selecting 
 your favorite character and selecting from a limited amount of items and gadgets to deck him/her 
 out with. Then, you select from 13 different fictional (I think) arcades around fictional (I think) 
 japanese type map. Each arcades has a difficulty ranking letting you know what type of VF fighter 
 you will be fighting with. This ranges from average beginner to elite badass. The structure is 
 awesome and though I never went arcade hoping when I was a young lad since I wasn't good enough 
 to go around town pwning people in VF or any arcade game; I now wish that I would have just to 
 see the diferent skill sets of gamers. Being able to gain money and customize your character to 
 the point were you literally can't even recognize him/her from there original model really allows 
 for some awesome character creations. Of course, VF5 contains you normal Arcade, practice and endurance 
 modes but the single player experience will really keep you coming back for more. Trying to beat 
 all of your rivalies and collect every characters item is like playing pokemon on crack; HIGHLY 
 ADDICTIVE!! 
  
  ~SOUND~
  The soundtrack is pretty generic and doesn't provide any memorable moments. The sound effects are 
 easily the best in
  fighting game history. I mean who doesn't want their kicks to sound exactly like a whip, AWESOME!
 
  
  ~CONCLUSION~
  I think that all the core elements are perfectly tweaked in VF 5. The graphics are top notch, well 
 at least the character models are true next gen. Each feature provides loads of fun but personally 
 I just try and dominate the wickedly awesome AI. Online play and your standard arcade modes will 
 also provide some longevity. Unfortunately, you get what you put into VF5; to some it will be a 
 perfect combination of realism and fun. To others the learning curve will be to steep at first 
 to truly understand what most will say. Best next gen fighting game; easily the best on the 360. 
 Just be warned, you must have the arcade stick to enjoy this game!! The 360 controller in general 
 wasn't really made for anything besides shooters. So don't expect to pull off any difficult moves!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Ever since I was a kid, I've always been a HUGE FAN of the Virtua Fighter fighting game series! 
 I used to spend hours playing the previous old version on my brother's Saturn ^__^ I even had a 
 water ball thing in my thump because of the repetitive constant hard clicking on the joystick =P
 
  
  NOW~!! My beloved Virtua Fighter is back on the Next-Gen! With amazing graphics, the same fun and 
 improved game play, and new characters! Ooh I almost forgot what I like about this game best, the 
 QUEST mode! In which you create yourself a name, choose yourself a character, and play!!! And you 
 win money... so you can buy your character  make them 
 YOU!! Oooh I forgot one important thing, there's a ranking system in which you own a title depending 
 on how much you win and what your winning percentage is! Fun, no?
  
  And, like other fighting games, there's a VERSUS mose in which you can compete with your peoples! 
 =D
  
  The DOJO is a place where you can train! In more than one way! There's training for calculating 
 how much damage you make, and there's training for teaching you the character's moves!
  
  VF. TV.... is a place where you view the videos of battles you've recorded, and videos of battles 
 of two characters of your choice, commercial videos that are already there for you to watch, and 
 online videos, which then PS3 version lacks.
  
  The ARCADE mode, you chose to fight with a chain of characters which has to be ending with Dural 
 @__@ Scary, I know!
  
  It's really really really, really really awesome! I love this game so much that I did my English 
 report about it : P
  
  And It's EASY! You'll get the hang of it quickly ^__^ Unlike some other figting games like Dead 
 or Alive 4
  
  Lastly, this game is a must-have! Especially if you're a fighting games fan! Because this game's 
 game play is love! combinations = GREAT CREATIVE MOVES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Finally we got this game on Xbox 360 after its release on PS3 which didn't support online function. 
 Virtua Fighter 4 scored more than Tekken 5 on PS2, which we can see how great this game is.
  
  Sega didn't give up and planned to make a next-gen game. At first sight, the graphics are awesome. 
 No complains at all. The character design, detail and clothings looks awesome and realistic. We 
 have 2 new fighters: Eileen and El-Blaze (call him Ray-Mysterio from WWE) . Each character has its 
 own fighting style from real life like Jeet-Kune-Do which famous martial arts master Bruce Lee 
 presented it. Each character has its own strong weak points like slow attacks but deal heavy or 
 not strong in hitting but throws makes the opponent cry in pain. Each character has its story background, 
 four different costumes, its own unique stage and its biggest rival.
  
  The main menu and in game interference menu is very beautiful. Bright and shiny. You can play the 
 game in different modes such as arcade, time attack practice, dojo and quest mode. In quest mode, 
 you choose a character, name it, put a motto, choose a fighting icon, buy new clothes and accessories 
 to customize your characters. Once its done, go out, select arena fights arranged in difficulty 
 and attend tournaments to win a secret prize.
  
  This time, the fighting is bit easier than the previous. You rank up bit easier than before. It 
 took me 3 days to reach the rank hunter which is a high rank. If you get used to your character, 
 beating a fighter on Master rank will be piece of cake. Although the opponent learns your fighting 
 moves and knows what will your next attack will be. So use different attacks and combos. If you 
 find them very easy, you can adjust the difficulty from Normal to Hard. Unfortunately, it doesn't 
 support Easy mode. 
  
  As you play the game, you earn money, clothes, accessories, fighting icons and dragon balls. Collect 
 7 of them and you earn the most secret accessory or unique clothing color. Try to collect them 
 all, which you will unlock achievements.
  
  The stages are nicely done. From city to mountains. From snowfields to sea sides. From traditional 
 locations to wrestling areas. Having unique stages for each character lowers the chance of getting 
 bored.
  
  If you are looking for another fightings game on Xbox 360, you must buy this. It supports online 
 function and more extras due to Version C update. Have fun!
  
  The pros:
  - Awesome graphics
  - Lots of characters ranging from unique fighting styles
  - Quest mode 
 will take your time a lot
  - Beautiful fighting stages
  - Easier gameplay than before
  
  The cons:
  - Sound effects can be sometimes dull
  - Few fighting modes in compare to the 
 previous installment
  - You might struggle from the controller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Many well-balanced fighters
  +Long Quest-Mode (10-15h per Character)
  +Stunning-detailed Graphics
  
  The Bad:
  -VF4 Evos Quest-Mode was a bit more challenging
 
  -The Soundtrack isnt that great...
  
  The Gameplay:
  As expected, its the good old 1-against-1-System. Every Character has a big Move-Palette which needs 
 to be trained, but once you got a bit of the Fighting-System out (and the favourite Button-Combinations) 
 its pretty easy to get in half of the Characters. The fighting system is unbeliveable deep, which 
 scares off beginners first, or is simply put into one corner as unlearnable. Belive me it is. You 
 see most of the stuff after you played for a few hours. It follows pretty simple basics, that make 
 it really challenging for a not-knowing opponent to beat you.
  Knowing the Enemys weaknesses is a key too. Unlike other Fighting-Games you have just to fire one 
 Killer-Combo after another to beat almost everybody, knowing the Enemys Character helps a lot more.
 
  One Example: Jacky got many Power-Attacks, like a Power-punch that can easy cost the balance of 
 the target, Roundhouse-Kicks and other wide-range stuff. But hes weak in close-range. El Blaze is 
 the other way around.
  
  Instead of making 10 new Characters, Sega optimized the existing ones and only threw 2 new ones 
 into the field. Goh for example is much easier to handle now.
  
  The Quest-Mode is well made too. You have to beat every opponent in every Arcade to get all Gamerscore-Points 
 which at first seems impossible, but once you got the System of this mode out, its unbeliveable 
 motivating and it shouldnt take over 10-15h...
  You get so much different Clothes that make he Characters unique, that sometimes they dont even 
 look like themselves anymore. What you want more?
  The Online-Mode is simple, but well made. Only thing that is getting a bit on my nerves is that you 
 only choose a character once, and then search for matches. Quick Character-changes before the Match 
 are impossible. But since you play ranking-matches with you favourite Character anyway its not 
 that bad.
  
  The Graphics:
  At the first look theyre only "nice". After a closer look I call them stunning! Why? Because they 
 are so detailed you cant get egnough of it. How many times could you really see the material the 
 clothes should be made of before? You can even see the Fingerprints of some Characters!
  
  The Sound:
  Well, every good game has its negative sides... the Soundtrack is the usual japanese 
 Arcade-Stuff. I hated El Blazes Voice too. But overall its ok and is never getting on your nerve, plus 
 you can use custom Soundtracks anyway.
  
  So...:
  Everyone who likes Fighting-Games should give it a try. Maybe a second one if you already tried 
 it. I played many Fighters in my life, but none grew on me that much. Dont be scared off, if you cant 
 control every Character after 5Minutes and this will be the most rewarding Fighter youve ever 
 played.
  Promise.
  
  The absolute Bonus: You can get it cheaper pretty often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andynator_FIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game review and it will be short.
  
  VF5 is a great fun for friends of fighting games. Learning the controls won't take long. They are 
 easy to learn. Special moves are listed in the menus when fighting and there's even an own game 
 mode for practising the moves. So I find it very easy to learn this games. There's two actual single 
 player modes: Arcade and Quest.
  
  The Arcade mode is the old fashion game mode with seven (if I remember the number right) opponents 
 and one bonus stage/opponent. The Arcade mode is little too easy. The three opponents that you 
 are playing against first are very easy. Then they get more challenging.
  
  The Quest mode feels like never-ending fighting mode. There are hundreds and hundreds (maybe not 
 that much ;) opponents to be won. You choose your player and start to build up your career as a 
 fighter. And of course, the ranking systems is included. In this mode you can buy different kinds 
 of outfits for your character. Some of them you get only by winning the match. Same thing with 
 emblements. You can get them only by winning. The low rank opponents are very easy. But the most 
 highest ranked opponents are challenging and a great way to practice for on-line gaming.
  
  The real fun begins when you go on-line. Playing against real humans is way more fun and excitement 
 than against computer. Here I found that the ranking game system didn't quite worked the way it 
 is supposed. On-line game has own rankings. You can use the character that you created and modified 
 in the Quest mode but rankings doesn't follow. When starting to play on-line with low ranking you 
 might get a pro player. And this happens often. This might spoil the fun some times when losing 
 match after match. As always... local multi-player game is pure fun. 
  
  VF5 is a great game. I like it a lot. In this game the on-line gaming might be the main feature. 
 Might be what's this games all about.
  
  
  
  Good:
  Awesome graphics, it's a delight to watch.
  Fighters' moves are great and it really feels, when 
 you are knocked down. 
  Easy to learn!
  Good multi-player game. The Quest mode (at the beginning) .
  
  Bad:
  Voice acting is terrible.
 
  I've found some multi-player problems but I'm not sure is it the game's or Xbox Live's fault.
 
  The Quest mode (after the beginning, it's too repetitive and gets boring)
  Some characters are useless in online games.
  
  VF5 is a great game and I recommend it for 
 anyone who likes fighting games. If you buy this, you won't be dissappointed.
  
  
  
  And the great question: Is VF5 better than DOA4? I really don't know. I've played only the demo 
 of DOA4. So I don't want to and I can't make conclusions yet.
  
  -Andy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  If I were to tell you that I remember the original Virtua Fighter fondly you would either give 
 me a polite nod of acknowledgement or make fun of me for owning a sega saturn (I had a dreamcast 
 too, so what you wanna fight about it?) . Even back then VF was gaming marmite, and if you don't 
 know what that means you probably aren't English. The latest incarnation VF5....... is dull..... dull 
 as dishwater...... and as coherent as Sylvester Stalone being interviewed by Tony Danza. The game 
 looks nice but the acting is just plain bad, and the music is terrible. In these respects the game 
 is very much like a young Madonna. But unlike the worbling baby napping witch, the game doesn't 
 have the personality of a sponge. VF just refuses to move with the times, it is still slow, it 
 is still basic. And I feel like I have done it all before. So there you have it. Although VF5 isn't 
 fresh or new, it knows what it is and stays true to it and in a way im glad it is still around 
 for young gamers to play. And you won't ever catch it making dance albums or pretending to be R&B. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 has been the best fighting game out on this current generation of consoles, but 
 the best gets better with the XBOX 360 version with the huge addition of online play. Sure, the 
 series is pretty deep for casual players, but for fighting game fanatics, it is Virtua Fighter 
 and it is still pretty good maintaining what's good about it being the most technical fighting 
 game out now. Online play is just icing on the cake on this already superb game with deep replay 
 value offline because of the improved Quest and Dojo modes. For hardcore fans, this version of 
 VF5 is based on the most recent version out at arcades, which is Version C. This game is a must 
 buy of fighting game fans, but if you want to play this game seriously especially online, be prepared 
 to buy an arcade stick like the Hori EX2 if you want better controls.
  
  Out of all the 3D fighting games in existence, the Virtua Fighter series has little to no story 
 compared to Tekken and even Dead or Alive. VF5 continues that fact just being another tournament 
 for the veterans as well as some newcomers. The two newcomers cater especially for casual players 
 with El Blaze, a masked Lucha libre wrestler, and Eileen, a young girl with an unique fighting 
 style compared to the existing characters. Other than the two new characters, everyone else is 
 back and better than ever with favorites like Akira, the Bryants (Sarah and Jacky) , Kage, and so 
 on. All the existing characters have new moves at their disposal as well as some changes if you 
 play these games seriously. The existing characters also stayed the same in terms of learning curve, 
 so beginners should go with the Bryants or the Chans, as veterans can stick to guys like Shun and 
 Lei-Fei.
  
  The main single player mode is the improved Quest mode where you choose a character to use as your 
 main one and your goal is to become the best Virtua Fighter player by traveling to various Japanese 
 arcades defeating other players and increasing your rank, which stays the same like VF4 Evolution 
 (10th kyu is the lowest, the dan rankings higher, and the titled rankings are the highest rank 
 you can achieve) . These Japanese arcades in this mode will cater to your skill level where you 
 can go to one with easy foes or a harder place with higher ranked players. As you progress through 
 the Quest mode by defeating the hundreds of rivals, you also collect items and emblems, which is 
 related to the character customization of the game. Like VF4, you can customize your fighter by 
 only its clothing and skin tone. New to VF5 are the emblems and you can have one to represent yourself 
 like Halo 3 (for example there are Sonic and Nights emblems hidden in the game) . Periodically in 
 Quest mode, there are tournaments in bracket form where you can gain items, emblems, and money 
 by winning them. The orbs are also back as well as another collective part of this mode. The main 
 drawback of Quest mode is that it will eventually feel like a grinding experience specifically 
 if you want 100% completion. It won't take that long to achieve the highest rank in the game if 
 you're good enough, but longer (more than 20 hours) if you want 100% and more achievement points.
 
  
  The other modes are the traditional arcade mode, versus (now online for only the 360 version) , 
 Dojo for practice, and replays if you have saved ones. The arcade mode is your typical eight or 
 nine stages fighting characters and then facing Dural at the end as a bonus fight. The Dojo mode 
 is perhaps the deepest practice mode in a fighting game with the normal practice mode of trying 
 out combos and other stuff. There's also a time attack mode of trying to do all the moves of a 
 certain character as fast as they can. The versus mode is local and online for two players. The 
 online structure of VF5 is your typical quick / ranked match structure, but adding the VF ranks 
 into the online makes it a totally different game and also separates the good from the bad pending 
 on rank. Your online experience will depend on your skill level fighting similar ranked human players 
 or even facing your friends. The lag seems to be minimal pending on connections, but most of the 
 time the game runs pretty smoothly, which is a good feat for a fighting game.
  
  Your Virtua Fighter 5 experience will also depend on your preference of controls. The 360 controller 
 does have its advantages and disadvantages as the left stick is decent enough to pull off some 
 of the tougher moves, but the d-pad is still awful for most players. The Hori EX2 arcade stick 
 seems to be the controller choice to go with even though you have to spend 50 more dollars and 
 it is wired. Having an arcade stick around for games like VF5 makes the experience better and almost 
 living up to the arcade experience of the 90s. Other than that, the core gameplay is pure Virtua 
 Fighter with tons of depth, moves for each character, stances to learn, and the inevitable ring 
 outs.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is perhaps the best looking fighting game out now on any console. Its backgrounds 
 look phenomenal despite most of looking similar to previous games as if they are recycled. The 
 characters themselves also look great maintaining their personalities from previous games. Some 
 effects are probably not as great such as the rain in the city background, but the water effects 
 are amazing (specifically the water that surrounds a stage) . The framerate never dips down both 
 off and online, which is good. The loading times are not that long before fights, but they could 
 be quicker if Sega and AM2 worked more on that.
  
  The sound in Virtua Fighter 5 is mostly the same in terms of voice-overs of the existing characters 
 and sound effects. The cheesy lines of characters that speak English are still here and can be 
 annoying at times. The music of VF5 is not much, but still an expected soundtrack for a Sega game. 
 The signature VF sound effects are also back and sound the same as always, but who plays the Virtua 
 Fighter for the sound?
  
  Even though fully priced, Virtua Fighter 5 with online play is the best deal out for a 360 owner 
 that loves fighting games. If you are willing to learn to play seriously at this game, your enjoyment 
 will be better compared to some casual player that likes to button mash as VF5 does not cater to 
 that audience. This is still a hardcore fighting game at its heart which makes fans happy as online 
 play just makes it a more complete package. When perfect online play for a fighting game still 
 feels like a dream, VF5 Online is so far the best at it and hopefully the fighting games of the 
 future can learn how to handle online play well. Despite new installments of Soul Calibur and Tekken 
 arriving this year, Virtua Fighter 5 keeps its core gameplay the same and it works compared to 
 gimmicky changes that other fighting games to add to appeal to more crowds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  For Christmas, I received Virtua Fighter 5 for the Xbox 360 which while fun, just still does NOT 
 feel like a next generation game unless you are measuring next generation games in terms of improvements 
 only in the visuals department. Sure I am a graphics whore like every other gamer out there who 
 will admit to much and while the level of detail in characters is nice, the gameplay for this and 
 every other current fighting game out so far to date on any next generation console such as the 
 PS3 or Xbox 360 seems exactly the same. For this reason I never bought Dead or Alive 4. Team Ninja 
 was asleep on the controls and merely going through the motions on Dead or Alive 4 just like Sega-AM2 
 is at sleep and going through the motions of making a fighting game with Virtua Fighter 5. I know 
 what you're thinking,"Why is Josh being so harsh?" Actually I am not, both developers are incredibly 
 competent but both have simply lost that eye of the tiger that brought innovation to previous entries 
 of their respective series. 
  
  Why are developers so scared of trying damage modeling? By now, I expect developers of fighting 
 games to be playing with and trying new features based on physics that will only raise the bar 
 and make fighting games as immersive as first person shooters have become with games like Gears 
 of Wa or Halo 3. Improve on whats been done, do not give us the same old, tired crap. Even RPG's 
 have had innovative improvements as seen in games like Oblivion and Mass Effect. Well I am honestly 
 just not seeing that level of progression, if any, in fighting games at all. Sure you can make 
 a case for nice graphics in games like Virtua Fighter 5 Online or Dead or Alive 4 for the Xbox 
 360 but graphics by themselves do not make a great, memorable game and that is the case here. This 
 is not a great game but it is a beautiful, deep game with lots of customization and the same old 
 gameplay you remember. Even Xbox 1 games like Tao Feng eliminated rounds and instead had the characters 
 fall down and then get back up being more hurt after each fight and the environments were more 
 open ended and interactive. All this from a small developer who went extinct and had less resources! 
 
  
  Come on, fighting game developers!-Get some balls and finally try bringing us innovation in the 
 form of damage modeling. Enough with the bouncing characters and idiotic, nonsense rounds I keep 
 seeing. Who in their right mind would fight in rounds when you are fighting for your life against 
 someone on the street? Bring us characters that get burned, cut, bruised, fatigued, sweat and even 
 have their clothing and armor broken or destroyed. Eliminate rounds or at least explain them in 
 a creative way like the aformentioned Tao Feng and bring us large, interactive rings. By now, I 
 expect to also see you being able to use anything in the environment from a weapon to a piece of 
 broken glass to a chandelier that fell from the ceiling in the opera house you are fighting in 
 to the fire surrounding you. If throw an enemy into a fire, I expect them to burn! I want to see 
 locational damage. If I kick a character in the eye, I want that eye to bleed and the muscles surround 
 eye to bruise and welt thereby affecting the fighters visibility. I want to see the arms break 
 and bruise if the opponent keeps using his/her arms to block and thereby defense is affected. Fatigue 
 would also affect a fighters ability to defend himself/herself. Hell, bringing in role-playing 
 elements by giving players points to alot to each ability would even add more immersion. 
  
  
  By seeing damage done to character models after each fight, this doesn't mean dead characters 
 at the end of each fight.-This means characters who are knocked out unconcious. Maybe they have 
 to use money earned from previous fights you fought to pay for your hospital bill? Maybe even, 
 you have to upgrade your blocking ability or add some armor to your character or invest money into 
 hiring a trainer that will raise your blocking attribute? These are ideas I can come up with off 
 the top of my head. Bring us the innovation other game genres are seeing so there can be a logical 
 progression and we all get better, more immersive fighting games. As of right now, fighting games 
 are stuck in a lazy rut. Lets hope games like Soul Caliber 4 and Street Fighter 4 break that tired, 
 generic trend and bring something new to the table as far as gameplay is concerned. Otherwise, 
 like this game, upcoming fighting games will seem tired and I will skip out on them after a rental.
 
  
  If you want to my final word on this game, then that would be to rent it first. Judge it on your 
 own merits but to me it is lacking and does not deserve $60 of my hard-earned money. The DLC is 
 nice but way overpriced. I wouldn't pay more than 50 cents for each DLC package and the fact that 
 Microsoft and Sega want more is sad. Both need to realize selling silly DLC frivolously will not 
 spark faith among fans but rather disdain and contempt. 
  
  
  One last note: These cheap DLC attempts at money remind me of the overpriced maps up for sale for 
 Halo 3 or the silly ability to cheat for Need for Speed: Prostreet by paying to unlock the game 
 with Microsoft points. How pathetic that Xbox LIVE has become nothing more than a way to exploit 
 gamers and funnel more cash for developers rather than a bridge to give gamers and fans of series 
 freebies for being loyal and buying a game to begin with. Look at PC games and you will notice 
 developers who give and add things on to their games for free like Editing tools and new free maps 
 are rewarded with increased sales and games who end up having a longer shelf life because the community 
 creates more content. Bring on the mods and give us rewards. Don't dock us for being loyal and 
 liking a game, Microsoft and other developers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanstrive
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old school VF3 player, dating back to my college days in the mid to late 1990's. Our city 
 only had one hardcore arcade that kept their machines well serviced, and always had the latest 
 version of VF in top condition. Although my first experience with VF was the second version, it 
 was the third non-teambattle edition that I spent hours and hours in front of. At the time, it 
 cost $1.00 to play, and I would partake in countless matches at the machine against friends from 
 school or schedule to meet ups wtih local players at least twice a week.
  
  I owned the Sega Dreamcast version, but my experience was tainted by a lack-lustre arcade stick 
 and lack of competition (no online play to speak of, and the city I moved to didn't support a VF 
 community) .
  
  Flash forward to yesterday, which as far as I'm concerned was my personal "emergence day" for the 
 XBOX 360. I cracked open a new Elite, VF5 Online, and a Hori EX2 arcade stick; a total sticker 
 price of nearly $750 CDN in an attempt to capture that VF3 feeling from nearly ten years ago. 
 
  
  I'm happy to report it was not only worth the wait, but the experience exceeded my expectations. 
 While I agree that the online play lacks some of the creature comforts of an arcade style match/rematch 
 system, the gameplay is spot-on and the competition is fierce. Early in the morning, I was greeted 
 by Japanese players playing in their primtime, and as the day wore on, more and more European and 
 North American players became the norm.
  
  Most of the games were flawless, but the laggy ones certainly interrupt the gameplay and ruined 
 the match most of the time. I also had a hard time regularly "joining" a match and reverted to 
 "hosting" one instead and waiting for an opponent. 
  
  I have yet to delve into the Arcade or Quest modes, and have logged about 100 matches in ranked 
 competition, so hopefully my review won't change. Look for me online with the same gamertag as 
 my Gamespot username! 
  
  Ready, Go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alimn1984
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  World's first 3D Fighter is back to show that SEGA-AM2 is still alive & strong!
  
  This game is all about realistic fighting experience, after playing this game now I can easily 
 understand why a big site like 1UP has given it a 10/10!, 
  this game is not only the best fighting game of the year but it's also the best fighting game of 
 this new-generation, 
  other 3D fighting games such as my beloved Dead Or Alive, my favorite Soul Calibur and my lovely 
 Tekken are always button smashing fighting games 
  & this means that during a fight you may win even without knowing moves & just pressing buttons (maybe 
 that's why those games have better sales) but VF is different, 
  SEGA-AM2's Virtua Fighter as the world's first 3D fighting was & is & will be always real & ahead 
 of it's time both technologically
  and culturally, this is a game for pro gamers, and this new Virtua Fighter for the Xbox 360 can 
 easily prove that it's still the most realistic fighting game ever, 
  you can easily spend years & years with this game because of it's deep & real fighting game play 
 system and it's other exciting stuff.
  Graphics in Virtua Fighter as a 3D Fighting game is always ahead of it's time, and Virtua Fighter 
 5 is the only fighting game with true new-gen graphics for now,
  if you just compare some pictures from previous and upcoming 3D fighting games of this new generation 
 you can easily feel the difference & 
  yes, even graphically Virtua Fighter 5 is better than all of them without doubt, unfortunately 
 other famous fighting games are just focusing on different kinds of 
  story lines while a fighting game should have a strong fighting game play system before anything 
 else and this is one of the reasons that we can call 
  Virtua Fighter a real fighting game, as I said earlier you can easily spend years and years with 
 this game because of it's exciting game play modes, 
  thanks the Xbox 360 version of Virtua Fighter 5 because it is based on the newest Arcade version 
 of this game & this means that even if you don't
  have someone to play with or even if you can't play it on Xbox LIVE you can still truly enjoy from 
 this game by fighting with it's powerful AI in various game modes.
  In addition the Xbox 360 has better graphics in terms of lighting & anti-aliasing and as I said 
 earlier this is based of version C which
  means this is a polished version of VF5 for the PS3 in many areas & of course the Online mode is 
 already enough for calling this version a better one,
  personally I was about to buy a PS3 just for this game but when I find out that it's coming for 
 the Xbox 360 too I waited a little bit longer (not saying that PS3 version
  wasn't great... it was great too but I liked to play the newest version but if I get a PS3 be sure 
 that I'll VF5 for that system too,... so this is a great title no matter on which system) , 
  as for the controller maybe for doing some complicated moves you should practice harder in the 
 great Dojo mode but don't worry if you haven't enough time to master 
  those moves very fast because HORI has also made a great 360 Arcade Stick especially for this game 
 and this can prove again that how much Virtua Fighter is deep, 
  musics are also beautiful in this game and for those people who are SEGA & Shenmue fans this game 
 is even more lovely in the field of musics. 
  although VF5 as a fighting game has already done a it's great job with it's strong fighting system 
 but this game has also more cool things and lovely features, 
  memorable characters, beautiful environments, customization contents & some other new features 
 such as Commentary.
  Overall Virtua Fighter 5 may become the best fighting game of our century if Virtua Fighter 6 doesn't 
 surpass it so you shouldn't easily miss VF5 if you have a X360.
  
  In closing I should say that between Dead Or Alive 4, Tekken 6 and Soul Calibur 4, having one of 
 the is really enough but having Virtua Fighter 5 is a must because it's different in comparing 
 with other fighting games.
  
  You may call me a VF fan, but it is not fair because I've always been a fan of all fighting games 
 but all true gamers know that Virtua Fighter is different.
  
  Here are some more scores and reviews about this game:
  
  1UP 10/10:
  http://www.1up. com/do/reviewPage? cId=3164070
 
  
  IGN 9/10+An IGN's Editors Choice Award:
  http://xbox360. ign. com/articles/831/831623p1. html
  
  Eurogamer 9/10:
  http://www. eurogamer. net/article. php? article_id=86283
 
  
  OMX 9.0/10 (Because they believe that nothing in the world is complete) :
  http://www. oxm. co. uk/article. php? id=1710
  
  After seeing these scores how dare I can not give 
 it a high score! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  i was very excited to play VF5... Over the years i've established to learn the mechanics of 3D fighting 
 games. I somewhat enjoyed Virtua Fighter 4 on PS2... it's fun but never understood the massive love 
 for this series. So in any case, I thoroughly enjoyed DOA4 for 360 and considering everyone thinks 
 VF is the best 3D fighting series, I would sell my DOA4 and pick up VF5. Overall, the controls 
 work well and there's a nice amount of charcters and unlockable content. To be honest, I enjoyed 
 it for the first while but it grew tiresome very quickly. The Quest Mode didn't keep me entertained 
 for very long... The online is probably the best addition to this game and will keep gamers come 
 back for a long time.
  
  So why did I rate it 7.5 when I've got a lot of complaints? Well, the game is solid but its just 
 not my cup of tea. It does everything its supposed to... which I give credit for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is very technical, you must out think your opponent and everything is vital to 
 win such as postioning, ability to counter, defense, and timing.
  
  Leaving yourself open for a split second means you can get punished by a powerful fast special 
 move or combo, getting too close to an opponent will allow them to perform a throw/grapple maneuver 
 and the scissors/paper/rock system means there is always a move to counter another move. There is 
 even special moves that stun an opponent and you can hit your opponent after you knock them to 
 the ground, so if you get knocked down you need to have the presenece of mind to quickly get up 
 again
  
  There is many characters to use, all with their own strengths and weaknesses, big guys like Jeffery 
 and Wolf are big and powerful but slow, but if they do connect with you or get hold of you will 
 do a lot of damage! You have the very fast weaker female characters, and characters who are in the 
 middle range when it comes to speed and power.
  
  The fighters all have unique fighting styles, but the game does a goob job of keeping it balanced.
 
  
  And to always keep things interesting no battle is over until it's over, there is nothing more sneaky 
 than taking a beating but winning by knocking your opponent out of the ring ;) or launching a huge 
 counter attack with a barrage of punches and winning from an seemingly unwinnable position.
  
  The graphics are amazing, you see mist in the air when your fighting on the Chinese mountains, some 
 stages have an oriental feel, there is tropical locations such as one with a beautiful waterfall 
 and another with palm trees and the beach in the background, there is even cages where you see a 
 big screen showing the action to the roaring crowd outside and in the city all lite up at night 
 with teriffic rainfall effects. At the start of each battle the environment around the fighting 
 arena is shown and the locations look very detailed or colorful.
  
  The characters look more detailed than in any other fighting game, with unique muscle tone, facial 
 structure, and body shape with detailed and unique looking clothing. Some of the costumes are outrageous 
 but entertaining at the same time, such as El Blaze who looks like Ray Mysterio from the WWE and 
 Goh Hinogami who looks like Frankenstein.
  
  The music is enjoyable and consists of traditional and electronic oriental music, classical French 
 music for Lion's stage etc The sound effects have an arcade feel to them.
  
  Besides arcade mode you can play a Quest mode where you try to earn earn the highest ranking, and 
 you can fight in arcades that have weak, medium, strong or variety of oppenents. Your ranking goes 
 up much faster when you fight stronger opponents, and a record of your win/loss ratio is kept. In 
 Quest mode at an arcade you basically keep fighting until someone dethrones you as champion and 
 it even shows your winning streak.
  
  Tournaments at the arcades are held, including offical tournaments at the main areana and the object 
 of Quest mode is to win all the offical tournaments. You also win money and items when you win fights 
 and can spend the money to buy items such as clothing, new hair color, accessories, even a cool looking 
 green fluro light wrist band that creates streaks of green light when you punch with that hand. Completing 
 all the offical tournaments and gaining the highest rankings will take a while.
  
  There is online too but I don't use that so can't comment.
  
  Definately the best 3D fighter 
 this generation, better than Dead or Alive 4, if you want one of the best, most technical and great 
 looking 3D fighters ever made here it is.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game flat out rocks. The fighting mechanic is absolutely awesome! They may take soem time 
 if you've never played a Virtua Fighter game before (like me) but you have to appreciate how complex 
 it is.
  The graphics are some of the best on the 360'-beautiful landscapes and excellent character models 
 are always a plus.
  
  You'll end up playing this game for quite some time as well because the quest mode is, well, huge. 
 Here you will fight many rivals as you explore new arcades. As you fight your rank can increase 
 and you can customize yuor character in many different colors and items that you unlock-getting 
 everything will take a LONG time.
  
  Add the online mode and you have one of the best fighting games ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  well well well, what do we have here virtual fighter 5. This game is sorta basic story wise as 
 well as voice acting, but that is not what fighting games are about. Virtual fighter 5 holds the 
 best fighting engine ever created, once you start to master the gameplay you real become addicted 
 to virtual fighter. The game is perfect both online and offline. The key to VF is the fact that 
 you must create your own strategy to defeat your opponent sorta like in real life, the combat is 
 smooth and better than in the ps3 so is are the graphics. The online is the huge improvement and 
 yes it works perfectly, the only problems is that if you haven't played VF before you're going 
 to be in for a beating. The game doesn't glitch or freeze during online which makes the combat 
 even and no one can complain about losing over a glitch. The story and arcade is still basic and 
 sticks to the classics they could have works on that big time. there is a fair amount of fighters 
 meaning that its gonna take you a while to beat the game with all of them. Amongs fighting games 
 this is the best by far, tekken eat your heart out cuz VF5 is here to stay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this to come out for a long time and I must say, this definitely was worth 
 the wait. I got it the first week it came out and I just got addicted since then.
  
  I remember playing the very first Virtua Fighter on the Sega Saturn and having a lot of fun with 
 it... great fighting system and dope characters... Kage was my favorite off of that one. But eventually, 
 I havent played it in ages and Ive been getting into some other games. This year, however, I have 
 been going back on my video games and increasing my video game collection on my 360. I then heard 
 about Virtua Fighter 5 coming out for the 360 and I was very excited for it to come out and it 
 definitely was worth the wait.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is basically a 3D fighting game with various fighters with various styles, including 
 Kung-Fu, Kickboxing, Wrestling, etc. You have arcade mode, which Im sure all of you guys know. 
 Quest Mode is a new mode thats been added, where you go to various arcades to fight many players. 
 You earn money to buy yourself some new items, such as clothing and orbs and edit your player, 
 if you dont like how your number 1 fighter looks like, you can change his costumes and such so 
 thats a thing to be happy about.
  
  The graphics look extremely great... almost on some Gears of War material but not there just yet.... the 
 environments look very real and makes you feel like you're actually watching tv and controlling 
 the people fighting hahaha. I havent played the PS3 version myself but friends have told me that 
 the Xbox 360 version has much better graphics so makes me even happier.
  
  Now the big step up for the Virtua Fighter series, online play. As the name of the game, the xbox 
 360 version of VF5 can now be played online and the online is just great. It has the very same 
 feeling of going over to an arcade to play a fighting game and challenging a lot of people. You 
 will win some, you will lose some, depends on your skills with fighting games... Ive been playing 
 ranked matches a lot as of recently and Ive been doing pretty good... Im already on my first dan 
 and I have an equal amount of wins and losses.... like I said, you win some, you lose some... it 
 depends how you play it out.
  
  To conclude this review, this game would be highly recommended for a fighting game fan and with 
 this title being on the xbox 360 and xbox live added to it... this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancing-Bear
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Anyone not pleased with this game is either: a) not a fan of fighting games; b) not willing to 
 take the time to learn the most complex interface of any game, or c) simply hasn't played it. This 
 game boasts the deepest fighting system ever created, and probably outranks any genre of game in 
 degree of mastery. The game has character tiers, but they mean virtually nothing in comparison 
 to the unbeatable studs of Tekken or DOA (lol) .
  
  The game even has its own website for new players to the series can work on their chops and read 
 about the latest strategies (virtuafighter. com) . Simply put, if you like fighting games and you 
 don't own this one... then you're just playing games. Some find VF to be a religion, or even a way 
 of life; but difficult games are not for everyone. If you're new to the game, then you will get 
 destroyed online; however I'm not sure what else people would expect from a complex experience. 
 The fact it, most kids nowadays really aren't willing to put time in to a game.
  
  Sad but true. VF   your favorite game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: St0Ne4Ge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  This game was calling out to me at blockbuster so i decided to give it a try, i had high hopes 
 of this game having been a fan of the series and other games of this genre such as mortal kombat 
 and tekken, but somehow this game just doesnt deliver. the sound effects are perhaps one of the 
 most annoying faults of the game, every hit, regardless of where the hit was landed sounds exactly 
 the same and that sound is not very authentic either. plus there is not an awful lot to do on this 
 game, once you have had a good 50 fights or so (which wont take long) you will most probably have 
 seen and done everything worthwhile there is to do in this game. nonetheless the graphics are nice, 
 the gameplay fast and frantic and with a group of friends it can cause a few amusing arguments, 
 and if your friends are mindless breaking machines, the arguments will perhaps be more entertaining 
 than the game itself at times. So overall this game is well worth a rental on a quiet night but 
 unless you are a big fan of this type of game don't spend more than 20 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebookerd1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Just amazing!! I have been in love with the VF series since VF 1. I was big on Tekken as well but 
 since VF3, The series has taken off. VF4 was one of the best fighting games to date. With an updated 
 roster that changed the way a fighting system shold work. VF5 tops everything. Combining the Timing 
 system for each manuver and a flurry of combination attacks that strike so hard yo Mama would feel 
 it!!
  
  The Dojo mode is a great way to learn the system and mechanics of the game. VF can appeal to experienced 
 fighter and novices just the same but an experieced fighter can easily display a rigorous combination 
 of attacks that will level an opponent. Unlike Tekken the balance system and timing are more important 
 to combat than button mashing. Any well timed attach position an opponet directly into a dizzy 
 position that will lead to there doom. You got to love It.
  
  I am playing the quest mode which places you in a constant arcade scenario with constant fighter 
 waiting to take you on. I though this would be borring at first but I was really more enjoyable 
 than I could even imagine. The early series of fights are easy but then out of nowhere you may 
 face a 9th Dan opponent that is completely fear less. 
  
  Customize your characters. Customizing your character adds your own flare to the Butt kicking you 
 will be serving. Glasses hats Hair styles you name it yes even rocket launchers. Trust me it is 
 a blast (no you can't use the rocket launcher I tryed it is just for show : ( ) ! any fighting fan 
 would go nuts for this game and they should it is great!!!
  
  The new stages are pretty awsome. I wish some of the old stages from VF3 were included off level 
 stages were pretty interesting
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  even better than DOA I was completely amazed by this. My only pet peve was the water effects on 
 the stages where you fight on water. I think that if character fell in the water they should have 
 had some water driping or splashes when characters fell. But will at the other great features I 
 think The rest of the content Makes up for it.
  
  Control 10/10:
  Even with a contoller after an our or so i learned how to do the infamous SPD, (Stun Palm of Doom) . 
 One of the hardest to perform moves since Akuma's Raging Dragon (Super Street Fighter II) . 3 hits 
 of pure Devastation. I spent almost 10 years learning how to perform this move in succession and 
 it only took 1 hour. An arcade stick is desired but with practice a regular controller can be used 
 with the same skill as a Sword with a Samurai.
  
  Gamplay 10/10
  This game is greatess perfect timing, will the perfect mix of speed. I just call it great.
  
 
  Replay 9/10
  value I will be playing this till VF6 then it will be retired.
  
  Funfactor 10/10
  Did you read what I wrote? I want to leave work now to play. This game is great!
 
  
  Value 10/10
  I got it for 39.99 Tell that isn't great value!!
  
  Overall I am going to give this game a 9.5. 9.99 was not available. I want to really give it a 
 10 but I would be lying to the concept that there isn't more that could have been done, I am just 
 not sure now of what that is? I spent hundreds of hour in the arcade playing 4 now I can play 5 
 in the santitly of my Own home I am now at one with my self!!! THANK YOU SEGA!! I LOVE YOU! I want 
 to name my first born after you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRDKyoSaNim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I've actually never played another VF before this one, and so I'm going to speak about the game 
 the only way I know how, which is comparing it to DOA and Tekken. Let's start off by saying one 
 thing... no one does ninjas like team ninja. Neither Kage from VF nor Raven from Tekken can even 
 touch the ninjas from DOA. In Kage's case, it's just a matter of him feeling like any other fighter, 
 which is probably the truth to what ninjas really were, but I don't want that type of ninja, I 
 want a superninja. With Kage, you need to do a million perfectly timed button presses to perform 
 a relatively, not spectacularly, cool move. With that being said, the rest of the fighters feel 
 a lot more organic to me. It's easier to mix things up if you ever get good enough to do it. The 
 movelist is much deeper, affording you a lot more options to confuse your oppponent with. The fighting 
 mechanic other than that doesn't seem to be anything special... it's your standard 3d fighter. Don't 
 get me wrong either though, that's a good thing, as it does an excellent job at being such. Character 
 customization... I can't emphasize this enough, DOA needs to implement a similar system. As for 
 the environments, and evironmental interaction, this is where Virtua Fighter and Tekken fall way 
 behind. Tekken has become a little better at this, learning their lesson from DOA's style, but 
 they still don't have it quite right. In the meantime, VF has stuck to fenced in rings and ring 
 outs... It's a shame. There's these beautiful backgrounds and no way to explore them more deeply 
 and interact with them with your opponent like in DOA. By the same token, I believe DOA should 
 implement their own ring out system. It really changes the gameplay when you have to be worried 
 about being at a huge advantage, making one stupid move and losing for it. I think however that, 
 unlike in VF, there should be a reason for a ring out other than falling 1 foot onto the ground 
 below. It should be more like danger zone where you simply couldn't return to the ring, ie. on 
 a floating dock platform which one of the VF sages. I also believe that these stages shouldn't 
 simply start on such a situation but instead be a part of a multi-tiered level that you have to 
 get to and activate. Anyways, it's definitely worth a buy if you're into fighters. ESPECIALLY if 
 you like the idea of costume customization. I've spent hours on just one person in quest mode trying 
 to get every item.
  
  As for online, I never understood the big deal personally, but I can understand why people find 
 it important. I've never been a big fan of taking fighters online. I've had the opportunity to 
 do so with DOA since the last generation. I actually did take DOA4 online but I just am not a big 
 fan. Any sort of lag can just ruin the gameplay completely, and no matter what you do, at least 
 in this stage of the game, there's always going to be connectivity issues. With that being said, 
 it is an important note to mention that this is the first game in the VF series which can go online, 
 and that can significantly increase the replay value if that's something you're looking for. There 
 is at least the simple enjoyment of Achievements and the associated online functionality thereof 
 if you decide to not actually fight online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ansuk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I certainly never thought any fighting game on the 360 could come close to DOA but Virtua Fighter 
 5 surpasses it on so many levels!
  
  Firstly theres the graphics - In HD they are simply incredible, the detail put into this makes 
 DOA look like the last Tekken.
  
  The Game Play - Way easier to master than the last so it really does have that 'pick up and play' 
 value that DOA had. There are so many levels to the gameplay along with the standard VS you can 
 customise your character with different clothes, hair ect and go on a quest which is essentialy 
 the Arcade game but lasts forever.
  
  The best bit for me is the English speaking characters - there simply is no other fighting game 
 with them and its been my personal hate of all other fighters - when we are asked to spend out 
 40 on a game the least they can do is translate some of the characters to English!
  
  That being said im only giving this a 9.5 because it would be nice to have the option to have the 
 English language translation for all characters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start off by saying that I love the Virtual Fighter series since its first game over 
 15 years ago ( the crappy Genesis version of VF2 doesn't count) . The Saturn version of the game was 
 awesome and I played it for hours. I fell in love with VF5 when I played the PS3 demo and since 
 I didn't have a PS3 i had to wait for the 360 version. Since I bought Bioshock , Halo 3, NHL 08, 
 and Orange Box I didn't buy it. So instead I went to blockbuster and rented it. Needless to say 
 I was as giddy as a Japanese school girl when I saw the game. Not that I know anything about Japanese 
 school girls. The control is responsive even on a regular controller. So dishing out $60 for an 
 arcade stick for one game is silly. It did take a long time to map the controls to where I was 
 comfortable with them. The first character I messed around with was Sarah, since I always played 
 her in these games. I got to a 2nd dan with her, then I played with numerous characters until I 
 came to Wolf. And let me tell you this character is a beast. His throws are by far the best in 
 the game. And to top it off , he has the freaking Pedigree from HHH, my favorite wrestler. This 
 character is a WWE fan's dream come true. The giant swing is cool but I freaked out when I pulled 
 off the F5 from Brock Lesner. All together I saw Kurt Angle's Angle Slam. the Rock bottom, Finley's 
 Celtic cross, The Batista bomb the Jack Hammer among many other moves by famous wrestlers. The 
 Dojo mode is a lifesaver. All you need to do is memorize 30 really good moves and your set. The 
 quest mode is the meat and bones of the game and the amount of customization is staggering. You 
 can go for hours with your characters buying items for your character's appearance. Graphic wise 
 this game has eye candy written all over it. The animation is awesome. Just the hair on the characters 
 alone is amazing. The stages look awesome. The sound is astounding but the announcer is very repetitive. 
 That is my only complaint. Otherwise this game is awesome. I didn't even mess with the online yet 
 so I'll get to that later. If your a fighting game fan this is the best game of the bunch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  At last a fighting game for 360 that's worth playing all night long (not to undervalue DOA which 
 is very cool by the way, but the console was missing another similar game) . VF5 does the job and 
 goes beyond simple fullfilment: it's superb, awsome, exciting... you name it. Graphics are out 
 of the question: just beyond cool, they looked cool on old-gens, looked amazing on PS3, and continues 
 to be so on 360 (won't do any comparison) .
  Gameplay keeps the sometimes simple but overall complex fighting schemes series are known for: 
 combos just come up as you smash buttons, but for the real deal, if you want, you better prepare 
 yourself for some hours of practice, one character at a time. If you're patient, the result will 
 be worth it.
  Difficulty is just as I remember from previous entries, specially the 4th one (damn Akira, too 
 freaking tough) .
  Online is a bliss... nuff' said.
  If you're like me, and love fighting games, please do yourself a favor and get a copy now... and 
 find me on live... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClixCommander
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll be brief. Virtua Fighter 5 is the first REAL fighting game to hit the 360 and it hits hards. 
 From the character details, to the fighting stages. This game is beautiful. The only thing it really 
 needs is some story type ends for each of the characters. So while it doesn't take away from the 
 game, it would have only enhanced it to a perfect 10 IMO. The online play is excellent. With penty 
 of competition for your choosing. What you suck hard or have fist of fury, you'll find a challenger 
 waiting to square off. So if you are looking for a good fighting and you are bored to tears with 
 Dead or Alive. Pick up Virtua Fighter 5 and let the beatings begin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  I will begin by admitting that I have ALWAYS enjoyed fighting games! I grew up on the 2D Classics 
 SF2 &amp; MK. With that said I would like to make a fair criticism. Virtua Fighter 5 did NOT Wow 
 me like DOA 4 did when it released OVER a year &amp; a half ago!! VF5 Today is on par with DOA 
 4 and if you are a VF fan, or are bored with DOA, you will NOT be disappointed! The Online is ONLY 
 a big deal because the PS3 version didn't have it! There is an overwhelming amount of GREAT games 
 coming out this holiday season which I place my $$ on BEFORE VF5!! One thing I am Still feeling 
 the sting from is the fact that 360 owners had to Wait Over 7 Months for VF5, which is essentially 
 a Port of the PS3 version only with added Online play, and Still be expected to shell out $60!! 
 Major foul Sega!!! If VF 5 was $30 like DOA 4, OR Other Ports!!, then It would be a difficult decision 
 but Not at the moment!!!! XBL has demos of BOTH games to try out, I suggest that you do so, before 
 you decide for yourselves!! Happy Holidays!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It is like I am playing in a arcade. The graphics are sweet, just like a 
 coin op machine. The physics are just as nice. Blocks, punches, kicks, and other moves are fluid 
 and look great. The character selection is some what slim but it does give the game a nice variety 
 of fighting styles to choose from. Online play is fun and I have not expierenced any lag yet. The 
 unlockables are very cool, such as things like accessories for your characters as well as icons 
 to use for your tag. Overall the game is the best Xbox 360 has to offer to date. If you are looking 
 for a complete true arcade fighting game this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracos9000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 has had its difficultly watered down from the VF4 evolution version for the Ps2 
 but its still much more difficult than other fighting games.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great and when your character falls into the water you can see the color 
 of their clothes darken from being wet. The characters look sharp and detail was placed into all 
 aspects ranging from face to body structures. The different costume options are great as well and 
 fit well within the animations of the fights. The fighting animations are fluid and the fighting 
 arenas look great with the lighting effects and surrounding backgrounds.
  
  Gameplay: [Single player]
  The arcade mode is a little weak because other than unlocking the 
 boss Dural there is really no other reason to play it through with all the characters; since all 
 the normal characters are available from the beginning. However, the quest mode saves the single 
 player aspect of the game by providing a virtual arcade of different AIs that will range from complete 
 beginner to hardcore veteran player. The quest mode also allows you to personalize your character 
 with different costume options, ring name, and personal comments, but having to make a separate 
 file for each customized character can be a pain if you want to use your customized character in 
 vs mode or if a friend would like to customize a character. The dojo mode is a great way to learn 
 you characters moves and test to see how fast you can complete their move set.
  
  [Multiplayer]
  The offline versus mode is lots of fun when you have a friend who can provide 
 good competition and both of you are using customized characters. During some matches they will 
 become either a ranking match or an item battle adding a little flavor to fighting your friend 
 match after match. Of course if you don't have friends who are good or are a fan of fighting games 
 you can always take the game online and battle against others from around the world. However, online 
 is where VF5 loses most of its points due to its clunky online system, menus and unclear ranking 
 system. The player is given two online options either player matched or ranked matches. Player 
 matches are the same as ranked matches except you can change the round times, number of rounds 
 per match and if you want it to be private or not. You cannot make a lobby and only one player 
 can join at a time but thats not where it ends you are also not able to change stages or characters 
 unless you recreate the online session again. This limits the fun factor of fighting against people 
 online just a little since you have to use the same character continuously and endure fighting 
 at the same stage until you remake the game session. The ranked matches do not allow you to change 
 any of the match options and pit you against people online. Ranked matches can be engaged in 3 
 ways: quick match where you just quickly search for players and join their created game sessions, 
 custom match where you refine your search to find players more within your skill level range and 
 create session where you create a game session and wait to be challenged by any ranks.
  
  Sounds:
  The sound is pretty average for a fighting game, but the characters do not make any 
 grunts or noises when taking hits which takes away so impressiveness from the damage dealing hits 
 that are inflicted. The music is so so but you can just use your custom music over the games'.
 
  
  Replay value:
  Due to the games online and quest mode the game can provide unlimited hours of entertainment to 
 fighting games fans.
  
  Accessibility:
  This part of the game is extremely low and is one major factor that keeps it from receiving a perfect 
 10. The game is very difficult to pick up and play and even though the dojo mode is there to help 
 players learn their characters you cant really expect to play well until you have spent at least 
 2-3 hours in dojo mode performing the moves over and over. Some characters have extremely difficult 
 moves sets that make new comers runaway almost immediately. The combat system is extremely deep 
 and requires excellent timing and discourages button mashers or moderate fighting game fans. This 
 is not DOA and if you go into this game thinking it will be like DOA you will be in for a rude 
 awakening after you venture into the dojo mode. The game does however, provide a few characters 
 who are easy to pick up and play such as Pai chan or Sarah and Jacky, but to use them effectively 
 online means to practice their move sets until you can easily memorize all your moves and have 
 a feel for your character.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you invest time and patients into VF5 you will be rewarded with a sense of accomplishment when 
 you tear the people online apart but it will take some time and lots of patients as you may have 
 to try some moves 10-20 times depending on which character you pick. Even if you are not a hardcore 
 fighting game fan or only a casual fighting game fan if you are willing to learn a deep fighting 
 game then give VF5 a chance however, if you are not willing to work at the game for some time then 
 just avoid it or you will be one unhappy gamer. I'll let you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giff1988
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Every fighting game has a hook besides the fact of beating up people. DOA, has its sex, Soul Caliber 
 has its swords, Tekken. Well I dont know why people play that garbage and finally Virtau fighter 
 has its crazily complicated and convoluted combat system.
  
  This is my first VF game and Ill admit its very intimidating to get into. The tutorials are pretty 
 much crap, only giving you demos that the game thinks you need is kind of silly. What if I dont 
 know how to do this move, and I dont have a demo option?. tough luck is the games response. 
 Also. Im a D-pad kind of guy, use them for DOA, Soul Caliber, Street Fighter, Marvel vs. Capcom, 
 you get the picture. To do most of the moves in this game you need a joystick. There is one problem 
 though. Your only option is the 60 dollar Hori stick.60 dollars!! I bought one for the Original 
 Xbox for 20 bucks.
  
  Best feature in this game is the Quest mode. You travel to one arcade to the next, challenging 
 different AI opponents. Here you gather money to use at the shop to customize your character, orange 
 orbs that unlock items not available at the shop and also you occasionally get the opportunity 
 to join tournaments where you can gain more money. Its well executed, and very addictive. Of course 
 you have Arcade and Time Attack but sadly there is no story mode. Reading some of the bios in 
 the book and its kind of disappointing that we dont get to see any of these characters personalities 
 and struggles in the game.
  
  For the folks that dont know, VF5 has gone Online and unfortunately it dose not offer the community 
 features that DOA has pretty much made standard for online fighters. True this game runs a whole 
 lot better than DOA. Ill say 70 percent of the matches are lag free, but. Without the lobbies 
 or the option to at least have a rematch you loose the personal part of playing with real people. 
 You dont gain friendships or rivalrys you simply go into a match and both of you go your separate 
 ways after. and thats very disappointing.
  
  Overall its a fun game that takes a while to wrap you head around but the need of buying a joy 
 stick then having to find some friend or a brother thats also willing to pluck the money down 
 on a joystick for local competition kind of hinders the game. If it had a good online component 
 it could of saved the competitive nature that fighting games bring. But sadly the online is just 
 functional, nothing more, making a very impersonal experience while playing with people online.
 
  
  Graphics 8: Nice graphics, some of the movements look kind of robotic and the faces dont animate 
 particularly well but its still a very good looking game.
  
  Sound 5: Horrible written and English voice acting. Im actually glad the foreign characters speak 
 in there native tongue and we dont have to read what there saying. Also punchs and kicks dont 
 have enough oomph. Not enough groaning, grunting or whelping in pain, during battles. It gives 
 the sense your fighting with robots instead of people.
  
  Game play 8: A very in depth system that will keep you busy for a very long while. Its not to 
 friendly for newbies but if your willing to stick with it you will find enjoyment.
  
  Value 6: Only passable online mode, and needing at least two 60 dollar joysticks to play locally 
 really hampers how much time you will spend in multiplayer. The quest mode on the other hand will 
 keep you busy for a very, very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CiscoRey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing fighting games for quite some time. I can honestly say that this is by far, one 
 of the best fighters I've ever picked. Now I must admit, I've never been a fully convinced Virtua 
 Fighter believer. For the longest time I've put this game at a distant 3rd in the 3D fighting genre, 
 after Tekken and Dead or Alive. However, the latest entry in this series easily takes the case 
 as the best of the best.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 features some jaw-dropping graphics. After seeing the amazing graphics featured 
 in DoA4 I was absolutely sure that it wouldn't be outdone any time soon by any of the competing 
 fighters. VF5 proves this is not the case. The textures are extremely detailed (face bumps and 
 cloth threads included) . Every texture looks like just that -- TEXTURES! You almost get the impression 
 that if you were to reach out and touch anything that's in the game you'd know how it feels before 
 hand. Yes, they're that good! These graphics make me feel good that technology has gotten us this 
 far.
  
  However great the graphics may be, the game-play is where the cream is. This game plays so much 
 smoother and faster than any of the previous Virtua Fighters. Not to mention, the huge addition 
 of moves added to each characters dramatically improves on the visual appeal of the game. Many 
 people have criticized previous Virtua Fighter games of seeming too boring and stiff. Although 
 some people may still argue that the game seems stiff in comparison to other fighters, watching 
 two experienced players go at it is nothing short of amazing. Virtua Fighter remains perhaps the 
 most complicated and sophisticated fighting game available and this naturally pushes casual gamers 
 away. But if you're one who appreciates great, balanced fighting games you'll more than appreciate 
 the steep learning curve. This game is pure all the way.
  
  Add deep character customization, an extensive training mode, and online play, and any person who 
 remotely enjoys fighting games will have no reason not to buy this game. I guess the only drawback 
 on this title is the character story lines. These character backdrops almost seem like they were 
 written by overly dramatic 14 year olds. The stories ranged from brainwashed assassins to murdered 
 fathers to kidnapped mothers. They're not even worth mentioning, in my opinion. Other than that, 
 this game is an instant classic within the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guile_charlie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  If you are familiar with the VF series, you'll feel almost immediately at home. If you are only 
 a casual player, though, it will take a while to get used to. The PS3 version of VF5 does very 
 little in the way of a Practice mode which is sad because 4: Evolution had the absolutely most 
 intrusive Practice mode ever made for any fighting game in history. The 360 version, however makes 
 some great additions to the practice mode that bring it up to par with VF4: Evo's. This game is 
 much more difficult than it's predecessor, so that same practice mode is a greater help in 5 than 
 in 4: Evo. The PS3 controller felt awkward enough compared to the standard arcade joy stick, so 
 the 360's controller is even more so. Thankfully the analogue stick is not only usable, it is very 
 comfortable. But, I suggest you try and get a Hori 360 stick because it's the best way to play 
 and not only can you use it for other fighting games like DOA 4, there is a limited edition Virtua 
 Fighter 5 skin that makes it look so awesome! Because this version is based on the Arcade C version 
 and the PS3 is based on the Arcade B version, character's moves lists have been elaborated upon 
 even more than the PS3 version by tweaking existing moves and abilities, so every character is 
 even more unique and lets you spend time trying to figure out even more new strategies.
  
  When this game released on PS3 everyone basically expected this game to have terrific graphics, 
 and it does, but the 360 version is even sharper through better anti-aliasing and slightly more 
 detail in the character and background designs, and the animation is the best in the series.
  
  The replay value has increased mountainously from the PS3 version, which is amazing, because 
 the PS3 version will keep you playing for months on end. To start things off, the item count has 
 increased even more from the PS3 version; I mean, literally, almost three times as much! Secondly, 
 the Quest mode is still very much intact and as engrossing as the PS3 version. The only thing that 
 hurts the replay value is the fact that playing against the CPU gets boring and, in turn Quest 
 gets tedious and seems more and more like a chore as you go on. There are two things that take 
 care of that, though! One is the fact that you can bring your saved character data to a friends 
 house or vise versa and battle it out to finally see just who's characters are the best (a feature 
 that was oddly missing from the PS3 version) ! The second thing, which is the most important addition 
 to this game is exclusive ONLINE PLAY to the 360 version! I said in my PS3 review, "Just add online 
 multi-player and some fun and challenging achievement missions and you've got THE game Fighting 
 enthusiasts will shell out the cash to play!" Well, now it's here for 360 owners to enjoy and on 
 top of that it is great online play! It sucks that the name you gave your character doesn't show 
 up, but you still keep your stats and the customization stays in tact. There is some talk about 
 a future patch to enable online for the PS3 version. I don't know if it will happen, but if it 
 does, how awesome would it be if you could play on your 360 against someone on a PS3!? Not only 
 would that increase sales of the game for both consoles, it will make the most arcade simulated 
 experience for any fighting game to date! Here's to hoping!
  
  All in all, 360 owners should not miss out on this game! If you own both next-gen consoles, get 
 it on 360. Once again, hopefully PS3 will enable online play in the future, but until that happens 
 (if it ever does) than the 360 version is where it's at for fighters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  The fifth entry in sega's popular fighting game series.
  Virtua Fighter 5 features detailed stages from around the world where players face off in fast-moving 
 martial arts battles against one of 17 characters. Including two new characters who join the elite 
 group of fighters, players are given the opportunity to learn and employ the new "Offensive Move" 
 technique to take down their opponents from different angles.
  Virtua Fighter 5 also includes the ability to customize characters by selecting from four base 
 costumes and a wide range of unlockable accessories and earnable items. As players win more tournaments 
 they will not only earn costumes and accessories, but also prizes and in-game money that will allow 
 them to buy items from the in-game shop.
  
  the game also features an online two-player versus mode via Xbox Live. Players will not only achieve 
 victory by defeating highly-skilled opponents, but also by competing for prizes and earning in-game 
 money which allow them to buy many items at an in-game shop.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 has many of the elements common in other 3D fighters. There are several tiers 
 of combos ranging from a few quick button taps to high-level attacks that require perfect timing 
 to execute; a myriad of impressive-looking throws that do decent damage to opponents; and even 
 reversals, which is the bread and butter for Tecmo's Dead or Alive series. None of these, however, 
 dominate over the other. VF5 is a very balanced fighter that mixes all elements into one fluid 
 system.
  
  Presentation:
  This is as standardized as it gets. The fight intros are forgettable, the announcers are (sadly) 
 impossible to forget.
  
  Graphics:
  An attractive game with some excellent environments, great animations, and awesome character designs.
 
  
  Sound:
  The English dub is pretty bad. The music is standard fare that is passable.
  
  Gameplay:
  The best fighting engine ever made. A truly remarkable system that's astoundingly 
 deep.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  Mastering the controls and unlocking all items for a single character takes a long time. And there 
 are seventeen characters in VF5.
  
  
  FIGHTING FANS WILL LOVE THIS GAME.
  dead or alive 4 is pretty addictive but virtua fighter 5 is just as fun as DOA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter has to be one of the most well renown 3D fighters, and for good reason. It set the 
 bar for all the Dead or Alives, Tekkens, and Soul Caliburs to come. Virtua Fighter 5 still holds 
 true to that bar, but has been surpassed in flare and entertainment by all of it's kin. First off, 
 Virtua Fighter 5 has a big wrap for being super technical and hard to learn. That isn't entirely 
 true. A beginner can come at this game and play a few matches put up a good fight to those near 
 their skill level, while a VF master can come in, count some frames, and decimate anyone who tries 
 to beat them. This is where the fighting system shines, yes it is a complex system but it has the 
 ability to be used by all range of player skills. The modes in Virtua Fighter 5 are pretty standard. 
 You have your VS matches, arcade mode and so on. The two that really stand out are the quest mode 
 which puts you in the role of an arcade guru who goes around to different arcades looking for fights. 
 You'll be pitted against varying AI from stupid to amazingly technical. This is where a lot of 
 the replay value comes from being that a lot of the unlockable content is won through quest mode. 
 Next is online mode, which in itself is totally unremarkable due to the fact that it's standard 
 now, but its a new feature to Virtua Fighter which SHOULD of been in the PS3 version but instead 
 you got devs making up excuses that it would alienate hardcore fans (who in turn wouldn't use it, 
 so why not just include it for those who want it?) The one thing that Virtua Fighter 5 lacks is 
 flare. The graphics are great and the models are highly detailed, but you're still in the flat 
 environments which is good to some bad to others, the audio is pretty terrible, and all the fighting 
 is very realistic in stile (again, good to some bad to others) For ADD kids who are used to fast 
 paced, boobie bouncing, weapon toting games like Tekken, Dead or Alive, and Soul Calibur, they 
 might find Virtua Fighter 5 to be bland and dull. Nevertheless, Virtua Fighter 5 is a great, great 
 fighting game which fighting game fans should buy if they haven't already due to the fact that 
 3D fighting games are sort of rare to come by nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poulinou
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is just perfect the online is great the graphic is awesome you got plenty to do in single 
 player you start with money so you can configure your character and if its not enough you can earn 
 more and get more and more stuff all character have they own style and they are all very complex 
 thats what i like about it newbie cant come online and just beat your ass just by smashing button 
 you need to learn your char and train so this is a must for real fighter and by the way the online 
 is pretty smooth no lag at all so get to the store and buy it . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
