-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtua Tennis 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/virtuatennis3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Minigames are a blast.
 Gameplay is as smooth as ever.
 Crisp visuals.
 Online play is a nice addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Strikingly similar to the last game.
 Lobs are worthless.
 Volleying is inconsistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.0, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,028 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once again, Sega serves up a winner with Virtua Tennis 3. 

  Sega's tennis series has had a multitude of names over the years: Virtua Tennis, Power Smash, and 
 Sega Sports Tennis. While the names may differ depending on location and year, the games have always 
 been easy to pick up and play and hard to put down. Virtua Tennis 3 is a great game that holds 
 true to that winning formula. There are some new minigames, and the career mode has been fleshed 
 out, but it's clear that the developers were focused on refining the gameplay rather than reinventing 
 it.  

          The create-a-player option lets you make some far-out and groovy players.     

  Virtua 
 Tennis' biggest lure is its career mode, which is deeper than in previous games but still pretty 
 basic when compared to most other sports games. You start by creating a male or female player using 
 the game's character editor, which doesn't hold a candle to the one found in Tiger Woods but still 
 gets the job done. After you select a spot on the globe for your home, it's time to start on your 
 20-year quest to go from the 300th-ranked player to the top-ranked player in the world. But you 
 can't just rush out and take the top spot; you'll need to start by training your player. This can 
 be done by going to tennis school or by playing minigames. Going to tennis school is a great way 
 to learn the basics while at the same time leveling up your player. Here you're given a task, such 
 as to hit a maximum-power forehand or finish a point with a smash. If you can do the task three 
 times in the given time limit, the skills that you used in the test will be increased.  

  Tennis school is fun, but not as much fun as the minigames, which, as always, are fantastic. Each 
 minigame focuses on one of four aspects of your game: ground stroke, serve, volley, and footwork. 
 A few games return, but most are slight variations or altogether new. Avalanche has you collect 
 fruit and dodge large tennis balls that roll out of the back of a dump truck. In Drum Topple, you 
 try and knock over stacked oil drums by hitting ground strokes. Prize Defender places you in front 
 of a table filled with prizes, and you must protect the items by volleying away shots from the 
 ball machines. In Pin Crusher, you try and knock down bowling pins with your serve. Each of the 
 minigames starts easy, but as you get better, the games get more difficult. They're pretty punishing 
 on the highest levels, but you can always choose a lower difficulty setting. This yields fewer 
 points, but it keeps the game from being frustrating. If you really love the minigames or want 
 to play them with your friends, a handful of them can be played with up to four players on the 
 same console.  

  Once you've got the basics down, it's time to start chipping away at that number-one ranking. You 
 do this by entering the singles and doubles tournaments that are open to newcomers. Tournaments 
 take place in locations such as Spain, China, France, England, USA, Australia, Germany, Italy, 
 and more. You'll play day and night, as well as indoors and out on clay, grass, and hard courts. 
 To win the early matches, you've got to take just two short games, but the matches get longer as 
 the tournaments get more prestigious. One quirk from previous games that holds true here is rather 
 than complementing the roster of real players with fictitious players, you'll be playing the same 
 handful of real-life players over and over again. You might play and beat the tar out of Roger 
 Federer your first match, which kind of takes the mystique out of facing one of the greatest players 
 of all time.  

  Your stamina decreases as you train and play tournaments. If there's a tournament you don't want 
 to miss, you can replenish your stamina with an energy drink and not lose any time, but this increases 
 your risk of injury. To avoid injury, it's important to occasionally take a week off at home, or 
 even go on a three-week vacation every now and then. Injuries are most prevalent when your stamina 
 is low, but they can strike at any time. Unfortunately, there isn't much to injuries. They occur 
 while you're in the main menu -- you don't get hurt during matches. The game tells you that you're 
 hurt and for how long, and the game simply skips ahead. You get e-mail from your coach, who will 
 give you tips, read you fan mail, and award you items. Other players will periodically ask you 
 to practice with them or, in a really awkward cutscene, encourage you or talk smack. There's also 
 no money system, and you're awarded items based on your play. This feels like a step back because 
 there isn't much in the way of items, and it was always fun to spend, like, a thousand dollars 
 on some wrist bands.  

          All great players get started by picking up fruit and avoiding giant balls.     

  Tennis 
 school, minigames, and e-mail -- it's all secondary to the action on the court, which is excellent 
 in Virtua Tennis 3. The game is fast-paced and arcadelike. It's a breeze to play, thanks to controls 
 that are simple yet allow for a wide variety of shots. You can even tilt the PlayStation 3's Sixaxis 
 controller to move your player around, but playing like this just makes the game more difficult. 
 There are just three shot buttons, but depending on your location on the court, you can hit a top-spin 
 shot, a slice, a drop shot, a volley, a slam, or a lob with ease. The earlier you get into position 
 to hit the ball and press the shot button, the harder your shot will be. Serving is as simple as 
 tapping a button to start the serve and then tapping it again when you've reached the desired level 
 of power. You can aim your serve and your shots by pressing the analog stick or D pad as you hit 
 the ball. Players move quickly and will automatically dive for balls out of their reach, and they 
 rarely hit the ball out of bounds or into the net. Even though the controls are simple, there are 
 many different ways to play. How you play the game is dependent on not only your skill, but also 
 your opponent's skill and the type of court you're playing on. You'll see players stick to the 
 baseline and trade forehand blasts, while some players will employ the serve-and-volley technique. 
 The early matches are typically pretty quick, but as you get further into the game, the points 
 grow longer. Even then, though, there's plenty of action.  

  This may be the most refined version of Virtua Tennis yet, but there are still some minor issues 
 that keep the gameplay from being truly superb. Lobs are almost completely ineffective against 
 CPU-controlled players, who get to nearly any ball lobbed over their head and will slam it right 
 back with ease. This makes anyone who uses serve-and-volley tactics extremely difficult to beat. 
 Volleying is inconsistent, too. Sometimes you're able to volley with authority, but other times 
 you'll be standing at the net ready to put away a ball that's right at your racket, but your player 
 will hit a soft shot that gives your opponent plenty of time to recover. It can also be difficult 
 to position your player properly before a shot. Sometimes you'll hit the ball when it's too low 
 to the ground, and other times you'll be just a hair too far away and hit a weak running shot, 
 or worse, dive for a ball you could have easily gotten to. But these are exceptions to what is, 
 for the most part, outstanding gameplay.  

  The Xbox 360 and PS3 versions are nearly identical, but the Xbox 360 version is easily the better 
 of the two, since the PS3 version doesn't have online play. For the first time in the series, you 
 can bring your created player online or use one of the pros and play ranked or unranked matches, 
 and you can even set up your own online tournaments. The game is a blast to play online, and what's 
 more, it runs smoothly without any significant lag. Using the VT TV feature, you can watch live 
 matches and even view the day's top plays. The achievement points are spread out over tasks such 
 as winning tournaments, running certain distances, achieving the top ranking, and playing online. 

  Virtua Tennis 3 plays as good as it looks, especially in 1080p, which looks crystal clear and doesn't 
 tax the frame rate at all. Player models are very detailed, and despite a few exceptions (like 
 a rough-on-the-eyes Maria Sharapova) , look like their real-life counterparts. Players move realistically, 
 as well, and they have different-looking strokes. You'll even notice little things like players 
 sliding a bit when they try to change directions too quickly. The courts are filled with fans and 
 look fantastic, though you'll probably be too busy playing to notice small details like how the 
 ball leaves a mark on clay courts or how ball boys move their heads ever so slightly to follow 
 the path of the ball. One thing that's a bit disappointing is that there's still no user-controlled 
 instant replay; you're at the mercy of the game (and some lousy camera angles) if you want to relive 
 a great shot. It's also curious that you can't always play in the near court and are forced to 
 sometimes play up top, which is slightly more difficult thanks to the camera angle.  

          All of the courts look great.     

  If you've ever played a Virtua Tennis game before, 
 you've got a pretty good idea of how this iteration sounds. Cheesy guitar rock plays during the 
 menus and matches; some people will love it, others will loathe it. Sound effects are spot-on, 
 though some of the player grunting and yelling is a bit obnoxious. The crowds react appropriately 
 to what's happening on the court, and there are PA announcers that give the score in their countries' 
 native tongue, which is a nice touch.  

  Although Virtua Tennis 3 doesn't feel vastly different from its predecessor it has been such a 
 long time since the last release that the tweaks and additions go a long way toward making the 
 game feel fresh. There are many ways to stay occupied, and it's easy to pick up and play. If you're 
 trying to decide between the PS3 and 360 versions of the game, the 360 is easily the better choice 
 thanks to online play.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (54 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 is a strange game. First time you put it on your Xbox 360, you'll probably play 
 a quick match. You select the 2 players, and will decide for Easy difficulty. After 2-3 games you'll 
 notice how stupid is the AI. You'll think: ''Oh well, it's easy... let's play on normal.'' . You 
 select normal, and start the match. You'll first notice that in medium difficulty you manage to 
 have good, somewhat lenghty, points... But then you realize that in the end you win every single 
 one of the points, and in 20 min you'll win every single points with no more then 3 moves. Then 
 you decide to play World Tour. You'll see how limited is the personalization options for your character. 
 After you create him, you'll decide wheres your home in the world, and that's one of the game good 
 parts. After that, you'll probably play some tournaments and yet again you can win those tournaments 
 in less then 20 min. After lots of 300- Ranking tournaments, you'll advance to 200- Ranking tournaments. 
 First thing you'll see after a match is how harder are those tournaments! You'll probably quit 
 the tournament and decide to train with those minigames. And those maybe are best part of the game: 
 Altough innitially they are easy, but they will transform into fast, crazy and enjoyable moments 
 while you advance trough it's levels. In the end, they will be almost better than playing tennis 
 against the AI. Well, after some time of training, you'll manage to overwhelm your adversaries.
 
  
  After some more time in the world tour, you'll think you're trained enough for the hard level, 
 but just some minutes after playing you'll notice how easy is Virtua Tennis 3 hard, and altough 
 the points will last a little longer and you'll lost some points, the game will probably end at 
 6-0... '' Very hard is the last option'' is what you'll think. Well, just some time playing and 
 you'll notice how boring is, and thats not because it's easy. This time, the problem is the completely 
 unbalanced AI: As always, you are winning the point, the opponent is already trowing himself after 
 the ball ( Oh, I didn't mentioned, the game tennis players love to trow thenselves after the ball 
 when they're too far away, and that doesn't work in the game and in real life.) you hit a perfect, 
 furious ball that should win the point, and the opponent simply become the Olympic 100m champion, 
 runs like a rocket towards the ball and hits a ball that is so fast you'll barely see it. And that's 
 the way every single point ends at Very Hard. Well, trough this review you can obviously see that 
 a think this game completely sucks. But i don't.
  Altough Virtua Tennis 3 has a collection of bugs such as that stupid AI that in doubles game always 
 thing is her ball and just ruin the entire point, or when it just let an easy ball, that's passing 
 a meter away from it, to his mate on the other side of field!! Or those lovely movements they do 
 to catch a ball... But still, Virtua Tennis 3 has it's strong points:
  
  The World Tour: While the world tour first tournaments are easy and boring, After you start playing 
 the Grand Slams you'll get the best Player vs. AI Tennis game, and thats not only in Virtua Tennis 
 3, but in the entire series of Virtua Tennis and Top Spin. The AI will be smart, but it wont be 
 a prophet that always foresee your moves, it will have strategy, but won't be superhuman. It's 
 almost perfect.
  
  The Minigames: Maybe the funniest part of the game. They're enjoyable and creative to a point that 
 you'll end up shooting barrels, popping balloons, protecting tennis trophies and even playing bowling 
 and curling in a tennis court!!
  
  The Multiplayer: Online or offline, it's fun to play with one or three of your friends in singles 
 or doubles. Altough some bugs still remain, you'll be able to do something that is somewhat like 
 a tennis game, and it will be fun.
  
  The Graphics: SEGA gave this game a gorgeous visual. The animation of both the player and the audience 
 are very well done, such as the light effects and the characters models, they're awesome.
  
  Overral, Virtua Tennis 3 is a good tennis game that could be a great tennis game, but unfortunately, 
 is deteriorated by bugs and a mostly stupid and unbalanced AI.
  
  Gll25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player - The single player is great. You rank up all the way from no.200 to no.1. It 
 is really fun and this is called world tour mode. Now, theres only one thing here that is quite 
 disappointing. It is almost identical to the Virtua Tennis on PSP which was a launch title. 
  
  
  2) Multiplayer- I have spends AGES on the multiplayer. I feel that it could not have been 
 more complete. Its so fun, but nowadays there arent many people on and its very hard to find a 
 match.
  
  3) Graphics- Brilliant. Nice textures etc.
  
  4) Sound- The sound is top notch, very realitic
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. 
 The game plays out very nicely. Everything is fluid and I have encountered no glitches what so 
 ever so far. 8/10
  
  Overall, very good. buy it if your a tennis fan seeing as this is the only decent tennis game out, 
 but get it cheap, i wouldnt bother if your not really interested in tennis, because you willl just 
 play match after match, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Virtua tennis is a good game but i thought it got a bit borin after a while because all you do 
 is just play matches but you can train after matches to get up levels in certain things. I also 
 liked it because you had to make your own person to start a career which makes it really fun because 
 you can make him look sily or make him look very good. The bad thing is that it does get repetitive, 
 because all your doing is playing matches. You can get a range of people and if you think its only 
 men on the game you can be woman to so its a bit better. You can also do doubles or singles on 
 2 player or on single player. Multiplayer is good but like i said i got a bit bored by just playing 
 matches all the time. I rated it 8.0 because its quite good graphics its not too hard and fun to 
 play when you first get it.
  
  I HOPE YOU HAVE ENJOYED MY REVIEW IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ASK SEND ME A MESSAGE
  THANX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- (8.2) Everything you would want from a tennis game, the controls are smooth, the control 
 scheme is simple and easily one of the most easiest games Ive ever played to just pick up and play 
 it without having to practice on it for a while. At first Virtua Tennis is fun and addictive but 
 after about a few weeks you will start to get bored so it would make a great rent. The career mode 
 isn't so good either all you do it play in some training session which and mini games and you qualify 
 for a tournament if your at a certain level so the career mode is pretty shallow overall.
  
  Graphics- (7.3) Graphics are nothing special, the character models look a bit weird at times 
 but all the courts and stadiums look excellent and just like there real life counter parts. The 
 models do there best at trying to look like the players in real life themselves and do a great 
 job but sometimes fail.
  
  Sound- (3.5) The sound in this game... unfortunately not so good the announcer is really annoying 
 and the audio doesn't fair much better, its just some chessey rock music that if you hear more 
 then 5 minutes you would want to put your head into your closet and repeatedly bang your head with 
 the door. Yeah... but the good news is that you can turn the audio off in the options.
  
  Virtua Tennis is a good game but the representativeness of the gameplay and the shallow career 
 mode doesn't make this a must buy game. Anyone who is looking for a tennis game then check out 
 Virtua Tennis 3. I definitely think that Sega should make a 4th one with a better career mode and 
 improved gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  virtua tennis 3 is not like any other tennis games. although it seems to be just the same with 
 it's predecessor, vt 3 actually offers a lot more. career mode is a lot of fun, controls are sharper, 
 nice visuals. in career mode you can customise your own player and work him/her through the top 
 rank and get some shoes or rackets along the way. mini games that are authentic and fun is the 
 way you level up your player.
  
  Bad:
  sometimes during the game, the view can be a letdown. the ball can sometimes is seen to be out, 
 but in fact it is still moving towards you. this is a problem when enemy return your hits as lobs, 
 the ball is often difficult to predict on where it is going. in fact you don't even realized that 
 the ball is coming towards you, so you better give heads up before thinking its over, because in 
 tennis match every point counts.
  
  Overall:
  the career mode ended in 20 years of time, but you can pretty much beat it in 7 years, so no need 
 to rush. if you want to spent the rest of those years, it's a good idea to spent it for achievements. 
 ai is inconsistent, making each and every one of them challenging with their own special ways, 
 but every opponent does have flaws, you just need to figure it out. once you do, beating them is 
 no problem at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_Hesley
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: You can learn to play this game in no time at all, which makes it ideal for matches with 
 friends.
  Gameplay is easy yet deep once you've mastered the basics.
  Decent AI. You can't beat everyone with only one strategy.
  Some of the mini games are a lot 
 of fun, especially in VS mode.
  Graphics are solid
  It has some pretty cool courts.
  Finding a player that fits your playing style is fun.
  Cons: World tour is fun but shallow.
 
  Mario Ancic looks like a vampire.
  Excessive diving to get seemingly out of reach shots gets ridiculous.
  Some of the mini games 
 are lame.
  You beat the same players over and over again in different level tournaments.
  
  I bought this game mostly to have around for arcade style tennis match-ups with friends. Anyone 
 who enjoyed Virtua Tennis on the DreamCast will like this game and the improvements since then. 
 The gameplay is unmatched, but the depth of 1 player play could be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razieluk
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Whether you like online play, single player, or against friends sharing the same Xbox AND you love 
 tennis then get V. T.3.
  
  Yes, the player models look only a little like the real players (with Sharapova looking distinctly 
 odd) and the commentary can be a little annoying when the voice mispronounces the name of a player 
 - Monfils particularly!
  
  Final couple of grumbles before I get to the good stuff: the replays are often appalling with you 
 often looking at a bare bit of ground rather than the action that has just taken place. Finally 
 the animations of players tapping their heels to get rid of the dirt when they're on a hard court (?) 
 or looking closely at the line when the ball was miles in/out (?) are just silly.
  
  But, but, but... in spite of all the above V. T.3 is wonderful to play. If you play the World Tour 
 mode you actually see your player improve with the training and coaching you can do. There's enough 
 players to keep most people happy (unfortunately based on the 2006 roster, so Henman is still there 
 for his fans) . 
  
  Playing the game itself the top player animations follow their real-life versions accurately with 
 their service/receiving actions.
  
  Well worth the money (I paid 20) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I played Virtua Tennis the first time on the Sega Dreamcast . It was actually the first tennis 
 game I ever tried out and I was very sceptical about it . But I found an incredibly addictive and 
 beautiful experience hidden in it . I missed part 2 so I picked up part 3 sometime ago for 15 euro's 
 (20 dollars) . I was surprised again, as the Virtua trick did it again and succeeded in capturing 
 me again, if only for a while . 
  Virtua Tennis 3 has a full online mode, where you can battle it out against anyone (or two) around 
 the world . I found the online experience good, although it was "laggyfrom time to time, and 
 unplayable if the lag became too much of a burden . 
  Graphically the game is okay, although most of the "real" players need a bit of plastic surgery 
 to look like they do in the game . Especially when they "talk" to you, they seem as if talking 
 to someone with a very stinky morning breath, which is kind of funny . The courts look very nice 
 and the animations are superb . The game also does a very fine job in creating your own character 
 . This character (male or female) can then be used in any game mode, but is intended to try the 
 "world tour" single player game out . This mode sees your newbee travelling around the globe trying 
 to reach the number one spot in the WTA . What's nice is the number of parameters your player evolves 
 in, and seeing the direct effects of increasing them is a very satisfying experience . These parameters 
 include the speed of your character, smashing, fore- and backhand skills, net - and dropshots and 
 more . You have a calendar which notifies which tournaments are when . This includes friendly invites 
 from fellow AI opponents and more . Also included in the world tour mode are funny bonus games 
 that can be used to increase your skills . Thesee include a bowling like game, some Bingo smashing, 
 popping baloons and a game in which you have to dodge giant balls and collect fruit (very weird 
 !!) . In all , the world tour mode is a real challenge and fun experience .
  What's less about the world tour mode is that the difficulty becomes quite high when reaching the 
 later tournaments and that games can be a tide too long, with some games looking more like table 
 tennis than normal tennis . Also, your service most of the time determines the outcome of a game 
 . 
  Soundwise, the game is top notch . The music is catchy and sound effects are very good . No complaints 
 here . 
  Something that really kept me going onwards with Virtua Tennis 3 are achievements . While it is 
 possible to achieve much points, the bigger ones are really challenging . The achievements succeed 
 in keeping the game interesting, and challenging . That's not something every game does on the 
 360 and well worth a mention here . 
  Final conclusion ? Virtua Tennis 3 is a really fun tennis game that's not worth 60 bucks but well 
 worth at least renting or buying second hand . You'll find a rich experience and interesting achievements 
 to keep you busy for a while . Worth your time in between two AAA games . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with crappy graphics. I'm not sure that I would have been happy with the graphics 
 on the old X-Box. That being said...
  
  The training exercises are fantastic. You can't really tell how much you improve because there 
 doesn't seem to be an attribute meter anywhere, but they're fun. The game are nowhere near realistic, 
 but they're a lot of fun. One of like Space Invaders, another is like knocking down bottles in 
 a carnival booth, and so forth and so on. Each one is done on the court though, so you can see 
 there's a tennis-related point to each.
  
  The game play is great. The computer isn't perfect, so it's still a game, not a real life simulation. 
 Real life is fun, but I don't want to play a video game against a fake Blake that lasts four hours 
 because the computer never makes a mistake like Blake would not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ima_lemming
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  this was the second game i brought for the xbox and graphically it really impressed me it has fun 
 balanced gameplay most of the time and the mini-games don't feel to gimmicky. 
  
  i really enjoyed it for the first 3 weeks but after that it began to feel repetitive and tiresome, 
 unlike a football sim it just doesn't have the staying power in order to keep you satisfied for 
 more than a month or so . 
  
  i multiplayer is really great though and its is superb when you have younger relatives around because 
 it is very family friendly and the control system really easy to understand.
  
  in all, this game is fun and addictive at first but unless you are really into tennis games anyway 
 (so you will buy this game regardless of my review) or the online multiplayer really grabs, you 
 it might be best to rent it first or download the demo off of marketplace 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angularbanjo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 is a great-looking tennis game that is easy to get into and hard to put down.
 
  
  If you just want to play some tennis, you can quickly and easily set up exhibition matches and 
 join tournaments from the main menu - but the career mode is where the meat is.
  
  After creating your own custom player and picking a base of operations, you're given a choice between 
 training minigames, tournaments, and, as the game progresses, friendly matches with fellow pros. 
 Each season passes as a succession of turns representing weeks, and you must decide whether to 
 build your reputation on the courts or level up your player in training.
  
  The training system lends a certain RPG vibe to the game. Depending on which training disciplines 
 you favor, your player will improve his or her game in different areas. You can hone your skills 
 as an explosive server, a precise net player, or an agile all-rounder. The minigames range from 
 downright wacky (collecting fruit in the middle of an avalanche of giant tennis balls) to traditional 
 academy training, and there's an immense feeling of satisfaction when you excel at any of them 
 and your player jumps a level or two in the post-training breakdown.
  
  This is where the game sinks its hooks in you. In your race towards the coveted number one world 
 rank, clearing increasingly challenging minigames in the weeks between the grand slams can become 
 quite the addiction.
  
  The tennis itself feels really solid. The controls are finely tuned to give you a real feeling 
 of command of your player, while assisting you just enough to make the game uncomplicated and fun. 
 Force feedback is used to good effect when connecting with the ball, and stronger vibration when 
 you hit a power shot home makes you feel suitably powerful and awesome. Somewhat surprisingly, 
 there's real depth to be found as you become familiar with the nuances of the game.
  
  Most of the courts in the game look great, and the localized announcers contribute to the international 
 atmosphere. There's a good flow to the player animations, however the backgrounds are a little 
 on the static side.
  
  Your fellow pros all have their own distinct playing styles, and the toughest opponents read your 
 tactics as the game progresses and keep you on your toes. Teaming up with a fellow pro in doubles 
 tournaments is also a lot of fun. The only minor weak point is that the same opponents you beat 
 handily at the start of the game get tougher as the game progresses. You'll find yourself struggling 
 to wrestle a player like Federer off the top spot in the final "King of Players" game, although 
 you might have a perfect record against him from previous tournaments.
  
  The ability to take your created player online to face off against other custom players is a nice 
 touch, but the overall online experience is somewhat weakened by the way the game deals with lag. 
 When the connection needs a second to catch up, the ball hangs in the air directly in front of 
 your opponent's racket. The shot is released when the connection is back up to speed, and this 
 can totally throw off your timing in tight exchanges.
  
  The achievement points in the game are sensibly distributed. You'll get some achievements early 
 on, more and more as you progress through the career mode, and there's a good selection of longevity-based 
 achievements for the persistent player.
  
  Between the crisp graphics, smooth animations, immersive career mode and solid controls, Virtua 
 Tennis 3 has got a lot going for it - but the real strong point is its infectious love for the 
 game of tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josliandr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  This was one on my three first ever xbox 360 games. And to be honest, its definetly in my top 5 
 xbox 360 games and i would strongly regret selling it.
  
  There is a huge amount of training games in the career mode which lets you go up in certain skills 
 making you a better tennis player , for example as my favourite you have ten pin bowling of which 
 you have to knock the pin down with the tennis ball. In the career mode you win tornemants to go 
 up ranks ( you start at rank 300) when you get to rank 56 you have the oppertunity to enter any 
 four grand slam tournents. Complete all of them and then you will make it up to rank 12 or higher. 
 Then you will enter the main tournement where you will one match against anpother champion. After 
 that you will be rank 1 and would of completed most aspects of the career mode. Also another perfect 
 thing about the career mode is that you get to customize your character as to what hes looks like 
 and wears.
  
  Altogether i think this is an amazing tennis game of which all xbox 360 owners should have / i 
 got to go now biiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  The game grows on you after you probably play your 5th match. By then you start learning different 
 kinds of moves to perform. The gameplay is extremely fun with simple controls to get the hand of 
 quite quickly. The graphics are drop dead gorgeous with spectacular lighting effects. The World 
 Tour mode is the source of the fun where you can challenge other contenders to become the number 
 1 tennis player. You can take one of the wide range of male or female pro players to play in one 
 of the Championship Grand Slams in the Tournament mode.
  
  To top it all, the game also has a vast range of addictive mini-games and a fun multiplayer mode 
 where you can head to head with 2-4 players for you to stay hooked for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lublar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I say it's surprisingly frustrating because the more I played Virtua Tennis 3, the more I started 
 to dislike it. The gameplay is very fluent, smooth, and enjoyable but there are many many problems 
 that I have with this game.
  
  The world tour is actually very well set up. You start out by creating your character, then attending 
 a tennis academy or doing mini games to raise your player's stats. The different activities at 
 the academy effect what stats are raised, as well as the different mini games. The mini games are 
 suprisingly enjoyable, and there are plenty of them to do. You can dodge fruit to increase your 
 running speed and ability to turn, you can play bowling to raise your serve stats, you can play 
 shuffleboard to raise your ground strokes, etc etc. The training academy is a different story however. 
 Some of the exercises are incredibly easy, while others seem impossible - and a waste of time. 
 Since your schedule is set up by a yearly calendar you don't want to waste too much time failing 
 mini games. The first low ranked tournaments you actually play in are way too easy, in fact I never 
 lost a point. The matches do get a little more intense once you finally make it to the Slam events, 
 but they are pretty much still an easy win and don't feel really satisfying. If you manage to make 
 it to the King of Players match, the difficulty seems to basically shoot through the roof and it's 
 ridiculously hard to win. Overall though the world tour part of the game in enjoyable and should 
 provide you with enough to be satisfied. There are plenty of unlockables, winning tournaments unlock 
 new clothes and rackets, and this should provide most players with enough to feel satisfied.
  
  The actual gameplay is where I have a problem with the game. The players just feel too small 
 on the court. What I mean by that is that the players seem like they can't ever cover enough ground 
 in time to get to a ball. This basically make court positioning useless in this game, which is 
 supposed to be a big key for a real Tennis match. So, since you can't run fast enough to get to 
 most balls the game really just turns into a guessing game. You constantly have to guess where 
 the opponent is going to hit the ball and set up there in time to have any real chance of winning 
 a point. Also, you have the ability to dive for balls that are just barely out of reach. This sounds 
 like a good idea, but it really isn't. It always leaves you helpless after you make a diving shot, 
 so you basically lose the point because the opponent can easily come back with an overhead to put 
 you away. The diving seems to happen randomly sometimes as well, you'll think you're in good position 
 to return a shot, then your player will dive for no reason. Professional Tennis players rarely 
 dive for anything anyways, so seeing it in a game doesn't justify it in any way I think. Another 
 thing I didn't like was the fact that no shots have a chance of going out of bounds. The only time 
 shots go out of bounds is if you are trying to return an overhead smash, or a max power serve, 
 but other than that there is no chance that a shot will go out of bounds. I think this is a bad 
 thing personally, the game doesn't really have an risk/reward type system in it because of this. 
 Also, it means there is limited control to how deep, shallow, or close to the lines you want to 
 try and hit a shot, so it takes a lot of the strategy away from the game play.
  
  You can choose between 3 types of shots, lobs, slices, and topspin. Top spin is your fast ball, 
 slice is your change up, and lob is your ephus. The slice and lob shots are both pretty useless 
 it seems like. The slice supposedly makes you get a better angle on your shot, but I've never noticed 
 a difference in angle between that and the topspin. Also, the lob shot hardly ever goes over your 
 opponents head when they are at the net, so it's pretty useless as well. The Top Spin shot is basically 
 all you need, but it doesn't really have any top spin at all, it looks like a flat shot. It'd really 
 be nice if the top spin was actually noticeable - since it is in a real game of tennis. Also the 
 volleying in this game really isn't necessary, and it's difficult to do in a singles match. One 
 thing I REALLY liked though was the ability to rush the net. I played Top Spin a lot, and it seemed 
 impossible to get to the net for some reason, even if you just held the joystick straight up - 
 that wasn't the case in Virtua Tennis. But, once you get to the net in Virtua Tennis, it gets back 
 to that guessing game again. Since it's so easy to hit passing shots if you guess wrong you'll 
 either miss the ball or make a dive causing you to lose the point.
  
  One thing I really enjoyed about this game though was the doubles matches. Playing with a friend 
 on the same team is really fun, and it works great the way Virtua Tennis' game system is set up. 
 It's a little hard to score, but it's enjoyable nonetheless, the points can get pretty hectic and 
 intense. 
  
  Overall, I decided to give this game a 7.5, despite the many shortcomings in the gameplay, I think 
 the game was saved by a well developed career system, as well as a good doubles system. It could 
 have been worse though, but hopefully in the future better games will be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  It is not that we have that many choices: Table tennis and Top Spin 2.
  This one is very solid, much better than Virtua tennis 2. Its graphics are excellent although the 
 tennis player faces could have been modeled a little bit better. Another excellent part of this 
 game are the awesome minigames where you will increase your skills. We have more than 20 games 
 with different levels and the multiplayer on Xbox live is really good.
  I wouldn't go as far as saying that the game is a must have (I'd save that for GOW, Halo3, Elder 
 Scrolls IV, GRAW and Bioshock) but if you are looking for a good tennis games, where you have a 
 little bit more of arcade than simulation, you can't go wrong with this one.
  I bought it for $24,99 at gamestop, you can get a lot of fun for a low price too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rerty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  If you want realistic play topspin and if you want derivative arcade action play virtue tennis 
 3. The career mode gets boring fast as you must do the same thing over and over again. The difficulty 
 is strange because as you get to ranked 210- you will just start hitting the ball out of bounds 
 and it seems there is no way to control it. The online is pretty good for a tennis game, but just 
 like the career mode gets old quick. running to the ball and tapping A gets old fast. If you have 
 a gamecube I suggest mario tennis now thats a highly stylized tennis game that anyone can play. Ultimately 
 if you need a tennis fix for the 360 rent it , dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Male players
  
  The following players are available in the game, each with different characteristics: * Roger Federer 
 - All Around * Rafael Nadal - Fast Runner * Lleyton Hewitt - Counter Shots * Andy Roddick - Big 
 Server * Tim Henman - Serve and Volley * James Blake - Powerful Strokes * Tommy Haas - All Around 
 * S&eacute; bastien Grosjean - Fast Runner * Mario Ancic - Big Server * Juan Carlos Ferrero - Strong 
 Forehand * David Nalbandian - Strong Backhand * Taylor Dent - Serve and Volley * Ga&euml; l Monfils 
 - Various Shots
  
  Female players * Maria Sharapova - Hard Hitter * Venus Williams - Powerful Strokes * Martina Hingis 
 - Tactical Player * Lindsay Davenport - Big Server * Nicole Vaidiov&aacute; - Strong Forehand 
 * Daniela Hantuchov&aacute; - All Around * Am&eacute; lie Mauresmo - Various Shots
  
  Hidden Players * King - all round * Duke - Serve and Volley
  
  Console versions
  
  Like 
 previous console ports of the series, lob is now a separate button in the conversions as opposed 
 to pressing both topspin and slicespin as in the Lindbergh arcade version.
  
  Besides having Tournament Mode and Exhibition Mode from the arcade version, the home versions include 
 a World Tour Mode and Court Games mode. These game modes replace the Challenge Mode that was present 
 in the arcade version.
  
  The XBOX 360 version has exclusive Xbox Live online tournaments and modes, whilst the PLAYSTATION 
 3 version incorporates the option to control the game using the SIXAXIS motion-sensitive controller.
 
  
  Both the 360 and PS3 versions offer native 1080p support. Virtua Tennis 3 is the first native 1080p 
 game on XBOX 360.
  
  A playable game demo of the Xbox 360 version was released on Xbox Live Marketplace on March 16, 
 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Hello, Welcome to My reveiw of Virtua Tennis 3 for the xbox 360. To Begin Virtua tennis 3 is absolutely 
 amazing, the graphics, the sounds, the players , the courts.
  
  Virtua tennis consits of a world tour in which you play in tournaments, raise your skills i. e. 
 power forehand, backhand, running, serving, etc... and work your way down from 300 to one. The 
 tournaments are ranked like 300down, 204down, 100down, 56down (The Four Grandslams) . Once you work 
 your way down to 16 you will play in the King of Players for a best of 6 Games. One of the hardest 
 matches in the game. To raise your skills you particapte in mini games like for serving you can 
 do tennis bowling (hard by the way) .
  
  Virtua tennis also has a tournament option for pratcice you can set number of games, sets and diffuculty, 
 if you don't lose a match and get higher than a c rank at the end you play Duke (Really hard extra 
 character) and if you get d or lower you play King (Hard extra character) .
  
  Also the game has exhabition matches for just random plays, you can play and go anyone you want, 
 choose courses, play a second player, Also there is an option to play court games with another 
 player i. e Bowling, Bingo.
  
  Overall i rate this game 10/10. One of the best sport games ever :)
  
  I Hope You Like. --- 
 OH a little extra not spoiler if you get number 1 in world tour and complete all tournaments. Theres 
 a suprise on the last week of december. A hard suprise is all im saying.
  
  Thanks for reading, Dj-Dark-1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samqpr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Virtua tennis 3 is the ultimate in tennis games, its arcady yet realistic feel lets you uses many 
 types of shots and strokes. Players actually play to there abilities and the chance to unlock new 
 players makes it much more challanging. The world tour mode is extremly well made as the mini games 
 and tasks to make your created player better gives you the power to make him/her as you wish. The 
 AI skill level also increases alot as you progress through the game, making it challanging and 
 something you can enjoy for ages. Lives up to its virtua Tennis reputation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reboundxshooter
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Great game for all you tennis fans out there and im sure tennis fans will also own or at least 
 have played top spin 2. The two games dont have alot of differences which is quite suprising as 
 sega have had a long time to make vt3 a really amazing and addictive arcadey game. They have achieved 
 in some aspects but have really let you down with others. The best bit about this game is without 
 a doubt the fab arcade games all are unique and wierd but great fun and if sega had just put a 
 few more in the game would of been raised a level. One of the most annoying points in the game 
 is how often the players dive to reach a shot this will happen all the time if you dont get your 
 timing right, but by far the most annoying thing about this game is the fact that its not online 
 on the ps3 and it is on the 360 you may think yay 360 online another thorn in the ps3's side but 
 no instead its diabolical online the lag is unbelivable and its hard to find a match.
  
  8.3 GREAT FOR FANS WORTH A PLAY IF YOUR NOT DEFO BUT YOU CANT HELP BUT FEEL A LITTLE LET DOWN WITH 
 THE CONTENT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  1. Immersive Mini-games which always stand out
  2. Graphics are crisp and sweet
  3. Online play is a blast!
  
  The Bad:
  1. A. I can a tad 
 repeatitive
  2. Lobs shouldn't be used in this game unless you wanna get beat like a little girl!
  3. Playing 
 the Pro Players over and over can be very boring!
  
  SEGA's Virtua Tennis has been known for it's great arcade value and imersive gameplay and with 
 virtua Tennis 3 is no exception! Virtua Tennis 3 delivers on all gameplay and graphical mechanics, 
 showing the players and courts in immensive detail aswell as the gameplay which can feature from 
 on the court to trying to dodge giant tennis balls!
  
  The main mode in Virtua Tennis 3 is the World Tour Mode where you create your own female/male player 
 and play thorugh 20 years trying to reach the number 1 in the world. From here you can play in 
 tournaments which is fun n' all but can a bit repeatitive since you play the Pro Players over and 
 over! Pro's include Federer, Nadal , Henman , Roddick and more! However, the best bit out of all 
 the World Tour are the Mini Games which as always are fantastic! here you develop your characters 
 main skills like ground-strokes, volleying , serving e. t. c. but there are the most fun and addictive 
 ways of improving such as hitting down 10 bowling pins, trying to dodge giant tennis balls to collect 
 fruit. THE LIST GOES ON!
  
  Whilst playing the actual game istself, you will notice the superb graphics but the one thing that 
 may let you down is the gameplay which in Sport games are a must into enjoying though it is fun 
 you do feel as if you only use 2 buttons trying to hit the ball because the lob button is absolutley 
 no use what-so-ever! even if your opponent is right up the net and you try and lob 90% they will 
 smash right back and if you have the reflexes of trying to return a smash in 0.5 seconds you're 
 o. k....
  
  Another great aspect of the game is definetly the online play which allows you to enter tournaments, 
 play one-on-one or doubles and even watch the highlights of the day; s matches IT IS A BLAST!!
 
  
  Virtua Tennis has it's problems but they are mainly over-shadowed by it's dynamic graphics and 
 great gameplay, to chose between the PS3 and 360 version, The X360 is a lot better as it allows 
 you to rack up some really cool achievement points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 was all the hype at the start of the year 2007. The most recent tennis game I can 
 think of was Top Spin 2, and that game made tennis fun. It was perfectly balanced, had top notch 
 graphics and easy pick-up-and-play gameplay. Now, Virtua Tennis 3 rolls along, and it LOOKS great. 
 Players are believable, and the courts look very good. Yet, thats problably the only bright light 
 that shines upon it. Even though the sounds are very realistic and the soundtrack is fun to listen 
 to while playing, these do not make up for the terrible gameplay VT3 brings to the table. Yes, 
 I know the game is Arcade style, but VT3 barely has any realism towards the actual game of tennis. 
 The game says it has 4 types of swings. A is the Top Spin swing, X is the Slice swing, B is the 
 Slice swing, and Y is the Lob swing. Um, yea, not really. The Top Spin swing here is very accurate 
 and easy to pull off, and is very useful for getting the ball over the net and to one side of the 
 court. The Lob, however, is comepletely useless as it provides at least 3-5 seconds for the player 
 to postition himself to reach the ball. And, most of the time, the CPU will just Spike the ball 
 over the net, and unless you can react in a matter of 0.5 seconds to hit it back, it will still 
 go out anyway, giving the oppenent the point. The Slice is useful, but having it mapped on both 
 X and B is useless/pointless, and the extra swing button could have been useful for a different 
 swing. The volleying is very inconsistent however. Most of the time when you are playing against 
 the CPU, the ball will travel all over the court, which makes the game too hard and repetitive. 
 Along with the fact that VT3 is fast-paced, running back and forth accross the court is not what 
 I had in mind when I played the demo and rented the actual game. The player movements are realistic, 
 yet you see the same animations over and over again, and I highly doubt that tennis players DIVE 
 for a ball that is out of their reach. When playing the CPU, the match is very unfair, as the CPU 
 has numerous advantages over you. If the CPU is on the right side of the court, and you hit the 
 ball to the left, the CPU can dive an AMAZING 10 feet to hit the tennis ball back to you absolutely 
 perfectly, yet when you do so, the ball lobs in the air. The CPU can also hit the ball 10x harder 
 than you can most of the time. You, on the other hand, have no hard swings at all. The tennis ball's 
 physics are totally random all of the time. A ball you hit perfectly straight over the net will, 
 once, bounce normally, yet the next time you do it, the ball bounces 10 feet straight up into the 
 air, which gives the CPU mutliple chances to spike the ball into your side of the court, and ultimately 
 you'll lose on every return. Even though all the players have their certain special ablilities 
 , these are never presented in the game whatsoever, except for the fact that Nadal is very fast 
 indeed. The other little mini games are fun, but dont satisfy you for long. Online is fun since 
 no one that isnt better or worse than you has no significant advantage. Overall, Virtua Tennis 
 3, while very easy to learn, is ultimately held back by its very broken gameplay and control scheme. 
 While the online play is the only fun thing, VT3 is not worth your money or time, and Sega should 
 have spent more time polishing this game. Go out and buy Top Spin 2 instead of this game. And, 
 even though this review is long, reading it is more worth your time than Virtua Tennis 3 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JdDirectory
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game was ok. It wasn't amazing or good. It was ok. Graphics, beautiful. Gameplay, retarted. 
 Worth at least one rent when your VERY bored. If you love tennis, you'll buy this game. If your 
 just getting into tennis, you'll soon hate tennis. The tournaments are cute but still lacking fun. 
 The two-player is better than expected but still not fun. The graphics are great. My cousin thought 
 I was watching a real match when he saw me playing it. The sound is rough and not realistic, very 
 repetitive. The multi-player mode was fun. But it still is no different from playing with a buddy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delongman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I really have no liking for tennis games but this one really appealed to me! The environments are 
 almost perfect and very clear! The character detail are admirable and i just love the way they 
 move so naturally. Another good detail is the way the clothes move when the player is moving!!!
 
  
  The Mini games in the carrier mode are really fun. The first few moments if the game are really 
 addictive! You can unlock about a 100 points in 20 mins if you're up to it!!! Some of the achievements 
 are really stupid (e. g. taking a vacation involves just pressing one button!!!) but who cares.
 
  
  The game gets quite repetitive at some moment and kind of gets impossibly hard but maybe i'm just 
 wack!!! It's a game that must absolutely be among your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - It's a basic tennis game , if you liked mario tennis you probably won't like this. It's 
 just like mario tennis except the hits are alot less effective at what they should do. It gets 
 boring hitting the ball back and forth and ocasionally someone messes up. Also , there is a pretty 
 steep learning curve on how to do some stuff like spike hit it and do a non moving hit.
  
  Graphics - Realistic , but really bland - all the courses look the same Sound - pretty good , i 
 actually thought the squeaking sounds were coming from something over than the game
  
  Value - lots of multiplayer features so if you actually like the game then you got lots of people 
 to play against good tilt - a lot better than the horrible table tennis and top spin 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BourneX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  After making the transition from Top Spin 2 to this, I was a bit disappointed to find the look 
 and design of the characters is still much like that of Virtua Tennis 1... They seem a bit less 
 sophisticated or less realistic than the ones in Top Spin 2.
  The overall look of environments is OK. At times, the lighting seems a bit flat especially in indoor 
 settings, making them look a bit unrealistic. Top Spin 2 does a better job at this.
  
  The Xbox live performance for Virtua Tennis 3 is almost mediocre. The number of unjustifiable lets 
 is ridiculous. I wonder if these lets are designed to come on whenever there's a packet loss in 
 the connection between players... The game play animation is far better than that of Top Spin 2. 
 The characters have a much more varied animation library available to them. The moves aren't as 
 repetitive as in most games. Right away, you notice that working out anticipation of the ball, 
 and your placement during game play is much accurate to real tennis. This is why gameplay gets 
 a 10 from me.
  Also the response of the ball to different surfaces is far more noticeable here than in most other 
 tennis games I've played.
  
  As for the music... usually terrible to say the least! lol
  
  At the end of the day, Virtua Tennis 3 can be classified as a nice party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has many great modes but the best is the world tour mode. You create your custom player 
 and hit the court to smash, lob, groundstroke, or volley your way to num #1. The graphics are excellent, 
 and the player models are great. They actually look the same in the game as in real life. I find 
 it weird that when the tennis stars come to talk to you they are silent?!?!@##$#$, they could have 
 paid some no name to try and imatate the players, oh well. The gameplay is spot on with the serves 
 and vollies feeling like they actually do in real life. Music is okay, everything else is great, 
 so go check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jslee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  As a tennis player and fan of the sport and franchise, I thoroughly enjoy Virtua Tennis 3. The 
 game is fun and have a mildly entertaining career mode.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is deceptively deep. Though it lacks the wide variety of shots found in Top Spin, it provides 
 you with enough variety to feel like you are doing more than playing Pong. The AI provides a good 
 range of difficulty and is very challenging on the most difficult setting. Multiplayer is where 
 the game shines and it gives the gamer a fun, fast paced experience. Lastly, the career mode is 
 repetitive and feels bogged down by the need to play the same minigame over and over. It does have 
 a collect em' all feel to it though as their are hundreds of items to collect.
  
  Graphics:
  The players look good from afar, and the courts contain the small details that make 
 a game shine, such as ball marks and line judges moving to dodge balls. However, when the game 
 zooms in, many of the players look off. The animations are also limited in number but every player 
 does play slightly differently.
  
  Sound:
  The players grunt and the ball sounds realistic. Some nice touches are the female players' screams 
 when they hit a hard ball. The sound does not really give a sense like you're there playing though.
 
  
  Value:
  The game is great fun and the multiplayer can provide hours of heated competition either with friends 
 or over Live. Also, collecting all of the items will easily take months unless you're completely 
 dedicated to gathering them.
  
  If you're deciding between this and Top Spin, I have played both and recommend that you choose 
 based on what you are looking for. Virtua Tennis is more fast paced and has an arcadey sense. Top 
 Spin plays a little more realistically and the career mode uses brand names instead of Virtua Tennis' 
 generic tennis gear. Both games have minigames and support online play, though I find VT3's minigames 
 to be more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokiddjr
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Why not make it realistic? The stupid mini-games need to be removed. The controls are horrific 
 and the game-play is probably the most inconsistent and unintuitive that I've play in a long time.
 
  
  You start ranked at 300, but play the same 6 tennis stars the whole game. This game is shallow 
 and belongs on the Nintendo-64. Only the graphics are impressive.
  
  The A. I is miserable. Just like in E. A. sports games, when you play on harder levels the players 
 gain super powers rather than playing smarter.
  
  The free tennis game on the Wii makes this game look like a joke. What a piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicDivision
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Great. While on the surface it might look like pong, it definitely grows on you. Fun, 
 quick gameplay provides constant new challenges and great minigames.
  Graphics- Some of the clothes animations and custom characters can look a little goofy, but the 
 facial expressions and animations are great.
  Sound- ... at least the techno during the tennis matches is catchy!
  Value- Definitely worth it. 
 Hours of fun; you can put it down and pick it up anytime you want.
  
  In general, Virtua Tennis 3 is a great game for people who love tennis. For those who don't, it 
 might seem a little boring, though. I definitely recommend this game to all tennis lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyjagkc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Looking for a new game with nothing really jumping out at me as a must buy, i decided to give VT3 
 a whirl. After playing for ten hours straight i figured it was worth the 50 bones i slapped down. Great 
 gameplay and career mode .... beefing up your players skills and attributes through the mini games 
 is addicting. about the only tennis player i could name before playing was Maria Sharapova ,but 
 a fan of tennis or not you will enjoy this game. One annoying aspect was the nagging uncontrolable 
 injuries that pop up in the career mode that cause you to miss weeks of action ,other than my thumbs 
 hurting after playing that was the only comlaint i could come up with. Bottom line a pretty fun 
 game with some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a really fun game to play. I don't watch tennis too much and am not that big of 
 a fan, but I watch it if there's nothing else on. When I started playing it, I just got right into 
 it. It hooked me in because I wasn't doing well at first and I had to figure out a strategy for 
 how to beat my opponents. But once I got how to really use all the controls to my advantage and 
 I figured out my strategy, I could beat everybody which even surprised me. I like sports games, 
 but I didn't think I would be that interested in this. This game really surprised me a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game takes me back to my Dreamcast days when I first played Virtua Tennis. That game was rockin' 
 and VT3 keeps the series moving right along!
  
  Gameplay: I love how the players move especially compared to Top Spin 2. It felt much more like 
 they were moving where you wanted them to and they would hit how you wanted them to. Something 
 that was really lacking in Top Spin 2.
  
  Graphics: Solid looking graphics all around. Not much more you can ask of a tennis game.
  
 
  Audio: From the announcers to the fans everything sounded spot on. For people that like tennis 
 games and have a 360 this is the one to get for sure!!! Top Spin 2 is an okay game but this one 
 goes above and beyond it easily! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jericoY2J
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  man I thought it was gonna be mediocre since it was a budget game but since it is mad be sega I 
 knew it was gonna be a winner. as always theres a make ur own character mode which is awesome by 
 the way. theres mini games which are all fun (including the running, dodging the hugh tennis balls, 
 while trying to get the fruit. main thing is that there are a ton of real life tennis superstars 
 like sharapova and roddick and haas (favorite tennis player) . while it can be kinda easy of make 
 ur own character mode, once u climb up the ranks it'll get harder and get smashed if u ain't ready (get 
 smashed litearlly) . bottom line is if u play tennis or a big fan of tennis or its superstars I 
 highly recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  It is really fun at first but than it just gets a little boring. The practicing is really fun but 
 I don't like how you can get injured and so you have to rest all the time, it doesn't make the 
 game any better at all. The tournaments are allright but they are somtimes a little too short. And 
 I really don't like the fact that you don't make money. Two really great things about the game 
 is 1. People message you like your coach or people who want a practice match and 2. the xbox live 
 is great, but theres not much to say about exept that there is no lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilzy_ccfc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  I've never played a previous VT so i cant say if the others are the same or not so i'll just talk 
 about this version. Alot of player reviews have said that the gameplay is bad but all i can say 
 to that is wtf?. The controls are instinctive and its great playing with mates, especially doubles. 
 But playing the computer can be fun too. Yeah sometimes it can be pretty hard but whats the point 
 in it being so easy that you hardly have to do anything to win. I think the difficulty and the 
 way it increases in the World Tour is good. The only bad point about the difficulty really is that 
 Duke and King are near impossible. The sound is good and i think the graphics are great, I cant 
 see why some people dont think they're next gen. The world tour can be a bit repetitive after a 
 while but it is addictive. The multiplayer on this game is really suberb and i think is worth buying 
 for that alone. Btw i got the game for about &pound;29.99 but i reckon it is worth the full price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have played most tennis games they make these days, especially the Top Spin series, 
 which I loved. However, I think Sega managed to make the best tennis game on the market right now.
 
  
  The career mode is the focus, probably, and they do an amazing job. Between tennis academy and 
 the training games, they are definitely the best training games in any tennis game within the past 
 many consoles. The skill building is also the best system they have yet, where you really learn 
 to specialize in certain areas by the style that you play. You can work on volleys, groundstrokes, 
 serves, and footwork, and many small areas of each. The setup is easy and it gets very challenging 
 later in the game.
  
  Let's talk graphics. The game looks very good in game, including ball marks on the court. However, 
 what hurts the graphics would be... a boring, non-responsive crowd that they only show clapping 
 boringly in cutscenes, and then a horrible character customization. Sure, you can make wild and 
 crazy characters, but you likely can't make anyone who looks like you. There are few choices, and 
 then the gear you earn in the career mode is even worse. Boring shorts styles, one pair of sunglasses, 
 about 30 shoes all made out of about 3 models. It's not so good. But you can get past customization.
 
  
  Let's talk value. Getting rank #1 in career can probably take a good 15 hours, at least. And it 
 doesn't stop there. Maxing out your skills would probably take another 5 hours, and winning the 
 career 100%, probably another 5 hours. The achievements are actually really nice, mostly things 
 you can just end up doing, but some take some focusing.
  
  As far as gameplay, it is superb, but it has some problems. It takes a while getting used to having 
 to get set up before you swing, unlike Top Spin, but I actually like this system more. However, 
 if you are a little off, you end up diving, all the time. You'll learn how to avoid it and make 
 running shots, but diving can get really annoying sometimes. The AI can be extremely smart, sometimes 
 too smart, in fact, sometimes it feels like the game monitored where you were aiming the ball and 
 moves the computer in that direction beforehand. But that rarely happens. It is a hard game, but 
 that helps the value, I believe. The aiming system is a little crazy how you can aim as far as 
 possible to a side without hitting it out. It takes away any risk factor.
  
  Sound. It's really not that great. It has strange music playing in matches. One track sounds like 
 a Pokemon game. It takes away from the mood. The crowd has little reaction other than oooh whenever 
 you dive or make a running shot, which really loses its sting quickly. They have some realistic 
 grunts and sounds of hitting the ball, but nothing spectactular AT ALL.
  
  Overall, though, there is a lot to this game. Great multiplayer, great single player, and I'd actually 
 say it's worth the price, because it also has a nice XBox Live, of course, and tennis fans will 
 surely get their fill, since tennis games don't come around much. This was a great game. Try it, 
 you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas179
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Very few games can hold their own on so many fronts like Virtua Tennis 3. First, VT3 has very smooth 
 gamepaly. The characters move as smoothly as Mauresmos cross court backhand. Second, not only 
 is it fun to play the tournaments with your own created player, but the mini games that develop 
 your character can be as addicting as the tournaments and increasing your world rank. Third, it 
 takes smarts as well as good reaction time to succeed at VT3. As you start out you can use any 
 style and basically succeed, however, as you progress, developing your own style becomes more and 
 more important to the success of your career. If you are a baseliner, you better develop your groundstrokes 
 and footwork. Want to be a serve and volleyer? You wont win a match unless you have the right 
 skills. Online this games plays like every online game should. Tournaments, ranked matches, quick 
 plays with professional players, it all adds up to a fantastic tennis experience. Be warned though, 
 having one dimension online will not get you to the top of the ranks, youll have to use some strategy 
 and play to your players strengths to be atop the leader boards. While character development and 
 professional characters might be lacking, the combination of skill and strategy makes up for any 
 flaws in the game. A must for anyone that enjoys a solid sports series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  playin virtua tennis since the original, this game has always been fun. i tried the demo and i 
 thought wow, why am i diving everytime i try to return and after playin for about 10-15 minutes, 
 i stop diving as much because i learn how to anticipate the shot. it does dive more than the previous 
 virtua tennis game but it also makes it way more fun to play because u cant just hold down A and 
 return it you got to anticipate it like in a real tennis match. well, i also bought the release 
 and it plays 100 times better than the demo. it is a great game to buy, great career mode and fun 
 gameplay. it could include more customizations but it is good nontheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis it seems is more of the same from Sega with one crucial difference , it is next gen 
 tennis ! As we all probably know , the first video game was pong and it is only right that we see 
 how far the gaming industry has come . To see this in HD is amazing! On top of all this , Virtua 
 Tennis 3 is a great game in itself . If you buy this game you will enjoy the visuals , the gameplay 
 and also the hours of potential online ! I wasnt into tennis games but now i am thanks to Virtua 
 tennis !
  You can create your own character and play through 20 years of career thanks to the depth of this 
 game , go online and play with friends or make friends or win tournaments with you favourite player 
 (there are many to choose from)
  it looks like Sega has served up another winner here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Since the turn of the millennium the Virtua Tennis series has dominated the tennis scene. The past 
 few years may have been a little quiet but Virtua Tennis is back with a bang on the Xbox 360. The 
 game hasnt changed a great deal since Virtua Tennis 2, but Sega has improved and refined the visual 
 presentation by taking advantage of the Xbox 360s capabilities.
  
  Virtua Tennis 3 is the first Xbox 360 game to support 1080p. 1080p TV owners will be treated to 
 absolutely stunning visuals, but it certainly isnt a requirement to appreciate VT3s fantastic 
 looks. On the whole, character models resemble their real-life counter-parts right down to the 
 finest details, although there are some exceptions. While Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal look pixel-perfect, 
 it is puzzling that Maria Sharapovas face isnt as stunning and beautiful as the real thing. Regardless 
 of likeness, all the character models look very sharp. Court surfaces include grass, clay, hard, 
 and carpet. You wont be playing in venues like Wimbledon Centre Court and the Arthur Ashe Stadium 
 due to licensing issues, but the replicas at least resemble them and give you the feeling that 
 youre there.
  
  The most impressive thing about VT3s visuals are the fantastic animations. Each of the twenty 
 professional players (including Federer, Nadal, Sharapova and Serena Williams) has the exact same 
 swing and serve as they do in real life. Federers elegant backhand and Roddicks monstrous serve 
 are spot on, and this goes for the rest of the players as well. Player models flow well as they 
 run around the court, and the court itself acts and reacts to the play. Youll see players slipping 
 and sliding on clay when they try and turn too quickly, and the ball will leave a visible mark 
 when it hits the surface. Sega has really made an effort with VT3s presentation and its paid 
 off in a big way. The sound is another story. A range of fast paced pop-rock tunes play in the 
 background that may sound enjoyable at first, but begin to grate very quickly. Player grunts sound 
 mostly the same, which is a shame when you consider how different the animations are. Perhaps the 
 best thing about VT3s sound is the announcer. Score announcements are made in the language relevant 
 to the venue, a staple of the series which adds a touch of authenticity.
  
  VT3s user-friendly control scheme makes it accessible for new players, but the subtle complexity 
 of the gameplay system leaves a lot for dedicated players to master. There are three basic shots; 
 topspin, slice, and lob, mapped to the face buttons. Using these shots in different positions further 
 expands your shot selection to drop shots, running shots, volleys, and smashes. Positioning is 
 key, and youll have to anticipate where the ball is going to land before making a shot. Pressing 
 too early will result in a despairing dive for the ball, while pressing too late will return a 
 weak shot. There is a delicate balance and thanks to the well designed gameplay system, youll 
 want to keep playing until you find it.
  
  One of the main attractions of all sports games is the career mode. In VT3s world tour youll 
 start off by creating a male or female character to join the Sega Professional Tennis tour. The 
 create-a-player function suffices, but it pales in comparison to that of Top Spin 2, Xbox 360s 
 other tennis game. It really could have done with more hairstyles, swings, and service motions. 
 After you finish creating your player, youll find yourself at the world map menu. Your goal is 
 to become number one in twenty seasons, and youll need to win tournaments to boost your rank. 
 Each year is split into twelve months and these are sub-divided into four weeks; you can partake 
 in one activity a week. At first youll be limited to the minor tournaments, which are a million 
 miles away from the grand slam events in terms of difficulty. In order to stand a chance, youll 
 have to train your player through a variety of enjoyable mini-games. Pin Crusher sees you honing 
 your serve by knocking down bowling pins, Avalanche has you dodging giant tennis balls to improve 
 your footwork and Prize Defender helps your volleying skills by having you protect various prizes. 
 These are just a sample of the varied training mini-games, and they are a fun way to break up the 
 monotony of constantly playing tournaments.
  
  Playing well and winning tournaments rewards you with new gear. You can kit your player out in 
 a variety of different shirts, shorts, trainers and wrist bands. As well as this, you can win all 
 sorts of different rackets that include frying pans and wood rackets. Your racket will impact the 
 potency of your swing, so choose wisely.
  
  Unfortunately, some elements introduced into the world tour only serve to detract from the experience. 
 In an attempt to try and make the world tour more realistic, a stamina bar has been introduced. 
 Each tournament and training session drains your stamina bar, and overworking your player will 
 lead to an injury and time off the tour. Rather than make you feel like a real tennis player, it 
 only serves to frustrate and take time away from the great part of the world tour: tournaments 
 and training. The fact that youll only ever play against the same set of pros throughout the entire 
 tour also takes away from the feeling of being a pro tennis player. Youll be playing Federer and 
 company at rank three-hundred; the only difference is the scale in AI difficulty. Pre- and post-match 
 conversations with your opponent try and add some personality to the players, but they are forced 
 and take more time away from playing the game. It doesnt seem right when the worlds best players 
 tell you I couldnt focus after you beat them in a final. After all is said and done, there is 
 no cash reward for winning tournaments, just a piece of gear. Only winning wrist bands at what 
 is supposed to be Wimbledon is ridiculous. World tour has its flaws but ultimately is a worthwhile 
 experience. Youll enjoy playing tournaments and training, especially because you can use your 
 custom player in the exhibition and Xbox Live modes.
  
  If you dont feel like trekking through a twenty-season career, there is plenty more to see and 
 do in VT3. You can jump into an exhibition match against the computer or with three friends locally 
 (there is even a quick match option which sets up a game at the press of a single button) . For 
 the first time in the games history, you can play a six-game five-set match which is a welcome 
 feature. The court games mode allows you to compete with friends in some of the training mini-games 
 from world tour, but Xbox Live is easily VT3s strongest game mode.
  
  You can play singles in both ranked and player matches. Ranked and player doubles matches are also 
 supported, allowing you to take on the world with a friend. A spectator mode has been included 
 (much like Gotham TV from PGR3) so you can watch your friends play or try and get some tips from 
 the better players. A highlights reel features the best matches of the day for all to see. In terms 
 of performance, VT3 runs steadily online. There is little lag, and when there is, a let call occurs 
 and the point will be replayed. This is a novel way to avoid slow-down. Standard leaderboards are 
 supported, allowing you to track your rank in relation to the world or just your friends. A range 
 of quirky and challenging achievements build up VT3s one thousand gamer points, which include 
 getting a strike turkey in Pin Crusher to winning fifty ranked matches on Xbox Live. They are 
 spread out well between world tour, Xbox Live and general play. Some achievements such as 500 
 Groundstroke Points are easier to track thanks to a statistics page that contains a very detailed 
 run down of your VT3 career.
  
  Despite the disappointing world tour mode Virtua Tennis 3 has all the attributes of a fun tennis 
 game. The well-balanced gameplay, fantastic visuals and stellar Xbox Live support come together 
 to form a great game. For all tennis fans, this is a must-own game. To anyone looking for a fun 
 and addictive sports game, you couldnt do a lot better than Virtua Tennis 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanirama
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Had high hopes for this game, but it doesn't deliver. Tennis is a simulation sport. You need to 
 have all the shots and control over the ball. Top Spin 2 nailed this quite well although that bozo 
 at gamespot doesn't see it. You had lobs, slices, regular shot and top spin all different and well 
 executed. You also had risk shots and drop shots which was awesome. Here, you can get by, by pressing 
 A throughout the game. What does it say about a game that needs only one button to play ? Cons 
 - * terrible shot variety
  * too much diving
  * needless ball trails
  * ball feels soft and cottony. You don't get the satisfying sound of hitting it or it rocketing 
 past. ( sometimes it does rocket past at unrealistic speeds so its either extreme )
  * ball placement doesn't have finesse. It just goes in the gen. direction
  * Not too satisfying 
 game
  * overall too arcadey and is really PONG at its core, thats all.
  * Highly Inferior to Top Spin2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFig
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of earlier Virtua Tennis incarnations on earlier platforms, I'd been looking forward 
 to this game for some time. So much in fact, I pre-ordered it months in advance. One of the biggest 
 reasons for my optimism was that there was going to finally be ranked doubles online.
  
  I picked it up the day it came out and hurried home to play. I created a custom character and mucked 
 around with the training scenarios before venturing online. The very place I expected to have the 
 most fun, is where it let me down the most. While offering the online options that Top Spin 2 lacks, 
 the glitchy gameplay makes this a utter disappointment. While in the middle of a point the game 
 would frequently glitch the ball, as if it were confused, and then the announcer would call 'Let' 
 and the point would be replayed as if it never happened. Another problem is that if you and your 
 opponent (s) are even half competent at moving and hitting the ball, there is rarely an opportunity 
 to score. It is way to easy to return 'hard' shots. Yes, there are times when you can slam it to 
 score, but those opportunities are few and far between. The norm is to have incredibly long volleys 
 and hope that your opponents thumb cramps up after a 10 minute volley. Of course, this is only 
 good if the game does not call a let after 10 minutes and has the point played all over again. 
 One last thing about online play. Let's face it, not everyone has a great connection. Most do, 
 but when you find an opponent that for whatever reason has lag issues, this game does not handle 
 it very well. On those occasions, it felt like I was watching a television show where the sound 
 was 3 seconds behind the action. The ball would be one or two seconds behind what was actually 
 happening. I never though that I could prefer the TS2 lag method over this, but I do.
  
  The graphics and sound are no better than TS2, but the controls take a big step backwards. There 
 are no 'risk' shots, and you will rarely hit the ball out during volleys. As for serving, there 
 is no aiming to speak of. Oh you can try, but you can only barely adjust your aim while serving 
 and there is no noticeable effect on the placement.
  
  All in all, this was a huge letdown for me. I now hold out hope for a Top Spin 3. Please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  I guess is good for fans of the series (if there are any) .
  Graphics are pretty impressive, but Ive seen better (especially with sports games) .
  Sound effects 
 are realistic, even the grunts of when people do power shots.
  A seemingly endless list of real tennis players are at your disposal, now if only we could find 
 somebody that actually likes this sport so it could mean something.
  
  
  Bad:
  The mediocre gameplay of virtua tennis is still in the game, just as it was in the other two which.
 
  Difficulty can be ridiculous at some points and the game clearly isnt new comer friendly.
  The gameplay repetitive and boring and just not fun.
  Nothing fun to do, like attack ball boys 
 and argue calls with semi-blind umpires.
  Overall just a disappointing game and not all its cracked up to be and I hate this virtua tennis 
 game just as I did the rest.
  The $59.99 price tag is waaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyyy too steep! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riekeen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Gran estilo de juego, gran movilidad, con eso resumo lo que es este juego, no incluyo la grafica 
 pork siento que le falto un poco mas, aunque se juegue en hd, igual se pierde un poco el poder 
 del 360 y la musica tambien dejo algo que desear, pero bueno no se puede tener todo en esta vida, 
 he jugado desde el primer virtua tennis y simpre trae algo nuevo en estilo de juego, en esta ocasion, 
 nos trajo algo que a mi en lo personal me gustaba de roland garros, que es el golpe en carrera, 
 en este juego lo hacias con un boton ahora lo hace automaticamente cuando ve que no va a llegar, 
 bueno, eso es solo un poco de lo que trae virtua tennis, juegenlo lo recomiendo 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelsea-omar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  This year on xbox 360 virtua tennis 3 came and i couldn't wait to buy it. look at how the graphics 
 are made its like watching real tennis on tv and also the movement of the players is amazing. i 
 really love it because it has many cool mini games which is fun. It also has the career and that 
 career is the best because you can use your own player and you can buy for him many things from 
 shop, you can have training for your player and that makes you play in the competitions like australian 
 open. so its one of my best games on xbox 360 and my score is 9.0. thanks for reading my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocgz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of VT since the first game. I've always found the game simple enough that anyone 
 could pick it up quickly but have complex side of it that keeps it challenging and refreshing. 
 Some of the high points from VT3 from the previous titles are obviously the grafix which look on 
 point. Paying attenion to small details on the courts and the player models make the game visually 
 satisfying (even though im not even playing on a HDtv!) . the only low points in the game were the 
 controlls could be a little sensitive compared to VT1, the players do a dive or stumble if you 
 turb too quickly. but with some time put into the game ive over come doing rediculous dives when 
 i should have just powered the shot. GREAT game for any tennis fan or any vans of VT or any other 
 tennis games in general, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevenus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Wow is this game addictive! Okay, those who remember or have played any of the previous generations 
 of this series won't be blown away by any of the changes for this outing, but everything truly 
 has been improved however slightly. The graphics are better (although all the previous versions 
 were always excellent and ahead of their time anyway!) . The motion capture is fantastic and each 
 animation does seem to be individual to the character under your control! Service actions are truly 
 amazing in their accuracy. The music i must say is still awful and players will either want to use 
 music from their hard drive or mute it completely i would guess! The improvements also include 
 small additions which manage to push the game that much closer to perfection. There are now more 
 mini games which are fun and addictive (brilliant multi player madness) and for the first time, 
 multi-set tennis! now okay everyone will say, its about time, but its still been added so credit 
 where its due this is what we've all been clamouring for and now we have it! This game has also 
 been ever so slightly tweaked on the difficulty on court. Where in previous versions, within a 
 couple of hours of beginning your play you could become a master simply by holding down the button 
 for as long as possible, this version does not let you do this. You will find bitter disappointment 
 trying to play this way, as your player will simply end up diving all over the court. This time 
 out you are required to move around the court much more before setting your player and hitting 
 a winner! As tennis games out there are few and far between, especially of this calibre, I would 
 highly reccomend this game to anyone with an addictive personality and likewise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anandram
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Im a huge tennis fan so it was a no brainer that i bought this game.
  
  If you played Topspin 2 you will know that it is far more in-depth than VT3. VT3 brings to the 
 table a VERY simple control system with 3 strike buttons. Some would think that this would make 
 the game a tad linear but in fact the VT3 masterpiece prooved me wrong. For the most part of your 
 rallys you will tend to use only the A button for a topspin shot and sadly, slices dont really 
 come into it as smashing the ball back and forth is much greater fun. Saying that, iv used slices 
 every now and again to slow down the pace when playing online against Roddick for e. g.
  
  This game has great depth in terms of how you can apply shots and the fun really comes in when 
 you begin to master the positioning of your player... a real key factor in VT3 is positioning. Get 
 it wrong and you'll be diving everywhere. The fun fact is there aswell as a host of other mini 
 games and the online competition is far superior to facing AI. Overall a great 'arcade' style of 
 playing tennis whilst also delivering the WOW factor in most cases. When you face a player that 
 knows what he/she is doing on court -- you will realise why this game is so great. just a personal 
 note also that Topspin 2 for me was getting boring because i could never find decent opposition.
 
  
  Great game and a must buy if you like tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozybear
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 brings 360 a tennis game included with everything to hold your interest for a long 
 time. You start out by making your own tennis player and beginning the career mode. What you'll 
 notice different about Virtua Tennis's career mode and Top Spin 2s is that it is more user friendly. 
 VT presents you with a huge globe which consists of icons marked around it representing tournaments, 
 mini games, academy, and your home. What is home? After creating your player, you have an option 
 to pick where you would like your home to be located. Within the home option, you have access to 
 switching gears (such as clothing, rackets, etc. New stuff is unlocked as you play through the 
 tournaments) , resting (restores stamina after playing a lot of matches or mini games) by drinking 
 energy drinks, resting at home, or going on vacation. Energy Drinks boost you back up instantly, 
 though it may give side effects. Staying at home keeps you out for about a week and lets you return 
 as good as new. Going on vacation puts you away for 3 weeks, and should only be used if you are 
 looking to fast forward to when another tournament will be taking place. In your home option, you 
 can always take a look at your stats and how they have increased since you began the game. Virtua 
 Tennis 3 has an abundance of minigames, which you've probably guessed either by word of mouth or 
 by playing previous VT games. Games such as avalanche, bowling, bingo, darts, and many more are 
 at your disposal to help you get better at the game, as well as boost your stats. Let me remind 
 you that these games have tennis themes. For instance, bowling consists of hitting a huge tennis 
 ball with your racket into giant pins on the other side of the net (it is quite fun) . Each minigame 
 has about 6 levels of difficulty to them and each one proves a challenge and is rewarding to complete. 
 Online play, which is exclusive to the Xbox 360 version is phenominal. If you've ever played Top 
 Spin 2's online and enjoyed it, you will hate it after playing VT3 (just kidding but you get the 
 idea) . You can play with up to 8 players online and compete in singles matches, doubles matches, 
 and even tournaments. Take your created player or use a real tennis player and just take a break 
 from the career mode to enjoy some games online. There is also a VT Spectator mode where you can 
 also sit back and watch other tennis games being played (this could be helpful if you're new to 
 the game and want to see some peoples play styles) . Another exclusive to the 360 version is the 
 use of Achievements. Whether you are an over achiever (achievement getter) or you just play the 
 games to have fun, you'll inevitable get some of the early achievements without even knowing it. 
 Each achievement listed provides a nice challenge, some harder than others. If you'd like to look 
 at the whole achievement list, gamespot has it under the Hints and Cheats section.
  
  Virtua Tennis 3 is an all around great tennis game that anyone who enjoys tennis or tennis games 
 should give a shot. A great mix of single player and a fantastic multiplayer will keep you playing 
 this game for a long... long.. time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amdman16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 brings 360 a tennis game included with everything to hold your interest for a long 
 time. You start out by making your own tennis player and beginning the career mode. What you'll 
 notice different about Virtua Tennis's career mode and Top Spin 2s is that it is more user friendly. 
 VT presents you with a huge globe which consists of icons marked around it representing tournaments, 
 mini games, academy, and your home. What is home? After creating your player, you have an option 
 to pick where you would like your home to be located. Within the home option, you have access to 
 switching gears (such as clothing, rackets, etc. New stuff is unlocked as you play through the 
 tournaments) , resting (restores stamina after playing a lot of matches or mini games) by drinking 
 energy drinks, resting at home, or going on vacation. Energy Drinks boost you back up instantly, 
 though it may give side effects. Staying at home keeps you out for about a week and lets you return 
 as good as new. Going on vacation puts you away for 3 weeks, and should only be used if you are 
 looking to fast forward to when another tournament will be taking place. In your home option, you 
 can always take a look at your stats and how they have increased since you began the game. Virtua 
 Tennis 3 has an abundance of minigames, which you've probably guessed either by word of mouth or 
 by playing previous VT games. Games such as avalanche, bowling, bingo, darts, and many more are 
 at your disposal to help you get better at the game, as well as boost your stats. Let me remind 
 you that these games have tennis themes. For instance, bowling consists of hitting a huge tennis 
 ball with your racket into giant pins on the other side of the net (it is quite fun) . Each minigame 
 has about 6 levels of difficulty to them and each one proves a challenge and is rewarding to complete. 
 Online play, which is exclusive to the Xbox 360 version is phenominal. If you've ever played Top 
 Spin 2's online and enjoyed it, you will hate it after playing VT3 (just kidding but you get the 
 idea) . You can play with up to 8 players online and compete in singles matches, doubles matches, 
 and even tournaments. Take your created player or use a real tennis player and just take a break 
 from the career mode to enjoy some games online. There is also a VT Spectator mode where you can 
 also sit back and watch other tennis games being played (this could be helpful if you're new to 
 the game and want to see some peoples play styles) . Another exclusive to the 360 version is the 
 use of Achievements. Whether you are an over achiever (achievement getter) or you just play the 
 games to have fun, you'll inevitable get some of the early achievements without even knowing it. 
 Each achievement listed provides a nice challenge, some harder than others. If you'd like to look 
 at the whole achievement list, gamespot has it under the Hints and Cheats section. Virtua Tennis 
 3 is an all around great tennis game that anyone who enjoys tennis or tennis games should give 
 a shot. A great mix of single player and a fantastic multiplayer will keep you playing this game 
 for a long... long.. time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangpanz
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I've spent only a couple of hours with this game. In my opinion, the 
 true worth of any sports game is measured in two ways. First is the gameplay, and second is the 
 realism. Gameplay: So far, I have no real complaints in this department. The constant diving by 
 the players is a short-lived problem. The more you play the less often you'll dive. For example, 
 when I played the demo, I was diving more than Greg Louganis. Now that I purchased the game and 
 have played a couple of hours, I haven't dived since (unless I wanted to) . I will agree with GS 
 on the uselessness of the Lob Shot. It has no purpose in this game and will be met with a rocket-like 
 smash from your opponent every time. This is a shame because, if you watch tennis, this can be 
 one of the most exciting shots in the game.
  
  Realism: This is where the game fails me to a degree. The very first thing I did upon firing the 
 game up was to launch a career. I created a player which, although not as deep as other player-creation 
 models, was good enough for me. When your career first starts, you are ranked # 300 in the world 
 and now must work your way up the rankings by winning matches. At this point, you can play mini-games 
 or attend Tennis School to advance your skills. These are nice diversions from the tournaments, 
 but are not why I purchased this game. ( I bought Fuzion Frenzy 2 for mini-games) . Upon entering 
 my first tournament, I played Lindsay Davenport in the first round (she's one of the best female 
 players in the world) . Tournaments, in early part of your career are a joke. Each match is 2 games 
 long and the tourney consists of 3 matches. I destroyed Lindsay without losing a point.... then 
 I pummeled my next opponent in less than a minute without losing a point, etc, etc.... I won my 
 first four tournaments, beating the best players in the world everytime, without dropping a point. 
 This is not because I am some Super-VT3 tennis God, rather it's because the opponents at this stage 
 of your career play as though they are senior citizens playing in a weekend tourney at the country 
 club in Boca Raton.
  
  My understanding and expectation is that the opponents will get much harder as I move up the rankings. 
 Great! But, once again, G-spot had it right. The game should have numerous ficticious players to 
 fill up these rookie tournaments. Then, as you move up the rankings, you earn the opportunity to 
 play Davenport or Federer with the possibility to pull off a colossal upset. It's kinda lame to 
 me that I have to play the same 10 pros over and over again in every tournament. I am looking forward 
 to online play. Hopefully, the human element will make this game more realistic. If not, then I'm 
 afraid that this game is more a double-fault than an ace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  If you are a TS2 player then at first you might not like the controls. VT3 does take some getting 
 used to. I consider myself to be a hardcore TP2 player. I play the game just about everyday for 
 an average of 2-3 hours a day. So I am very comfortable and familiar with the controls and physics 
 of TP2. Not to mention I absolutely love the game. VT3, IMO, is a little closer to real tennis 
 than than TP2, just depends how you look at it. For example, risk shots, they do not exist in VT3. 
 Some will say, thank god and others wil not like it. In TP2, most of the high level players have 
 mastered the risk shots to some degree, chances are, if you are not a vet of TS2 you will get blown 
 out. This is because many of the top players, including myself tend to over use the risk shots 
 or should I say exploit them. Today I played VT3 for about 4 hours and so far I have not found 
 anyway for you to abuse or exploit any features or skills of the game. Even with that said, TP2 
 is an amazing game and I love it. VT3 on the other hand, from what I have seen so far looks amazing. 
 Both online and off line play were incredible, to me. Especially online. Playing doubles was so 
 much fun with 3 real players from different parts of the world with NO lag. Was amazing and so 
 much fun. At first, I played the demo and thought it was horrible, that was until I played the 
 full version. WOW, what a difference! If your a tennis fan this game is a definite purchase, no 
 question about it. These people who bashed it don't know what the hell the hell they are talking 
 about because they game is a lot of fun and looks georgous with nice frame rates. No need to rent 
 it, just go buy it, you'll be happy you did. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_rabbit_mike
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The game I was waiting for since I got my Xbox 360 and now that I have it, I can honestly say I'm 
 hurt. Hurt because Sega made me wait all this time for a game that doesn't even come close to the 
 DC version. When you look at games like GoW and Oblivion you gotta wonder why it took so long to 
 make this crappy tennis game? Anyone that still has a DC and has played the old school VT knows 
 what I'm talking about. Shame on you Sega.
  
  The game play and physics suck, the graphics aren't even close to next gen, and if Pong were ever 
 to go 3D this would be the result. VT was all about gameplay first, everything else second. Now 
 it seems like it is Features first, gameplay last. I had to break out my DC after playing a few 
 hours just to remind myself what a good game is. Why couldn't they just port over the old Virtua 
 Tennis? It would have been a lot better.
  
  Way to go Sega, first you ruin Sonic and now the one game that had it all, Virtua Tennis. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
