-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viva Pinata: Trouble in Paradise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/vivapinatatroubleinparadise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great rewards system.
 Pinatas are super cute.
 Tons of depth and replay value.
 Cooperative mode helps ease inexperienced players into the game.
 Very impressive visuals, both technically and artistically.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The same basic game as the original.
 Voice acting is terrible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 508 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Sep 2, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's no trouble in this paradise: The second Viva Pinata is just as captivating as the first, 
 with enough tweaks and new additions to make this great for everyone. 

  The ultracolorful visuals of Viva Pinata: Trouble in Paradise hide a deep and engrossing simulation 
 of what it must be like to pump papier-mache animals full of candy. Following on the heels of the 
 deceptively addictive 2006 original, developer Rare has brought the whole cast back for a second 
 tour along with a bevy of new pinatas and gameplay modes to complement your cultivating endeavors. 
 A better tutorial and clear-cut objectives make this easier for novices to tackle their own gardens, 
 and the intricate balancing act required to tame the more complex pinatas should delight seasoned 
 players as well. The core experience may not have received a noticeable overhaul in the last two 
 years, but the fictional animals are still so charming, and the rewards are so fulfilling, that 
 Trouble in Paradise is even harder to resist than its predecessor.  

           The introductions are still ultracute.      

  There is actually a reason why you must 
 capture and forcibly breed these lovable party animals this time: In an attempt to steal all of 
 the vital data about the inhabitants of Pinata Island for himself, Professor Pester and his dim-witted 
 associates accidentally erased the entire encyclopedia of knowledge. It is your job to repopulate 
 these virtual pages. It's a thin excuse to get you back on the romance wagon, but it thankfully 
 stays in the background after an early cutscene. You will still have to deal with the aptly named 
 Pester throughout as he attempts to destroy your wonderful little world, but the overarching tale 
 is largely forgotten after the first few minutes. Your gardening duties are interrupted only by 
 the various movies that play each time a new character or pinata appears, or when you achieve a 
 particular milestone, and these movies are usually so darn cute that they serve as rewards for 
 your hard work.  

  Your gardening activities are indistinguishable from the original game. Pinatas are drawn toward 
 your plot of land based on what plants are growing there, who else is currently calling it home, 
 and what level gardener you are. After they appear, you can go into the encyclopedia to see exactly 
 what you need to do to make them stay. Early animals require only a nice bit of soil or maybe one 
 type of easily grown flower before they'll move in, whereas later ones will demand that you completely 
 overhaul the terrain and provide a healthy portion of their favorite pinatas to eat. Once you convince 
 the animals to stay, you'll have to go through even more steps before they'll procreate. It is 
 a lot of work getting the higher-level animals to stay and breed, but it is well worth the dedication. 
 The animals all have their own personalities, and once you catch sight of a lonely custacean scuttling 
 along the beach, you'll want to rope it in and force it to make baby pinatas.  

  The biggest addition to Trouble in Paradise is a stream of challenges constantly pushing you to 
 acquire new pinatas. There are various parties and celebrations going on all over the world, and 
 you are asked to provide the candy entertainment. You'll have to capture a specific type of animal, 
 make it happy so it is nearly bursting with tasty sweets, and send it off to foreign lands. This 
 addresses the biggest problem with the original game. Before, you were left to your own devices 
 and were forced to decide which pinatas to breed and how to sculpt your garden. There was no motivation, 
 so if you didn't have your eye on a particular species, it was possible to lose interest in the 
 entire experience. You can still go after whichever animals you most desire, but the challenges 
 provide a push when you can't figure out exactly what to do next.  

           A Taffly wearing a fruit hat -- how absurd!      

  The other notable addition is two 
 new terrains to tinker around with. You can warp to Dessert Desert and the Pinarctic to catch completely 
 different types of creatures. You can't build in these areas, but you can lay down traps to bring 
 these exotic beasts back to your land. This is where you'll find candy-filled varieties of penguins, 
 vultures, yaks, and camels, among other creatures. Once you get them back to your garden, you'll 
 have to lay down sand or snow to make them happy. These two areas are welcome additions because 
 they provide a stable of animals completely different from the standard warm-weather set, but the 
 act of laying out traps and picking up these terrified creatures from the post office isn't too 
 exciting. Furthermore, the traps don't always seem to work right. Even though you can manually 
 trigger them, certain agile animals will be able to escape even after you've bribed them with their 
 favorite foods.     

  There are also a number of tweaks that make the core experience much easier. You can now cycle 
 through your plants and animals using the bumper buttons, which is a welcome relief when you're 
 desperately looking for a flutterscotch hiding high up in a monkeynut tree. You can also whip out 
 a bag of seeds while in your garden, which saves you a trip to the store every time you want to 
 plant a new flower. There are more than 30 new pinatas to discover, including a few new sour pinatas 
 that will try to trick your inhabitants into eating poisoned candy, though you can always tame 
 them to make them your own. Costolot's store now sells toys, but they serve as silly distractions 
 rather than new ways to capture and entertain your pinatas. Nevertheless, it is fun setting up 
 a train set around your garden, gawking at collisions when oblivious pinatas step on the track. 

           The Tower of Sours will protect you from evil pinatas.      

  Trouble in Paradise is extremely well paced. Every time you do something new -- growing a new plant, 
 seeing a new pinata, and making pinatas breed for the first time, among other things -- you'll receive 
 experience points. If you get enough points to level up, you'll have access to even more new things. 
 Higher levels bring new pinatas, upgrade your gardening tools, make your garden bigger, and provide 
 new seeds in the shops. This means that there is a near-constant stream of new things to tinker 
 with.  

  The charming visuals are a large part of the reason that seeing new pinatas is so darn rewarding. 
 The animals all have their own mannerisms that make them exceedingly cute. It's worth hours of 
 careful planning to finally lure a stubborn pinata into your garden just to see them shed their 
 black-and-white coat for a Technicolored exterior and watch them walk around your park, interacting 
 with the other residents and making silly noises. Seeing all the little touches that this game 
 has to offer is the reward for a job well done.  

  It's a shame that the human characters can't match the whimsical nature of your animals. Your fellow 
 gardeners are quite hideous, donning creepy masks that would be better served during a Halloween 
 haunted house rather than this lush tropical garden. The voice acting is equally offensive. It's 
 bad enough that the store clerk yells, "Can I interest you in something seedy?" when you walk in 
 her shop, but her grating voice makes these sentences even worse. At least you can turn the voice 
 acting down, but it serves as a rather jarring wakeup call from the serene music and vibrant visuals. 

  Trouble in Paradise includes four-player support, both online and offline, but it serves more as 
 a learning tool than a full-blown cooperative experience. You can recruit friends to help you with 
 your gardener tasks, but it's unfulfilling no matter which side you're on. If it's your own garden, 
 it feels funny having other people messing around with shovels and bags of seeds, tweaking your 
 finely tuned habitat. Visiting someone else's garden is just as unsettling. It's not your world, 
 after all, so you're left doing the tasks assigned to you without being able to exert the creativity 
 and vision that you would be able to unleash in your own garden. However, the cooperative tool 
 is a good way to introduce inexperienced players to the mix. Teaching them the basic tricks without 
 forcing them to tend to a whole garden alone can ease them into the Viva experience.  

           Malowolf doesn't put up with any of your guff.      

  You can now hold up a Viva Pinata 
 card to your Vision Camera to get new items and animals, but the camera often takes awhile to register 
 what its seeing. It doesnt add much to the overall package anyway. It can be fun dressing up 
 a walrusk and sharing him with your friends, but it's simply more rewarding to lure your own walrusk 
 into your garden rather than taking one from a friend. There are also a few minigames that you 
 can compete in, but they aren't nearly as enjoyable as your main garden activities. There's a fashion 
 show in which a pinata is seemingly chosen at random as the best-looking of the bunch, and a side-scrolling 
 racing game that's worth taking part in one or two times if only for novelty's sake. The breeding 
 minigame, in which you have to meet up with your mate before you can romance, is slightly more 
 complex this time, making you work hard to collect hearts before the time ends your wooing prematurely. 
 The ability to add your times to a leaderboard adds some replay value to these tasks, plus you 
 can earn variations if you pass them in spectacular fashion.  

  Trouble in Paradise is a safe sequel to a great game. Though it doesn't mess with the formula set 
 forth in the first Viva Pinata, it does add enough control tweaks and new items to make it engrossing 
 for both Viva veterans and those who have never learned the joys of forcing a family of whirlms 
 to interbreed. All of those tasty new pinatas for a budget price really is paradise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  You might not be able to tell from the sugary-sweet visuals, but Viva Piata is one of the deepest 
 games the XBOX 360 has to offer. The original, released back in 2006, has garnered something of 
 a cult following, enough for Rare to bring back their colourful characters for an encore performance. 
 Viva Piata: Trouble in Paradise sticks very close to the original's formula, while adding and 
 improving on some elements to make it the game's best incarnation yet.
  
  Viva Piata's concept is a simple one. As a gardener with initially just a small patch of land 
 to work with, you must nourish and grow your garden until it becomes a veritable piata paradise. 
 As it turns out, piatas are quite difficult to please, and you'll need to complete various requirements 
 before they'll pay you a visit. For example, you might need to have a specific piata residing 
 in your garden, or enough of one type of terrain. Each time a new piata decides to call your garden 
 home, you'll gain experience which will eventually increase the size of your garden and allow you 
 to buy new items so you can customize your space exactly the way you want it.
  
  That's not an exaggeration - Trouble in Paradise boasts very strong customization options, matched 
 only by the original Viva Piata. A touch of the X button brings up your menu, and from there it's 
 a simple matter of selecting the tool you want to use. Within seconds, you'll be deforming the 
 gardens terrain, planting new seeds, or building structures for your piatas to enjoy. It's a very 
 Animal Crossing or Harvest Moon-esque experience; you can spend hours making the garden your own, 
 but you don't have to be required to do anything. The open-ended experience is appealing for some 
 gamers, but I found it to become boring quickly.
  
  If all this 'freedom of choice' talk is making you feel a little angsty, never fear; Trouble in 
 Paradise includes a new challenge feature to provide some motivation. People all over the world 
 are throwing parties, and it's your job to provide the piata (what's a party without one?) . This 
 consists of capturing the required breed of piata, nurturing it until it's nearly bursting with 
 candy, and firing it off to a party overseas. The challenges are a logical and certainly welcome 
 addition, as it's easy to get lost with so much to do. With this new feature you're given a helpful 
 suggestion and a bit of motivation, so you'll always have something to do. 
  
  The only other big addition to the Viva Piata formula is the addition of two new areas, the Piarctic 
 and the Dessert Desert. Both are home to unique piata breeds that won't visit your garden, at 
 least, not on their own free will. Once you're in either region, you can place traps and wait for 
 an unsuspecting piata to stumble onto it. While the entirely new styles of piata species are 
 certainly welcome, the whole thing is executed quite poorly. The piatas are very slow, and it 
 can take upwards of five minutes to catch the one you've got your eye on. As there's no way to 
 leave your traps and return to your garden, the experience quickly becomes tedious. 
  
  However, there's not much else that's new to report here. Trouble in Paradise is a very safe, by-the-books 
 sequel to the original game. There are a few interface tweaks here and there - you can now cycle 
 through piatas, seeds, or terrain packets with the bumper buttons, which speeds the game up quite 
 a bit. There's also an included cooperative mode, but it's fairly useless. While it can help ease 
 a younger player into the game, you'll have to heavily restrict anyone you play with online for 
 fear they'll trash your garden. But to be honest, these features don't quite make a Viva Piata 
 2 - more of a Viva Piata 1.5, the sort of game the original should have been. Those who own the 
 original will probably find Trouble in Paradise too light on new content to warrant a new purchase.
 
  
  The sugary-sweet visual style of the Viva Piata franchise has remained intact, and Trouble in 
 Paradise is just as much a looker as past entries. Rare's penchant for adorable character designs 
 rings true here, and each breed of piata has its own distinct shape and colour scheme. There's 
 also an equally unique animation style for each. I know I instantly fell in love with each species 
 after witnessing their entrance sequence. If your soul is too shriveled to appreciate the art style, 
 you should at least be impressed from a technical standpoint. While a few of the textures are underwhelming, 
 the water looks fantastic, the animation is slick, and the framerate rarely slips, even in the 
 busiest gardens.
  
  Complimenting the brilliant animation are some adorable sound effects, which are equally unique 
 to each breed. Beautiful, ambient music gives the experience additional cuteness, although most 
 of the tunes are recycled from the original. The game's sound unfortunately starts to slip up when 
 it comes to the human voice acting. Many voice clips have been reused from the first game, and 
 they're so over-the-top and creepy that they cut through the relaxing nature of the rest of the 
 game.
  
  Trouble in Paradise is a very basic sequel, making only the most predictable improvements to the 
 Viva Piata formula. If you own the original, there's not quite enough new content here to warrant 
 another investment of your time and money. If you're new to the world of VP, you'll find the forty 
 dollar price tag is a little steep, especially considering you can find the first game for around 
 ten. Really, Trouble in Paradise worth a buy only for the most die hard Viva Piata fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The Original Viva Pinata i would consider a Cult Classic hit for Xbox 360 users. Many "hardcore" 
 gamers did not buy into Rare's colorful cute world of Pinata Gardening. Which is a shame since 
 the game was really addictive and fun for everyone. The first Viva Pinata was one of the most unique, 
 and entertaining games you will find. Its easy enough for children to pick up and play, while it 
 was engaging and had enough depth to keep the adults addicted. While the first game was amazing, 
 Viva Pinata 2 gives enough new content to give a reason to plot another garden of lovable Pinata 
 species.
  
  Viva Pinata 2 comes with a actual story this time around. although its not very good. Basically 
 the Ruffians have deleted every Pinata on record. So now you have to collect all the pinata data 
 and restore the files. By doing this you will have to send pinatas to parties all over the world. 
 Each pinata will need to get the Candiocity metor at max. This can be done by giving them a joyous 
 candy, buying them clothing to wear, or in some cases watering them with you watering can. Some 
 pinata's enjoy it, while others won't so be careful who you water. Some missions will simply getting 
 the pinata to the location. While others may contain a certain variant of Pinata, or even have 
 one wearing a certain item of clothing. 
  
  Viva Pinata 2 generally plays the same way as the original. You start with a little patch of soil, 
 and from there you build a garden. You can put in fences, pathways, statues, and houses. Along 
 with that you can plant flowers and trees. Having these can bring different species of Pinata in 
 your garden. You start off small with creatures like Worms, and bunnies. As you progress through 
 a natural cycle of gaining better and better pinata's you will come across species like Rhinos, 
 Tigers, Elephants, Lions and other elegant rare species. Meeting the different requirements for 
 appearance, residents, and romance are all different for each individual Pinata. For example, amount 
 of a certain flower, or eating a favorite food, or even eating another Pinata! 
  
  The sequel comes with new things to buy in the shop, the biggest change is brand new surfaces. 
 In the old game you had Long grass and short grass. Now you can have Sand, and Snow surfaces. having 
 these will attract Desert and Arctic types of animals like Camels, and Penguins. 
  
  Instead of having an arctic or Desert animal appear like every other Pinata, In Viva Pinata 2 you 
 will have to literally travel to 2 different locations. These places are Called Dessert Desert, 
 and Pinartic respectively. Here you will have to capture a pinata by setting a trap, with there 
 favorite seed or fruit. Then you will have to transport them to your garden where you need to meet 
 the resident requirements like normal. Overall this a great new feature since the original always 
 made you feel confined into one little area. 
  
  The challenge in Viva Pinata will generally come by the ruffians. These creatures are the most 
 annoying things you will come across. Basically they will come to your garden and cause havok. 
 Most of the time you will have to take them while they destory prized Pinatas, Cause fights, fill 
 up ponds, or get Pinata's sick. In the original game you could by a captain Cutlass which will 
 get rid of all Ruffians for good. However in Viva Pinata 2, that will only get rid of the Minions. 
 The Ruffian Leader, Professor Pester will not be fazed by your feeble attempts to rid of him this 
 time. Instead you have a few options. You can pay him Chocolate Coins which depending on the amount 
 will get rid of him. If you have a Rhino he will attack him and he will fly out of your garden. 
 You can also buy a decoy pinata which will fake him out and not destroy your best Pinata. Or you 
 can simply take his Evil and watch your hard work be destroyed!! 
  
  Viva Pinata also comes with Online co-op that you and a friend can play over Xbox live. The Original 
 only had item sharing. This adds a much needed online interaction that was missing in the first 
 Viva. Along with that comes a new feature made for Non-Online gamers. Its a new 2 player mode, 
 where a 2nd player can jump in and out of play and help with the garden. This feature was made 
 probably for the younger kids, having an adult or older sibling help a younger player with there 
 garden. However this is also a great way to get 2 skilled farmers to work to together. My only 
 gripe about this is how the camera works. You have little control so it greatly effects your freedom 
 in that way. 
  
  Viva Pinata Trouble in Paradise also has a brand new "Free Play" mode where you get rid of all 
 the challenge and do what ever you please. Its a great mode for those who just want to chill and 
 not worry so much about keeping care of a garden. Its a small addition , but a fun one. 
  
  Another small addition comes in the lines of "Party Animals" like Mini games. There are two little 
 games where you put your pinata in either a race of Beauty contest. These are very small add ones, 
 but never the less cool add ones. Just another thing to do if you need a little break from farming. 
 
  
  Viva 2 comes with more pinatas, more seeds, a slightly bigger garden (believe maybe same size) , 
 a real story , more challenge. The biggest addition to this game would be the Pinata Vision Camera. 
 Viva 2 is compatible with the Xbox Vision Camera. So what you can do is now scan cards using the 
 camera, and put them directly into your garden. You can get cards on the internet, and print them 
 out via computer. This adds a whole different way of getting pinatas.
  
  Overall Viva Pinata improves on the original in almost every way. Its hard to be more innovative 
 with a Viva Pinata sequel since the game is already "set in stone" so to speak. However what is 
 here is great. Along with the new pinata and items, modes, online play, and more user friendly 
 item menu, making getting items and using them more streamlined. When its all said and done this 
 is the best viva pinata yet, it touches up and improves every aspect of the game. There might not 
 be any ground breaking new ideas like that first one, however what is here is great
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: The game is just as addictive. If you were the person who got hooked the 
 first time, you will get hooked again. If you never played it before, don't wait now
  Graphics: They look almost identical. The first game looked great, and so does this one
  Sound: 
 Music is just as great as before, along with sound effects. However many are recycled from the 
 first game
  Value: 40 bucks is a nice price budget price for the type of game like Viva Pinata 2. If you liked 
 the first one it will be a well spent 40 bucks, same with those who never played it. If you have, 
 well this one will not change your mind
  Overall: Fans rejoice for another, please for those who wrote off the first game, give this one 
 another chance. Don't judge the game by the look, the game is addictive and fun for any age group, 
 this is coming from a 17 year old btw.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game really made me sad when I played it. The game is practically the same and not really 
 new stuff to talk about. They have the new desert and arctic places to go to but they arent that 
 many pinatas to get there and the game, im not going to lie. The game is harder than Gears of War 
 2 on Insane difficulty. 
  
  Gameplay-
  The Graphics for this game are like the first one. Beautiful and more detailed. Thats a plus. The 
 whole make your own garden and stuff. Yea still plus. Then it goes downhill. I think its slopes 
 the difficulty way to much and early too. I was like playing it for three hours and then NO LIE 
 100 Pinata Fly Traps pop out of nowhere and eat every single one of my pinatas. And you cant hit 
 them away or they will grow like three more. I was just like omg and i havent played in a long 
 time. Then they made Co-Op. Wow does that suck. Its really hard to do the Co-Op because its one 
 screen and you really gotta talk and its more time consuming than just doing your garden by yourself. 
 And they kept the minigames for the romance pinatas and i found that dull the second time because 
 its so easy you really dont have to do them. And the new arctic and desert maps suck because you 
 cant actually have your own garden. You have to lure them in and then maybe youll catch them? Thats 
 stupid. Plus it goes to into the ruffians doing crap to your garden and it just gets to overwhelming 
 to think about everything about your garden and i think the pinatas have stupid AI or whatever 
 its called. Your pinatas get sick all the time and its annoying. The game is just like the first 
 one, but prettier, harder, and more suck fest.
  
  Achievements-
  This this this is NOT the game to get if you want achievements from it only. The achievements are 
 hard as crap if you want quick ones. All are like time consuming and can take like months to figure 
 out how to do and just to do them. I only have 100 from it and most of it is just putting 2 controllers 
 on Co-Op and standing there while i listen to music or go skateboard. The achievements are all 
 about like being a master at some specific thing and of course being a "master" at something takes 
 a long time.
  
  So yea this is the worst game ive played so far on the Xbox 360. Im not lying, well other than 
 fuzion frenzy 2. But yea if you dont have Viva Pinata 1 then get that instead because that one 
 is much much much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_tingle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  If you've never played the original Viva Pinata, the sequel, Trouble in Paradise, could be a little 
 overwhelming at first. The tutorial quickly familiarizes you with the basics of gardening, acquaints 
 you with the Dessert Desert, alludes to the Pinartic, and reminds you to visit shops to buy special 
 items and get missions before abandoning you to your anarchistic garden world. Initially, you'll 
 spend much of your time planting flowers, vegetables, and trees at random, unsure of what kind 
 of animals will be drawn to the garden or why. Leveling up in Trouble in Paradise's occurs for 
 seemingly arbitrary reasons, granting you more area for your garden and the option to purchase 
 upgrades for your tools. Needless to say, the learning curve is not quick and once you fully understand 
 the nuances of the game, you'll be dismayed at how horribly you've constructed your garden. 
  
  Having said that, once you are comfortable (or at least marginally proficient) with the game's 
 dynamics, gardening will become more enjoyable. The missions are the best route for achieving this 
 understanding and also a great way to earn the precious chocolate coins that bankroll your garden. 
 There will still be moments of frustration as some missions will require you to tear up a large 
 portion of your garden in order to build the proper habitat for the animal you are targeting, but 
 this is more of an inconvenience than an actually problem as the transition can be made rather 
 quickly. More importantly the missions will trigger the appearance of countless piatas whose data 
 will then be logged in your piata encyclopedia. This information will be invaluable to you later 
 on as you start to pursue piata species of your own accord. 
  
  The real joy of Trouble in Paradise is in its visuals. The animations for a piata's first appearance 
 and the various courtship dances are endearing if not funny, and the costumes you can purchase 
 for each species allow you to impart your piatas with stylistic-individuality. Though, undoubtedly, 
 the most impressive visuals occur rather late in the game when your garden is large enough to support 
 both a desert and a winter landscape in addition to the regular terrain. Once you have animals 
 from all three climes-particularly the larger mammals-running about, you cannot help but sit back 
 and admire the awesome ecosystem you've created. 
  
  Trouble in Paradise is incredibly engrossing and will steal hours from your life without explanation. 
 At the same time though, the game fails to leave a lasting impression: at no point will you leap 
 out of your chair in excitement, nor will you have cool stories to share with your friends. The 
 latter stages of the game become increasingly about micromanagement as you work to keep predators 
 and your more peaceful denizens separate while doing battle with the ever-destructive and  
 sour piatas. Worse yet, plants that have a big influence on what lives in and visits your garden 
 will periodically die out leading to a mass exodus from your aspiring paradise. These problems 
 keep this otherwise engaging game from being truly great. 
  
  Yet, despite its shortcomings, Trouble in Paradise is a unique and worthwhile experience. The programmers 
 at Rare have created an intricate ecosystem that will take the average gamer weeks to master, and 
 with a price tag of $40 dollars, you'll be hard pressed to find a better value for your money. 
 If you like games like SimFarm or SimCity, Viva Pinata: Trouble in Paradise will undoubtedly appeal 
 to you as it takes simulation games to an entirely new level. And I promise, once you pick up your 
 shovel and watering can, you'll never think of gardening (or piatas) in the same way again. 
 
  
  For more reviews go to www. gamehuddle. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I can enjoy playing Viva Pinata: Trouble in Paradise because there are new species of Pinata to 
 encounter, more sours to un-sour, and online gameplay. Only this has more of a story to it because 
 Professor Pester and his Ruffians are once again trying to mess with Pinata Central but their original 
 plan was to steal the Central files and one stupid Ruffian deleted them. So, as you start your 
 garden, this time, it's not covered in dry ground and debris like the first one. Instead, there 
 is a resident Pinata already in your first garden, sometimes a Pretztail or a Bunnycomb and some 
 fences and pieces of stone tile which you can either break or keep, but you can't sell it. This 
 time, you can hunt for other Pinatas in the "Pinarctic" or the "Dessert Desert" and now you can 
 put grass, long grass, plus 2 new additions: desert and snow. A useful feature for snow and desert 
 pinatas. There are new species of Pinata in this game. The first pinata you see is a Bispotti. 
 plus old sightings of the original pinatas. Since this game was developed by Rare, you'll see things 
 from past Rare games like a Banjo-Kazooie statue, Mumbo Jumbo, a Juno and Vela wig (they were from 
 Jet Force Gemini) and some Kameo wings. For games like these, you need to have time and patience 
 because it can be frustrating sometimes but it's still playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowFlameDcr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  My husband has his playstation 3, and being there is nothing really to my fancy out on it (only 
 Heavenly sword and Ridge Racer) I decided to get me an XBOX Elite when I heard that the 'new' Pinata 
 Trouble in Paradise was coming out on it and in all honesty it was totally worth it.
  The game itself was and still is Brilliant. There's is just so much to do on it. The cute look 
 and great rewards you'll get playing it is out of this world.
  This game is totally worth playing and will always be one of my favourite games to play.
  Multi-player 
 mode was a bit glitchy for me thow, but hopefully all that will be sorted when they bring an up-date 
 out for it.
  I give this game a 9, Well done again RARE. Now I'm waiting for Banjo and Kazooie - Nuts and Bolts. 
 Fingers Crossed that will get a thumbs up from me too :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata as a series is looked at as a childish nonsense series that is about colourful things 
 that get sent to parties. 
  Realistically, it is about funny looking animals who's dream is to go to parties around the world, 
 but seriously it dont think a child would be able to get any further than level 15 with out a parents 
 help in this game.
  
  TIP is a lot like the original, you attract pinata, resident them, send them to parties, romance 
 them and fiond their variants. 
  Along with a ton of new pinata, flowers and heaps more
  This new installment has included a multitude of new features. 
  One and one of the most notable, 
 is the ability to go to the Pinarctica and Dessert Desert. Where you bait traps that certain pinata 
 like, they will go over and eat the ingredient and the box will engulf them and you can pick it 
 up at the post office. You can open it in any of your gardens.
  Once this 'baited pinata' is in your garden its the same as any pinata, just satisfy its resident 
 requirements. Simple.
  
  There is also a fun mode, where you can just play around, have any pinata and just play.
  
 
  Another feature is the 'trick stick' a more minor feature you can experiment and feed your pinata 
 a certain food and it might do something cool! Like i have made my pretztail play the trumpet. 
 Just tap it with the trick stick while its performing the trick and it will remember it and then 
 all you have to do is get the stick out and press the button.
  
  The other notable feature is that you have i8s that instead of waiting forever for another request 
 from pinata central, instead you have a set of pinata to send. All you have to do is fill its candiosity 
 meter, then go over to the crate at the edge of the garden and then BOOOMM you have done it.
  And now, you get experience for sending a new species off to a party. COOL!!
  
  Graphically 
 it is only a minor improvement but hey, the last games graphics were amazing!
  
  Audio wise i dont know what GS is talking about when it says it has bad voice overs, just because 
 the characters are irritating, but i mean, you grow to love them.
  
  Its lengthy play time makes it a great install ment to your collection, Viva Pinata Trouble in 
 Paradise is an incredibly good sequel and shouldnt be missed. Or dissed by its haters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  
  The Good
  
  - Unique game that's a good break from 
 shooters/action/driving games
  
  - Amazing depth, it's no kiddie game that most people think it is
  
  - Local Co-op is a plus 
 as well as play for fun mode especially when playing with your kids
  
  - Controls are well done and make sense, there should be a way to modify sensitivity/speed
  
 
  - Graphics are quite good and pinatas can be hilarious when making tricks or romancing
  
  - The quick plant/fertilize is a neat addition, wish it was other than the D-pad
  
  - Unlimited (?) 
 boxes in your mailbox is really helpful otherwise the game would be really painful
  
  
  The Bad
  
 
  - Garden size is still quite limited so using the numerous items in the store to design your garden 
 is impossible 
  
  - Unfair advantage for camera owners, I don't need one nor do I want to buy one, you can get multiple 
 achievements very quickly using a cam which is totally wrong
  
  - Some pinatas take forever to show up which gets quite frustrating so that adds many more hours 
 to play but not in a good way
  
  - The resident requirements for some pinatas are a total pain to achieve sometimes
  
  - Pretty 
 much forced to have multiple gardens or keep 
  changing a single one
  
  - D-pad sux as if we didn't know this already and there are a number of controls tied to it
  
 
  - Hunting in the Desert/Arctic not that entertaining and sometimes frustrating
  
  - Ruffians and pester should stop showing up after a certain level (50?) , it becomes a pain. You 
 can put a wall that will stop Pester but Ruffians still come in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Looking for something like Harvest Moon or Animal Crossing, maybe a dash of Pokemon? Something that 
 isn't really violent or fast paced. But just flat out addictive? Trouble in Paradise is probably 
 the game for you. The point of Viva Pinata is to attract pinatas to your garden and make them your 
 own. There are all sorts to attract from regulars to desert and arctic types. Make an amazing garden 
 and attract all the species and restore the deleted files of all pinata types back to Pinata Island!
 
  
  First off, Viva 2 feels like more of the same but you really do get a lot of content for your 40$. The 
 game play mechanics haven't really changed, you're still collecting pinatas to add to your garden 
 and killing sour pinatas along the way. But this game feels quite more challenging than the first. Mainly 
 because of Pestor the Sephiroth of Viva Pinata. He comes in everyday to kill one of your finest, there 
 are ways to block him but for the average player it's gonna be tough to avoid him. And whenever 
 you kill a sour pinata it releases weeds that can infest and kill your ENTIRE garden if you don't 
 notice! Hours gone! Thankfully, there is a just for fun mode for people who don't want a challenge 
 and want to get all the Pinatas easily.
  
  TIP looks fantastic! The first one looked great and this one has minor improvements on things such 
 as the water. The pinatas are full of life and super colorful. This game will appeal to children 
 no doubt, but it's also a game gamers should be able to look at and respect its sweet candy coated 
 visuals no matter what the age.
  
  And this isn't a game you buy and beat in a few days. There are a lot of pinatas to collect in this 
 one, over 100. And there is an Xbox Live four player mode where people can team up and help in another 
 players garden. Or you can show off your garden to the other gardeners. And if you feel like you 
 can't trust your guests you can set permissions to them. This is an addition I wanted to see in 
 the first one, but it's nice to see it here. And it certainly adds replay value, it can take hours 
 to make your perfect garden and it's fun to show it off and be praised for your creations.
  
  Most of the sounds and music is sadly recycled from the last game. But it still sounds great, there 
 are some added tracks but I really don't feel like Rare put enough effort into the games sound. And 
 there is some really annoying voice acting that will tempt you to just mute the game when you're 
 shopping for new items.
  
  I would say if you have a 360, at least try Trouble In Paradise out. Give it a rent, download the 
 demo give this game a chance! People are looking for new stuff in video games and it's staring them 
 right in the face! There's a pretty high chance you will enjoy what this game has to offer and at 
 it's amazing 40$ value, it's hard to pass up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Viva Piata: Trouble in Paradise has definitely delivered in areas that needed to be improved upon 
 in the original. More piatas, new content and a better over all multiplayer aspect to the game 
 have definitely made this a lot more fun. Implementing the camera, which I thought was silly at 
 first, gives an advantage to those that don't want to spend hours trying to entice certain piatas 
 into your garden.
  
  I still would have liked it if the gardens could have been larger, allowing for more content to 
 be in each garden since it's a pain to package your piatas and then mail them to yourself if you 
 want to move from one garden to another. Aside from this complaint there is really not much more 
 to complain about.
  
  Rare has delivered on another fun family game that is enjoyable for the whole family and with enough 
 content to keep even a more mature crowd interested.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this review relatively brief, as there isn't a whole lot to say about this title. Viva 
 Pinata:- Trouble In Paradise is essentially the same game that was released a few years ago on 
 the Xbox 360. Sure it has a few extra bells and whistles added on but this may as well just be 
 what was released the first time in terms of new Pinatas and extra features. 
  
  For those of you uninitiated in Viva Pinata you build a garden and fill it with cute and cuddly 
 sweet filled creatures that you must fulfil certain criteria to attract. Attracting Pinatas and 
 getting them to stay depends on growing different plants, the different types of environment in 
 your garden and what other Pinatas are already there. All the while you must manage your garden 
 too, keeping evil creatures out, stopping fights, tending to plants, pruning weeds and breeding 
 your existing residents to produce cute baby bundles of sweetness.
  
  Now the original VP was amazing, it was groundbreaking and was highly rewarding and addictive, 
 adding more to that formula should be a good thing, more Pinatas more features to the garden etc.. 
 and that's what you have here. Unfortunately this addition to the VP franchise is marred by some 
 irritating changes that essentially make the game frustrating and less fun than it was. The title 
 should have been released at a budget price with the extra features, but no they had to change 
 some Gameplay mechanics too which was ultimately a bad decision on the part of Rare. First off 
 I can't tell you how annoying the evil Pinata are this time round, while playing this my partner 
 and I counted at least 8 attacks on her garden in around 10mins causing lots of micromanagement 
 time to get rid of. Yes you can fix the evil Pinata problem in various ways but it detracts from 
 the fun to make it this urgent to spend all your cash on making them good Pinatas or buying blockers. 
 Another annoying feature is that the breeding mini-game has changed to be fiddlier, more frustrating 
 and generally more time consuming than it was before. I quite liked the original mazes but adding 
 collect quests to them presumably to justify the games 40 or so price tag isn't winning me over, 
 especially as it's a lot easier to mess up and have to spend even more time breeding the Pinata 
 again.
  
  There's plenty of other things I could rant about the game being a lot more frustrating with it's 
 tweaks but as I said, I want to keep this brief. Viva Pinata: Trouble In Paradise probably is worth 
 getting if you haven't played the original to death. But for those who have looking for something 
 fresh and new, you really won't find Rare's game has grown any features worth spending the price 
 of a full game on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngloNubian91
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata: Trouble in Paradise has been well worth the wait, this is a highly addictive, family 
 friendly game that also requires the player to use their brain instead of mindlessly killing etc. 
 The original was a huge success and why change a highly successful reciepe? I think the other realms 
 and ability to trap exotic pinata's are a huge bonus, as well as the large range of plants. The 
 inclusion of original pinatas with the new ones are a great idea, and not only that, they've altered 
 the original pinatas appear and resident requirements to spice it up! The pinatas now respond more 
 with each other and the environments (not that they didn't before!) but now they get scared. Pinata 
 Central no longer appears randomly but is a permanent part of the garden, giving the player some 
 initative to complete tasks set out by Langston. Two player is now avalible but in my opinion it 
 is a single player game. Professor Pester is highly annoying and so is his ruffians, my absolute 
 favourite pinata is the Flapyak, keeping it out of Pester's clutches is quite a challenge! Sour 
 Pinata now come with pesky weeds like Fireweed, Dandilion, Pricklypear etc and also have altered 
 resident requirements. I say this game is not a simple extention to the original game, it is in 
 itself a highly addictive and well designed game that keeps you entertained for hours, I'm calling 
 for a third installment featuring Australian animals, sharks, giraffes, wilderbeast etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffe_neo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Under-appreciated. That is how I would describe Viva Pinata. It was the game that everyone judged 
 by its cover and for those of us who decided to give it a go we were treated to one of the best 
 kept secrets of 2006.
  
  2008 sees the sequel hit the shelves and I have to say that it has been well worth the wait. There 
 is so much to like about Trouble in Paradise it is hard to summarise in anything less than a full 
 blown write up but I will highlight a few of the things that impressed me:
  
  Quick access to your seeds and fertilizer via the seed bag/fertilizer bag shortcut (d-pad left a 
 few times) .
  
  Pengums! (Penguins rock - it is common knowledge!)
  
  Much more challenging mating maze mini-game.
  
  Region-free!
  
  If you didn't pick up VP1 
 then you have got to pick up VP2! It offers the same deep, captivating gameplay of the original 
 with a ton of extra content and improvements making Trouble in Paradise a definite keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkjjabs
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  This is great fun and my 2 year old girl love all of them and realy lol when thay got eaten as 
 the game gets on it is very challenging as for the well over the top bad guy he is the best the 
 classic's never get old. wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow sorry but 
 100 words is alot for me wow
  wow wow wow sorry but need to get to level 10 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow
  wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow sorry did not play it that much.
  thay still want more wow wow wowwowwowwow wowwowwow wowowwow wowwowwowwow wowwowow wowowowowow 
 wowowowowowwow wowwowwowwowwow wowwow wowwow wowwowwow wow wowwow wowwow wowwow wowwow
  wowwowwow wow and one more wowwowwow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_jamain
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  i love you viva pinata. please dont take my sweetle away professer pester otherwise i will trap 
 you in a cage boy! never let girls play this game or your xbox will not be yours for a good 48 
 hours, damn you cute pinatas! 
  The addiction, the addiction!!! SO ADDICTIVE!!!!! ARGHHH!
  I water 3 water cress and 4 hours have gone by! Just why! 4 hours of my life wasted on watering 
 virtual flowers ( i am not a gay ) but it feels so right, knowing that my accomplishment will attract 
 new beautiful pinatas! HAZArrrr.
  Although i fail to see how trouble in paradise is for kids this time around? this is alot more 
 confussing than the first and the vision camera takes an age to recognise cards
  I guess rare have tried to aim at all ages this time around.. we love you rare but what the heck 
 are you doing to banjo kazooeeee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestes-seksowna
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first one, but am in love with the additions in Viva Pinata TiP. It will probably get 
 me to buy an Xbox Live Cam so that I can use cards with my game. I have been having so much fun 
 leveling up and gaining access to new pinata. Although the linking of the gardens can be annoying 
 I understand that it is a good idea because then you can get the largee pinata to be in that one 
 in order to add more pinata to your journal. Co-op is entertaining but the menu when having two 
 people on the same consiole is rather anoying. I dont know what it is like over Live because I 
 havent bought Live Gold yet. I do also like the Artic and Desert worlds where you can hunt down 
 other pinata and bring them into my garden. As I was in the first VP Profesor Pester is really 
 annoying and I have yet to find a good solution to keeping him out of my garden, but I am continuing 
 to look for a good way to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  PROS: Gorgeous visuals, just as addicting as the original, co-op that melds in perfectly (online 
 and offline) , only $39.99
  
  CONS: Very similiar to the first
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Viva Pinata is a series that cannot 
 be figured what age group it is meant for. Sure, you would think just by the visuals alone that 
 this game is indeed suited for the younger audience, but once you get your hands on it, you will 
 see how deceptive this game truly is.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are a powerhouse showcase for the 360's hardware. Everything in this game is simply 
 gorgeous, as with the first game. Everything is so vibrant and perfectly shadowed that this truly 
 is a treat for your eyes. In all honesty, this is definately one of the best looking games out 
 there.
  
  THE SOUND is up and down. While the sound effects and music fit perfectly with the game and its 
 environments, the voice acting unfortunately does not. Not all sound terrible, but about 85% of 
 them do. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is where it's at aside from the graphics. As I stated, this is where things start 
 to reveal themselves to be more complex than you would imagine. Just like the first, you are tasked 
 with maintaining a garden and doing things within the garden to attract more and more different 
 breeds of pinatas as well as to level yourself up to earn new upgrades such as shovels or bigger 
 gardens. The actual scope of the game such as doing things to attract pinatas, completing tasks 
 to send pinatas to parties, breeding the pinatas to sell off their children is alot more complex 
 than what a "kid" can actually handle. Though this is technically a "God Game" in which you control 
 the fate of basically anything within the game it is rather easy for the most part considering 
 the genre. But then again, it still has its moments where even you might start getting overwhelmed 
 with the gardening and keeping the pinatas from killing, and eating each other. So alot isn't too 
 different from the original, however the new changes they did inflict onto TIP is rather significant 
 enough to make this the best in the series. Take for example the new environments you can vist 
 to capture pinatas of different nature such as desert pinatas, or snow pinatas. Trapping and baiting 
 them and sending them to your mailbox is rather addicting. Also, the newly added co-op (2-4 players, 
 online or offline) is a blast and a welcome addition to an already addicting experience. Maintaning 
 your garden and pinatas with the help of others is always a good thing, but be sure to grant newly 
 met people limited permissions or they can completely demolish your garden. Plus, there is a new 
 feature called "Pinata Vision" in which you use your Xbox Live Camera to scan Pinata Cards that 
 will make instant changes in your garden. This is one of the most interesting features, and shows 
 that there is many ways in which to use your camera.
  
  OVERALL Viva Pinata: TIP is the best in the series, and is an addicting experience that should 
 be missed by none. If you didn't enjoy the original, this will not change your mind, but if you 
 enjoyed the original this will definately get you back onto your green fingers with enough new 
 content to warrant another purchase to this garden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360James
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  A good family game;
  Colourful, bright and deceptivley simple! For me, a Fourteen going-on-Fifteen year old, it really 
 is a guilty pleasure! At the heart of Viva Pinata 2: Trouble in Paradise is a simple gardening 
 game, unlocking tools along the way and expanding you're garden as you collect more and more cute, 
 unique pinata's along the course of the Game. 
  Viva Pinata 2: Trouble In Paradise is slow, but fun. And although it boasts XBox LIVE and up to 
 four player Gardens, it's best to play on you're own Garden, on you're own. Seeing as it's you're 
 own personal garden, and you're own personal pinata's (well, once you've cought them that is) it's 
 all to easy to become attached and it can be hard not to seem bossy around friends and unless you 
 have a rough idea (or BluePrint) to which both you and you're comrades understand. 
  With the addition of The Pinatric, a frozen land in which you will find penguin-like Pinata's amongst 
 others, and the Dessert Desert (Nuff Said) , Viva Pinata is even more addictive than the original.
 
  With a ton of fun challenges such as races, Romance challenges and more, it's difficult not to 
 fall in love with this game over and over again when each turn reveals more equipment, items and 
 Pinatas! 
  The only problem is the hilariously out of sync audio, and the tormenting 3+ PEGI Rating which 
 shall forever plague my mind while I enjoy such an addictive, fun and simple game!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
