-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viva Pinata: Party Animals
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/vivapinatapartyanimals/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Visuals are colorful, vibrant.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames are simple, repetitive.
 Game customization options almost nonexistent.
 Race levels get boring quick.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 252 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Krome Studios
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's simply not enough of a game here to prop up the pretty pictures. 

  Even a year after its original release, Viva Piata remains an inexplicable game. The candy-colored 
 visuals, highly marketable characters, and animated TV series that accompanied the game made it 
 pretty apparent that Microsoft was looking to conjure up a kid-powered, Pokmon-style franchise. 
 The game itself, however, was a relatively complex and slow-paced strategy game, featuring a level 
 of depth and sophistication that was at odds with its cute, lively persona. By contrast, Viva Piata: 
 Party Animals is neither deep nor sophisticated, transplanting the anthropomorphic piatas into 
 a game that wants to be both a kart-racing game and a minigame collection, but it's not very good 
 at either. The simplicity and familiarity of Party Animals probably makes it a better fit for Viva 
 Piata's target audience, and the party-time visuals are still busy and vibrant, but the gameplay 
 is so rote and so uninspired that the charm wears off pretty quickly.  

           Beyond the visuals, there's just not a lot to Party Animals.      

  Viva Piata: Party 
 Animals is a pretty straightforward four-player party game that's exceptionally light on features. 
 Your play options are to either "play at home" or "play online," and beyond that, there's little 
 you can do to customize the experience. The four players are mandatory, so if you're short on live 
 players, you'll end up saddled with some pretty meek game-controlled opponents. Your average game 
 of Party Animals has you alternating between playing minigames and competing in single-lap races, 
 and how you place in the various events will determine your score throughout. There are six types 
 of minigames, and several variations within each type, but the variants end up feeling so similar 
 to one another that the game might as well just have six minigames.  

  They're mostly simple, single-button affairs that you can pick up and play with no explanation, 
 and they involve plenty of piata-appropriate activities like apple-eating contests, squishing 
 raisants, letting loose with soda-fueled belches, and collecting loads and loads of candy. As with 
 any minigame collection, some are more entertaining than others. It's strictly luck of the draw 
 as to what minigames you'll play in a standard match, though you can jump straight to your favorites 
 in a practice game.  

  The racing levels offer few surprises, featuring the same fast, loose, and power-up-heavy gameplay 
 as all of the mascot-based kart-racing games that have preceded Party Animals. There are boost 
 pads and shortcuts to give you an edge, but there are also so very many power-ups on any given 
 track that the power-ups end up having as much, if not more, of an impact on the race as how well 
 you navigate the course. There are 14 different racetracks spread across seven different themed 
 locations, which may sound like a lot, but the races are single-lap affairs, and the tracks themselves 
 tend not to be very long. Furthermore, you'll race at least three times in a given game, and it 
 doesn't take long for the races to wear out their welcome.  

  Despite how lousy Viva Piata: Party Animals is as a game, the quality of the visuals keeps it 
 afloat for far longer than it probably ought to. The game aims for the same bright, glowing look 
 as the original Viva Piata, and though it's not as meticulously detailed, it's mostly quite successful. 
 The piatas look great, and virtually everything in the environments has a look that equally recalls 
 confetti and candy -- there's also lots of confetti and candy. The backgrounds are nicely detailed 
 and filled with activity, and it's not uncommon to see other piatas leaping around enthusiastically 
 during the various contests. The music is as aggressively upbeat as the visuals, and despite how 
 overzealous some of the piata voice acting is, it fits the game's overall tone.  

  Minigame collections and kart-racing games are two of the most obvious, thoughtless ways to cash 
 in on a video game franchise, and considering how daring and unusual Viva Piata was, it's disappointing 
 to see the franchise go down this path so quickly.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously contained incorrect information about the number of available 
 racetracks and access to individual minigames. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pagnozzi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Viva Pinata games, I felt I should pick this one up. I mean hell, it was only $15 at 
 gamestop, and I figured you can't go wrong with cute, colorful pinata's competing in minigames. 
 
  
  Boy was I wrong. 
  
  I put the game in, sat down with a few friends and started playing. We start off by racing - which 
 was a disaster. The camera angles are terrible, you don't know where you are going and the power 
 ups make no sense. I got over that and gave the mini games a chance, which were just as bad. They 
 were all repetitive, I felt like I was playing a bad version of Mario Party. You start off racing, 
 then play 3 minigames, than race again. 
  
  Not only was a ready to hit these pinatas with a stick, I was ready to write a letter to Microsoft 
 telling them to NEVER put a party game on Xbox again. 
  
  A kid will probably enjoy this game, as far as older gamers go, stick with the strategy Viva Pinata 
 games - it will save yourself a headache.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panther023
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Not too much to review on this one. You basically have a party game where up to four players race 
 each other, then do a challenge, then race each other, then do a challenge, etc. The colors are 
 bright and vivid, the characters periodically humorous, and in general a decent game to play. We 
 bought the game for my 5 year old daughter so she had a game SHE could play with her pink controller. 
 Our family of 4 has played it a couple times and have enjoyed playing together. It's easier to 
 play than the Fuzion Frenzy Series, but not as interesting as the mini games in Fuzion Frenzy.
 
  
  One thing I don't like about the game is that you can't choose playing a tournament vs. playing 
 just the mini games, but this lack of chose doesn't ruin the game for me.
  
  If you have kids young enough, this is an ok addition to your library. I know my kids like it (my 
 daughter is playing right now) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pie2006
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is no way as good as viva piata but the good thing about this game is that it is very cheap. 
 This Game is very fun when you start but it can get very repetitive like just racing on the same 
 tracks over and over again and after you play on the game for about 30 min its gets very boring. 
 The Races are quite fun and easy to win if you know where you're going. There are 50 mini games 
 I think which that will keep you going for a while and also some of them can be quite challenging. 
 This is the best graphics between viva piata its looks good. Online is nothing special all it 
 is, is just the com's being replaced by the people online. This Game is so easy to complete. This 
 is a very good game to get achievements on so this game will be good if you want to get your achievement 
 score up. Overall if you are a fan of viva piata or want a higher achievement score yes but if 
 not don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Now when I say this game "grows on you" I mean that it gets better the more high you are. See, 
 completely sober this game is a semi-entertaining party-game that just makes no ****ing sense, 
 because frankly the scoring system is is completely ADD and can't decide what the **** its doing.
 
  Okay, lets put our weed-vision on. Now this game is colourful (yes I spell it like that, I'm not 
 a ****ing American) , hilarious and full of candy. That is win, win, win. This is not to mention 
 that the commentary is ridiculous, the powerups make the races completely non-skill based and the 
 games are ridiculous (if not a little insulting to mexican culture) .
  I would simply like to know though, does anyone know what a fudgehog is? Cause that is beyond me.
 
  If your up for something to waste time with when you're stoned with a couple friends then this 
 is great, if you're not into that then leave the game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for the simple minded or kids. Me and my family bought this game in search of something 
 to play together. On regular xbox we used to play shrek super party and enjoyed the mini-games 
 and we even got competative about it. I was in search of the same when i played/we played we found 
 out the games are some what alike but very very reptative and can get boring. The races were not 
 to bad and they were fun but could be better. Some of the games like i would say pumpkin games 
 where you smash the stuff but then you have the computer killing you off were a little annoying 
 but the computers could have been harder at the shooting games and it seemed like it was made fr 
 extremely young kids that might not even be able to work this game correctly. It would be active 
 in words of color and excitment but who knows i'm not sure i would rent this game for what ever 
 reason and then if you like it buy it because then you will know what your going after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was alright for about thirty minutes then it got sooooooooooooooo boring. This game is 
 like mario party with the mini games and mario kart for the races bt a bad ersion of the two. all 
 the minigames are varetys of the others in which all u do is get candy. but i guess kids who like 
 the show might like bt not many other people would like this game. it think the races are pretty 
 cool they are kind of like mario cart in a way the power ups wacky levels and wacky charecters. 
 I really wish they would make a sequel that is similar to the first one. now that is an underaprciated 
 game but this one is not it deserves to be made fun of but the original doesnt. If you like minigames 
 i d get this other than that i wouldnt get it. im glad i only borrowed it from my 9 year old neighbor. 
 Quite embarasing though. overall a pretty bad game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with Viva Pinata last year, though this new installment is a different game its 
 still a blast to play, especially if you have some friends with the same interest.
  
  There are both home and Live modes. So if you have no friends you can makes some over Live. In between 
 mini games there are races, in some cases these races remind me of a poor man's Mario Kart. But there 
 decent fun even if its a little to chaotic. The mini games are quite fun indeed. Some are ripped 
 straight from the Mario Party games, but its no easy task to come up with new ideas for party games 
 these days. Some of the mini games will require you to hit more targets with balls than the other 
 three players. And those ones are usually the least fun, and kinda basic. Then there are mini games 
 were you are trying to get the most candy, but there is always an obstacle in your way. These are 
 usually the games that are more fun to play than the others. None of the mini games are just STAND 
 out awesome, but there all decent fun. And the game is a lot more fun to play than Mario Party in 
 some cases, but of course Party Animals has no sort of bumper balls. Ha ha.
  
  Party Animals has some fine visuals. Great lighting, characters and the game is full of soo much 
 color kids will truly have a feast for there eyes. There is some annoying screen tearing every now 
 and then, but for the most part the game runs smoothly. Races are the only downfall as some of the 
 stuff in them looks half made and cheap. But once again the colorful designs and characters will 
 truly make up for any bad graphical blemish.
  
  VIVA PINATA.. SOO MUCH FUN!... You are going to hear that a lot in this game. The sounds and voice 
 commentary is very overused and is easily one of the games biggest issues. You will get tired of 
 hearing the same sounds over and over again. It actually started giving me and my brother headaches.
 
  
  Good replay value in this games. The achievements are fun to unlock none of them are impossible 
 and they wont take up to much time to get. There is a Live mode, there are quite a few games for 
 your mastering pleasure, and the game usually comes to 39.99$ at most stores. And I think its worth 
 it for Viva Pinata fans craving for more Pinata fun. Everyone else should at least rent the game 
 as its the best party game on the 360 yet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cult_of_Cthulhu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this for my wife and she hasn't let me back near CoD4 since. its a really fun game that you 
 can pick up and play, the short game is an enjoyable 5 -10 minutes with medium and longer options 
 available. 
  
  The layout is colourful and full of movement, the characters well rendered and loaded with personality, 
 the games vary from easy and fun to testing on all levels. The AI seems a perfect match and whilst 
 we have not completed the game ( as much as these things can ever be completed ) It appears to 
 match your increasing talent.
  
  The achievements are well thought out with most people likely to unlock at least one in the first 
 game. This may not seem like a huge selling points to hardcore gamers but it is just the sort of 
 thing to get casual gamers addicted to gamerscore, which in my mind is a good thing.
  
  If you don't like this game it's only because it wasn't aimed at you, I bet you didn't like barbies 
 twelve dancing princess, or spongebobs adventure?
  
  Personally I had a laugh but would not have got it for myself. But to see how much fun my wife 
 and no doubt her friends will get from this I had to give it good marks. This game was specifically 
 written to target would be Wii kids, ladies and the casual market that has made Nintendo the second 
 most powerful company in japan. I think it is a master stroke and i hope it works, after all if 
 the next generation of gamers are all captured by what is a last gen system where will the future 
 lead us?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to play at a kids party and if your an adult then this is just some plain 
 fun. So I guess I'll start out with the bad so I can end with the good and make a happy ending.
 
  The sound of the game is just plain bad. Especially in the menu. It's about annoying as a game's 
 sound good be which is a pretty big blow to the game's score. To add to the menu music the announcers 
 are almost as annoying and bad. They also repeat themselves quite a lot. Some of the mini games 
 will make you go Whatever while others are exceptionally good.
  Now for the good. The game offers outstanding cartoon graphics that are extremely clear even without 
 High Definition (HD) . The entertainment value is pretty good. Yes some of the mini games are boring 
 but most of them are quite good.
  Overall this game is a nice game to add to the Viva Pinata series. The game reminds me of the game 
 Kirby Airride because of the mini games right after the race. The price is a little high but still 
 in my opinion is a great family fun game.
  
  Graphics: 9.7
  
  Sound: 5.6
  
  Entertainment: 8.9
  
  Replay: 8.9 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
