-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viva Pinata
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/vivapinata/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible and fun for players of all ages.
 gorgeous visuals with or without high-definition display.
 deceptively deep.
 no fewer than 50 varied achievements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online support is very limited.
 ruffians who come in and mess up all of your landscaping efforts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 5,377 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Nov 9, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Viva Piata is a game that can be enjoyed by players of any age and certainly shouldn't be dismissed 
 because of its colorful visual style. 

  In a world where parties don't happen without piatas and the candy-filled creatures need to be 
 cultivated or captured rather than constructed, skilled gardeners who have a penchant for papier-mch 
 wildlife are in great demand. In Rare's Viva Piata, you have the opportunity to become such a 
 gardener. Although the game is very open-ended and looks like something that only young players 
 would enjoy, its colorful exterior belies a carefully structured and occasionally challenging experience 
 that provides plenty of depth. Yes, Viva Piata is primarily aimed at the same audience that might 
 enjoy the animated TV show of the same name. However, like hitting things with sticks or eating 
 candy, you're not too old for its appeal just because you can get into PG-13 movies, drive a car, 
 or claim a pension.  

          The land you're given at the start of the game really doesn't look like much.     

 
  Your life on Piata Island begins on a small patch of land that used to belong to a legendary 
 gardener named Jardiniero. It's been neglected for some time, though, and looks more like the beginnings 
 of a desert landfill than a garden that any self-respecting piata would want to call home. When 
 you arrive, a tearful girl named Leafos, who spends her days lamenting the state of the garden, 
 will guide you through all of the game's basic controls and gameplay mechanics. By the time you're 
 done talking to her, you'll be armed with a shovel, a watering can, and a packet of grass seeds 
 with which to get started on your piata paradise. The game doesnt present you with many specific 
 tasks at any point, your goal is simply to create and maintain a garden that increasingly demanding 
 piatas will want to make their home. This degree of open-endedness can actually feel a little 
 daunting at first, but youll quickly realize that your progression through the game is more structured 
 than it first appears.  

  Depending on your profile settings, Viva Piata's controls will default to either a basic or an 
 advanced scheme. Neither setup is complicated, but the basic option should be a welcome addition 
 for anyone who isn't entirely comfortable with the idea of using both analog sticks simultaneously 
 or with using the triggers in addition to the face buttons. The functions performed by the four 
 face buttons are context-sensitive and displayed in the top right corner of the screen at all times, 
 which goes a long way toward making the game accessible for family members who perhaps aren't as 
 familiar with the Xbox 360 controller as you. The numerous menu screens in the game are also very 
 user-friendly, with each option appearing as a petal on a flower.  

  Within moments of getting started in your garden, you'll begin to attract the attention of wild 
 piatas. Each of the 70 or so different species in the game has different criteria that you or 
 your garden will need to meet before they'll appear. Once you've sighted a piata, you'll have 
 to meet further criteria before they'll visit, move into, and ultimately, procreate in your garden. 
 In the early stages of the game, it can seem as if almost everything you do has a positive effect 
 on the local wildlife. But as you level up and gain access to more abilities, more seeds, and better 
 tools, the demands of the wildlife that you'll be trying to get into your garden increase proportionately. 
 For example, you might attract a new low-level piata simply by growing a vegetable or a certain 
 kind of flower. But to even catch a glimpse of some of the larger, more-impressive species, you'll 
 need to dedicate large portions of your garden to their needs. In some cases, youll even need 
 to ensure that they have plenty of smaller piatas to feed on. Still more challenging are the evil, 
 sour piatas that will be attracted to your garden from time to time. These instantly recognizable 
 red-and-black creatures that invariably have very sharp teeth, do nothing but cause trouble until 
 you figure out a way to keep them out or tame them.  

  Viva Piata's learning curve is near-perfect. It does a great job of giving you new abilities over 
 time. It also prevents you from progressing to a point that you and your garden just aren't ready 
 for, which is based on the way that you level up in the game. You'll earn experience points (read: 
 blue flower petals) toward your next level each time you attract or breed a new species of piata 
 or successfully grow a new kind of plant. There are other, less obvious ways to level up as well. 
 For example, you may discover different color variants of piata that you already have in your 
 garden by instructing them to eat or otherwise interact with different things. The majority of 
 the piatas have three different color variants for you to discover, and some will even evolve 
 into entirely different species after eating certain items.  

          Figuring out the correct fertilizers to use on different plants becomes more important 
 as you progress.     

  While you're experimenting with telling your piatas to eat different things, you'll also want 
 to try out different colored fertilizers on any seedlings that you plant. Early on, you won't need 
 to concern yourself with the art of fertilizing plants. But when space is at a premium later on 
 (there's a limit on how many items -- including piatas and helpers -- you can have in your garden) , 
 the skilled horticulturalists among you will find that growing one tree capable of bearing 24 fruit 
 is far more efficient than planting two trees capable of only bearing 12 fruit each. Even small, 
 seemingly insignificant plants, such as daisies and buttercups, can be fertilized to produce multiple 
 flowers. Unless you figure out how to make your own fertilizers, you can count on regular trips 
 to the gardening store.  

  As you progress, you'll unlock a number of different store owners and other useful characters. 
 You'll be interacting with most of these characters quite frequently. Their services don't come 
 cheap, but the game's chocolate coin currency should rarely be a cause for concern because every 
 item and piata in your garden can be sold quickly and easily if needed. Furthermore, certain species 
 of piata are capable of producing goods for you, including honey, milk, and wool. With the correct 
 accessories from the pet store on the piatas in question, it's possible to automate these production 
 processes. You'll still need to hire a helper to gather the finished produce, though, if you don't 
 want to bother with collecting and selling all of the items manually.     

  There are several different helpers that you can hire to carry out various tasks in your garden, 
 though they become less useful as you level up and your own skills improve. It's also worth noting 
 that because Viva Piata is so open-ended, there might be times when you've established a largely 
 self-sufficient garden and don't  need  to do very much. So there's plenty of time for you to take 
 care of some of the more menial tasks before pushing forward.  

          Before devoting much time to landscaping, be sure that you won't have to dig your entire 
 garden up later.     

  The most unfortunate aspect of Viva Piata occurs when you sight a new piata species and decide 
 that you'd like to attract it into your garden, because it often means undoing a lot of the work 
 that you've put in previously. For example, our own garden started out as a carefully planned and 
 quite formal affair, but it evolved (or devolved, perhaps) into something that resembled a swamp. 
 This change occurred because we attempted to entice some piatas that demanded large expanses of 
 water. Later, when we were dealing with piatas that resembled bears, elephants, lions, birds of 
 prey, and the like, we had devoted so much of our garden to water that it became problematic. We 
 were then forced to fill in much of what had become a nicely landscaped pond. It's possible to 
 play multiple gardens while using the same player profile that is complete with its own chocolate 
 bank account and experience. But because the aforementioned item limit applies to all of your gardens 
 rather than each one individually, this doesn't really help matters much. Incidentally, Viva Piata 
 does offer multiplayer support, but only in so much as you can plug in multiple controllers and 
 have up to four players trying to use the same onscreen cursor -- affording parents an easy way to 
 play alongside their kids.  

  Your in-game journal does a great job of tracking and arranging all of your accomplishments, which 
 makes it an easy resource to refer back to if needed. The journal also contains a detailed instruction 
 manual and a storyline of sorts, which is presented through a series of unlockable journal entries. 
 Like all of the other menu-driven areas of the game, the journal is presented as a series of easy-to-navigate 
 flowers with options on different petals.  

  If you're a fan of achievement points, you'll find that the journal is a great way to keep track 
 of how close you are to completing some of the point-scoring objectives. You'll likely earn many 
 of the game's 50 achievements (many of which are simply described as "secret" until you unlock 
 them) simply by playing as you would normally. However, there are definitely a few that you'll 
 have to go out of your way to get. The same can be said of the optional "Piata Central" challenges 
 that crop up from time to time. Their premise is that you need to supply specific piatas for use 
 at an upcoming party. These challenges don't award experience points upon completion, but the value 
 of the piatas that you send will have increased when they're returned. They'll also bring back 
 some candy with them that increases the happiness of any piata eating it.  

  The crates that you use to ship off your piatas to Piata Central are the same ones that you can 
 use to take advantage of the game's only online functionality, which is sending gifts from your 
 garden to other players on your friends list. Of course, not everything that you send has to be 
 nice. But you should know that when you receive mail, there are options to simply return to sender 
 or forward on to another player. So habitually mailing out your problems isn't really an option. 
 Sending valuable piatas and other items is a great way to let your friends know when you're doing 
 well. Even if they're further along than you, the game's open-endedness means there's a chance 
 that the item you're sending could be something they haven't seen before.  

  This is not to suggest that Viva Piata boasts a vast number of customizable items or anything. 
 Piatas with variant colors (a blue fox or a pink duck, for example) , however, are a good example 
 of the kind of thing that you could send to a friend and reasonably expect to get a message back 
 from him or her a few minutes later asking how you came by it. Piatas that are born in your garden 
 each wear your own customized label, much like you'd find on a teddy bear or some other stuffed 
 animal. That label information stays with the piata regardless of how many times it moves around 
 to other gardens. If you zoom in close enough during the course of regular gameplay, you can make 
 it out quite clearly.  

          Regardless of your feelings about the game's visual style, there's no denying that the 
 graphics are impressive.     

  The attention to detail in Viva Piata's visuals is uniformly impressive, and you'll rarely find 
 an object in the game that doesn't hold up to close scrutiny. The unique visual style of the game 
 is likely something that you've already decided to love or hate. But regardless of your personal 
 taste, there's no disputing the fact that the visuals are cohesive and very impressive technically. 
 The great animation in the game is what gives many of the piatas their personalities, even more 
 so than their distinctive appearances. If none of the species' "romance dances" raise a smile, 
 then we're sorry, but there might very well be something wrong with you. Viva Piata looks superb 
 when played on a high-definition screen. Because of its colorful and bold style, it also holds 
 up very well when played on standard televisions. For the most part, the gameplay is silky smooth 
 and hiccups only briefly when the autosave kicks in once every few minutes or so.  

  Your ears are also in for something of a treat when you play Viva Piata. Some of the animal sounds 
 and character voices can become grating after extended play. But for the most part, the game's 
 ambient sounds are really great. This is particularly true if you're lucky enough to have a surround 
 sound setup. The game also boasts an accomplished, somewhat understated musical score, which gives 
 way to much more brash noises briefly whenever a garden-wrecking ruffian or a sour piata find 
 their way into your garden.  

  Viva Piata, then, is a game that's difficult to dislike. It oozes charm and personality from its 
 every papier-mch-covered pore. While it's accessible enough for those with very little gaming 
 experience (and their children) , it also has enough depth to keep any of you with a Pokemon-style 
 "gotta catch 'em all" mentality -- or perhaps a penchant for gardening -- entertained for many hours. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (375 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GriddleCakes
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:25 am PT
Review:  I found this game at Best Buy for Ten Dollars, I heard of the good reviews it had so I decided 
 to pick up the game, and my god what a purchase.
  First off, the Graphics. The graphics are superb. It's looks like an interactive Pixar movie. Sometimes 
 shadows of objects in the background shadow into your garden which is pretty cool. 
  The music is marvelous! I even have some of the Music on my iPod. It's so peaceful and goes great 
 with the theme of the game.
  The Gameplay is a sort of virtual pet game. We attracted Pinatas into are Garden, the become Residents, 
 and we romance them, and it's completely fun! I have no idea why, it's just addictive! Another 
 reason I like it so much is the atmosphere, it's so peaceful and quiet. It makes me feel so relaxed.
 
  If you're wondering if you should get this game, GET IT. Don't worry what people think of you 
 when they see this game in your closet, if they can't except you for the things you like, they're 
 not really friends at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I find it hard to describe the kind of game this is. I tell people at work that its kinda like 
 Harvest Moon/Animal Crossing/Sims with Pinatas. 
  And thats really what it is. You take care or pinatas in your Garden and lure new ones in my meeting 
 certain requirements. You can also fend off evil pinatas by smashing them with your shovel. Sounds 
 a bit grotesque to me. Hehe. Its fun though. You can also plant trees, flowers and bushes. And 
 put ponds and homes for your pinatas all around. its super fun and addicting. Its wierd too and 
 that makes me love it even more.
  Not to mention that this game has some of the most vibrant, colorful and beautiful graphics ive 
 seen from the 360.
  Also you can put accessories on your pinatas and buy things from stores and do all kinds of super 
 awesome things. You can truely make the experience of this game all your own. 
  Anyway, this games just full of goodness!!
  I have just one complaint. And thats that there just 
 isnt enough space. You can only make your garden so big and thats an issue for me. 
  Also it was aimed, I thought, as a childrens game. And it seems to me that thats just not right. 
 Its way to hard to be a really small childs game.
  This game really surprised me. I love it so much and it will never leave my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crookin_Insane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game looks and sounds like a children's game. Probably because it is. But no matter what your 
 age is you will probably enjoy it. 
  The games graphics are fun to look at. Everything is done in a way so that they look like they 
 are covered in paper, including the grass.
  The gameplay is simple yet fun. You start off with a small piece of land and very few pinata that 
 you can collect. The pinata that come to your garden after meeting certain requirements. As your 
 garden becomes better so do the pinata that you can get, you get more land and a few problems for 
 your resident appear. 
  There is really no end to this game. Its addictive and will provide hours of gameplay and fun. 
 There is no real big story to the game. If you get this game you will probably either love it and 
 find it almost impossible to put the controller down or you won't like it, but there is probably 
 a higher chance of you loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  As i watched my girlfriend play this very bright and colorful game i could defiantly see the attraction 
 to it. If you are a fan of games like zoo tycoon you will feel right at home as this game kind 
 of goes on the same principle.
  
  So you start off the game with a small plot of land which you have to clean up by whacking things 
 with a spade. Basically this is the only violence you will get in the game so people who are more 
 into games such as GTA should probably step away now. 
  
  Once you have made your patch of land all pretty and nice you ill get all sorts of species of pinata 
 come and look round. That amount of different types is immense ranging from small bugs to huge 
 animals like elephants. The designers have put a lot into designing the animals and just waiting 
 to see what pops up next is quite fun.
  
  You buy all sorts of things at the shops which come at a steady pace as you progress through the 
 game. But it wont be to long until you get a good selection of shops and things you can buy. My 
 only gripe is the general store lady as she gets pretty annoying after a while. We wander if we 
 could hit her with a spade but it seems we couldn't.
  
  The level up system works well and you do get some considerably good upgrades to your spade and 
 other things. The challenge is to get the pinata's to (as they so innocently call it) romance dance! 
 making more small baby pinatas. Once you get the pinatas in your garden to become resident by meeting 
 their needs you then have to get them to be ready to romance by meeting to more of their needs. 
 Then once those parts are over you select the 2 pinatas you want (they have to be the same species 
 so no mutant pinatas I'm affraid) it will take you into a mini game where you direct one pinata 
 to the other through a maze dodging obstacles and collection coins. Bit crazy but it breaks up 
 the game well.
  
  All in all viva pinata can kill a lot of time. Even though it isn't my type of game i can defiantly 
 see a lot of potential in it for many gamers out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first put in Viva Pinata I wasnt expecting mutch, but I was still let down. At first its 
 kinda cute and fun. You start out with a messy piece of land that you then clean up. Pinatas slowy 
 start to come to your land as you plant seeds they like or have other Pinatas that atract them. 
 For the first hour or so its fun planting things and trying to get more Pinatas. After that it 
 gets boring fast. You will find yourself sitting there wondering if something cool will happen. 
 Between feeding your Pinatas, matting them, and watching them do nothing, there is nothing to do. 
 I even tried beeting my Pinatas for some fun, but I got nothing. I ended up returning this game 
 after 3 days. I could not find anything to keep me playing. The graphics were good, the concept 
 was good, but there were no cool features to keep this game seeming new. Everything seemed the 
 same and it was a big let down for me. If you like the idea of creating a lot and caring for your 
 Pinatas then you should enjoy this game. But if you are a more hardcore gamer as myself, you will 
 get bored quickly and wishing you didnt buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Story / Gameplay - In this game you are given the deed to a garden of some super awesome gardener, 
 though when you get there it looks like a dump and you have to clean it up. And so once you clean 
 it up you're supposed to attract local animals or in this game "pinatas" in order to do so you 
 have to put in water, grass, trees, food and alot of other stuff to attract each different breed. 
 And you can sell them to get coins or in this game "chocolate" coins (chocolate coins lol) and 
 if you wanna get a large amount of a valuable breed you can breed 2 of the same breeds by making 
 them dance together (who the hell thought this up 0. o) though you have to set each breeds preferences 
 before you can make them dance like say if you want to make a squirrel dance with each other which 
 by the way each breed has there own lame name, well anyway if you want a squirrel to dance each 
 one has to eat a peanut or something and have a one of there own houses which the squirrels is 
 a tree house then they will dance with each other in the tree house the same goes with every other 
 pinata meet there preferences and give them a house to dance in.
  In this game when you complete goals or something (idk for sure i haven't played it in a while) 
 you level up in which the previous owner of the garden will give you rewards like better shovels 
 and other crazy stuff.
  The most colorful and cheeriest part of the game is that you can plant heaps of flowers every where, 
 daisies, roses, sun flowers and heaps of other flowers.
  Sometimes your garden will be visited by "Sour" pinatas which will make your pinatas who live there 
 sick though you can meet a Sour pinatas preferences and they won't be so Sour anymore and they 
 will cocoon into another very colorful cheery pinata and live at your garden. 
  You can hire people to water the flowers or pick up the left out seeds which are on the ground 
 just bouncing around or you can hire guards which will keep the "Sour" Pinatas away from your garden, 
 and a doctor to cure the sick pinatas.
  
  So overall this game is a really fun and creative game it's something different too.
  I thought 
 it was pretty lame, though that didn't stop me playing or hating it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Good: 
  viva pinata might me a kids game but its rated E. so basicly its not a sin for me to play it, and 
 i can play it as i pleased. its a free country isn't it? viva pinata is surprisingly good in a 
 lot of ways. controls are user friendly and graphics are magnificent. the best thing bout viva 
 pinata is that there are so many species that i even lost count on them. plus every species is 
 special regarding that they have different houses, interest, food, and dance moves. 
  
  Bad: 
  it's a shame that we couldn't keep all these pinatas, the garden is big, but not big enough 
 to pet all of them. they're just too many. so it is best that you stick to one pinata, build it 
 a house, make it dance couple of times, get rid of them and proceed to the next pinata. take note 
 of ruffians as well. these bastards won't stop messing your garden so bribe them to get the hell 
 outta here. don't they just piss you off?
  
  Overall: 
  don't get me wrong though, sometimes it can be really though. sure its easy to play but attracting 
 an elephant pinata to your garden and stays there can be frustrating, i almost bust my head off 
 trying to persuade those giant, pink headed elephants to come and eventually become residents. 
 besides that all is well. and when i say "dance moves" you know what im talking about right? you 
 don't expect us to believe that dancing will make babies? but some thing are better left alone 
 except if you want to tell the kids what those pinatas are really doing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DmanxPS2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas from my little sister the christmas after it came out. I figured 
 it was one of those that she bought it for me so she could play it. But she got tired of it after 
 a while and it gathered dust on my shelf. 
  Recently, i rediscovered the abandoned game on my shelf and decided, eh, what the hell, i'll give 
 it a shot. After the totally awesome opening cinematic i began on my "adventure." 
  This game seems really childish on the front. But if the thought of XBOX achievements does anything 
 for you. This is totally the game for you. Or even if you were a fan of the "Gotta Catch 'Em All!" 
 way back in the Pokemon days when we were all kids again. 
  It seriously grew on me... I can't seem to find a better way to explain it. I would definitely 
 advise giving it a shot. It could do something for ya... who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4god88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is one of those games that can easily be looked over due to it's seemingly younger 
 target audience. However, looking over this game would be a mistake no matter what your age happens 
 to be.
  
  I don't feel that Viva Pinata can be described justly but likening it to another game, but rather 
 as a mixture between a couple of games. If you took the collective aspect of the Pokemon franchise, 
 the creative gameplay of any Sims game, and the mindless euphoria of a party game, you get something 
 not quite as good as this game. It seems to have all the upsides of each of these games, and none 
 of the monotony and game flaws.
  
  The main idea of Viva is to design and run a garden in order to attract and please pinata residents. 
 In order to do this you need to do a variety of things, as each species of pinata has different 
 requirements to appear, visit, and become a resident of your garden. These are usually small things 
 that carry over into each of the categories. For example, you might need to have three apples in 
 your garden to have a Mousemallow visit, but then all it has to do to become a resident is eat 
 three apples. 
  
  Once a pinata becomes a resident, there are a variety of things to do, including "romancing", variety 
 changing, and accessorizing. Romancing is how you get more of a species in your garden. After fulfilling 
 some other minor requirements, a heart will appear above the entranced pinata and you can guide 
 them to their significant other. A short minigame will follow and soon you'll receive an egg which 
 will hatch into a baby pinata, thus expanding your collection. There are also varieties in color 
 and sometimes a new species can be created by feeding your pinata different fruits, flowers, and 
 a combination thereof. There are also many accessories which can be purchased and added to your 
 pinata to increase their value.
  
  There are numerous design options for your garden that consist of surfaces like grass, dirt, and 
 water, as well as trees to plant, shrubs to grow, and produce to collect. You may also do business 
 with the local inhabitants of pinata island, who may assist you with finding pinata, buying accessories 
 to put in you garden, upgrading your tools, and building houses for your pinata, to name a few. 
 Due to the many things that are available to be done, there is never a slow dead moment in the 
 game.
  
  Viva Pinata seems to have the perfect balance between creative gameplay, goals to strive for, and 
 things to do that are just plain fun. I consider myself to be a pretty tough game critic, and usually 
 don't waste my time playing games that aren't worth it. So let the fact that I easily spent a few 
 hours each day for about a month and half playing this game speak for itself. 
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who wants a guilty pleasure from a video game that is addicting, 
 relaxing, and perfect in just about every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata was the first game I ever played on the Xbox 360 back in 2006 and I was into that game 
 because it was sick nasty with cherries on top. Getting animals to come to yo place to do it and 
 dance at the same time to make more babies to repeat the cycle again? Um, that just clicks in my 
 head yes. The game is super easy at first because you really don't get to do anything except play 
 around with your garden, which has so much stuff to make your garden look cool is amazing. What 
 i loved was finding a new species, and that always wanted me to play more. Or buying the repelent 
 towers that repelled the red things, that made me want to play more too. The achievements were 
 also easy, espically the getting helpers achievements like 
  gretchem i think and the shovel achievements. And when you play, it makes you addicted to it like 
 its your life. Its fun to always make more then one garden and make new ones and start over. But 
 after a while, my rating for the game went down. When i got more and more pinatas in my garden, 
 more and more kept dying and getting sick it was literally impossible that it comes to a point 
 that you cant save all of them and its pointless if you do after a while because they'll get sick 
 in the next 20 minutes. And then the other pinatas eating other ones and kept screwing up my plans 
 for babies. And when you BOUGHt the fancy pinatas with money and all they did was screw the place 
 up and needed way more attention that was needed. It started getting out of hand that i just quit 
 playing the game. But this game is great for a long time and you should play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This one of those game that should have had a better upgrade system. What I mean is that the game 
 should of had a bigger garden. In a matter of a few hours my garden was fully upgraded, and I had 
 no room for any new pinatas that came into the garden. when the next one that comes out in sept. 
 2 or 3 of 08, I hope that there's a bigger upgrade of your garden. Overall the game satisfied me 
 for most of my time. It was a game that made me think that these pinatas are like a Mexicans version 
 of Pokemon. It was a game that made me like a total fool of my self in front of my friends on xbox 
 live. It was humorous to be seen playing a game that was most likely made for children who are 
 restricted from playing a rated teen game, or a mature game. But I said hell with them I'm having 
 fun and that's all that matters right? If you haven't gotten the feel of the game or even played 
 it, you should! I mean at this moment, go get it! I sat there with the game playing it with my 
 baby cousin, and she was so amazed by the game it was unbelievable! the bright colored pinatas 
 wearing pirate hats, and ones that were wearing a eye patch. the only bad thing was the limited 
 garden space. But for all the stuff you can do it, it made the limited garden space look like a 
 minor thing. I will most likely get the next one when it comes out. Now that should be a great 
 game for people of all ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajsianez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Viva Piata is an addicting game. Players should not be put off by its bright colors and papier-mch 
 theme. It is a game that you can easily spend hours immersed in. Any age group can easily have 
 fun playing the game. Whether you're in it to master every aspect or just to have fun and watch 
 as your garden grows. You can either carefully plan your every move or just make things up as you 
 go. With a simple way to level up and an easy way to cultivate your garden makes this game very 
 enjoyable. Viva Piata provides a way for you to make your own goals and still gives you awards 
 for completing easy tasks. Of course it is not all fun and games. It still provides road blocks 
 and challenges you must over come, such as Ruffians or sour piatas. It is an all around enjoyable 
 game. Although it may seem slow at first you will soon find that as you grow accustomed to the 
 controls your will see that the game will continue at your own pace.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPSFHS
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today and I really never knew what the game would be like other than what I've 
 heard on the internet. When I started to play I immediately feel in love with it. I am a really 
 big fan of FPS and blood thirsty pleasures (Halo 3, Gears of War) but sometimes its fun to keep 
 your mind sane while still having a good time by playing fun, innovative games like this. Buy it, 
 especially how its only 20 bucks now. Even though the sequel is coming soon still buy this game 
 so you can be immeresed in the world of viva pinata from the very begining. Buy  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuna-chunks123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the most addictive games i have ever come across. i got the game as a package 
 when i bought my xbox 360, and i condsidered trading it in for another game that i thought i would 
 get more use of, but as it happens, i have got enough use out of the game to satisfy me. i assumed, 
 like many other people that the game would be a game that would only fulfill the gaming needs of 
 a three year old who just wanted to look at the pretty colours and the fluffy animals. when i played 
 it just to see whether it was worth trading it in i assumed that it was a waste of time, but hearing 
 the game tell me that i was now a "level 2 gardener" made me feel a weird sense of satisfaction, 
 so i continued playing it and being called a "level 3 gardener" makes you feel really good. also, 
 the graphics of this game are satisfactory to the content of the game. to sum up this game, if 
 you are a gamer who loves addictive games and isn't too worried about amazing graphics then you 
 will love this. even though this was a child aimed game, I just love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  welcome to harryrjjj's review on viva pinata. the game is bright and coulerful but dont let that 
 foul you. the game is terrible and random the whole idea is a compleye and utter joke i have played 
 it myself and i have to admite the first time i played it i found it allright but then after a 
 day it gets boring and you dont really acheve anything at all. some times you dont even get why 
 your playing it it really is a bad game.
  
  so over all the game looks allright from the cover but the actuel thing is a waste of time. thanks 
 for reading Harryrjjj's review on viva pinata! hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello 
 hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello and good buy gamespot viewers and bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abid9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a great game to play over the summer. Viva Pinata is about being a master gardener 
 and to attract all the pinatas. But beware of the ruffians because there after you. Viva Pinata 
 is strangely addicting. Although at first one might be hesitant by the games' graphics, but have 
 no fear for Viva Pinata is not so meager! Viva pinata will last you for a long time, trust me. 
 Make sure you take care of the sour pinatas. Trust me it will be worth, it ;) .
  
  The Good 
  Great music. Beautiful graphics. Very relaxing. Long game. Collecting pinatas is fun. 
 You can also romance them.
  
  The Bad 
  Garden size is limited. Ruffians that mess up your garden . Not available 
  Gameplay : 9.3\10
 
  
  Graphics : 9.5\10
  
  Sound : 10\10
  
  Value : 9.8\10
  
  Tilt : 10/10
  
  Overall 10/10 (Not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pie2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games out of all of them and I don't know why. I got it free with 
 my Xbox 360 and I started to love it. It says it is supposed for family playing but I played it 
 all by myself and I had great fun with it. I also love the theme for viva piata it's so addictive 
 I kept singing it for months. I love the variety of piatas that you can have like from hippos 
 to ants. I also love how that when they are happy they are worth more money. I like how you can 
 send your piatas to your friends. You can also add accessories to the piatas like bowler hats 
 and even gold teeth to make them look how you want them to be. You can also buy some accessories 
 packs online which cost 200 points each. It does have minor faults like the Watchlings not scaring 
 off the Ruffians and the Dastardos statue not even stopping him coming in which it is supposed 
 to stop them. Overall I think this is a very good game and really easy achievements so it is one 
 game I recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swytnezz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Heard lots about this game and how great it was. Great found of less than $20 bucks.
  
  Graphics: Pretty cute. Nice, I dont think anybody will have a problem with the way it looks.
 
  
  Music/Sounds: Actually the sounds and chimes are very important in this game. Since you farm (field) 
 is so big, you need the sound to tell you everything that might be going on. Very helpful.
  
  Gameplay: It reminds me of Harvest Moon a little bit. But better. I usually get bored after 
 awhile in Harvest Moon. But since this game has fun achievements and many animals to create its 
 fun to try many different things. The only questionable thing is the "way animals have sex". It 
 funny and cute how they disguise it for the children, but come on kids are not as retarded as you 
 think nowadays. Plus I dont think dancing vs the real thing is fun.
  
  Is it worth it? If you can take out Halo 3 for a little bit for something less hardcore, maybe 
 you should. The game is really fun, its even better since its about $20 less than most games. Even 
 guys might get a kick out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinata444
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I read a bit about Viva Pinata and really liked the sound of it. It looked really cool and I thought 
 it sounded like the game for me. It had cute little pinata's and you got to do whatever you wanted, 
 which is cool.
  
  The main things in this game is you build a garden, collect 60 different types of pinata animals 
 and look after them until they are ready to go to a party. It has very good graphics and fun little 
 tunes to enjoy, but it won't last you that long, you're sure to be bored of it after several weeks. 
 The gameplay is brilliant you are never out of things to do, like planting plants, building little 
 house's and going shopping, I mean you can buy accesories for you're pinata's.
  
  All in all Viva Pinata is a fantastic game and will draw attention to all ages. I am very glad 
 I brought Viva Pinata and I hope you enjoy it to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_dude101
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok well to start, their's something very strange about this game, it doesn't sound like a good 
 game to buy and it doesn't seem like your gonna wanna buy it, but the minute you play your gonna 
 get really addicted. To tell the truth I didn't wanna buy this but then I remembered about one 
 of my favorite games Animal Crossing, I didn't want that game didn't wanna buy it, but my friend 
 got me to get it, and I must have spent 100 to 200 hours on that game it's amazing, same with this 
 game. Now if you like Animal Crossing The Sims or any other game like those, go get this game, 
 it really is kinda like it, Now where gonna go with my grading system, first the goods then the 
 bad ok now first the.......
  
  
  Goods: very friendly, very cute, the learning curve is almost perfect, the visuals are weird but 
 in a good way very colorful, very very very addictive, will last you a pretty long time, very deep 
 gameplay
  
  
  Bads: some of it can be alittle childish but only acouple parts, the sour bats and stuff will piss 
 you off alittle, it doesn't really have a story.
  
  Graphics/Animation 8
  Gameplay 9
  cuteness 15
  story 6
  length 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a cartoony gardening game. Yes i said gardening game, and yes it is also very cool. 
 There is no story to this as it's more of a SIM type game. What little story there is basically 
 involves you, the new gardener to a dusty plot of ground turning it into a lush garden and a safe 
 haven for the piata that inhabit the island. That's basically what you do, and it really is great 
 fun. 
  When you start the game, you are given a spade with which you can clear the ground and break down 
 all the rubbish that litters the place. You get money for breaking down the rubbish, and this can 
 be used later in the game to save up for new spades, watering cans, seeds, fruits, and other garden 
 furniture. The shop has everything you want for your garden from plants to garden fences and houses 
 for your resident piatas. The piatas wander the world looking for reasons to enter your garden. 
 They will only enter your garden if you fulfil certain requirements for that individual piata. 
 For example, the fox will patrol the edges of your garden until you get chickens, rabbits or mice, 
 after which they will come in and devour your resident piata and once it's had its fill, it will 
 become and resident as well. In this case, the fox might also be required to attract other animals. 
 Also plants and garden furniture can attract certain animals to your garden. Planting trees and 
 having worms in the garden will attract birds etc. As you progress through the game you'll unlock 
 more piata who are harder to get and also new spades with which you can dig ponds, plant larger 
 trees etc. Its very well fleshed out and by being a good gardener, your garden also gets given 
 more space as you progress through the "story". By the end of the game (there is no ending, but 
 once you've got all the piata) you'll find your garden transformed from the dusty plot it was 
 at the start to a lush, vegetated paradise thriving with cute little piatas all with their own 
 reproductive system, calls, walks and personalities. It really is a charming game. 
  Viva Piata also has multiplayer, and Xbox live features. It's hard to think of how this works, 
 but it does, and it works well. Being a family game, the multiplayer allows two people to control 
 the game at once. Designed for fathers to play with their children, one can control one portion 
 of the controls, and the other can control another. Its quite clever, and although not initially 
 useful for the older gamers it certainly has a lot for the younger ones and people wanting to play 
 with nephews, nieces, sons and daughters. The xbox live features are very cool. For those connected 
 to xbox live, there is a massive viva piata marketplace where anyone can buy and sell items from 
 the piata world. If you have a friend who needs another badger in order to breed them while you've 
 already got a whole family, you can charge him your chosen amount of gold, and send him one. He 
 then sends the money back. Its a very quick and fun way to interact with other players, buying 
 animals, breeding large amounts of offspring and selling them on. This is particularly profitable 
 if you are breeding the larger, hard to get animals that are in demand from new players. One can 
 spend the whole game being a breeder and market salesman. When selling items, your own logo (which 
 you design) is attached to it (mainly if a piata born in your garden, but seeds as well) and this 
 is a permanent thing. Your piata can travel the cyber world, going from friend to friend. Your 
 logo remains on the piata so people cannot take credit for your hard work, and in some cases, 
 you may find your own piata returned to you weeks later from an anonymous buyer not knowing he 
 is returning the piata to his rightful home. This is a cool, smile generating experience. 
  Viva piata is done by Rareware who consistently make awesome and amazing cartoony games. This 
 is no exception. One of the best things about the game is simply watching your cute, happy little 
 piatas wander your garden, eating their fill of seeds, leaves or whatever. Surprisingly this game 
 was more popular with the larger age groups of 30-40 year olds which is a testament to the game's 
 charm. It is a real refreshment to play a game that is truly unique and original. Its also great 
 to see a game that is so popular within the same age group as players who love Gears of War and 
 other gory, first person shooters. Viva Piata is a long way from the crowd of other games, standing 
 completely on its own and shining brightly. The game is a testament to human imagination and while 
 it is simply a gardening, animal breeding game, it requires imagination and strategy to enjoy simply 
 building your dream garden. Its clever, simple, cute, and great fun for all ages. How rareware 
 did it, I do not know. How they made a gardening game as fun as Gears Of War and popular as Resident 
 Evil, I cannot say. Viva Piata is prime!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon_tracer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  We will be reviewing it in different ways:
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics are outstanding like totally! The pinatas ( call them animals )
  look quite real 
 and so does the environment.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Gameplay....... ill explain - itz all about building or GROWING your garden by using our SHOVEL 
 and then hitting the BAD SOIL to make it FERTILE and then we can grow grass on it by using our 
 GRASS SEED PACKET, and so on and on some pinatas become residents of our gardens, and when we improve 
 our garden more different pinatas come and so on and on....... we can also GROW TREES by using the 
 SHOVEL too create HOLES IN THE GROUND and then putting the seeds in them and then WATERING IT REGULARLY........ We 
 can also go to shops in the village to do stuff like , SHOPPING, MAGIC ( TINKERING ) , FIND HELPERS 
 , GETTING SEEDS AND OTHER UPGRADABLE STUFF, on our way to a succesful garden some enemies called 
 SOUR PINATAS will try to destroy our garden and we can stop them by using our shovel or building 
 the tower of SOUR. We can also create babies of pinatas by ROMANCING them by first making them 
 happy by fulfilling their needs.
  
  Online ( LIVE ) :
  
  We can trade some resources or pinatas online with other gardeners too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Every game console needs one thing in order to make it an offical console: A cute cartoon character 
 mascot that can be milked for all it's worth. Nintendo has Mario and Pokemon, Sega has Sonic and 
 Alex Kidd and Sony has Crash Bandicut, Ratchet and Clank and Sly. With Viva Pinata Xbox finally 
 becomes a full fledge console, because now it has it's own cute cartoon mascot in the form of the 
 Pinatas of Pinata Island.
  
  On the surface Viva Pinata has all the appearences of a Pokemon Clone, however appearences can 
 be decieving. The game actually proves to be quite fun and challenging. One of the best features 
 the game has is it's graphics, the backgrounds and various characters are bright and have lots 
 of color and detals to them. Of course the halmarks of Viva Pinata are of course, the Pinatas, 
 all of which are very colorful and are come in a wide variety of speices. Another thing this game 
 gave it's creatures are personalities, which can change over the course of the game, at times a 
 Pinata can become sour/aggressive and pick fights with other pinatas or hinder the player, other 
 times it can be helpful and friendly. 
  
  The game, unlike Pokemon, can prove to be very challenging, and at times has all the hallmarks 
 of a strategy game. This is because the game has included elements that one usually would find 
 in a game like Sim City or Civilzation. Outside of the ocasonal battle the player also has to raise 
 and take care of the Pinatas that live in the garden the player owns, since like real animals the 
 Pinatas can become sick and require treatment. The game also is far more open ended then most games 
 in this genre, allowing the player to shape his/her garden as they see fit. 
  
  Despite it's good points, Viva Pinata has it's fair share of flaws, the primary of which is the 
 controls, especally the select icon. This however comes from the Xbox's controller's joystick more 
 then from the game. The joystick makes diagonal selections a challenge, especally for new gamers. 
 Another problem is that at times, the control menu can blend into the background, when it's over 
 something of the same color. 
  
  Overall Viva Pinata is a game with a lot of potental that is held back from being an instant classic 
 by a few flaws. The game is a nice change of pace, especally if you need a break from the blood 
 baths that make up the majority of Xbox's library. It's colorful characters and setting will easily 
 appeal to young children or fans of Pokemon, while it's stratagy based gameplay will appeal to 
 the more hardcore community and fans of games like civilzation and sim city. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata was a disapointment to me! I would have liked to see achivements that you know what 
 your aiming for. It also has a really slow start, and it didn't speed up very quickly, it also 
 sucks that animals from the wild prance into your graden and eat your animals. I hope they don't 
 make another one because I think this was shambollic. They should have left it as a TV Series. 
 In my opinion it is worst game I have ever played on Xbox 360 and certainly the most boring, it 
 might help if we new what the animals are actually meant to be, by using real animals with there 
 names spelt like worm not whirm. If they are to make a second game it has to be an awful lot better 
 and maybe try to keep the gamer engaged for more than five minutes, maybe let you expand your garden 
 and make new animals come in easierly and not make it soo tedious.
  
  It was Tragic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle_Fish
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata. Most people who look at this game would probably laugh. But not I and neither should 
 you. Viva Pinata may of sold out by making a crappy children television show but the actual game 
 is Rare's best game since they left Nintendo.
  
  In Viva Pinata you play as the poppin fresh new gardener on Pinata Island. An Island were pinata's 
 need to be raised in gardens in order to be sent off to parties. The former owner of Pinata Island 
 has grown too old and now it is your turn to take over the island and make it flourish. 
  
  Viva Pinata plays like a lot of games, it is hard to describe. Try mixing the sims with Animal 
 Crossing and then make it less complex. In Viva Pinata you must bring the now desolate and ugly 
 Pinata Island, back to it's former glory. In order to do that, you can create up to 8 gardens to 
 collect all the pinatas necessary. 
  
  In order to do this, you must clean up the island using your trusty shovel, watering can and grass 
 packet. After touching up your first garden, Pinatas start to come, but they will only be visiting. 
 Each Pinata has their own set of likes or dislikes. Satisfy their likes and they may stay for good. 
 For some it may be as easy as "have this much grass" or "Have this Pinata" but others may be as 
 hard as "Eat 3 Beavers" or "Grow a crap load of corn". The harder Pinatas does add a nice difficulty 
 to the game, even if it isn't much, however in the end it ends up just being more time consuming 
 rather than hard. After you gather some Pinatas, you must romance them to get more of that kind 
 and to sell them for money. More money means you can buy things at the store. You can buy a number 
 of things, whether they are decorations, upgrades, helpers, etc. However a number of these things 
 are very useless. For example you can higher a Weeder but most of the time, you only get weeds 
 when you plant them. While none of this sounds very fun, you would be surprised at how fun it is.
 
  
  Now collecting Pinatas and pimping out a garden may sound easy, but it is made slightly more difficult 
 by Professor Pester and his crew. Prof. Pester's whole goal in life is to destroy your garden and 
 kill your pinatas, that is unless you buy an item to scare them off. Thats right, for a small fee, 
 you can scare away one of the games only obstacles. There are still more though. Certain pinatas 
 get angry or dislike other pinatas and will get in fights, usually resulting in a bad illness for 
 the loser. The only other issue is the games somewhat bad A. I. You can direct your Pinatas to certain 
 places to get them to get or do certain things, however they just completely ignore you sometimes. 
 Not only that but helpers and garden guests seems to get in the way more than they help. 
  
  While you can do a lot to your garden and to your pinatas it really feels like Rare could of 
 done more. For one thing, each garden is not big enough to fit everything you would want in it, 
 meaning you have to split up your things into 8 different gardens which fine but bigger gardens 
 would be a plus. There isnt much you can do to your garden though other than planting plants, buying 
 lawn ornaments and digging ponds, although these ponds are really just big puddles. Your garden 
 is also completely flat, a hill builder or ditch builder would be gladly accepted along with an 
 ocean builder.
  
  On the Visual standfront, Viva Pinata looks great. Lots of beautiful colors and lots of bloom and 
 Amazing art direction, this is definitely a Rare game. Some textures can look bad, but in the end, 
 Rare pulls of another looker. Sometimes Pinatas walk through things like fences but otherwise really 
 good. There is some major slowdown at times though, especially during the games mandatory auto 
 save. Ignoring that there should not be much to complain about on the Visual and technical frontline.
 
  
  Rare also delivers on the audio front as well, for the most part. Pinatas make noises that cannot 
 even be described (it is a good thing) , soothing and fitting music, and great item sound effects. 
 However most of the non pinata characters have been dubbed over with horribly annoying voice acting 
 that is just plain awful. Other than that, not much left to say.
  
  
  At it's release, Viva Pinata was $60, a bit steep, but the addictiveness, the fun factor and the 
 sheer quirkiness makes up for it. The game is now $20 and it is a steal at that price. If you are 
 looking for a great virtual sim or just an overall amazing game on the 360 that isnt a shooter, 
 Viva Pinata is for you! But if you are one who screams kiddy to anything that doesnt have a gray 
 color scheme, go back to your Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a fun addictive game in which you aim to improve your garden. You begin to grow 
 quite attached to the creatures and try to lure them into your garden.
  Its all pretty colours and squeeky sounds but don't mistake this completely for a kids game. Its 
 for the whole family. The achievements arrange from secret ones to easy ones. This is clearly based 
 on the cartoon as if you watch the cartoon you can find clues on how to create new creatures and 
 lure new ones into your garden.
  You upgrade your garden space and tools as you gain points by simply growing a plant or inviting 
 a new pinata into the garden.
  Alot of the game is mainly waiting for something new to happen.
  The animals tend to get bigger 
 and better later on in the game but it also gets more annoying introducing ruffians who want to 
 make your life a missery by destroying your garden.
  I would reccomend this title as it will kill your boredom for days to come..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadlet
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is an amazing game to me it is like the sims with pinatas but different so i say WOOOO 
 WOOOOOOW OOOOOW OOOOOOOW OOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOW OOOOOOOOOOOWOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOO 
 WOOOOOOOOOOW OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOWO WOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOOOW 
 OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOW OOOOOOOOOOOOOOW OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
 WOOOOOOO OWWWWWWW WOOOOOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOOOOOOW OOOOOOOOOOOWO WOOOOOOOOOOW OWO WOOOOOOOOO WOOOOOOOOW 
 OW WOOOOOOW WOWO WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW 
 WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOWOW WOWOW WOW OWOW WOW OWO WO WOW WOW WOW OW 
 WO WOW OWO WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW OWO WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW 
 WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WOW WO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3Jok3r23
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Viva Piata takes you on an adventure to Piata Island, were wild Piatas roam free. Your job is 
 to attract these creatures to your garden and convince them to live there by fulfilling certain 
 requirements.
  Viva Piata contains amazing visuals and hardy any graphical problems. It runs smoothly and has 
 a great solid frame rate. The color palate's diversity is one to be admired.
  The Piatas themselves are the stand-out, best part of the game. Each one, and there are many (around 
 50) , is beautifully and uniquely created. Their names are derived from candy and each is based 
 on a real animal. For example, the bees are called Buzzlegums, and its fun to figure out the derivatives 
 of their sugar-inspired names.
  The story mode, or really only mode, allows you to build up to 8 gardens. Each one is extremely 
 customizable from the type of land (dirt, grass, tall grass, ect.) , to the cleverly designed Piata 
 houses, along with fences and the like that can be purchased from the general store. There is also 
 a variety of beautiful foliage which you can grow, water, and fertilize at your leisure. 
  The main objective of the game seems to be breeding, or "romancing" Piatas, which is to say, make 
 more of them. There are cute and fun dances in which you can watch for each species, which is just 
 one of the many rewards for this. As you breed Piatas, you can accumulate money and customize 
 you garden freely. The difficulty in breeding and attracting some of the rarer Piatas varies, 
 leaving this game with something for everybody. 
  Piatas can also be beaten with shovels until they explode into large amounts of candy to the sound 
 of children cheering, which can be fun, but not rewarding, itself.
  Experimentation is also encouraged as feeding Piatas certain foods and plants can change their 
 color or appearance all together. 
  Overall, the beautiful visuals, unique and addicting game play make this game great and a must 
 own for anyone who is interested in the simulation genre or just wants to enjoy some family friendly 
 game play in their spare time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  A cursory glance at the Xbox 360's library will give a sight of a system inundated with shooters. 
 To be fair though, a great deal of them are of a very high quality, but the 360 just has far too 
 many after 2007, a sentiment creeping up slowly, but surely, among 360 owners. This flood of shooters 
 makes the completely off the wall, original gem shine even brighter than it would normally, but 
 even if there weren't a huge number of shooters on the 360; Viva Piata would still shine brighter 
 than the sun.
  
  Viva Piata is set on Piata Island, a fantastical world inhabited solely by paper-mache fauna. 
 You are entrusted a small patch of land by Leafos, a helper, and from there you set off to emulate 
 the once great Jardiniero's legendary piata garden.
  
  Starting with a little patch of dirt, you are given a watering can and a spade and left mostly 
 to your own devices. You will get a lot of training at the start, but the rate at which your garden 
 improves means that you'll soon be leading the hectic life of a gardener who just has far too much 
 to be dealing with. You'll have to attract new species by designing your garden to get them to 
 stay, and then meeting their demands so that they will procreate. Doing these tasks will increase 
 your level and title, and this will in turn increase your garden size, allowing for you to attract 
 and house further species, and carry on in that manner until you've developed the best garden possible. 
 The structure does become a little stale after about 15 hours, but is also nightmarishly addictive, 
 so you probably won't notice.
  
  There many other little facets to the gameplay that add a greater sense of freedom to the game. 
 For one, you can hire staff once you earn enough chocolate coins to do the odd jobs around your 
 garden, thus freeing up your precious time for more pressing matters. You can also plant flowers 
 and trees to either attract new species, or in order to create a stable cash crop. There are also 
 competitions, hybrid species to breed and the opportunity to create valuable piatas and gardens. 
 
  
  All of these micro management aspects of the game are at a polar opposite to the saccharine nature 
 of Viva Piata's presentation. Look up the term "Light Bloom" in a technical dictionary and more 
 than likely you'll see one of the piatas toothy grins staring right back at you. When the sun 
 is shining down on Piata Island, everything glows, so much so that it seems that the Island is 
 set near the abandoned nuclear site of Chernobyl. The piatas themselves are vibrantly coloured 
 and intricately detailed, with the piatas and helpers convey a level of imagination that Rareware 
 are world famous for.
  
  Piata Island is a rather serene and tranquil place, and aside from the few chirps of all the piatas 
 around the place, there isn't any sound pollution, helping to emphasise the peaceful side of the 
 island.
  
  Sims are famous for their addictive nature and Viva Piata is no different, probably in no small 
 part due to the achievement points. All of them are worth 20 points each, and all are easily attainable 
 with enough dedication and hard work that comes with any gardening job. There isn't a limit per-se 
 on how many hours you might spend with Viva Piata, and a drive to attain the best garden and rarest 
 piatas will spur the more avid players to spend as many hours as possible on their little plots 
 of land.
  
  Closing comments: Viva Piata is a truly magical game which should not be missed by any 360 fan 
 looking for something completely different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alanorman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  It's just plain fun with Viva Pinata, a game of warm colours and taking care of the others. A game 
 rated 3+ might seem a bit too childish to most of the players. But make no mistake, this is a good 
 test for all the gamers around, not matter if they are 3 or 63 years old.
  
  In Viva Pinata you become a friendly gardener on a magical and colourful Pinata Island. Your efforts 
 to create a magnificent and animal-friendly garden result in attracting more and more Pinata species. 
 Each of the Pinata has its own habits, things it likes and dislikes. Your goal is to expand the 
 garden and make it a friendly place for all Pinata species.
  
  You think this is an easy task? You can't be more wrong than that. Viva Pinata's difficulty level 
 is just right, but learning to take care of everything in the garden takes time. At least two hours 
 are required in order to get to know the game well enough, to succeed.
  
  Viva Pinata is more or less a story-driven game. A game suitable for everyone to play, but of course 
 it is aimed mostly at the younger audience. And the biggest flaw of the game is unfortunately related 
 to storytelling. In a game designed to be played by young kids, you need to be close to them all 
 the time. You need to carefully and clearly explain to them, what they should do in the first few 
 phases of the game. Viva Pinata has a habit of being too fast paced in the beginning moments, and 
 thus it often causes confusion. Basically, you often ask to yourself: 'Hey, but what should I do 
 now'?
  
  New Pinatas are coming to your garden one after another, and you also meet several new characters 
 along the road and also learn about a bunch of activities you need to perform in order to have 
 everyone happy and the garden to develop. It all happens way too fast.
  
  After all however, Viva Pinata as a well-constructed game which trains your brain and works nicely 
 with youngsters, teaching them what responsibility and taking are of the others is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata, when you hear this name, or look at the cover of this case, you think, "this game 
 is for five year olds" or "this game looks so gay," but the truth is, it is a very fun game for 
 people of all ages to play. Sure it is also good for five year olds, but you could sit anyone down 
 with it and they will have loads of fun building a colorful garden and attracting hysterical creatures 
 from all corners of the earth. The best thing about this game is that you are free to do whatever 
 you want with your garden, not following any guidelines or set paths, so you can customize it to 
 your own likings, there probobly isn't two gardens out there that are the same! So when you are 
 strolling through Blockbuster, at least give this one a rent, I promise you will not be disappointed, 
 and like the moto says, it truly is "Filled with fun, For everyone!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  If you have seen my list of games, things like this are pretty rare. Truly I would suggest that 
 you don't judge this game by the cover or by the misconception that games of this genre can't be 
 pretty fun. I would call this a pretty good game for the family and a decent game for people of 
 all ages. The graphics for this speak for themselves, their in great HD like all 360 games, but 
 you are dealing with cartoon pinatas. Right now this game can be picked up for about twenty dollars 
 new, and I would say to go ahead and give it a shot. This game is fun in a Harvest Moon kind of 
 way. It's not the best game ever, but it is very entertaining for a while, and a game you can just 
 go ahead and pick up anytime your bored. If your looking for a game that kids can play or that 
 you can play with your kids possibly, this is a great title that everyone can enjoy. Go ahead and 
 give this a try, I doubt you'll be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewcarlson
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Im a gamer who likes to play halo, gears, c&c and so on. but its just nice to kick back and relax 
 from it all. sure i live in a small town and wish i can plant flowers and make creatures visit 
 me, but thats why i bought this game, my dreams are coming true wha ha ha. For a game for younger 
 games this game is awsome graffics are nice. game play easy to learn and there is no way to lose 
 unless you keep wacking everything with a shovel and the only death u get up to is a garden with 
 no grass but u can always restart no problem. there is no story line but and old fellow who thinks 
 he can beat u at planting and likes to brag. i recommend this for all players sure dis me but rent 
 it and see what u think everyone is diffrent but i think that all little boys and girls will like 
 this game if there just learning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I put in Viva Pinata not knowing what to expect. I had read previous blogs by people who were college-aged 
 confessing to love of bright Pinatas. I either suspected that they were gay or that Viva Pinata 
 really was something special. It turns out that it was the latter.
  
  To describe it briefly, I'd call it Sim City with Pinatas and no disasters. You spend your time 
 sculpting a garden where for Pinatas to live in. The fun comes in making it look nice and attracting 
 some of the more "advanced" Pinatas. It's like Pokemon, except you don't capture them you attract 
 them.
  
  This is a great and really fun concept that I have to say I really enjoyed. There are problems, 
 though. The interface is awful. Think Mass Effect. Yeah, that bad. Also, the controls are confusing 
 and it takes time to master some things. There also should have been zoom controls on the camera, 
 but those are nonexistent. 
  
  Gameplay here gets a 7. Yes, the concept is brilliant but it isn't executed well. 
  
  The graphics 
 are bright and colorful and easily enjoyed! You can make gardens that are truly beautiful. The 
 bright colors look spectacular in HD. Though, the actual technical graphics are behind and not 
 impressive. The opening video is choppy, which is totally unacceptable. 
  
  The graphics get an 8. 
  
  Now, sound is where I really have to hand over my compliments. I 
 expected a cheery score with adequate composition, but I was wrong. The score is spectacular and 
 is work that I wouldn't mind owning. It also fits very well. It's just a plain, but beautiful, 
 orchestral score that will leave you impressed.
  
  The voice acting does deserve to be bashed. The characters are all annoying. The Pinatas are fine, 
 but there are humans in Viva Pinata who will annoy to no end and you literally have to deal with 
 them.
  
  The sound gets a 9.
  
  As for value, it's loads of great fun, but only to a certain extent. Once you've unlocked every 
 last Pinata, there's no reason to play anymore. 
  
  Value gets a 6.
  
  My tilt? Well, I'm tilting it with a 9. It's losing that point because it's too frustrating at 
 times to be a kid's game. Sometimes it feels like they were targeting my age group intentionally, 
 knowing that they'd have a cult following. Anyway, Viva Pinata is worth at least a rental and my 
 final score is:
  
  7.5, which is not necessarily an average. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariellejodoin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is undeniably cute, it's got cute cuddly pinata creatures, cheery music, happy colours, 
 and cute sound effects, but that doesn't mean it isn't in depth, or difficult. When I got this 
 game, I though it would be a cute, easy, simulation game, but after three hours of playing and 
 trying to keep my garden in order, I ended up having to restart just to get some order.
  It doesn't take too long to learn the controls, or the basics, but it could take a life-time to 
 learn how to play. After about two days of playing, I finally have a manageable garden.
  As far as game play goes, it's a fairly easy game, but as I said, it could take a while to get 
 everything in order, but it's worth it.
  My main issue with the game is when random preztails walk into my garden and eat my hunnybuns.. 
 and even though building a fence and keeping them safe is a good way of dealing with it, you'll 
 constantly have people coming into your garden, and opening the gates.. and your pinata's escape.
 
  Even though I'd never seen the show, and I would never consider watching it, I still really enjoy 
 the game, and I think it is a good buy for anyone who is willing to deal with pulling their hair 
 out for a couple of days, until they get the game figured out.
  This was a difficult review to write, since I don't really have anything bad to say about it.. 
 and I'm not the sort of person who can sit here listing the good qualities of something.
  If you like simulations, buy it, enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  The birds and the bees speech? If your kids play this, they may ask ahead of time.
  
  You start with basic garden grooming. If you do the entire yard to start, you'll already be ahead 
 of yourself, and I don't like to do a small piece at a time. Clear the debris and plant grass. 
 If you do a little, you get a caterpillar-type pinata. Make it happy and then you can make it do 
 a "happy dance" in their cave, birdhouse, etc... to get more pinatas. Umm... ew. It actually has 
 a cut-scene inside each home to show variations of disco dancing and whatnot.
  
  If you can put up with the odd stuff and take your time improving your garden, you can play a fairly 
 enjoyable game. It's a fairly easy game to learn on the fly. If, on the other hand, you start fast 
 like I did, you quickly get more and more pinata interested in your garden before you're ready 
 to deal with them. A lot of mine came out before I had even finished the tutorial for one pinata 
 type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright for my age i shouldn't be playing this kind of game. But when i played this for the first 
 time i was hooked almost straight away. It leaves you wanting to find out what happens next over 
 and over and over. Its a microsoft game and the graphics are very decent for this game and platform. 
 The gameplay is very addicting and fun and childish but great. The storyline im not to clear on 
 yet but i think it is you attract pinatas into your garden, then you feed them and house them and 
 what not until they are a decent size and you can sell them. Very entertaining and even with mates 
 its great fun. I only played it for a short time at a mates house but its equal fun to assasins 
 creed but more addicting. A very good Microsoft game thats worth buying. I know its on Xbox 360 
 and i thnk its coming out of Wii and Computer. But over all worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a game where you create your own garden, make homes for pinatas, and do some mini-games. 
 But its only fun if you have patience and like games where you make your own things and look after 
 animals.
  
  You need patience because once you have made your Garden you need to wait a few minutes until at 
 least ONE Pinata comes. But once they do, you can do mini games with them, and "make" new pinatas 
 via a "romance" mini game where you have to guide one pinata to the other one dodgeing the obstacles.
 
  
  You usually plant flowers, build houses etc in the game.
  If your too fond of shooters, this won't appeal to you probably.
  
  But don't be put off by 
 all the colourful screen shots for this game. Its not the worst one in the world or anything, but 
 you can get a few better ones for the price of Viva Pinata.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  Difficulty: 5/10
  
  Soo, yeah. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  The Good
  + VERY innovative, I've never really played anything quite like it before
  + SUPERB graphics, some of the best cartoony graphics I've ever seen
  + Can last you a very long 
 time, especially if you try to go for all of the achievements (which are really fun to try to get! 
 I got 680 gamerscore so far from Viva Pinata)
  + TONS of different pinata species to try to recruit to your garden
  + Very fun to play
  
 
  The Bad
  - Sometimes enemies can come into your garden and destroy some of the hard work that you've done
 
  - You could be trying to build up alot of 1 type of pinata (for the master romancer reward, which 
 requires 7 of one type of pinata) but they could keep getting eaten by other pinata in your garden, 
 which can be frustrating
  - Sometimes your pinatas won't do what you direct them to do for no real reason
  - The game slows 
 down at later parts when you aren't unlocking things as fast anymore
  
  
  Overall, Viva Pinata is a great game for any 360 owner of any age. It's not directed towards kids 
 like you may think, because I'm 18 and I enjoyed it alot. This was one of the games that I was 
 really looking forward to playing when I got my 360, and for the most part it did live up to my 
 expectations. While there are a few things keeping this from being a 9.0 game or higher, I still 
 recommend that you definitely give this game a shot, especially if you're a fan of games like Animal 
 Crossing, because you will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THXiam117
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun, creative, and good for all ages. It's graphics are Great and it has so many varieties 
 of pinatas. It's gameplay is unique but some pinatas are just too hard to catch. Its fun too see 
 how your garden grows over time. You'll be so addicted to it you'll be getting the "time spent" 
 achievments in absolutely no time. Its really fun customizing yout pinatas with accesories. The 
 bad thing is the ruffians dont go without you giving them money or they jack something up. and 
 the ruffian leader eats pinatas it ate my brothers chunicorn one of the most exspensive pinatas 
 in the game. at 20 dollars its one of the best buys for the 360 for games from 20$-30$. It is one 
 of the games that are good for kids and adults alike. Hey I love games like Gears of War and I 
 still LOVE this game. and the difuculty is just right. Please realize I only had this game for 
 about a week or my time spent would be so much higher! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalshotput
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was a very great game when i started playing it. I had nothing to do one day so i downloaded 
 the demo from the Marketplace on xbox live. I began playing it and realised that the demo was actually 
 the full game so i kept going, and going, and going...... and going. Pretty soon i had wasted damn 
 near 3 hours on this game. Finally i had to go to bed so i turned off my xbox (and had that weird 
 internal bleeding feeling that you get when you feel like you just wasted a bunch of time on nothing) . 
 The next day i turned on the demo again but i got kinda pissed off that i had to do everything 
 again, so i went out to EB Games, bought the game (19.99 used, wasnt too bad) and started playing 
 it again. I turned the game off a while later, after saving it this time, but when i turned it 
 back on.. i was almost bored. Every time you turn this game on, you lose interest. I still love 
 to play the game, but it definately a game that i play every once in a while, never over and over 
 again. I recommend this game if you have that extra money, want to start something different, and 
 still be able to play it for a long time. It earns a solid 9 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Well you are an gardener who happen to stumble across a garden which you help a sad girl that needed 
 your help. Well during your time at the garden you able too train pinatas as your pets, as well 
 growing plants or trees even making houses for them. Many varieties of pinatas will come too your 
 garden slowly you will received challenges as well. The graphics are cute. You can able make your 
 way of living in the garden. Over 60 pinatas that you can raise and plant seeds. Slowly your garden 
 will improve and many panatas will travel too see YOUR garden and you never might know you they 
 might move right in.
  
  
  This is great for everyone it doesn't matter how old you are this game is really fun too play. 
 This game is fun for families who has young children and easy too control and easy too figure it 
 out. This game is very addicting and you can able to watch your garden grow as well. At first I 
 didn't like this game but I gave it a try and I finally enjoy this game. This game can't pass up 
 because this game is so unique and it's different from other games. It doesn't matter how you play 
 it, this is game is an open-ending so that you can able too play around. This game is also help 
 younger children too teach them how too take care of things. It's seems like this for children 
 but it's not. Well give it a try, this game is most fun for everyone. Also teaches children responsibilities 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Viva Piata is a completely original game; it just can't be classified into the same genre as any 
 'pet' or 'gardening' game that has come before it. The game starts with you receiving a small, 
 run-down patch of land which you will turn into your garden and as you'd expect as the game goes 
 on you'll gain access to more space and various other things to help make you dream garden. You'll 
 be able to grow grass, care for plants and trees, make ponds, fill your garden with all sorts of 
 objects, make money and of course take care of your piata. All of this is for the most part a 
 joy to do. You'll also have a variety of merchants at your call as well as your 3 main tools, the 
 shovel, the watering can and the grass packet, the can and shovel will be upgraded as you go and 
 this is a good addition to the game, however with each upgrade usually only making the most insignificant 
 difference upgrades can sometimes seem slightly pointless.
  
  As for the piata themselves you'll have 60 to play with in total, although Viva Piata does not 
 really keep the piata themselves as a collectable part of the game as you will won't have space 
 to have every piata in the game at once and this is a positive addition which helps keeps the 
 piata from becoming like collectable items. As you reach certain points in the game new piata 
 will appear to you and you will have to fulfil various requirements to get the piata to visit 
 your garden, become resident and eventually 'romance' with other piata of the same species. These 
 requirements usually involve aspects of the environment, food, housing or other piata and the 
 requirements are all well balanced between piata and give a warm sense of satisfaction upon completion. 
 The romancing (or breeding) of piatas involves a short snake/pacman-like minigame where you must 
 get one piata to the other, avoiding the bombs and collecting the coins. The minigames are well-designed, 
 with each one having a specific layout for the piata. After the romancing an egg will arrive an 
 shortly afterwards hatch into a new baby piata.
  
  There is also a levelling structure n the game and to earn experience you will need to collect 
 rewards which you can get by discovering things or managing to complete a task for the first time. 
 It's a great system as it brings a further sense of achievement to the game while keeping it from 
 ever feeling it like a grind and it also keeps things moving, encouraging you to go after new plants 
 and piata. The game also does have in-game time, gently coaxing you into taking care of your piata 
 during the day and performing other tasks at night. You'll find some piata more nocturnal than 
 others but night in some cases will slow down pace for the worst, if you were really intent on 
 performing something during the day for example you will have to sit around the whole night waiting 
 until dawn when your piata will be wide awake enough to be persuaded to come out of their homes 
 and let you continue your daily routine. Another note-worthy inclusion in the game is the helpers, 
 this particular service can be an annoyance as although they will usually perform the tasks they're 
 supposed to they are introduced early in the game when you probably can do what they do by yourself, 
 much cheaper but later in the game you'll find they just can't keep up with the frantic pace of 
 caring for your garden.
  
  Of course caring for your garden can't be all sunshine and buttercups, you've got to deal with 
 evil sour piata (who will eventually become sweet, piata residents if you fulfil their requirements) , 
 ruffians looking to defile your garden paradise, Dastardos who will come to kill any sick piata 
 and later in the game Professor Pester. The first 3 mentioned are forgivable nuisances but even 
 a single visit from Pester can seriously ruin your garden, Pester will wander round the garden 
 looking for your most valuable piata and then just smash to pieces a piata you may have been 
 working days (real time) to acquire, worst of all the only way you can get rid of him is with a 
 rare item you'll have to play up to level 30 for anyway. There are also a few other problems with 
 the game such as the fact that to stop naturally conflicting species of piata fighting each other 
 you'll need to separate them with fences but these create great problems as they are just one cause 
 of various infuriating pathing problems in the game. The achievements in the game are very well-balanced 
 with 50 achievements in all. The difficulty slop in Viva Piata is also very good, beggining extremely 
 easily but actually ending up at a very challenging level where you'll have to be good to maintain 
 your garden but even better to make the right decisions.
  
  That should cover gameplay, now onto graphics. The most instantly noticeable thing about Viva Piatas 
 graphics is that they are very vibrant and colourful; they also take advantage of the 360s graphical 
 capabilities by using a number of useful effects in an artistic manner. You'll notice the twilight, 
 dream-like glow of the morning and the soft, darkened night and it's all really good. You can even 
 stare at the realistic reflections in the ponds or actually watch the plants grow. The game does 
 start to lose some detail if you zoom in too far but Rare have still done a good job. However the 
 illusion of this beautiful world can be spoilt by the time you notice that moving the right distance 
 away from an object or turning around very quickly results in an obvious drop in quality or the 
 game frantically trying to reapply more-detailed graphical settings and this does somewhat take 
 away from the world of Viva Piata. But despite a few minor flaws the graphics of Viva Piata are 
 as enticing as the rest of the game.
  
  The sound in Viva Piata is also surprisingly good. It's all put in to place just right to give 
 the game a certain feeling. The general sound effects are good, the voice acting is good and the 
 piatas calls are all pitch-perfect. But the music in Viva Piata is beautiful, it has an almost 
 all-classical selection of music but the orchestral pieces in the games soundtrack compliment the 
 events of the game perfectly.
  
  There is also a certain amount of plot ion the game. It comes in the form of the 'storybook', your 
 not actually forced to follow it and it's great to have the freedom to get on with the game but 
 if you do decide to read the storybook as you go you'll find it a rewarding experience which ties 
 into the game very cleverly.
  
  Overall fun, beautiful and original are the only ways to describe Viva Piata and the intertwining 
 of all the components in the game is practically seamless. It's just a shame there are a few unresolved 
 weaknesses you will inevitably encounter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pash007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  I'm a 40+ year old bloke plaing a 3+ game and loving it. How sad!!
  It's one of those games that starts off very slowly and gradually sucks you into its world.
  
 Ok the bright colours are a bit childish and the musical interludes are extremely anoying, but 
 this game is sneakily complicated and very addictive.
  I would strongly suggest reading a walkthrough or a character guide before becoming too engrossed 
 in the wonderful world of pinatas because some of the achievements aren't evident without getting 
 a few hints or tips from elsewhere. Don't worry though, "cheating" in this way doesn't spoil the 
 game. It makes the gamer deeper, more involving and more evolving. Ho ho.
  I can understand the games rating of 3+ because there is very little violence (usual a few taps 
 with a shovel) , but I feel that the average 3 year old would struggle to come to terms with the 
 complexities of growing a garden, breeding different species of pinata and evolving them into new 
 species.
  I haven't tried the multiplayer yet, and don't see the point in it.
  If you are a grown chap, like myself, and need a life, do not buy this game. It will sap hours 
 out of your life.
  If you are a grown chap and don't have a life, I would heartily reccommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Your life on Piata Island begins on a small patch of land that used to belong to a legendary gardener 
 named Jardiniero. It's been neglected for some time, though, and looks more like the beginnings 
 of a desert landfill than a garden that any self-respecting piata would want to call home. When 
 you arrive, a tearful girl named Leafos, who spends her days lamenting the state of the garden, 
 will guide you through all of the game's basic controls and gameplay mechanics. By the time you're 
 done talking to her, you'll be armed with a shovel, a watering can, and a packet of grass seeds 
 with which to get started on your piata paradise. The game doesn't present you with many specific 
 tasks at any point, your goal is simply to create and maintain a garden that increasingly demanding 
 piatas will want to make their home. This degree of open-endedness can actually feel a little 
 daunting at first, but you'll quickly realize that your progression through the game is more structured 
 than it first appears. 
  
  Depending on your profile settings, Viva Piata's controls will default to either a basic or an 
 advanced scheme. Neither setup is complicated, but the basic option should be a welcome addition 
 for anyone who isn't entirely comfortable with the idea of using both analog sticks simultaneously 
 or with using the triggers in addition to the face buttons. The functions performed by the four 
 face buttons are context-sensitive and displayed in the top right corner of the screen at all times, 
 which goes a long way toward making the game accessible for family members who perhaps aren't as 
 familiar with the Xbox 360 controller as you. The numerous menu screens in the game are also very 
 user-friendly, with each option appearing as a petal on a flower. 
  
  Within moments of getting started in your garden, you'll begin to attract the attention of wild 
 piatas. Each of the 70 or so different species in the game has different criteria that you or 
 your garden will need to meet before they'll appear. Once you've sighted a piata, you'll have 
 to meet further criteria before they'll visit, move into, and ultimately, procreate in your garden. 
 In the early stages of the game, it can seem as if almost everything you do has a positive effect 
 on the local wildlife. But as you level up and gain access to more abilities, more seeds, and better 
 tools, the demands of the wildlife that you'll be trying to get into your garden increase proportionately. 
 For example, you might attract a new low-level piata simply by growing a vegetable or a certain 
 kind of flower. But to even catch a glimpse of some of the larger, more-impressive species, you'll 
 need to dedicate large portions of your garden to their needs. In some cases, you'll even need 
 to ensure that they have plenty of smaller piatas to feed on. Still more challenging are the evil, 
 sour piatas that will be attracted to your garden from time to time. These instantly recognizable 
 red-and-black creatures that invariably have very sharp teeth, do nothing but cause trouble until 
 you figure out a way to keep them out or tame them. 
  
  Viva Piata's learning curve is near-perfect. It does a great job of giving you new abilities over 
 time. It also prevents you from progressing to a point that you and your garden just aren't ready 
 for, which is based on the way that you level up in the game. You'll earn experience points (read: 
 blue flower petals) toward your next level each time you attract or breed a new species of piata 
 or successfully grow a new kind of plant. There are other, less obvious ways to level up as well. 
 For example, you may discover different color variants of piata that you already have in your 
 garden by instructing them to eat or otherwise interact with different things. The majority of 
 the piatas have three different color variants for you to discover, and some will even evolve 
 into entirely different species after eating certain items
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreativePlug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Let's get the obvious out of the way... Viva Pinata wasn't really marketed as a game that would 
 appeal to a demographic other than younger children. Most of that is due to the fact that it also 
 was launched with a cartoon show that to my knowledge, isn't as popular as Microsoft and Rare may 
 hoped.
  
  Regardless of what you may already think you know about VP, if you haven't played it yet... then 
 the notions of it being a "kids" game are a bit off.
  
  First of all, if you like games like Animal Crossing, SIMS or Harvest Moon, you may already have 
 it in you to enjoy this type of gameplay. Not to say that all those games mentioned are all alike, 
 they each have a common theme: growing, and or maintaining your characters' well-being.
  
  You start off with a shabby little dirt pile of a garden and work the ground to be able to manage 
 something of beauty. You're given the bare essential tools you'll need to get your garden growing: 
 shovel, seeds for grass and eventually a watering can.
  
  While all this may seem like the beginings of unwanted work in what's supposed to be an entertaining 
 game, it actually lends itself to be pretty addictive if you ask me. There's something about taking 
 something broken down and making it into something that shines that's very rewarding.
  
  Now you could probably go out and do some real gardening and quite possibly have even a greater 
 sense of satisfaction... but who has the time for that? ;)
  
  Besides improving the garden's vegetation and aesthetics, you of course... attract, mate and sell 
 Pinatas. These are the natural inhabitants of Pinata Island (where the game takes place) . These 
 creatures are naturally roaming around different areas near your garden, and depending on what 
 type of vegetation, amount of water, certain species of other Pinata living in your garden and 
 certain flowers, you can have a variety of different animals living and breeding in your garden 
 before you know it!
  
  It's not a very difficult game to get into. In fact, it will move a long very quickly withing the 
 first few hours of gameplay. But in order to really find those rare species of Pinatas, you're 
 best best would be to pick up the Strategy Guide or look it up online. I don't normally condone 
 (even though I own quite a few) using Guides until after the game itself is completed for the first 
 time around. I like the ability to discover what the game has to offer on it's own. But for this 
 game... if you really want your garden to flourish with as many types of plants and pinatas... you'll 
 need some help.
  
  The game/garden itself isn't limited to just growing plants and harvesting/mating pinatas. You'll 
 also discover a town that has a number of little people that can help you on your way to Pinata 
 fame and fortune.
  
  The town there is pretty typical. It hosts a shop to buy or sell goods to decorate your garden. 
 The shop keeper also has seeds to plan vegetables, fruits, flowers and trees to plant in your garden. 
 You can also get seeds from a character named Seedos who lives in the village. There is also a 
 shop to buy accessories for your Pinatas, a builder who can make homes and other structures for 
 your Pinatas, a sort of tavern type place where you can hire help to water, protect and harvest 
 your garden so that you can find more time to do other things with your Pinatas and not have to 
 maintain all the work yourself. (which can get to be quite a handful after a while)
  
  As in real life, certain species of Pinata don't live well with each other and will either fight 
 for "territory" or will fall within the food chain of the game and be eaten. It's a natural occurrence 
 and you'll get used to it. Although it's a bit difficult to try to keep them apart... and you'll 
 more than likely spend the first few hours of the game trying to keep peace. At least... I did ;) 
 Anyway, this game is full of adorable and brightly colorful characters and charming setting. But 
 due to it's childish appearance, it will be one of those games that will be overlooked by most 
 adult gamers. Word of mouth is really what has made this game slightly popular over time.
  
  It's had a slight increase... but never really was as popular as it should probably have been. 
 Even though it will never make the transition, due to it's more younger audience, this title would 
 have probably done really well on the Nintendo Wii as apposed to the XBOX 360.
  
  But if you're looking for something other than sports games, shooters or bad movie-tie in games... give 
 VP a try. Rent it and see if you like it. I recommend it for anyone who has enjoyed the quirks 
 of games like Animal Crossing and the SIMS series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baylon452
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Viva Piata puts you in the role of a gardener on a mysterious island called piata island.
  You are given a run down plot of land and given the task of tidying it up and making it habitable 
 for all the different piata that'll visit. 
  From first glance Viva Piata sounds and looks like a kids game but its actually deep and difficult 
 enough for adults to like just as much. 
  It maybe the case that this game is too difficult for the audience it is aimed at and an older 
 audience cant look past the childish look of it, but if you swallow your pride and give it ago 
 you may really enjoy it.
  
  
  The aim of Viva Piata is.... well there isn't actually an aim to the game, you just play and watch 
 your garden grow. You make your own aim to the game,
  whether its that you want to have collected and seen all the piata in the game or if its that 
 you want to make your garden the one worth the most money, 
  the choice is up to you. You are given all the freedom you want pretty much from the get go and 
 you can do what you want with your land. The way you get piata to stay in your garden is simple, 
 if they like it they will stay.
  Each piata has a set of requirements and if they are met they will stay. For example if you want 
 your garden to have a bunnycomb (a rabbit) you will need a certain percentage of you land to be 
 grass and you will have to have carrots for them to eat.
  The requirements start of small and easy but some become much greater and its up to you if you 
 want to put the time and effort into your garden to cater for that piatas needs.
  
  
  Once you get a piata to stay with you and you get more than one of the same type you can start 
 to breed them. Breeding piata is the same as getting them to stay, 
  each has its own certain requirements for them to be bread, once these are meet you'll have to 
 complete a mini-game. The stage for each mini-game is the same for each type of piata but each 
 is slightly different. 
  You have to get one of the pair to reach the other by navigating it through a small maze, if you 
 can make it you'll be rewarded by the piatas breeding and you'll receive an egg which in time 
 will hatch into the piata of which type you chose to breed.
  
  
  That's pretty much it for the players input to the game, the rest of the time you'll managing your 
 garden and piata; 
  planting seeds, making ponds, building piata houses, these are the types of things you'll be doing 
 to your garden. Yes they sound boring but any fans of sim games will find plenty to do. 
  Other type of interaction with the piata include stopping them from fighting or feeding them certain 
 items to make them change colour and discovering all the different type of variations each piata 
 has. With over 60 different types of piata there's a lot of things to discover.
  
  
  Viva Piata is a very unique game, it is appealing to kids, adult and casual gamers of all ages. 
 Its unique visual style and gameplay offer something not seen in any other game.
  It is filled with hours and hours of addictive gameplay and once you get into it it is very hard 
 to put down. Anyone who is into sim games should give Viva Piata a good look, you would probably 
 have never played anything like this before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan353
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Vivia La Pinta is a cute game that sucks you into a world of stuff Piniatas and their lives in 
 your confined space you call a garden. This game really has no plot as a matter of fact it has 
 really no end. The really only true goal is to make all the aviliable Pintas your resident and 
 make them reproduce so you can sell them off for cooler Pinatas. The achievment goal is also the 
 other item really to complete. This game is perfect for the under ten crowd or for us really old 
 people a place where you forget about anything except Pinatas. I found the only real manly thing 
 you can do in this game is chase them around with your shovel screaming Vivia la Pinta as you smack 
 them into little bits of Candy. 
  
  
  Ok OK and now for the review . The game graphics and overall control is above average. The game 
 itself is actually increadible well done and fun for the whole family with really no alternative 
 but to keep playing until all your Pinata fantasies come true
  
  You will defintely have fun with this game
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolinovodno2500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  storyline 6/10
  the storyline is not much its just you gotta make the best garden and many of ur friends will help 
 provided you pay them that is and you have to beat this guy to make the best pinata island
  
  gameplay 9/10
  well i like the gameplay bc you can take care of your pinatas feed them make 
 them have babies have a big food chain alot of other pinatas animals will be there and if u have 
 an owl say hell need to eat 2 of your worms to have owl kids but dont worry you can make more worm 
 pinatas and u sell pinatas and stuff to buy houses and pinata stuff
  
  graphics 7/10
  cartoon style thing very funny and addictive and cute.. oh yeah and if u see the images of any 
 games of 7 generation consoles like the x360 or ps3 it looks better on the console than on ur pc 
 screen or at least mine
  
  sound 8/10
  nice sound you can hear ur pinatas make sound they sleep nice cute sound and atmosphere
  
  
 overall 862/1000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude911
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Face it. When you first looked at this game you thought "what kind of try hard game is this?" This 
 game might look babyish might sound babyish but it isnt its a game that people of all ages will 
 enjoy.
  
  This game starts off when u get a pice of dry and cracked land and its your job to nurture it, 
 plant seeds build houses etc. Throughout the game various animals enter your garden like pinata 
 snakes, birds, worms, moths and heaps more. But if one of your animals in your garden gets sick 
 Dromoros ( an evil genius who steals the candy from the pinatas ) comes and tries to steal their 
 candy. This game is also great because its a COMPLETELY ORIGINAL idea! 
  
  Now enough of the good stuff and into criticism. Some times it gets boring because if no animals 
 come into your garden for a while theres hardly anythin to do. 
  
  Well thats all i have to say about this game and overall i give it a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  This game is very hard to describe... First of all, it apparently looks that it was made for kids 
 but a game like The Sims with the same experience in being a God, Animal Crossing in raising animals, 
 and Harvest Moon in creating and managing your "farm like" garden is just as enjoyable for kids 
 and adults alike. Second is that it is addictive in some way that I can't describe. It's nothing 
 special by just looking at it except that you're in a world where there are living papier mache 
 but it gives you this special feeling that is once again, very hard to describe.
  
  Graphics: Graphics is topnotch. With its colorful world and pinatas, there's no doubt about it 
 that this is going to look great.
  
  Sounds: The sound tracks in this game are beautiful. Good voice acting done on each character with 
 funny lines. And when I say funny, I mean it. There is this sound that when you destroy a sour 
 kind of pinata, there will be voices of children shouting "yehey". It's funny and at the same time 
 makes this game and you childish but it's very enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: At first glance, you might think that it is very simple and easy but when you lay your 
 hands on it and take it seriously, you'll notice that it is not that easy but kinda challenging. 
 It is very addictive so you might restart your game all over again when you learn all of what you 
 need to know to make your garden much prettier. There are many achievements in this game, another 
 reason that will keep you playing.
  
  Story: Not much of it since it's open-ended but better than The Sims IMO.
  
  Overall: A great 
 and addictive game that will keep you hooked in various reasons. I think the best quote that suits 
 this game is "Don't judge the book by it's cover" because many gamers (ages 15 and older) thinks 
 that this is for kids. So the bottom line is this is a must get for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy371
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Viva piata is definitely not the game you would expect it to be. They say "Don't judge a book 
 by its cover." Really, this applies for Viva piata. I got this game with my Xbox 360 in a bundle, 
 and I also got 4 other games, and for a while playing Viva piata didn't even cross my mind. I 
 was well into the other games and yet to even start Viva piata. But then I thought "Oh yeah haven't 
 played it, may-as-well at least try." So then I started what turned out to be a wonderful gaming 
 experience.
  
  At the start of the game you come into it thinking that it is for kids and just want to get into 
 the game and say you played it and go. But if you last out that bit of story and Lefos' talking 
 and actually listen, you soon get hooked into the story. After you listen to Lefos for a little 
 and receive your spade, you are left hitting the ground with your spade in a messy terrible garden 
 area. Once you clean the thing up a bit and more of the story is told to you, you start making 
 your garden. It all sounds childish, but it really is addictive and fun.
  
  Now you have your garden and you are collecting piatas, the start is a little bit repetitive, 
 but you start to get into it. More piatas come to your garden, you grow levels, more characters 
 come to help you, and much more continues to happen. 
  
  Now I'm not even near finishing the game, but I can't help but to continue playing, Viva piata 
 really is fun and addictive.
  
  The story: Viva piatas story line really is great; you are taking care of the garden that used 
 to belong to Jardiniero. Jardiniero used to be the best Gardner in all of Piata Island. He had 
 collected all of the piatas in his garden but one. Your goal is to live up to his greatness. The 
 story keeps you hooked in, you can't help but to want to see more.
  
  Graphics: The game's graphics are very childish, you can't deny that fact. But they are good, there's 
 nothing wrong with them. They suit the game, and really, if they tried to go all out with the graphics 
 it just wouldn't work. The piatas have good detail on them; the garden has nice detail and fixture 
 in it. As a whole the graphics are great.
  
  Cons: The only thing I could say is wrong with this game is, it can get repetitive. But you still 
 maintain a huge fun factor even though it is a little repetitive. 
  
  Overall: Viva piata overall really is an excellent game for ALL ages. You should not get put off 
 by the fact it looks like it is for kids, it really is a great gaming experience for everyone out 
 there. Definitely a buy. A great buy at that ;) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewPro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  I recently got this game and i can say that i am amazed by the addiction it causes. The graphics 
 are really colourful which gives the game a nice warm relaxed feeling, and that is a big part of 
 what adds to the main feeling of the whole game. I love the way that through the game you learn 
 something new every few minutes, and you regularly keep gaining upgrades for many different things. 
 The best part is when you gain contracts to extend the size of youre garden, as i thought myself 
 that it was going to be so small throughout the whole of the game as you start off with a very 
 small piece of land.
  
  There are many pinatas in this game and it is youre job to give them homes and change their names 
 or colours and basically modify them as much as you like. They are youre pinata so you can do what 
 you want with them. An easy way of making money is to sell them, but its best to be careful with 
 this feature as it may be a long time until a new one of the same kind comes for a visit into youre 
 garden. Or you could just go to the village hunter and ask her to fetch you an animal of the kind 
 you just selt, although this is extremely costly and worth being avoided.
  
  Overall theres not much more i can say for this game, its not at all for kids, its quite the opposite, 
 i think adults would find it much more fun than kids would, with it being quite compliacated to 
 work out at first. Go out and buy it now you will be suprised!
  
  Reccomended by ReviewPro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  what is your idea for a game design? what do you want, this game give them to you; every pixel of 
 this game give a lot fun to you; every work you do, bring energy to your life, every single movement 
 of your creature make you on the air and fresh your body; starting a new era in the funny games, is 
 the best product of best minds in the "RARE LTD";
  have no fun in life? life is so boring? your games take your mind out? play VIVA PINATA for smiling, being 
 happy, smoke out the dark side of your life, and be the funniest player in the world;
  pinataS are so happy; dance like a real dancer and make a couple like mankind in the amazing ways;
 
  watch them for only ten m and you can see the comediest actions in the gaming world; i am so proud 
 for finishing the game; every gener, each race, from olds to adults must play this game and experience 
 the funs; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaziantep_spor
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Viva Piata for the Xbox 360 is one of my favourite games of all time. It's a really creative game 
 and also very fun to play. 
  
  Viva Piata is a game that you get attached to. There are a lot of options to create your garden 
 like growing plants, harvesting fruits and vegetables and selling them to make money. There is 
 a lot of ways to make your garden amazing, you can build homes for your Piata's and also make 
 a water hole. There is a huge variety of Piata's such as Cows, Horses, Chickens, Foxes and many 
 many more. The fun and exciting part of the game is when you attract Piata's to your garden, it's 
 not easy to make Piata's a resident to your garden but the best way is to decorate your garden 
 with a lot of unique items such as short/long grass, trees, coloured flowers and more items. The 
 sad part of the game is when sour Piata's come to your garden and spread bad sweets also poisonous, 
 if a healthy Piata eats the bad sweets it will get sick and if you don't call a doctor on time 
 a character by the name Dastardos will come and destroy them.
  
  So if you have a Xbox 360 I recommend you buy it as soon as possible.
  
  From: gaziantep_spor 
 to all you gamespot fans. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlisen
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  There's something about viva piata... I can't say exactly what, but it makes it an addictive as 
 ice game. I'm not saying it's a great game, it's good, but it's not excellent. It is fun, really 
 fun, for the first day you have it, but it's just a little like Pokemon, your only aim is to collect 
 creatures, don't get me wrong, I enjoy doing that, but it gets really tedious after a while. You 
 can really easily cheat anyway, just plant 10 chillies, water them, sell them and profit! 
  And some of the breeding requirements are insanely difficult. Like, get your animal to eat 10 of 
 a certain animal, then eat a billion berries and build it a mansion. It all gets a bit ridiculous. 
 I have to say, I played it for about 6 hours straight, managed to get a deer, then realised it 
 was inevitably going to addict me. So I stopped playing it, in time to realise that it wasn't anything 
 that special, but it did have some kind of drug (maybe the colours) that kept me coming back.
 
  So to me, it's not that great, but it is a decent game, to entertain for a while, but not too 
 long.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  When I first saw a video about viva pinata game. I thought it's a joke, it looked too for kids 
 and boring. Year later, when I got my 360 (this december :D) I got the bundle what had viva pinata+forza 
 2+racing wheel in it. When I started playing, I couldn't stop playing, it was too addictive! You 
 start in a viva garden what is full of junk and no grass. You'll meet with a lot of characters 
 like Leafos ( the character who gives the shovel and grass grover) , shop seller, guy who gives seeds, 
 builder and so on. When you play for some time, you will have a lot of pinatas roaming around your 
 garden. Eventually there will come bad pinatas who eat and attack your pinatas, and there will 
 be pinatas who will come or become residents when they eat a certain pinata. You will unlock bigger 
 gardens, shovel upgrades and get more chapters about the best pinata gardener.
  
  Graphics are really really good, pinatas look great, backround looks great, you will see seed guy 
 or pinatas on backround, moving.
  
  Gameplay works fine, there are sometimes some problems with camera but they are small thing.
 
  
  Fun factor is large, even though you'll sometimes think: come on , some new pinata or upgrade. 
 But you will still have fun.
  
  My opinion: If you like these kinds of game, it's must have. But if you are more into hardcore 
 shooting, it's worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhail_tisoy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  surprisingly good game i thought this game was just for kids i played it on my cuzins house and 
 it was amzing so i dicided to buy it the visuals are truly amazing while and the gameplay it really 
 fun trying to get all the pinatas there are around 50 pinatas to get a truly amazing game for both 
 kids and adult this game will keep u entertained for ages ive been playing it for 50hrs and i only 
 got 30 pinatas 20 more pinatas to go!!!!!!!1 yahooooooooooooooooooooo i recomend this game specaily 
 for your kids 
  theyll have fun even just looking at the pinatas or destroying your garden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  A fun addictive game almost along the lines of Sim CIty, but with awsome colourful pinatas! lol, 
 nut no really it is very simmilar to Sim games. Example, make building and items to attract civiillians 
 / pinatas into your city / pinata garden. You need to be really creative to get good at this game 
 and think of things such as what would attract who and how to get different pinatas. (Example is 
 Take a fly dude and put it over a torch then it turns into a super cool fire fly!) I suggest to 
 anyone who has ever wanted to make a garden of living pinatas that gets attacked by evil ones and 
 red migitey freaks, buy it. Then again, I'm sure noone ever has. Either way I still say it's A 
 buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bingmore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  There's not many games out there that you can find that make you want to skip work or college. 
 But Viva Pinata is one of those games, it sucks you in to its colourful little world and you can't 
 seem to tear yourself away. There is so much to do with all the different species, variants and 
 plants that Rare has offered us. There is SO much to do in-fact; that i find myself creating several 
 gardens, one for birds, one for water Pinatas, one for insects, one for land dwellers etc.
  
  
  Viva Pinata is one of those rare games that can also be played be all ages and both sex's. 
 once my girlfriend found out about Viva Pinata I couldn't get her off it! Even my mum asked me 
 the other day if she could play on it, I couldn't believe my ears! One of the reasons it can be 
 played on by everyone is its simple control layout, easy to grasp and easy to access. there's even 
 short cuts on the d-pad for more experienced gamers who want to get their shovel's out and whack 
 a pinata a bit faster. Another reason is the varying bright colours. Everyone gets attracted to 
 those babies!
  
  
  Overall this is a truly addictive game that I recommend you buy, not rent, you won't have enough 
 time to play it if you rent it. Maybe even buy it for a family member this Christmas?
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a good start for rare. The graphics are great. Starting out you will find yourself 
 emerged in the garden. The amount of things you can do is great, but micromanaging becomes a problem. 
 When a numerous amount of pinatas get in the garden, it gets cumbersome to take care of every single 
 things that is going on. Goals aren't really expressed clearly. Graphics are great showing the 
 pinatas and environments. The first few hours our fun, but after you do the "romance dance" so 
 many times, and bug that seed guy, it just gets tiring. A descent game, but it just isn't the breakthrough, 
 but almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty340
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Okay maybe this game seems childish or babyish, but this is a fun game to own. I like the adorable 
 little (and big) pinatas and the many different colors and variants you can change them to. It 
 is pretty fun to do and watch your garden grow. I recommend this game to people who want to relax 
 and just play around and have fun. This is a pretty cool game that really sucks you in.
  I especially like to see how each different pinata has a different house and how you can do whatever 
 you want. Everything really is under your control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KundMat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  It isn't the best game on those store shelves, but a really good game for people that like tycoon 
 games. Once you start playing this crappy game you just can't stop playing it. I got so addicted 
 to it, it was the only game I played on 360 for about 3 months. After awhile you'll get tired of 
 people online saying: "You play that crappy game? Its for 5 year olds! (and woman who don't know 
 about any good games out there) " and it will just get plain old boring. But good game for when 
 you need a break of Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Want the best explanation of this game?
  
  Farming.
  
  There you go. Thats about as fun as it gets. Don't let the fancy colors and characters get you. 
 It may look like some weird Pokemon thing buts its not. Heres how a whole session goes from beginning 
 to end:
  
  Start game. Make your land how you want. Attract various animals, buy stuff for them and land. 
 Kill animals. Breed animals. Plant things. Do various games such as mating game dance race thing. 
 Attract animals. Go back to Kill animals. Breed animals. Plant things. Mess around with land more. 
 And it goes on from there until some various means to an end. Then guess what? YOU DO IT ALL OVER! 
 JOY! So you start with new land and at some point you get deeds to "bigger" land! And don't forget 
 you can buy junk on marketplace for this reallllyyyy boring game and trade with friends!
  
  Sounds exciting doesn't it? Don't get me wrong. I did enjoy the game, I had fun every time a new 
 breed came along and possibly thought about making my garden its home. And the whole concept is 
 great. But there are a few things that kill this game.
  
  For one they say its made for all ages. Well kids are not going to get this concept. Its really 
 complicated if you want to do the advanced gardening stuff. No kids going to get you have to have 
 this many of this, but breed this and that and kill that but grow that and have that. They will 
 be confused. And heck its even confusing for some other people!
  
  Second, by the time you get anywhere worth while you either start a new garden or or so bored you 
 WANT to try with a new garden (which you have a few plots you build off of separately) .
  
  Lastly the game is BORING and repetitive. After the fun wears off you think one of two things 1. 
 "Does this game end?" or 2. "So...... now what?". The game needs something else. You can only garden 
 for so long.
  
  Hopefully if the make a sequel or something they will think about the game in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok... from when I first heard about it, and even when I got a look at it, I never thought that 
 I would ever even think of purchasing this game. So one day in the electronics I was looking for 
 some $20+ games.. then I saw Viva Pinata.. and heard nothing but good things about it, so I figured... 
 Hey I bet this game it VERY interesting.. So I bought it and that was a week ago, and WOW I must 
 say.. this is one of the funnest and most unique games I have ever played.. its great for gamers 
 of any age, you will have a blast playing with this game and I just find this game very difficult 
 to put down Its just soo great to pass time, and have fun with the garden of pinatas .
  
  You may definitely pick this one up... and now with the low price.. its and opportunity that you 
 should not miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBR3MN3R
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I thought it would be the single worst game on the 360. But 
 after some good reviews I gave it a try... and I'm very glad I did.
  
  Good:
  Simple controls
  Fun game play
  Colorful graphics
  Good sound
  Freedom to do whatever in 
 your garden
  
  Bad:
  Some pinatas are annoying
  SLOW LOAD TIMES - this is a biggie with how often you will use the menus
  Occasional errors that 
 will freeze up your console, this is the only game I have that has frozen my 360... and I play a 
 lot of games.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game to play, and a good game when you get frustrated with some other particularly 
 difficult game (or for me, when I am on a loosing streak in Halo 3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyatt_pop
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  ok listen i loved this so much it was unbeleiveble you should have seen me at my stocking on crhistmas 
 to find a rectangle present i opned it to find the game i wanted for weeks viva pinata i danced 
 like a lozer for like an hour i did'nt even want to open any more presents so then i got so hooked 
 to it i played it for 4 hours every day i could get to play it lol buy it if you like designing 
 i do and i couldn't stop playing it but my cousin has it at the moment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamReallyROXS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  If your into the whole life sims genre, then this is the game for you! The great graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, and overall fun of this game makes it a must have!
  
  If your into the whole life sims genre, then this is the game for you! The great graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, and overall fun of this game makes it a must have!
  
  If your into the whole life sims genre, then this is the game for you! The great graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, and overall fun of this game makes it a must have!
  
  If your into the whole life sims genre, then this is the game for you! The great graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, and overall fun of this game makes it a must have!
  
  If your into the whole life sims genre, then this is the game for you! The great graphics, gameplay, 
 sound, and overall fun of this game makes it a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomtech85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Pinata Island is where you reside, taking care of cute pinatas, vegetation, and making an overall 
 healthy environment that previously belonged to a great gardener named Jardiniero. Surprisingly 
 their is somewhat of a storyline involving Jardiniero and the other characters. Once you arrive, 
 youll meet Leafos, a seemingly lonely girl that helps you with the essentials on how to operate 
 things in your newly acquired garden, as well as giving you advice about things you might need. 
 She will also give you a journal that keeps track of all the events occurring in the garden as 
 well as her own comments described as Leafos log or gossip. After that, you are provided with tools 
 such as a shovel , watering can, and grass seed. These things are your basic necessities you need 
 to get your garden up and running.
  
  When youve started planting seeds or grass, which naturally turn into plants, they eventually 
 attract the first of many pinatas, and then those will attract larger ones. All of the pinatas 
 that surround your garden have requirements needed in order to appear, visit, have residence, and 
 romance in your garden. Romancing (which is basically reproducing) a pinata can be a bit more complex 
 depending on their species, especially if the requirements are more demanding. The actual romancing 
 itself is played out as a mini-game/dance with each pinata having their own unique romance dance. 
 At first non-residents are black and white, but when the residential requirement are fulfilled, 
 the pinata will turn brightly colored.
  
  The currency in the game consists of chocolate bronze, silver and gold coins that can be used to 
 purchase products from specific items to seeds and so on. Most of your money will come from the 
 ability to sell virtually anything inside your garden. Each object including pinatas has a price 
 tag. Its pretty convenient considering you may be force to sell something to afford items necessary 
 for further garden development. With over 50 species on pinata Island, theirs lots of diversity 
 there, and each one has a agenda or routine to follow. For example, much like Animal Crossings, 
 theirs a night and day pattern, and certain species will be attracted to your garden only at night, 
 while most come in the day time. Occasionally you will have to direct your pinatas to move around 
 if not moving on their own. With progression, a number of unlockable store owners and helpers will 
 be on call for you, as youll find yourself using their services quite often. Helpers help carry 
 some of the load when things get real busy, like watering plants, pulling weeds and gathering food.
 
  
  As different pinatas are eventually introduced, comes change along with it. Your garden will in 
 fact increase in size to help make room for some of the more larger pinatas. The only downside 
 of this is having to rearrange things all over again, which is somewhat frustrating knowing you 
 may already have a nice looking garden. Another frustrating aspect are the Sour Pinatas and Ruffians, 
 these alternate versions usually sneak in when specific conditions are met and instead of trying 
 to make peace will in fact disrupt your garden by destroying plants, items and/or other pinatas.
 
  
  On the upside, these pests can be contained using your trusty shovel to either smash them into 
 bits or by offering the Ruffians a certain amount of chocolate coins to temporarily leave, in which 
 sometimes they can become greedy and not always leave right away. Ruffians and Sour Pinatas arent 
 the only ones that cause trouble from time to time. Those so called cute harmless pinatas will 
 in turn start fights in your garden. Some species start more fights than others, and becomes a 
 real hassle trying to control them, so be prepared, just a simple whack of your shovel should put 
 them in check as well.
  
  Rare have done a fantastic job on the visuals, the vivid colorfulness of the resident pinatas and 
 a paper mache look that real toy pinatas have make for nice detail. Sound wise it's a delight mostly, 
 listening to slow, calm music with background wildlife sounds of birds chirping, other creature 
 noises, and the ever so annoying sounds of the Sour ones entering you garden. The game does experience 
 some lag seemingly when hooked up to Xbox Live, or when moving through menus, but for the most 
 part its smooth. Speaking up Xbox Live, Viva Pinata does support the ability to trade pinatas, 
 gifts or accessories with friends online. It wouldve been nice to actually invite a friend into 
 your garden to cooperatively play the game which could add further enjoyment to the already addictive 
 nature of this game. What makes Viva Pinata addicting is the change and diversity that takes places 
 throughout your time playing, and making the constant adjustments needed to maintain a manageable 
 garden. Certainly a game that shouldnt be missed by the young and older alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Finally a great game that has nothing to do with killing others. This game is one of a kind and 
 we'll see more of games like this in the future, Bank on it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ddkfdklfll gkgkg g g g g g g rt s rts ts ts ts ts t s ty yd y d yd yd dh hd hd hd h dh d hd 
 h d hd h d hd fh dfh d h dh dh d hd h dh d hd hd h dh d h h fh h h h h h h h d g r d dfg n gidjgidofj 
 goid fjjj ggdfgdgd g
  gdg
  
  gdgdggg gdg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glblignrnce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good, you'll notice that almost everything has little strips of paper coming off 
 of it. Being able to edit the colors (perhaps a paint bucket?) on your pinatas would be nice. Some 
 parts of it really annoyed me, like for example I didn't like my Mothdrops and they were taking 
 up space, so I sold them and like five minutes later I got a request for one... I had two days to 
 get one, so I bought the light and waited, but I eventually had to turn it off because my favorite 
 Pinata kept burning himself on it and got to the point where he almost ran away. And I wanted to 
 get rid of the Sour Crowla, so I bought the honey and paid Bart to come in, but my Gatherling sold 
 the damn honey before he got there... the other problem with her is she kept selling my blackberries 
 before I could get to the point where I had ten of them so the Doenut would visit. And when it 
 finally got there, she sold most of the berries before it could eat all six or whatever. My last 
 complaint is with the food chain. I wanted to keep a Newtgat, but the frogs kept eating them. So 
 I sold the frogs. But they kept visiting, and eating the flies, and staying, and eating the Newtgats. 
 So I sold the flies. But they kept visiting, and eating the flowers i had so meticulously planted 
 to attract them, and staying, and being eaten by the frogs which ate the Newtgats. So I sold the 
 flowers. By now I'd made a lot of money, and I had my Newtgat, but guess what? Next thing I know 
 I'm asked for a frog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirfw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  very rarely you come across games like this when I got it I was instanly adicted it may look like 
 a childrens game that sucks but it is amazing from the first pinata you get to the last chances 
 are you will be hooked on it the game itself has a back story about how the garden was destroyed 
 the one of my friend thinks it has a deep meaning but I would seariously doubt it the once you 
 reach a certain level sour pinatas and ruffians will come into your garden and attempted to reak 
 havoc in your peaceful garden later on the garden pretty much manages it self and you sit wait 
 for the next problem to arise ovewrall it is a game you should have in your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-man1234
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata for the xbox 360 is truly a wonderful game, the music is the game is very pleasing 
 and sounds very clear. The graphics are stunning, escapially on a HDTV. The overall gameplay is quite 
 satisfying and provides a fun experience just watching the pinatas do their own things. The only 
 complaint is that there is not alot to do online. The multiplayer is also something that definatley 
 needs improving too. Rare has added alot of easter eggs into the games (hint hint look for grabbed 
 by the ghoulies and banjo kazooie referances) . Overall i think this game is definatley worth checking 
 out and perhaps buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is all my 10 year old son plays! PERIOD!
  
  HELP!!!!!!!!!
  
  I sit and watch this game and it REALLY grows on you! I wouldn't mind if he would get hooked on 
 tactical shooters or sports games (I thought to myself) , but the more I watched him enjoy himself 
 playing this game, the more assuring I became that Santa got his money's worth!!
  
  He even got my 14 year old daughter hooked on it! Let's face it, us fathers would MUCH rather have 
 his teenaged girl AT HOME playing on the 360!! So it did turn out to be a blessing in disguise! 
 Thank you Microsoft Game Studios for creating this wonderful vitual garden!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and there is plenty to do. You'll have lots of fun trying to collect and mate 
 pinatas in an attempt to create the greatest garden. The problem is when you are able to collect 
 all the different species of pinata there isn't anything left to do.
  
  Some of the pluses are that as odd as it sounds convincing the pinatas to join your garden is actually 
 quite fun. There are some types of pinatas the don't get along and also different types of pinatas 
 might have contradicting requirements. For example on pinata might require you to have 60% of your 
 garden covered in grass, but another might require 60% of your garden covered with water. To get 
 both of these pinatas you would need to either create a second garden or continually rework your 
 first one, which thankfully you can easily do. Romancing pinatas also is fun as they have even 
 additional requirements you must meet adding some challenge to the game.
  
  The downsides is that there is basically no such thing as losing on this game. If you want to spend 
 all your time raising the most easy pinatas you can. Its pretty easy to make money once you get 
 some nice pinatas so there is no trouble there. Just like games like Animal Crossing or the Sims, 
 once you complete whatever objective you've set for yourself there is nothing left to do and no 
 really satisfying end point to the game.
  
  This game is great to play though but you likely only get about 25-40 hours of enjoyment out of 
 it. There is an achievement for playing for 50 hours, but you'll probably have just about everything 
 else you need far before then. The game is fun, just not overly satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickv2002
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon-esque plus garden 'sim' with wonderful imaginative graphics. Sure it's for kids but there's 
 some good stuff in there for adults too (feeling seedy? ) . A treat game that's addictive to play 
 (like virtual crack) . I want to catch them all (whoops wrong franchise) . The sounds and romance 
 dances are a lot of fun too.
  
  The one thing that I dock it some points for is that there is a lot of stuff in the game that wanted 
 to do that I had too look up in an online guide to figure out. I mean I don't really have time 
 to figure out all the myriad of requirements required to get each pinata to  
 (maybe kids do?) . The game tells you some of this stuff but a lot of is is either luck or trying 
 everything or simply looking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalojay845
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw the preview for this game i thought. Wow this is the worst game ever. I tried 
 the demo &amp; i was addicted already. So just at random my step-dad bought it &amp; now im like 
 lvl 39 or something. I don't really play much cause I usually play online, but if your bored this 
 game is great to kill time &amp; its great for kids &amp; if kids find it too complicated theres 
 a co-op mode where both controlers control one cursor. The only annoying thing is the Ruffians 
 &amp; when you don't want then Whirlms will become residents because you have grass in your garden. 
 But other than that its a great over all game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikokingNL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  OK so you get a garden and make it so your pinata's kan get friends and stuff. Looks kiddy but 
 its kind of fun well then you just go and do things to inprove ur garden still fun but i wanted 
 to talk about some enoying parts.
  
  Enyoing: Ok if you want to ramance mostly at my my pinata i try to romance gets eten thats so enyoing 
 damn. But ok thats one thing.
  Plants grow slow so if you want to get the horticolist achievement its boring.
  Then the fight 
 that are so enyoing im lucky i have a bonboon he stops fights but sometimes it doesnt wurk. And 
 Dastardos is a **** in the begin thought that doesnt mind much.
  All enemies are enyoing and keep comeing and dont go away that sucks.
  And it gets boring sometimes 
 playing in the garden.
  
  Good: Its fun raising your garden getting new friends its looks funny and a bit kiddy but ok its 
 a very decent game and its hard to describe the fun part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Fresh off Gears of war, Rainbow six vegas, dead rising and Oblivion, one would think that Viva 
 pinata is not a logical successor to this lineup. Wrong! this game is actually very good and surprisingly 
 addictive. starting your own garden and attracting wild pinata may not sound like your cup of tea 
 but you may be shocked by how much you enjoy this game. The game may have cartoon charm and might 
 be aimed at a younger age group, seasoned gamers will definitely find a challenge in this game. 
 you basically have to meet different criteria in your garden to attract the different kinds of 
 pinata and the more exotice ones are downright tough to attract and only show up for a visit once 
 you have reached a certain level of the game. Even then, for them to become a resident they have 
 to do certain things during a visit. so lets say you want to have a lot of water animals and reptiles 
 in your garden, you will obviously have a large percentage of water in your garden. On the flipside 
 you may want a garden full of predatory animals like lions/Roario's (the candy equivalent of a 
 lion) , so your garden will have long grass and animals that the lion can eat to become a resident 
 like horses and zebras. It actually takes a lot of planning and time to reach the higher levels 
 of the game and finally making a tough pinata a resident and then arranging a romance situation 
 causing the eventual hatching of offspring is a satisfying achievment. there are tons of pinata 
 to attract to your garden and you can get a solid 25-30 hours from this game if you go after them 
 all. I think i ended in the 50's when all was said and done, having three separate gardens that 
 specialized in different pinata. A great part of this game is when you get to build homes for your 
 pinata which are very well designed and you can tell alot of graphical work went into putting them 
 together. One tiny guy, a galagoogoo, (kind of a noctrunal baby foxlike pinata lives in a ninja 
 reenforced box that has a periscope pop up and perform a retinal scan is one of the cooler pinata 
 in the game. all of the romance sequences are funny and you cant help but smile. I have a few complaints 
 - 1. sometimes when you meet the visit requirments the pinata you are after takes too long to make 
 a visit. 2. the sour pinatas who are sent in to disrupt your garden and harm pinatas are too easily 
 dispatched (a few whacks from the shovel and they are gone) , this makes the game somewhat easy 
 as far as keeping your pinata healthy and happy. Other than that the game is a diamond in the rough. 
 Its not going to win game of the year, but it is very fun and it will make you happy on this inside. 
 chainsawing guys in half in gears of war makes me happy too, guess i am a complicated guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetrophobia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  I may not have played it yet but Viva Pinata looks great, is great and highly addictive for anyone. 
 Other popular games like rayman, well the team tried to make it look good by bringing out on the 
 Xbox 360, but instead it looks crap if I may say. But Viva Pinata, Kameo and other Rare games are 
 fantastic! In my opinion these kind of games are only for the 360 not the PS3 there is bearly any 
 difference between the 360 and the PS3. Why on earth did the playstation team copy what the Xbox 
 360 had? I'm soo glad that Viva Pinata is only on thhe 360, at least, that's what I know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  i first saw this game back when i didn't have a 360, i thought that it would be an alright game 
 if i was to ever get one. well i now have one , and i now have the game as well, and i can say 
 this, it is better than you would think.
  
  the game starts out with you getting the deeds to a garden which belonged to the legendary gardener, 
 Jardeniero (i forget how to spell his name) . there isn't much of a story but you don't really have 
 to worry about that anyway. so what you have to do is make the garden the best on pinata island 
 by doing different things.
  
  you have tools at your disposal, you can plant grass, seeds and trees, you can buy things for decoration, 
 you can attract the different species of pinata, you can make pinata families, you can control 
 the way they live and then you ultimately build the best garden.
  
  of course it isn't always that simple, you can get sour pinatas which you have to drive out of 
 your garden, also ruffians come along and try to destroy your plants and take your pinatas.
  
  Viva Pinata is a very fun, colourful and addictive game and one will keep you entertained for 
 hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bscgoh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a fun game. it have a bit of strategy element in it. i heard it somewhere that this 
 game is suitable for kids but i feel that the strategy part of the game is too much for kids.
 
  
  it is like those turn-based and real time strategy but this time round, you manage a garden and 
 hopefully those pinatas will come and visit and stay in the garden.
  
  in short, the game is about garden management, the better you make your garden, the more pinatas 
 will come to you garden.
  
  this game is highly addictive and the gameplay is nothing about child play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  From the time I first heard of this game, I was a little skeptical about
  A. What it would even be about, and
  B. If it was only for little kids
  Lucky for me, I gave 
 it a chance, and it was one of the most unique, interesting, and graphically different games i've 
 ever played.
  
  So what is Viva Pinata about? Ok, this will sound a bit lame, but simply this: Create a garden 
 and try to attract different pinatas to live in it. Sounds lame, right? Wrong. The game gives you 
 a huge variety of items, plants, seeds, etc. to attract a huge variety of pinatas to your garden. 
 Pinatas will visit under certain conditions, but only when you meet more will they decide to live 
 there forever. Once you have two pinatas of the same kind in your garden, you can give them a house 
 to live in, and make them breed (which has another set of requirements to meet first) . Sell the 
 babies or keep them to cover any accidents that may happen in the garden, it's your choice.
  
  While that formula is interesting in itself, the sheer amount of different pinata species will 
 keep you playing for quite some time. As more and more pinatas decide to live in your garden, you 
 will have to build fences to avoid conflicts, grow plants to feed them, and just strategize and 
 plan your garden.
  
  Viva Pinata is a great game that is very unique in gameplay and graphics. It is one of the most 
 family-friendly games on the 360, but even the hardest-core Gears of War player will find something 
 fun in Viva Pinata. Looking for something a little.... different? Look no further than Viva Pinata. 
 And at 20 dollars, it's a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Development
  
  The original concept for the game began as Your Garden in 2002, and eventually evolved into the 
 colorful world of Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. According to interviews with Rare by Eurogamer TV and others, 
 the game was originally designed for the Pocket PC platform. After Rare's acquisition by Microsoft, 
 the title was then moved to the Xbox video game system before finally being developed for the Xbox 
 360 video game system. At various times, more than 50 different people contributed to the project.
 
  
  During development, Microsoft and Rare realized the growing popularity of the project and began 
 searching for licensing partners; they eventually teamed up with 4Kids Entertainment. As a result, 
 in addition to being a video game on Microsoft's Xbox 360 console, it is also a computer-animated 
 television series produced by 4Kids Entertainment. The show began airing on 4Kids TV on August 
 26, 2006, on Canada's YTV on September 9, 2006, and on the UK's Nick Toons on March 5, 2007. Animation 
 for the television series is done at Bardel Entertainment in Vancouver, Canada. Recently, the show 
 began airing on ITV2 in the UK as part of the Action Stations! children's programming block. Gameplay
 
  
  Likened to The Sims, Animal Crossing and Harvest Moon, the game tasks the player with turning a 
 neglected plot of land into a beautiful garden. As with many sandbox games, the game is open-ended, 
 with no strict winning or losing requirements. Instead, players are guided only generally towards 
 the objectives of increasing their garden's value and attracting pi&ntilde; ata residents. Players 
 are free to determine their own sub-goals and work towards them.
  
  Developing a successful garden requires setting up the land and foliage appropriately to attract 
 pi&ntilde; atas, as well as purchasing various items to place within the garden (e. g., homes for 
 the pi&ntilde; atas) . When certain requirements are fulfilled, the garden will attract a simple 
 black-and-white version of a given pi&ntilde; ata species. After fulfilling additional requirements, 
 the pi&ntilde; ata will become a resident, changing into a full-color version. Once two pi&ntilde; atas 
 of the same species are residents and their mating (romance) requirements are met, they can perform 
 a romance dance, resulting in a baby pi&ntilde; ata egg. No pi&ntilde; ata has a gender specific 
 design, and hence any two pi&ntilde; atas of the same species can mate with some hidden inter-species 
 romances possible as well.
  
  When pi&ntilde; atas get together to mate, a maze-navigation minigame is initiated. Completing the 
 mating minigame successfully will result in the creation of a new pi&ntilde; ata offspring. For 
 species encountered early in the game, the minigames are simple, but as the game progresses, minigames 
 become increasingly difficult. The difficulty also increases as more members of a given species 
 are resident, so that players have fewer lives in the minigame for each pi&ntilde; ata of that type 
 already in the garden.
  
  In addition to looking after the needs of their pi&ntilde; atas, players must also watch out for 
 Ruffians and sour pi&ntilde; atas, who enter the garden with the sole intent of wreaking havoc. 
 Their mischief includes eating fruits or vegetables, destroying objects, or causing resident pi&ntilde; atas 
 to become ill. If the player is resourceful, sour pi&ntilde; atas can, however, be won over and 
 turned into productive garden residents. Additionally, players can earn or purchase individual 
 parts of a totem-pole like structure known as the Tower of Sour to deter the type of sour pi&ntilde; ata 
 each part corresponds to. Different parts of this become available as the player completes certain 
 requirements. In order to keep out Ruffians and their leader, Professor Pester, players can purchase 
 a Captain's Cutlass from one of the merchants.
  
  Journal
  
  A gardening journal is automatically bestowed upon the player at the start of the game. The journal 
 automatically stores information which is discovered while playing the game, as well as key statistics. 
 It provides quick access to various pieces of data, such as the following: * Encyclopedia - Information 
 about and descriptions of the different plants and pinata in the game. This includes notes on how 
 to attract certain pi&ntilde; atas and their residency requirements. * Garden Area - A break-down 
 of the contents of the various plots of land within the garden. This includes data about how much 
 of each type of terrain is present (e. g. short grass, long grass, dirt, water) . * Player Awards 
 - Allows players to view the awards they have received during play. Awards are issued the first 
 time the player completes each of a number of different activities. This includes the first time 
 a given plant is grown to maturity, the first time a given pi&ntilde; ata species becomes a resident, 
 as well as numerous others. * Storybook - A set of story pages, progressively unlocked as the player 
 gains experience. These provide a fictional story related to the characters in the game.
  
  Helpers
  
  As players advance through the game, helpers become available. Helpers are characters 
 that can assist with some of the jobs that keeping a garden entails. Players may have up to five 
 helpers active in the garden at once. For example, one character, Weedling, weeds the garden, allowing 
 players to focus on other, more important tasks. Others include Sprinkling waters the plants, this 
 is especially helpful when trying to grow trees, which need constant water, Watchling scares away 
 sour pi&ntilde; atas and Ruffians, but might also scare away some regular pi&ntilde; atas, Gatherling 
 gathers the fruit that falls from fully-grown trees and sells them and Diggerling works in the 
 mine - which must be built first - and digs up many rare things. These helpers must be paid in 
 order to obtain their services, but this payment is one-time rather than recurring.
  
  Using Helpers is optional, but two helpers, Leafos and Seedos, are free of charge and frequently 
 make appearances throughout the game:
  
  Leafos helps by providing some basic tools shovel, watering can and explanations on how to use 
 them. She also gives advice and tutorials on the basics near the beginning of the game, as well 
 as keeping the player advised of important events. She is actually more of a friend than a helper, 
 as all she really does is walk around and look at things after the beginning of the game.
  
  Seedos, a helper who specializes in seeds, visits the garden every day and will provide free 
 seeds when engaged in conversation, up to four seeds per visit. Seedos is also the source of new 
 seed types as players progress through the game, such that more advanced seed types cannot be purchased 
 in the shop until after he has bestowed them upon the player. Players have the option of hitting 
 Seedos with the shovel in order to force him to drop additional seeds, but this causes him to plant 
 weeds in the garden as a form of retaliation.
  
  Customization
  
  Each pi&ntilde; ata which is a resident of the garden can be customized as the player sees fit. 
 Customization options include: * The name of the pi&ntilde; ata. * The pi&ntilde; ata's decorative 
 tag which stays with it, wherever it goes. * A multitude of accessories gamers can purchase for 
 their pi&ntilde; ata, ranging from hats, to backpacks, to large teeth. These accessories can increase 
 a pi&ntilde; ata's value, or can grant the pi&ntilde; ata additional abilities.
  
  Customizations, including accessories, are lost if a pi&ntilde; ata is broken Viva Pi&ntilde; ata's 
 version of death for any reason, including being eaten by another pi&ntilde; ata, being hit with 
 a shovel, or after being sick for an extended period of time.
  
  Currency
  
  Foil-wrapped chocolate coins serve as currency in the game. The coins come in several denominations, 
 including bronze, silver and gold, with gold being worth the most. These can be obtained by smashing 
 ruined garden items junk, by selling pi&ntilde; atas, by digging a hole or pond where coins are, 
 selling other items, or by collecting them during the mating mini-games. Players can also sell 
 resources that are produced, such as apples from an apple tree, or a Buzzlegum's honey. A further 
 resource that can be obtained and sold is candy from a broken pi&ntilde; ata, although it is usually 
 worth less than the unbroken pi&ntilde; ata. Players must be careful about smashing pi&ntilde; atas 
 open themselves, as this can lead to other members of the same pi&ntilde; ata species becoming reluctant 
 to visit the garden.
  
  Currency can be used to hire helpers, procure services, or to buy new items for the garden from 
 the various shops. When creating a new garden, available coins can be carried over and spent in 
 the new garden.
  
  Xbox Live
  
  The game supports Xbox Live, but currently does so in a strictly non-interactive fashion. It also 
 includes a safety video for children and parents, explaining potential issues with using the service. 
 However, a planned future update promises to add the ability for a friend to visit one's garden 
 via an invitation. Friends will be able to explore the garden freely, but will not be allowed to 
 change anything unless given permission.
  
  While the game supports leaderboards and score comparisons, the existing primary use of Xbox Live 
 is to allow players to send presents to friends. Pi&ntilde; atas, sour pi&ntilde; atas, and other 
 items can all be packaged up and shipped off to other users. The contents of the box are unknown 
 by the recipient until it is opened, at which time the contents emerge into the garden of their 
 new owner.
  
  Lastly, players can use the Xbox Live Marketplace to download several Viva Pi&ntilde; ata related 
 items. These include accessory packs and an interactive video which acts as a brief tutorial for 
 the game. During the video, the user can decide which pi&ntilde; ata that they would like to walk 
 them through the features of the game. Xbox Live members can also download several episodes of 
 the television series from the Xbox Live Marketplace, with the precise number available varying 
 by locale. These episodes are available in both standard-definition and high-definition for no 
 charge.
  
  Pi&ntilde; atas
  
  The game features a wide variety of different pi&ntilde; ata types, in most cases inspired by real-world 
 animals. The names of the pi&ntilde; ata species appear to have been generated by combining an animal 
 name or sound with that of a food or candy, producing creatures such as Buzzlegums or Sparrowmints 
 . The species include both wild and domestic animal types, with the latter being purchased rather 
 than simply appearing.
  
  Some of the pi&ntilde; atas are candy carnivores, and must eat other pi&ntilde; atas in order to 
 become residents or reproduce. An intricate food chain referred to as the doughnut of life exists, 
 with each pi&ntilde; ata species having one or two others that it considers prey. Fortunately, once 
 pi&ntilde; atas are residents, they will not eat each other unless instructed to do so by the player, 
 although fights can still break out between residents who do not share the predator-prey relationship.
 
  
  With some exceptions, pi&ntilde; atas each have three different appearance or coloration variants. 
 These variants can be produced by fulfilling certain requirements in the game. For example, a given 
 pi&ntilde; ata species may be able to change from its default color to a yellow color by eating 
 a sunflower. Additionally, certain pi&ntilde; atas can evolve into other species altogether, e. g., 
 when a Horstachio eats blackberries and daisies, it turns into a Zumbug.
  
  It is also possible to trade pi&ntilde; atas over Xbox Live. Either a free silver account or paid 
 gold account can be used, opening this option to a large number of Xbox 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnScoBa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Since I first received my 360, I've constantly passed and glanced over at this game thinking to 
 myself, What the f**k is this? . Well, I'm surprised to report that it is one of the funnest games 
 I've ever played.
  
  Even though it took a lady friend to coax me into getting it, and looking past its child-targeting 
 looking demeanor, I rented it out of my local Blockbuster and here is what I gathered...
  
  Basically, you're some person who stumbles upon a deserted garden, where pinatas once roamed and 
 called home, and are asked to recreate paradise. With no say in whether or not to accept this challenge, 
 you are armed with a shovel, watering can, and grass packets and dragged through an informative, 
 albeit long, tutorial. Presentation: Excellent
  The menus are great and intuitive, they really flow with the 360 controller and icons help identify 
 what certain buttons do right off the bat.
  
  Graphics: Great
  Although colorful and cartoon-like, VP boasts some rather nice lighting and shadow details; as 
 well as some excellent looking pinata textures and environmental features (water, grass, etc.) .
 
  
  Sound: Okay
  Unique sounds for all pinatas, all villagers have quite a few one-liners up their sleeves, but 
 it all gets kinda old fast.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent
  Here is where the game shines! I don't know exactly how Rare and Microsoft did it, but Viva Pinata 
 is virtual crack. Every hour after taking a break from the damn thing, I have insatiable urges 
 to continue looking after my pinatas, caring for them, and just watching them live out their lives.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: Good
  Eventually you'll get to a point where you've already had every single pinata in the game as a 
 resident at one point or another, but it doesn't stop there. Just watch them live out the rest 
 of their pinata lives, or perhaps sell off the whole garden and start with new pinatas for a second 
 go-around; however, the game will probably lose steam once you've seen everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theemptyquiver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun. It just kept sucking up hour after hour and I didn't even care. I can't wait 
 to let my son play this when he gets old enough, although I'm sure it will just remain a guilty 
 pleasure of mine.
  The gameplay is deeper than I expected it to be and I was quite challenged by a number of the goals. 
 I still haven't gotten all of the pinatas to the garden yet.
  The graphics aren't great, but they are inventive and colorful. It makes up in style what it lacks 
 in horsepower.
  
  I'd recommend this to anyone, but obviously it isn't for everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosXing
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Viva Pin&agrave; ta is not just for kids. It's for that spot in all of us that needs a break from 
 shooting, maiming, slashing, burning, and killing that most of the other games out there have as 
 a prerequisite. In Viva Pin&agrave; ta, you're the new gardener on the block who has to take a barren, 
 junk-filled plot of earth and turn it into something astounding. As you progress through the game, 
 you receive all manner of seeds to grow into plants. These plants attract pin&agrave; tas. Often, 
 different kinds of pin&agrave; tas attract other pin&agrave; tas. You'll want all of these guys to 
 become residents at some point or another -- and not just for achievement value, either, but because 
 each one is a different, fascinating animal. All pin&agrave; tas have different personalities and 
 needs, and it's your job to keep them happy and healthy.
  
  While you're doing all this, you can dig ponds, grow crops, sell crops and pin&agrave; tas for profit, 
 scare off invaders who wander onto your territory, and purchases fences and other garden accessories 
 to pretty up your own personal space. The XBox 360 does a great job with the color and graphics, 
 which makes beautifying your garden that much more impressive.
  
  Viva Pin&agrave; ta offers a wide variety of achievements that are spread across the board, from 
 simple (make a certain number of pin&agrave; tas take up residence in your garden) to those that 
 will take some skill and patience (bring your level up to fifty; develop a certain number of species 
 variants) . Some of these achievements are difficult to figure out without some sort of direction, 
 which can lead to a bit of frustration. Also frustrating is trying to meet the requirements of 
 later pin&agrave; tas to visit your garden. You might have all the requirements met for them to 
 come in and make themselves at home, but sometimes they'll chose to take their sweet time, or not 
 come into your garden at all.
  
  Once you've been exposed to this bright, colorful, challenging environment, it might be hard to 
 return to dungeon and corridor crawls, fetch quests, and head shots. Don't be surprised if during 
 these times you find yourself suddenly longing for the vibrant, easy-going, and imaginative world 
 of Viva Pin&agrave; ta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVKnightmareVI
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  You would be surprised of all the people that look at this game and say they don't want to play 
 it cause its to kiddish. I would say don't judge a book by its cover, this game will keep you going 
 for hours on end tending to your garden and pinatas with hundreds of different items and plants, 
 and also over 60+ different pinatas to tame. This game is fun for all ages and is a great game 
 for people looking for something really good to play. For some, this may not be as great as cutting 
 someone up with your chainsaw bayonet or being stuck in a mall with thousands of zombies, but it 
 still is good enough to be recognized. The bad parts about Viva Pinata are its very limited uses 
 of xbox live, all you can do over xbox live is just trade items, pinatas, etc. you cant visit other 
 peoples garden or anything like that. Through all its small problems Viva Pinata is a wonderful 
 game and if you are one of those people that look at this game and say This is to kiddish for me. 
 think again, this game is for kids and adults alike, so if you were looking for a wonder and colorful 
 experience for your kids or if your just looking for a great, fun, and revolutionary game I would 
 strongly suggest Viva Pinata 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider6k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game is a very fun game, and it allows you to use your imagination through the whole time 
 your playing.
  some people may be put off this game because it might be too cartoony, or it looks like a game 
 for 4 year olds, but if anyones playing the Zoo Tycoon games, you will find that it is similar 
 to them, and isnt for 4 year olds.
  
  This game allows you to make a garden and customise it too how you like, and to attract different 
 animals ( Pinata ) . You start off with a little plot of land to use, but as you progress through 
 the game, you can expand on your garden, and put more things in it.
  the more various things you have in your garden determin which pinata will make your garden their 
 home. you can have more than 1 garden saved, so if u choose, u can have different gardens for different 
 pinatas.
  
  If your looking for a nice relaxing game to play, i would say this 1 is a good pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Well the first thing im gunna say about this game is the amazing colours it has. Also it has a wide 
 range of different animapls/pinatas to collect and get to inhabit your garden.
  
  I bought this game for a change from gearsof war as my first 2 games where shooters. I ended up 
 spending a bit of time playing this game, the aim of the game is to create a beutiful garden and 
 attract many pinatas, trying to get the most interesting ones to join your garden.
  
  The game can be challenging at some points and you have to cater for the needs of all the pinatas 
 for them to stay or have a romantic relationship with another of there species. For example the 
 sparrow type pinatas have to eat a worm (which is another species of pinata) for a relationship.
 
  
  The game would be a great buy for a younger gamer and for some older gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a game thats about a show named viva pinata If you dont belive me go to fox 5 on saturday 
 in moring. I realy like this gamebut I cant play this game for a long time its some times its gets 
 anoyang. I love this game if you have childe buy it for him its fun long and cute if you want you 
 can play too this game is fun for all ages. I have to say get it why becuse you are going to love 
 it. If you say this game is for kids ronge no its fo evry one yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkEvilWorm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is another A-Grade title by Rare, one of Microsofts recent (in the previous 
 5 years) purchases. This is the plot. You come to a sun-dried piece of land covered in junk and 
 rubbish grass and this is when you meet your guide, a crying little girl named Leafos. She explained 
 that you being the new owner must be the one who is going to turn this piece of land to its former 
 glory. This is when the game begins. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a delicious game wrapped in a crinkly 
 foil wrapper of cuteness. Underneath the big eyes lies a gamers delight for all ages. Your main 
 task is to build homes for over 60 species of Pi&ntilde; ata creatures.
  
  The game play is in a genre in a league of its own. Using the gifts Leafos gives you at the beginning 
 tutorial section of the game, you slowly turn the dried out piece of land into a wonderful lush 
 green paradise. The control system is also great. When ever you forget a control, the flower in 
 the top-right corner of the screen tells you what you can do with that item in that context. You 
 can earn chocolate coins (the local currency) which you spend later on when you need items.
  
  Characters are amazing in this game. The great variety is incredible, from the gruff builder 
 Willy to the seed-mad Seedos. And the sound is great and the 5.1 Surround Sound is incredible with 
 the orchestral score being absolutely beautiful. The voices being as beautiful, with the voice 
 acting excellent and the sound effects wonderful.
  This game looks absolutely gorgeous. Every Pi&ntilde; ata is extremely well done and modelled, and 
 the 3D graphics look lovely, as you would suspect on a next-generation console, and every detail 
 has been done and the results are amazing. This is one of the greatest games to appear on the Xbox 
 360 in a long time.
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is an excellent game and another top notch title to appear on Microsofts next 
 generation console. With Rare being an excellent game company, this is no less than expected. Rare 
 has done an extremely excellent job on getting the different pi&ntilde; atas and their homes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teammojo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft has not done much to bring any kids games to the 360 but Viva Pinata is a good start. 
 My 8 years son love the game and his picked it up pretty quickly. I have at times found myself 
 playing the game for hours as well. While not a deep simulation game it's more fun that most of 
 the same genre to be found on consoles. Rich graphics, plentiful animations and the challenge of 
 collecting them all make this a fun game for kids and parents alike.
  
  Graphics: vibrant colors, Pixar-type animations, and highly detailed characters combine to create 
 one of Xbox 360s finest displayed graphical games.
  
  Sound: full of fun and playful melodies, over-the-top character voices, and at times all too adorable 
 animal sounds.
  
  Playability: Lots of activity. simple through it may be, but still fun.
  
  Bottom Line: Great 
 game for kids and a guilty pleasure for the older ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Of course, this isnt just a breeding simulator. The primary goal is to build a garden that attracts 
 wild animals. Some species may be lured in by the plant life and food. Others may look for creatures 
 that serve as their primary diet. A few types of animals will only enter your garden if your experience 
 level is high enough. In building the perfect habitat, you must also lord over the circle of life 
 within it. This is where most of your time is spent. Unlike animals in the wilderness, these ones 
 need to be pampered and cared for. They need food. They need shelter. They need friends. They even 
 need to be treated for illnesses. The interaction with the animals is limited, but you will have 
 the ability to name them, and if you get really crazy, purchase clothing for them. When your habitat 
 fills up, you wont have a second to breathe, as youll constantly be moving from one animal to 
 the next.
  
  The gameplay is incredibly simplistic, and in some cases, far too repetitive. Your list of abilities 
 is short: pounding sun-dried dirt, planting seeds, watering plants, telling animals to get it on, 
 and placing objects in the habitat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  The graphics, the detail, the pinatas, the garden, the world around it.. its alive with colour and 
 next gen realism
  
  This game is the ultimate of guilty pleasures and an instant classic and the new MS franchise for 
 all gamers this is a must, even if you want to top your score its easy in less than 10 hours its 
 over 400 points so why wait, buy it play it and love it it needs to be loved
  
  The online experience its free to SILVER members which is actually amazing and should be made to 
 other games say like 5 days a month wouldnt be bad
  
  Anyway off topic, me and my girlfriend love it and have spent 5 days straight playing it dont knock 
 it, i did, I regret it
  
  Love it, Hate it, YOU MUST HAVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Why i got the game)
  Well i was watching TV with my mom and we saw the game and we were like what the heck how dumb... But 
 the reason i went to get the game is because i was bored and wanted to watch a video review so 
 i checked this out. And it actually seemed really cool looking and different and i thought only 
 a couple hundred people would be tracking this but over 1,000 were. So with the cheap price i bout 
 it and.. why its plain fun ) I loved it, it was so addicting and i couldn't put the controller 
 down. You get a flat out crappy land scape area and have to give it soil, plant grass, and smash 
 trash with your shovel. And i liked that part. Then you attract pinatas and they come from what 
 they are attracted to. So if it has water a pinata who likes the water would come. And then some 
 visit as residents you have to see their resident status and see what they need to stay. You also 
 can go buy stuff at the store, that attracts pinatas or makes your garden look nice or you can 
 have some one fetch you pinatas. Or buy pinata pets, or customize your pinatas or even name them. 
 And hire people to go do your dirty work.
  Fun and very long game... is all it is.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Mostly gamers gives 90 higher or 30 lower, WTF WITH THAT, that may say something!
  the game is good but is up the player at all, if u like action, shooters, RTS, fighting or those 
 kinds of genres then this game will be really bored 2 you.
  
  If u r like me, and i got FEAR, Gears of war, LOTR BFME 2...... and viva pi&ntilde; ata, do u c the 
 diference?
  the game will entertain 4 a while -SURE THING!!!
  but i just cant play it anymore, i just tried 2 keep forward and i have 2 swap the game some minutes 
 later but what is this game:
  U r a gardener, and there r lots wild living pi&ntilde; atas whose will visit ur garden depending 
 stuff or other pi&ntilde; atas on it, u have make em residents, keep em happy, buy-sell stuff/pi&ntilde; atas 
 2 improve the garden, blah blah blah.
  
  Well is my opinion, my suggest here is: if u r not sure, then borrow or rent it 1st, the game worth 
 the spend, cuz is long but no matter if u dont like it.
  
  GL n HF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Viva pinata is one of those rare games (no pun intended) that gets released. When this game was 
 first announced people looked at this game and assumed that it was just gonna be a little kids 
 with colourful creature and a farily basic gameplay experience. Boy, how wrong were we.
  
  In Viva Pinata you take control of your own garden. At the beginning of the game your garden looks 
 horrible - theres junk all over the place, hard concrete with lots of cracks. Its your job to rebuild 
 this garden to the garden it once was - A pinatas paradise. The aim of the game is to attract creatures 
 called Pinatas. How do you do this? Simple, if you want a worm, dig up that hard concrete and show 
 some mud. Want a snake? Lay down some grass. The game is fairly realistic in the sense that the 
 animals (pinatas) will only visit your garden if you have a suitable habitat for that pinata. Once 
 you get pinatas into your garden, you then have to make them become residents, which is when they 
 change colour. (When they first visit your garden they are just black &amp; white because they 
 are still wild) To do this you have to fill certain objectives. These objectives are what the pinatas 
 want. So for E. G, A Worm will only become a resident if you have a certain amount of mud in your 
 garden. After you have filled these objectives the pinata will turn into its full colour, and this 
 is where the fun really begins.
  
  After you have 2 of the same species and are both residents and you have fulfilled their needs, 
 you can romance them. No this isn't the romance you and i know, but the special pinata romance 
 way - Dancing! Yes the way pinatas mate is by dancing. Each pinata has its own style of dance and 
 music, and they are all very unique and very creative. Once your pinatas have finished their dance, 
 Stardos (Who is a young girl who lives in a mountain) will fly down and deliver your pinata egg 
 that you have just made because of your dancing. Once the egg has hatched the process continues 
 on for every pinata in the game.
  
  Decorating your garden is the highlight of this game and Viva Pinata does not disappoint. You have 
 so many different types of tools, plants and objects to place in your garden, and almost everyone 
 has an effect on your garden. For E. G certain objects can be used to keep certain pinata way, certain 
 plants can be planted to attract various pinatas. You can make your garden looking how ever you 
 want and it is also really fun and rewarding to do, its also really predictable because you never 
 know what will happen if you plant this type of flower in your garden. Graphics in this game are 
 wonderful, while not very technical they are very pretty to look at. Each pinata has a distinct 
 look and is actually made to look like paper. The background looks beautiful and all of the objects 
 and plants look fantastic. Sound in this game is also excellent, especially the voice acting. The 
 music plays nicely in the backgrounFd and never gets repetitive or annoying and the voices of the 
 different characters sound clear and funny (funny in the good way) .
  
  Im sure there are some things i have missed in this review, but that is expected since there is 
 so much to see and do in this game that it will keep you busy for weeks and months. I strongly 
 recommend anyone picking this game up because it is one of the best titles on the xbox 360 to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  My 4 year old finished Halo when he was 3 but he cannot possibly read the massive amounts of reading 
 required by an adult to play. Adults wont enjoy pounding the ground thousands of times with a shovel. 
 Some of the menu's are deep and all require reading so be sure your child can read and type as 
 it will make you constantly name your Pinata's using and on screen keyboard. The help guide my 
 throw out 2 paragraphs of instruction in voice for a simple task. If I read you 2 paragraphs out 
 loud wiould you be able to retain it???? The sales of this game have bin dismal and TRUS was giving 
 it away free?? I doubt most reviews where people with children who have finished the game. You 
 can get it for $15 bucs used. This is a new game that has no niche. Colorful with cute sounds so 
 people say awwww , so that makes it a perfect 10 huh? I give it a 4 for effort but no one is playing 
 it..... It really a game for no-one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I've been a long time fan of Rare, ever since the SNES days of DK. I've enjoyed Kameo and PDZ at 
 360's launch, but I was very skeptical about this game. Let me tell you, this game is not ---A) 
 For Kids, ---B) Childish.... The game would give different impressions otherwise, but the depth and 
 amount of management involved its easily suited for teenagers to adults. I would recommend anyone 
 to rent this game at least.... i picked it up for $10 and it was easily worth $40. .
  Pros:
  + Incredible visuals/audio
  + tons of depth
  + Massive replay value
  + Addictive
  
  Con
 
  - Not for kids (which its directed towards) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata Platfrom: Xbox 360 Reveiw:
  Viva Pinata is full of different way to make your land the best. The gameplay is endless. all the 
 pinata come at different levels and need drifferent way to live in your land. There are so many 
 shop were you can buy plants, homes and pets. As you play though the game more Pinata appear and 
 travel around your land. The best bit of the game is when they breed. you go into a little mini 
 game then you see the best cut scene of them dancing.
  
  Simon say:
  This game is fun of all the family and I play it for hour it hust fun.
  
  Score: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthThatWas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  This promises to be a short review. There is little that I can say about this game, except that 
 in a sea of FPSs and Racers, this title is a breath of fresh air.
  
  The premise is simple. It's a god-game in which you are given command over a small stretch of land, 
 and it is your duty to make that land hop with life. At the start, your garden is in ruins. It 
 is up to you to breathe life back into it. You accomplish this by wacking the cracked and worthless 
 soil with your shovel, planting grasses, and coaxing flowers and trees to bloom. As you turn this 
 once barren stretch of earth into something fertile, you will begin to attract pinatas.
  
  If you want a larger garden, a better watering can or shovel, or to attract the best of the best 
 beasties, you have to level up. And this can be achieved through a variety of actions. Attracting 
 new pinatas, whether they just visit or become residents, is one method for advancement, but there 
 are a slew of others. Fertilizing plants, creating variant pinatas, and breeding all add to your 
 total level. The higher the level, the larger your garden becomes.
  
  Sound simple? It is. And I love this game for its simplicity. There is something oddly calming 
 about the whole make and flow of this game. Even though it did not receive the warm welcome it 
 deserved, this sleeper hit is well worth the dough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipohippo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  its a great game caring for your pinata freinds the only few anoying things are the sours and dastarous 
 you can evolve certain species a snake if you breed it and when the egg jumps highst whack it (yes 
 whack not tap)
  with your spade to get a to headed twingersnap all pinatas are named after sweets so any way the 
 start is when you meet a young girl called leafos
  she will give you a spade a watering can and a packet of grass the first pinata you will see wirlim 
 a cute worm thingy later as you level up others will appear and other people. you can tame sour 
 pinatas some eat eggs some destroy your stuff later evil things called ruffians appear to deastroy 
 your garden just whack'em really hard with your spade you can upgrade
  your spade just leavl up aslo levaling up can give you a bigger garden
  it is really fun for 
 the family as well.
  
  
  
  this reveiw was done by flipohippo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglybob80
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  its got the Aww factor and its really good fun. Its refreshingly different and family friendly 
 too. A game guide is handy though as you may get lost somewhat or find that you seemed to have 
 reached a dead end. The graphics are cutesy, very child orientated.
  When trying to describe what this is game is about to people is very difficult and the faces you 
 get when you finally say everything that happens is one of being perplexed. It is like a personal 
 joke, its only funny if youve been there. Just like Viva Pinata, its only fun once you actually 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Well it's a little hard to describe this game. Well in the start of the game you are an invisible 
 charactor and you meet this lady with very annoying and bad british accent. So then after that 
 you start to make your garden. That's where the fun happens. You will also meet other charactors 
 in the game and most them sound dumb and look totally retarded. But most of them have shops and 
 you can buy things from their shop for your garden or pinatas. To tell you the truth the pinatas 
 look pretty cute. And I'm a boy by the way. Most of the pinatas have their own homes and you can 
 go and look inside their homes whenever you want to. Now the reason they call the animals pinatas 
 is because if you look on their body their skin looks just like a pinata. For all I know there 
 is many pinatas that can come to your garden. Some will stay others won't.
  
  A complaint that I have about the game is that I think the garden is way to small and should be 
 a lot larger. Last complaint that I have is that the online multiplayer is basically a TOTAL JOKE!
 
  
  But overall this game is a great game to have. I recommed it to anyone young or old. That's right 
 I said old. It's not just for the youngsters. So go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantsy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Viva pinata is one of those rare games (no pun intended) that gets released. When this game was 
 first announced people looked at this game and assumed that it was just gonna be a little kids 
 with colourful creature and a farily basic gameplay experience. Boy, how wrong were we.
  
  In Viva Pinata you take control of your own garden. At the beginning of the game your garden looks 
 horrible - theres junk all over the place, hard concrete with lots of cracks. Its your job to rebuild 
 this garden to the garden it once was - A pinatas paradise. The aim of the game is to attract creatures 
 called Pinatas. How do you do this? Simple, if you want a worm, dig up that hard concrete and show 
 some mud. Want a snake? Lay down some grass. The game is fairly realistic in the sense that the 
 animals (pinatas) will only visit your garden if you have a suitable habitat for that pinata. Once 
 you get pinatas into your garden, you then have to make them become residents, which is when they 
 change colour. (When they first visit your garden they are just black &amp; white because they 
 are still wild) To do this you have to fill certain objectives. These objectives are what the pinatas 
 want. So for E. G, A Worm will only become a resident if you have a certain amount of mud in your 
 garden. After you have filled these objectives the pinata will turn into its full colour, and this 
 is where the fun really begins.
  
  After you have 2 of the same species and are both residents and you have fulfilled their needs, 
 you can romance them. No this isn't the romance you and i know, but the special pinata romance 
 way - Dancing! Yes the way pinatas mate is by dancing. Each pinata has its own style of dance and 
 music, and they are all very unique and very creative. Once your pinatas have finished their dance, 
 Stardos (Who is a young girl who lives in a mountain) will fly down and deliver your pinata egg 
 that you have just made because of your dancing. Once the egg has hatched the process continues 
 on for every pinata in the game.
  
  Decorating your garden is the highlight of this game and Viva Pinata does not disappoint. You have 
 so many different types of tools, plants and objects to place in your garden, and almost everyone 
 has an effect on your garden. For E. G certain objects can be used to keep certain pinata way, certain 
 plants can be planted to attract various pinatas. You can make your garden looking how ever you 
 want and it is also really fun and rewarding to do, its also really predictable because you never 
 know what will happen if you plant this type of flower in your garden. Graphics in this game are 
 wonderful, while not very technical they are very pretty to look at. Each pinata has a distinct 
 look and is actually made to look like paper. The background looks beautiful and all of the objects 
 and plants look fantastic. Sound in this game is also excellent, especially the voice acting. The 
 music plays nicely in the backgrounFd and never gets repetitive or annoying and the voices of the 
 different characters sound clear and funny (funny in the good way) .
  
  Im sure there are some things i have missed in this review, but that is expected since there is 
 so much to see and do in this game that it will keep you busy for weeks and months. I strongly 
 recommend anyone picking this game up because it is one of the best titles on the xbox 360 to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_crabtree
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  When you hear this for the first time Dude did you check out Viva Pinata, you get to raise all 
 these cute little pinatas , you start to think, is that all you do. The only way you begin to enjoy 
 this game is by watching a friend play it then thinking This looks stupid... but I might as well 
 try it , that is the time that you get the addiction. From the first moment you see the tiny worm 
 pinata you begin to plan all of your garden for the future pinatas moving in to your wonderfull 
 oasis of pinatas. This game simply rules the day with all of its circle of life, Lion King feel 
 that it brings to the player. I have played this game twice and I am moving on to my third time 
 around. I would recommend it to anyone from the age of zero to the dead! Simply outstanding game 
 with the inovation of any inventor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaaron1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would not be for me. My wife wanted a game for her to play and I picked it 
 up one day and just thought it was a great game. Everyone in my house my kids my wife and myself 
 love the game. I have done everything I can with the game and still keep going. I think everyone 
 should try this game to find out. I thought give me a break this is a kids game and It can be a 
 game for everyone and it is not real easy and it is not to hard. It is just right. I hope everyone 
 trys this game to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  With so many positive reviews I risked out and tried this game, I'm sad to say that I did. Everything 
 bothers me in this game, the childish dialog, the completely lack of any fun.
  
  Theres a lot of repetitive clicking and gathering your garden stuff you grow, which is annoying 
 and has been since Harvest Moon... which in speaking of Harvest Moon, even with the annoying task 
 of watering and grabbing your crops, it was at least fun and as time when by the games story made 
 sense and gave you options to do what you wanted. Viva pinata is a game that only really small 
 kids or simple people would want to play for any length of time. The graphics were bright and this 
 is the only positive thing that I can say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miki_suzaki
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Can't get enough Pinatas in real life? Can't garden worth a flip? Do you find yourself wanting 
 to make lots of tiny pinata eggs all over thw lawn? Maybe you should try Viva Pinata...
  
  Viva Pinata is Not just for kids, though it is often attributed to them. It's colorful characters, 
 easy game play, and and addictiveness can grow on anyone.
  
  You are first given a garden, clean it up, plant some grass, and soon you'll be attracting pinatas 
 in no time. The main premise for the game is to raise, breed, and sell pinatas... and yes i said 
 breed. The game is simple and easy to use. With your trusty shovel, watering can, and village full 
 of masked mayan-like friends, your pinata career is off to a flying start!
  
  The game play is fun, and as i said, easy to use. nothing is ever over complicated beyond a child's 
 game, but not so easy that it couldn't b a challenge to older players. Over time, you will attract 
 more and more pinatas, which you can sell, trade, or whack with your shovel at your leisure. The 
 better you make you garden, the better you shovel, watering can, and title will be, which will 
 attract new and better pinatas.
  
  There is a downside to all this fun and pinata whacking though... After you breed your first few 
 pinata pairs, attract a few new pinatas, plant some trees... there is nothing new to discover in 
 this game. you have seen it all. Oh granted there are more pinatas out there, but it can get tedious 
 to spend all your time trying to obtain a single pinata species. You can buy some new things for 
 your garden, change your labels, and sell your pinatas... but other than that... the game will get 
 boring. You'll find yourself killing hours at a time with this game just to get a pair of pinata 
 hedgehogs to mate, and that realization can make this game a lot less fun.
  
  Certainly a great time-killer. But can get a little irritating with not much to do besides earning 
 chocolate money.
  
  Worth buying for it's uniqueness, colors, and the fact you can smack pinatas with a shovel to get 
 at the candy inside. But it's not something that you'll really feel a need to play after the first 
 few times... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godsofplunder
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  This is all my 10 year old son plays! PERIOD!
  
  HELP!!!!!!!!!
  
  I sit and watch this game and it REALLY grows on you! I wouldn't mind if he would get hooked on 
 tactical shooters or sports games (I thought to myself) , but the more I watched him enjoy himself 
 playing this game, the more assuring I became that Santa got his money's worth!!
  
  He even got my 14 year old daughter hooked on it! Let's face it, us fathers would MUCH rather have 
 his teenaged girl AT HOME playing on the 360!! So it did turn out to be a blessing in disguise! 
 Thank you Microsoft Game Studios for creating this wonderful vitual garden!!
  
  Pinata plunder!
  Gods of plunder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame4lyf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is an amazing game, and is a welcome addition to the Xbox 360's games. Viva Pinata 
 is great, no matter who, or how old you are. Despite it's appearance, it is very fun, and should 
 definately be played if you own a 360.
  
  When you begin play, you start with a small garden, and, well, you have nothing. You can easily 
 fix that in an hour or so though. To upgrade you garden, you need to level up. You can do this 
 by seeing new pinata, befriending new pinata into your garden, and growing new plants, among other 
 things. Probably one of the wierdest things in this game is that you can change your pinata's colors 
 by feeding them plants... but, that's one of the many suprises this game offers!
  
  Another good thing about this game is that you can have multiple gardens at once. You can even 
 send pinatas from one garden to another for only one coin!
  
  The only thing that i found wrong with this game is that Xbox Live doesn't have much to offer. 
 I mean yeah, it's nice that you can trade pinatas with other people, but... that's about it.
  
  Well, overall, I loved this game, and would highly recommend this game to anyone who has a 
 360 and is looking for a new game for it. I'm glad that this is the first game that I've reviewed, 
 because it's one of the best games that I've EVER played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  I am a full grone man and i luv this game lolz. I hav a squrl named African Queene. Itz got all 
 kindz of neato stuff lolxz. roflz. Suite game tho for shozzle. LOLZ!!!11 This game mad me feel 
 like a super cool dude and stuff cdus i coulld plant plants and stuff in the grund to make some 
 pinatas happy. lols. everyone who seez dis game shood buy it immediately and c how amazyingi it 
 is! I love it so much!!!~!11!! LOLZ. I spent so many ours and eventually my GF got pissed at me 
 and left me. But at least i have viva pinata to pleezwe me! newayz, ima go sip some chris.... LOL 
 JK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I actually bought this game with the desire for peaceful cheery fun, which it can provide but usually 
 it's just a nuisance to operate. The graphics are what you'd expect - bright, soft and gentle. 
 Though they tend to be a little sharp after a while.
  
  The sound is again, soft, playful and bouncy - and it tends to grate on my ears after awhile.
 
  
  The gameplay is to jumbled - you can't play multiple gardens without using up the resources of 
 the other garden - which makes two people playin the game on the same console annoying. Repetitive, 
 slow and unispired gameplay make the circle of crapiness complete.
  
  It has it's place as a game but for someone looking for a softer yet still complex and engrossing 
 experience from a game should try to find it elsewhere.
  
  (on a side note - my 360's disc tray broke while playing this game - so maybe I'm being a little 
 too harsh) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game was really not expected to be as fun and addictive as it is. I mean from the look 
 on the cover, you wonder if you made a bad mistake by buying or renting this game. Nope, that was 
 a good choice, this game is FUN! You start the game off as a typical gardener, doesn't have an 
 appearance or name (most likely it's YOU) . You have to build a garden for many pinatas (over 50+ 
 species) to live and prosper in. Believe me, might sound fruity, but it's way away from that judgement. 
 If your 5, 20, or hell, if your 60 years old this game should be for you. And i dont know about 
 you but, I like beating the tar out of a evil pinata that's trying to eat my bird. :) But this 
 game is very immersive and customizable. You get to buy some accessories to put on your pinatas, 
 from head-to-toe (a lot of accessories options as you progress through the game) . This game plays 
 to your playing style also. Are you very organized? If so, you can keep all of your houses and 
 plants in a neatly fashion. If not, place that apple tree in the middle of the garden! To tell 
 you the truth, I want to go play it right now, so real quick, this game is a BUY. Hands down! Im 
 gonna go play, see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  You know at first I thought this game would be for babies, but really it's not half bad at all. 
 People are just whiners because they think this game is for 2 year old kids. This kind of feels 
 like Animal Crossing to me, but more of a Roller Coaster Tycoon feel as well. This game can make 
 time go by really fast. The environment isn't bad it looks pretty cool the farther you get when 
 you keep expanding. The characters are all really goofy and weird dressers, but otherwise this 
 game is pretty straight forward. Build a environment where you think a Pinata would like to live, 
 add seeds to make plants to make things look better and attract new creatures, get the Pinatas 
 to love each other and have babies over and over again and make more families or sell them for 
 Chocolate coins, build houses and other cool things, make labels for you Pinatas, buy costumes 
 for your Pinata to make him look cool, and make other Pinatas kill eachother for their candies. 
 :) These are very simple tasks for a person. Also level your garden up and pay close attention 
 to you can make your Pinatas happy. Watch their neighbors so you don't have some random attacks 
 from other creatures that can be really bad. In the end this game makes time go by faster and it's 
 really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titanicles
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely addictive and will eat up your social life and turn all your conversations 
 into discussions about your gardens.
  
  Although it is a 3+ game it is anything but easy, you will find your self getting frustrated from 
 anything ranging from trying to find the last variant of a Candary to attracting a Roario.
  
  It may seem like just a cutesy gardening sim but it is so much more and it will make you happy, 
 when you find out something new or gain a level, and it will make you frustrated, when one of your 
 favourite pinatas dies or when you want to attract a pinata but it just won't become resident, 
 but overall it will make you proud of your wonderful garden (if your good enough) .
  
  This game is a must have for anyone between the ages of 3 and 300.
  
  It is amazing, 'nuff 
 said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata lets you take control of what starts of to be a small bit of dead land, but as soon 
 as you plant your first bit of grass and whack your shovel for the first time... your garden is 
 becoming better by the second.
  
  Viva pinata is a very fun game for all ages, despite it's aimed at young children its very easy 
 to pick up the controller and loose yourself in the land of pinatas. Which is why the first day 
 I bought it I played it all day! xD!!! The colourfellness of viva pinata can be a bit blinding 
 but makes the game look nice none the less.
  
  The gameplay never seems to cease, there is always a new pinata, a new upgrade or a new pesky ruffian 
 to deal with. You will be kept very busy looking after your pinatas as you; attract them, build 
 them homes, romance them and save them from Dastardos's lullaby . It is also quite fun to dress 
 up your pinatas with accessories of all shapes and sizes, from cowboy boots to a baseball cap. 
 Also depending on what you feed your pinatas they may evolve. ( (Feed a Doenut to a Preztail and 
 Wala you have a Mallowolf) )
  
  The only flaw really of viva pinata is that, after you reach level 50 there isn't really much else 
 you can do. And also they could extend pinata interaction, like the chao garden. In fact this game 
 reminds me alot of the Sonic Adventure Battle 2 Chao Garden, only with candy filled pinatas. LETS 
 PARTY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addicting. I mean you have to attract pinatas while maintaining your garden. It's 
 soo fun. You get to make houses for the pinatas which is cool and you get to name them! Plus if 
 you want, you can make your garden into a club. And let's not forget, we get to make love with 
 pinatas so that they can have a baby pinata. Then you have to add stuff to your garden to please 
 the pinatas. It just gets more and more addicting. But I can't describe how good it is. You have 
 to go play it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Story: Well viva pinata doesn't really have a story. Just your a gardener you have to get as many 
 pinatas to come and reside on your plot of land as possible, you can romance the, buy them or entice 
 them with thing in your garden (may that be other pinatas they see as prey or objects such as lights 
 and logs) .
  
  Gameplay: This game played alot better than i expected, i have to say up to now it is one of my 
 favorites on the xbox360, its basicly a sim city esc stratergy game but instead of a whole city 
 full of ppl you have to take care of a whole garden full of toys which are themselves full of sweets. 
 I know that doesn't sound cool but the gameplay just draws you in so you have played for hours 
 and you don't know where the time went. Its also a very funny game at times. When the pinatas are 
 killed or eaten thier sweets (candy) bursts out for other pinatas to eat.
  
  Graphics: You have to remember that this is a release title with the xbox360 so the graphics wont 
 be gears of war quality, but they still look great, very colourful and cheery just what the game 
 needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharedphoenix
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I been playing this game going on about two weeks. It starts off slow then you get more options 
 to play with as you more thur the game storyline (which really isn't one) . I find it cute and funny 
 as the pinata's fight or make love dancing to breed. It's a cute game to pass time for anyone whom 
 I think is waiting on Halo 3, Blue Dragon, or any other game with a more in-depth storylines. Another 
 good thing (esp. with these $60.00 games) is the price finally drop to $30.00 bucks new. Which 
 isn't bad for a game just to play with to make time go by.
  
  Gameplay: I wish the story was more in-depth instead you kinda have to go read it if you want to. 
 Other than that its a fun game.
  
  Graphics: I mean really their pinata animals and nature, even MS couldn't mess that up too bad 
 (lol) .
  
  Sound: Its nature sounds, pinata animals and kiddie music but you zone it out after a while because 
 you trying to figure out how to lure that darn Swan in your garden (lol) .
  
  Value: Right now I got it for new $30 bucks (which is really cheap) . But I beat you can find a 
 use copy at any gamespot or ebgames store. Its fun makes time go by while your waiting on the good 
 stuff to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, the strange, wonderful and sometimes-frustrating world of Viva Pinata ! First off, this 
 game is top-notch visual quality. Yes, it's cartoony, colorful and silly, but it's very well done 
 with that Rare Studios quality that you've come to expect. The control within the game-world is 
 somewhat restricted and you can't float around from every possible angle.. but that's OK in the 
 long run. The gameplay is repetetive (aren't all games nowadays?) , but intriguing and begs you 
 to keep going to get just onnnnnne morrrrrre pinata to visit your garden and become a resident 
 of it. It sounds silly on paper, but play for 1 hour and I can almost guarantee you'll be hooked. 
 It takes roughly 100 hours (give or take 10 or 20 hours) to get all the achievements. Don't cringe 
 or shy away from that number too 100% all achievements... Just look at it this way, 100 hours is 
 really only 4-5 days ! Viva Pinata is fun, weird and wacky and has that Rare touch that only Rare 
 can do. Try it right away ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirkFaulkner
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  A game this stupid shouldnt be this much fun!!! I got it for the wife 2 days ago and she hasnt 
 been able to touch it yet............ I LOVE IT!! Its fun, quirky, attractive, on the outside but 
 underneath if the killer hook of os a stratergy sim like SIM ... this or TYCOON ... that. Imesn i 
 started of just having a little fun growing this romancing that then i was hooked and my nice little 
 garden turned in to a production line of bright colours silly names.
  This game is more addictive than the Sims on PC. Youll love it but not quite know why!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arganancer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  While your playing this game,. you think to yourself, why is this fun?
  well, for multiple reasons, -1, the graphics, though childish, were very well worked on, they look 
 identical to the show.
  -2, no matter what you do, you will NEVER get bored of watching new pinatas come into your garden.
 
  -3, the voices are quite relaxing and well done, I actually enjoyed listening to the tutorial!
 
  -4, your pinatas do THE ROMANCE DANCE! most amazing idea ever! its funny to older audiences, but 
 not offensive or explicit at all to younger children.
  -Last, but not least, is the amount of stuff you can do. Such as accessorising your pinatas, creating 
 your gardens, building houses, leveling up, growing plants, etc.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I've never had much interest in the Xbox. I'm a girl and it's a guys system full of guns, balls 
 and cars. Nintendo is more my style but while I was trying to get my hands on a Wii, I needed something 
 to pass the time and I had heard a lot of good things about this one plus I like to buy and play 
 games considered best games you never played. 
  
  Besides gaming, I like gardening. Yes, really. Gardening isn't really exciting for a lot of people 
 and sounds like it would be a boring game, but even if you aren't a gardener, you might just find 
 something to like here.
  
  As a Nintendo fan, I am still jaded over Rare leaving us to make games for Xbox and so far they 
 hadn't produced a solid hit since their move. Grabbed by the Ghoulies was bad, everyone had already 
 played Conker on the N64 and Kameo managed to cover up the stench left by Perfect Dark Zero. But 
 finally Rare managed to produce a quality Xbox 360 title.
  
  You begin the game entering an empty field that was once a Pinata garden but has fallen into disrepair. 
 The dirt is dry and garbage is strung out everywhere. A young girl named Leafos helps you get started 
 by giving you a shovel, a watering can and a packet of endless grass seed. Shortly into your work 
 wild Pinatas begin to take interest in your garden. As you progress, more and more Pinatas take 
 interest in your garden, your tools gain more abilities and more items become available to you. 
 Various shops open in the nearby town where you can buy supplies, hire workers or send Pinatas 
 to friends via Xbox Live.
  
  The game is addictive. My husband picked it up one day out of boredom and played for four hours 
 straight. Sadly for some, they may find it gets repetitive after a while especially once you hit 
 Level 50 and have maximum garden space and all the tool upgrades. There will still be plenty of 
 animals to gain but the higher level ones like Roarios and Elephaniallas are extremely hard to 
 attract and can get frustrating after a while. Sometimes you finally get a rarer Pinata in your 
 garden only to have one of the sour Pinatas or ruffians kill it.
  
  The game's graphics are very good. The game has a colorful sense of whimsy and you see Rare's distinct 
 style in this. The sounds and voice over work suit the game well. Many Pinatas make realistic sounds 
 like their real life animal counterparts. Others just sound stupid.
  
  Sadly this is a great game on the wrong system. This game didn't sell well primarily because Microsoft 
 tried so hard to push it as a kids game, but just beacause your a manly Gears of War guy, doesn't 
 mean you should pass this up. Just say you're buying it for your kid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the best game I've played on the Xbox 360 so far. The graphics are stunning 
 from the fruit on trees to the pinatas fur. Gameplay is open ended you can choose what pinatas 
 you want to attract and how you go about it the game doesn't force you to do anything you dont 
 wan't (apart from tutorial) . There's plenty to do and it almost never feels like you're being restricted 
 as you can do what you want when you want. The only major criticism I can think about this game 
 is that it has a bunch of annoying glitches. Some make your pinatas turn invisble or never return 
 from a party. If you can overlook these problems you should find a great game with hours of gardening 
 fun ahead of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invader-Dook
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 28, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics
  I will give this game one thing, the graphics were amazing. The colors blended nicely and were 
 sharp. A few of the pi&ntilde; ata had wonderful colors. The graphics of the pi&ntilde; atas themselves 
 were stunning. The character designs were great up till you got to the creatures that weren't pi&ntilde; atas. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Sound
  Sound quality was great but there were some problems I had with the sound though. The music in 
 the game would get old after a while. Along with the music the voice of the girl in the garden 
 would get old after hearing it for 20 times. She would never be quiet which made me want the mute 
 the TV. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  GamePlay
  Well the gameplay was very poor. Doing the same things over and over again. Just trying 
 to fill the garden with different types of pi&ntilde; atas. There is no fun in it at all. I found 
 it boring and the opposite of relaxing.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value
  The 
 game isn't worth the money at all. You should definitely rent before owning the game. I think the 
 game was a total waste of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Beginning Note: due to Gamespot constantly merging my paragraphs, all paragraphs will be separated 
 by several -------- thank you and continue reading.
  
  The Good: vibrant, colorful, graphics, tutorial eases you into the experience, several varied achievements
 
  
  The Bad: very little online capabilities, sour pi&ntilde; atas and ruffians that destroy everything 
 you work on, AI can be just plain stupid sometimes
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In Rare's critically acclaimed Viva Pi&ntilde; ata, Pi&ntilde; atas must be cultivated rather than 
 created, and you assume the role of a pi&ntilde; ata gardener. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata may seem like 
 child's play at a glance, but you cant judge a book by its cover. When the game starts, you are 
 given a piece of land once used by the legendary gardener Jardinero. There you will find Leafos, 
 a girl who spends her time mourning over the state of the garden, and guides you through the game's 
 basic concepts and controls. By the time the tutorial is complete, you are armed with a shovel, 
 watering can, and grass seeds to begin constructing your Pi&ntilde; ata paradise.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata never really gives you any specific tasks, your only objective is to increase 
 your level and attract new pi&ntilde; atas into your Eden. This total sense of freedom may seem 
 a little intimidating at first, but once you learn the ropes, the game is really more concrete 
 than it initially appeared. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata does however, do a great job with keeping your garden 
 at your skill level. Everything levels up as you do, and there is never a moment where you feel 
 as if you cannot handle the challenges that lie before you.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Leveling up in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is rather simple. You gain experience petals by attracting a 
 new species of pi&ntilde; ata, growing a new plant, and so on. There are also more complicated ways 
 of leveling up. For example, giving a pi&ntilde; ata an unfamiliar vegetable may change its color 
 creating a variant, or produce a new species of pi&ntilde; ata altogether.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There are two different control schemes in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata, depending on the age of the player. 
 The simple control scheme is definitely intended for younger gamers who may not be used to the 
 idea of using both analog sticks. This feels really awkward to more experienced gamers, and if 
 you have ever played a first person shooter, the advanced control scheme works perfectly.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Within minutes of starting your paradise, the first wild pi&ntilde; atas appear. Each of the 60 
 or so species in the game each has certain requirements before they will appear, visit, reside, 
 and eventually reproduce in your garden. This seems really easy at first, because everything has 
 a beneficial effect on your garden. But as you level up, the needs of the more impressive pi&ntilde; atas 
 greatly increase. Smaller pi&ntilde; atas have simple requirements such as growing a certain vegetable 
 or merely growing grass in your garden. The more advanced pi&ntilde; atas may require extensive 
 portions of your garden catering to their needs, and a population of smaller pi&ntilde; atas to 
 feed on. Even more challenging are the evil sour pi&ntilde; atas. These nuisances do nothing but 
 cause turmoil until you can tame them, or ban them from your garden permanently. Sadly, This is 
 where the most annoying thing about Viva Pi&ntilde; ata comes into play. Because more impressive 
 Pi&ntilde; atas require large portions of your garden suited to their needs, this often means undoing 
 much of your previous work. The game does offer the option for creating multiple gardens with a 
 shared bank account and experience, but because of the limit of items applies to all of your gardens, 
 it feels rather constricted.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  As you gain more and more experience, new vendors and helpers become available to you. There are 
 doctors, builders, pi&ntilde; ata hunters, and much more. You will be using their services very 
 frequently, and it isnt cheap. Luckily, the in game currency of chocolate coins is pretty easy 
 to come by. Everything can be sold, and some pi&ntilde; atas can even produce things like milk or 
 honey that can be sold for additional cash. There are also a variety of helpers that can be hired 
 to assist with some of the more menial jobs in your garden like watering the plants, or selling 
 produce made by your pi&ntilde; atas. They seem useful at first, but often overlook things they 
 should be doing, or get stuck very easily and then simply leave your garden if they are not immediately 
 tended to. In addition, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata offers 50 creative, and fun to earn achievements. Many 
 of these secret achievements can be earned by simply playing the game. Some of the other achievements 
 however, are much harder to earn, but none of them feel as if they are very out of the way or impossible 
 to earn.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphical style of Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is truly unique. Every object in the game looks very 
 good close up, and the attention to detail is impressive. Every Pi&ntilde; ata has a distinct personality, 
 and the in game romance dances are sure to induce a smile or two. The framerates are flawless all 
 the time, and only hiccup when the game autosaves. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In conclusion Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a game that is hard to hate. With a distinct visual style, 
 charm, and personality, all wrapped up in a paper mache coating; there is no reason why you shouldnt 
 party with the Pi&ntilde; atas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbojnr14
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Excellent Game! I Bought This For My Girlfriend, And She Can't Stop Playing It, Now I'm Becoming 
 Slowly Addicted To It And After You've Finished Playing The Game (After How Long?) You Wonder Where 
 The Hours Went? The Objective Of The Game Is Basically To Create A Garden, Then Attract Many Of 
 These Little Animals Called 'Pniata's', Buy Them Homes And Food Or Whatever, Then You've Got To 
 Mate Them All To Attract Other Pinatas And To Further You're Progress In The Game. Overall A Really 
 Addictive Game, Many Hours Spent On This One! Well Worth The Money! Go Buy It Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggatone
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  I didn't think that this was gonna be a game I enjoyed, but the day after playing the demo I found 
 myself compelled to purchase the full game. Pinata is a very addictive fun way to spend hours cultivating, 
 breeding and swapping animals and even though the front end definitely is there to appeal to younger 
 gamers, there is plenty to enjoy for everyone. I think that the negative reviews posted have come 
 from people that cannot see past that florescent exterior, when the game has much to offer. I implore 
 you to not be put off by the hand holding introduction and the initial learning curve, this is 
 an original, beautifully presented fun experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 22, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, I don't know, should I say garbage? Uninspired? Boring? Lackluster? Pick whichever 
 one you want, they all fit, this game spits at the Xbox 360, Microsoft and Rare all at the same 
 time.
  
  Microsoft's and Rare's attempt to make the 360 a little more family-oriented would be a success 
 if the game would actually be fun to play.
  If I'm going to be honest, the first 20 minutes aren't all that bad, it feels like it's just icing 
 on the cake of what you're about to see. But I was wrong, what I was about to see were more useless 
 pi&ntilde; atas and a 1 inch increase to my garden at a time, and stupid upgrades to my shovel.
 
  Gee wiz, thanks alot.
  
  And every time you want to make more pi&ntilde; atas by doing the pi&ntilde; ata dance (which is 
 a childish way of saying they had sex) , you have to do these stupid minigames. EVERY TIME. It's 
 fun the first two or three times, but oh no, do this over and over again until your mind goes numb. 
 It's actually quite an achievement to make a game look fun, when in reality it is completely braindead.
 
  
  So, in your garden you plant trees, make sure your pi&ntilde; atas have somewhere to live, generelly 
 just play the gardener. You can buy more items by collecting money, and by money I of course mean 
 chocolate coins, but these items are quite useless, considering the game isn't even fun to begin 
 with. While you complete tasks and other basic things, you get visited by these weird thing-people... 
 I don't know, they're from the TV-show, they look like roadkill. Anyway, they explain what to do, 
 and are flatout annoying, something only people who still have their 3 year-old spirit inside of 
 them can enjoy, who I admire by the way.
  
  What I also hate about this game is the absolute lack of a main character, you're invisible during 
 the entire game, you don't even have an identity.
  I like games starring someone, with an original personality and looks, but no, in this game you 
 are a complete nobody who does a number of tedious tasks. All these weird pi&ntilde; atas invade 
 your garden and make a total mess, making your pi&ntilde; atas sick so you have to call the ambulance. 
 They can die too, or basically turn into candy and being reincarnated outside your garden, living 
 like a bum again. I still have nightmares about these bad pi&ntilde; atas...
  
  I expected much, much more from Rare, the same goes for their games Perfect Dark Zero and Kameo. 
 Kameo was a decent game with a disappointing lack of depth, while PDZ was a complete mish-mash 
 of bad and mediocre, GameSpots rating of it is a complete and utter joke.
  
  The only thing I required from this game was a little variety, when you've played for 20-30 minutes 
 you've already done everything worth doing, and that is basically nothing. Admire the colorful 
 graphics for a few minutes, try whacking your pi&ntilde; atas with your shovel, and honestly I can't 
 think of anything else entertaining. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata as a game fails at every possible turn, 
 the game certainly stands out from the 360's other games, but unfortunately it stands as one of 
 the worst.
  
  While this review is my opinion, the game is getting quite great reviews from internet sites, praising 
 its colorful graphics and the possibility for every gamer at every age can enjoy it.
  If you're still considering buying it, rent it first, who knows, you might like it, but be open-minded 
 that there's a large possibility that you will be disappointed - just like I was.
  
  Rent it for your kid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  viva pinata is awesome dont let the bright and cuddly creatures ut you off, it is awesome!
  
  game play 9
  its so simple and easy to pick up and play, amazing
  
  graphics 10
  everything 
 looks beutiful, without a doubt the brightest 360 game ever
  
  sound 7
  some noises are overused, and songs are looped a bit too often, but great voice acting
  
  value 
 10
  you will be playing this for hours and also comes with online support which isnt the best online 
 support ever but still great
  
  reviewers tilt 9
  one amazing game just go and buy it, you wont be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Viva pinata is a fun game. But be4 u buy it be sure 2 rent it 1st. This game is either a hate it 
 or love it. Now this game is alot better than u think. U may b thinkin its for 3 year olds but 
 its hard 2 see them survive in this game. the graphics on this game are great as far as cartoon 
 graphics go. It has great detail because it has that pinata paper mache look. The sound in this 
 game is good but that really dosent matter 4 this game. The gameplay is pretty much ur on ur own. 
 There are no limits. u can make ur garden any damn way u like. and no 1 will laugh at it because 
 online play is just shippin pinatas in crates. so rent this game 1st because ull either hate it 
 or love it and i gaurantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Questlove711
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata takes place on an island known as Pinata Island. You arrive there and see a woman with 
 a weird mask crying. You speak to her to find out (long story short) that you got yourself a pinata 
 garden to take over. This, however, is just the beginning. The gameplay is really relaxed in this 
 game. You don't actually have a character... You're pretty much a cursor. Kind of like PC real 
 time strategies. You can use items to do different things. The shovel does what you think it'd 
 do... Plus it whacks fools. The cursor moves smoothly and everything works as it should. There's 
 not a whole ton to gameplay as you mainly build and manage the garden. A lot of the pleasure comes 
 from watching the pinata interact with items and each other.
  
  A huge amount of this game's charm comes from its graphics. The graphics, from a technical standpoint, 
 look great. I love the art style, which is bright and vibrant. This style might turn some gamers 
 off though. Whether you dig the style or not, you have to admit, the game looks damn good. The 
 game's music and ambient noise can really be enjoyed with a surround sound setup. There is a lot 
 of beautiful music in this as well too. Nice little light hearted music accompanies the visuals 
 perfectly. It's a treat for the ears along with the eyes. This game is a great value now, as it 
 is currently running for about $30. It's got some legs on it as well. I've been playing for a long 
 while and I still have more pinata to catch. Everything has little customizable traits to it. This 
 game deserves at least a rent from everybody to see if they enjoy. The price makes this game especially 
 hard not to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzybaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for the cuteness factor , although my mate strongly objected to the purchase. 
 But even he has to admit that while I was playing this game, he would come out every so often to 
 see how my garden was going. Although this game is clearly intended and marketed for kids, anyone 
 with a certain amount of whimsy can enjoy it. The graphics are amazing and if you enjoy strategy, 
 you'll enjoy this game. It has it's challenges while not ever becoming too difficult. I can't comment 
 on the XBOX Live features as my system isn't currently connected to the Internet (waiting on that 
 pesky wireless adapter) . Bottom line: Cute for kids, cute for adults. If you like any of the Harvest 
 Moon series, you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata pits you as a newcomer to a small town to help create a beautiful garden out of a lot 
 that has been destroyed and is in need of being revitalized. You do this to help some family out 
 as well as to provide a new home for wild pinatas.
  
  Imagine EA's The Sims except with Pinatas and you have this X-Box 360 title. You move around a 
 cursor, and decide what to do. You can use a shovel to dig holes, smash hard soil and make it soft, 
 make paved walkways, water &amp; grow plants, build things, plant short or tall grass, and much 
 more. The more you do, the more you level up and earn better things and better pinatas come to 
 your area.
  
  Each pinata has a certain criteria for you to meet before they come and live on your lot. They 
 come in three stages: 1) appearing, 2) visiting your garden, and then 3) actually becoming a resident. 
 To meet these criteria might be something like you need to have 10 gooseberries in your garden 
 or have a light source.. its pretty interesting, but gets sort of old fast.
  
  Additionally, you can go to town and buy fertilizers, seeds, buildings, accessories for your pinatas 
 which include hats and glasses, buy pinatas like dogs and cats and pigs, and much more. If your 
 pinatas get attacked (and dont die) they will turn green and you can call a doctor to come heal 
 them.
  
  As the game goes on and you get higher in level, you begin to face Sour Pinatas and Sour Bullies 
 or something to that affect. Anyway, these annoyances will come onto your property and begin destroying 
 anything in their path and leaving behind sour candy which can poison your pinatas. The only way 
 to beat them is to go up in level or convert them to be good again. You'll sometimes be facing 
 three of these things at one time and it can get quite hard.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and the colors are vibrant. Everything has a soft glow to it, and they 
 all look like real pinatas. They all look unique and look like magnificent creatures, although 
 a bit childish.
  
  I can't really say too much about the sound. I mean the pinatas sound like creatures and stuff 
 but the music is sort of on the lame side and there is barely any voice acting... just annoying 
 text boxes. If I wanted to read, I would read any one of the books I have. Overall though, the 
 sound effects were good.
  
  There is a big replay value because you can evolve certain pinatas, trade animals on X-Live, try 
 and get every pinata and so much more. I do not know if any extras are unlocked when you beat the 
 game because I can't seem to beat it but whatever.
  
  Overall, Viva Pinata manages to capture it's gamers with bright colors and fun gaming with easy 
 mechanics that gradually get harder the more you understand it. I highly recomend it and give it 
 an 8.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokanite
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  If you look through the fluffy, brightly colored exterior, you find a truly unique gaming experience. 
 From the depth involved in obtaining the many types of pinata to the simple pleasure of observing 
 the activities in your garden, this game has hours of entertainment behind it (if you bother to 
 look beyond the achievements which can mostly be obtained within 10 game play hours [save a few 
 more difficult / time taking ones] ) . All in all, it is a game that should not be shot down because 
 of its appearance. The graphics are surprisingly good and have a nice, cartoonish-realism to them. 
 Overall, this game is excellent, but after a while, you seem to have beaten everything and that 
 definitely lessens its value. After obtaining all the pinata and getting all the achievements there 
 is really nothing left to do. Even so, it is a unique, fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangamaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Now i know that most of you think that viva pinata is kids game but guess what it is so addicting 
 i couldn't care less. The graphic presentation is amazing a little behind oblivion and the gameplay 
 is very very very simple but good. This is a game anyone can enjoy male, female, young, old geezer, 
 your parents ( scary i know ) . But like any other game this game is not perfect. This game treats 
 you like a baby and some of the parts of the game is kinda graphical i mean your PINATA S eat eachother 
 and there is somthing called the romance dance ( no questions asked ) . So get this for yourself 
 your younger brother and anyone who has a 360 beacuse not only is it a great game you can get 50 
 acheviements 20 points each. So join in this celebration VIVA PINATA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Most games now a days are about killing everything and while i can say i am SO fine with that. 
 It is nice for a game to come along that such a side step away from the normal that it makes you.... 
 well....... happy. The fact that people even want to risk putting out games ilke this is great. 
 Any way to the review
  
  Gameplay: Ask yourself, how does managing a garden sound to you? Well i wouldnt have raised my 
 hand on that one but then i started to play this game. The sheer awesome ness of its brillance 
 blew me away. The game is about you, a rookie gardener, managing a garden, even though that doesnt 
 seem like the best game concept its actually put together very well to create a hell of an experience. You 
 watch over these creatures called Pinata's, they are very different and uniqe in there own ways, 
 they visit your garden if you have there VISIT requirements, from that point you try to meet there 
 RESIDENT requirements, then you try to make them mate with one of the same Pinata to make another 
 one! Its a weird sounding idea, but once you get into the game, things become hectic, pinata's 
 become ill, they attack each other, you get moeny to buy items and equipment for your garden, you 
 have to worry about people coming in and destroying your garden, you have to fufil factory requests, 
 you have to watch over seeds you planted and pinatas to make sure there all happy. Its quite amazing 
 on how much is piled onto you. To sum it up you manage a garden with amazinly unique creatures, 
 and then you just run the show
  
  Graphics: All the Pinata's are very well detailed and have a very cartoonish look which is where 
 an opinion comes in. If you like these kind of graphics then your going to want to play this game, 
 if not well its going to turn you away from it very quickly. All in all the graphics look great
 
  
  Sound: Sounds good, no orchrstra kind of stuff but good enough so it doesnt get in the way or annoy 
 you of game play
  
  Replay: This can be huge or big for you depending on how deep you get into the game. I think if 
 you open your mind like i did to weird gamplay then your going to find one amazing game you could 
 be playing for weeks or months (or until you get all the achievement points) . If you dont open 
 your mind and play this game, its going to turn you off. But who knows, you may open your mind 
 to the game and still not like it, im not here to make you like it im telling you whats in the 
 game and if you think its for you. Also some people are going to think its a game for kids, looks 
 can be decieving. Its for everyone.
  
  Overal: The game is great, it will last a long time depending on how deep you get into it. Great 
 colorful graphics, good sound, great replay, and the pinata's look neat. Think about it before 
 you buy it though. The game is for everyone, not just kids, i think it might be a little to deep 
 for kids, unelss the kid is good a games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAnderson582
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  There are people that say just because this is not a shot the head off game, that its not cool. 
 Well for me, it cool to lay off they bang bang for a little bit and play some viva pinata. This 
 is a cool game that i got for easter. I actually wanted it, and i got it. This game starts slow, 
 and i mean slow.... but after some time, it starts getting cool. One of the cool things about Viva 
 is the view. I mean the lighting effect are just top notch, and its one of the cool things that 
 make this a really good game. There really is not anything to say about this game. Its your run-of-the-mill 
 game. I like it, and so will you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Like many, I suppose, I didn't pay much attention to Viva Pinata simply because it was obviously 
 a game designed for kids. But I kept hearing great reviews, and so I figured it was time to try 
 it out. First the demo, of course, and I immediately went out and purchased the full game. It's 
 a blast.
  
  The game's premise is simple: you're growing and tending a garden. Various actions in the garden 
 attract various animals. Your job is to meet the needs of your new animal friends, and even breed 
 them. And, of course, there are obstacles along the way to be overcome.
  
  The animals are amusing. They are all pinatas, of course, and their names are variations on animals 
 and sweets. So, you have the Mousemellow and the Sparrowmint. The Doenut. The animations are never 
 less than cute and almost always amusing. When you meet the requirements for animals to breed, 
 they do a little romance dance (it's a family game, after all) , most of which are hilarious.
  
  The game's pace is deliberate. You'll very rarely feel rushed, but you never find that you 
 have nothing to do (except, perhaps, in the very early stages of the game) . There are constraints 
 early on. You have a small garden area, and access to a limited number of options, both of which 
 increase as you go.
  
  There are two control schemes -- one which is simplified and uses only one analog stick, and an advanced 
 which uses both. Younger gamers will probably like the simplified version, but if you are at all 
 used to playing first or third person perspective games you'll have not problem with it. The game 
 also does an excellent job of giving context for your commands in the upper right part of the screen -- good 
 for beginning and experienced players alike. None of this hand-holding gets in the way of the game, 
 though. Graphically the game is beautiful. Colorful, creative and very well designed. The character 
 animations are simply amazing. Also excellent are the animal noises and ambient sounds, which with 
 surround sound are just amazing and engrossing.
  
  And that's the best part of this game, really. You can spend hours immersed in it, and you never 
 feel pulled out of the game world. It is perhaps one of the most relaxing and genuinely fun games 
 I've played in a long time.
  
  Certainly some will be put off by the game's cutesiness, as I was originally. But behind the facade 
 is an immensely enjoyable and satisfying game that, while not full of thrills and action, certainly 
 provides a unique and entertaining experience. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etiennec9
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 7, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  This is an interesting game, to be sure, but after many hours of twiddling I can't find any reason 
 to recommend it. I can't imagine the point. The mini games are terrible. The animals are neat and 
 their interactions are interesting but the other characters are annoying. The menu system is slow. 
 I think it's the bright colors that mesmerize people. My roommate really liked the game, but I 
 think he was just after achievements. It just didn't do anything for me. The game was slow, and 
 I mean everything about it was slow. The menu was slow, the shovel was slow, the animals were slow. 
 I have a good long attention span normally, but this game drove me nuts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a really nice touch to the Xbox 360 library, since its a title thats for the hardcore 
 Rare fans, but is also for parents out there looking for something to play with there kids that 
 isn't an awful in terms of gameplay. The title really isn't for everyone, and the cliche of people 
 calling it dumb because of its cutesy graphics gets old fast. Lets review:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  This game is very fun to play, but not at first. the title has a slight learning 
 curve to it since the gameplay mechanics are not very clear. Parents are recommended to be playing 
 the game with their children at first, so that they can help them get a feel for the title, before 
 allowing them to have a go at it on their own. However, Hardcore gamers will take the same amount 
 of time, but be able to grasp the concept fairly quickly and get the ball rolling for the game. 
 Once you get going, the game becomes an addictive roller coaster of breeding pinatas, growing plants, 
 and fighting off the evil sours from destroying your garden. This title makes it very easy to suck 
 up multiple hours of gameplay, but it does lose its appeal pretty quickly compared to other addictive 
 games. This might come from a somewhat lack of things to pass the time with, and many moments in 
 the game where you beg for pinatas to come into your garden, but have no idea how to get them in. 
 This comes into play because of the awkward and clunky menu system the game adapts. The menus are 
 littered with stuff that could have been combined in one thing, this littering makes the loading 
 process of the menus very slow, making you wait for 5-10 seconds to load almost every menu. This 
 makes finding information a 3 min fiasco, when it should be just a 30 second event tops. However, 
 all of these come into play after the addiction, with many casual gamers not noticing these issues 
 at all.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Undoubtedly, this is the Gears of War of cartoony graphics. This title is absolutely gorgeous for 
 a child's game, and the pinatas look amazing close to the real thing. The entire world is lush 
 with color and life, and the pinata like skin on everything, from the grass, to the houses, to 
 the clothes the citizens of the island wear, its all amazing. Rare did a great job in this dept. 
 and should pat their design team on the back for this one...
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound of Viva Pinata is relatively great, but doesn't boast greatness. The tunes that play 
 during the game are very lovable and sometimes memorable, especially that intro video for the show 
 and game. However, the tunes in the game seem to randomly play, and they always seem to repeat 
 themselves, making the game soundtrack seemed rushed. The sound effects of the game are very well 
 done, but, once again, they are nothing special. The sounds are what you expect, since the pinatas 
 don't speak, and make noises like Pokemon do. The noises are almost identical, I'm surprised that 
 we didn't have actual pinata battle arenas in the game...
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  The value of this title is indescribable since it really is worth it for those who are interested 
 in this type of game. The title has a good amount of game time in it, ranging about 30 hours. The 
 achievements of the game require you to play about 50 hours, which is possible, if you take your 
 time and get the achievements slowly since all of them can be gathered rather quickly if you read 
 the requirements and know the ins and outs of the title relatively quickly. Still, gamers will 
 surely have a blast out of this one. However, I will state that this is NOT for everyone. I have 
 met many gamers who have hated everything about this game, so don't take my word for it that this 
 game is completely wonderful. This is only a matter of opinion anyways...
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  I really loved this game, and many other have as well. The game is very solid for what it is, 
 and the story, while it exists, is meaningless since you never really care about how the pinatas 
 were created until your done with the title anyways. The title was an awakening for me on many 
 levels, one being that Rare still has it, despite what gamers have been saying about the company.
 
  
  Overall: 8.9/10.0
  Great game, I recommend it to those interested. However, for those not, rent it first, or give 
 the demo on XBL a whirl first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The word sandbox has been used to describe some open world games like Grand Theft Auto or Crackdown, 
 but Viva Pinata is a true sandbox game in the most literal meaning. It is a game based on creating 
 and managing a virtual garden and the creatures that reside in your garden, called pinatas. The 
 game starts you off with a shovel and a squared off lot of land. If you clean up the land enough, 
 you will be able to put grass in your garden. Almost immediately, you will attract a worm-like 
 pinata to your garden, and because you have worms in your garden, the bird pinata becomes attracted 
 to your garden, and at that, your long journey begins. The creatures in your garden are willing 
 to reside in your garden as long as their requirements for living in the garden are met. After 
 that, you will want them to reproduce, which will need another set of requirements. By attracting 
 pinatas, having them mate, growing plants, and increasing the value of your garden, you will level 
 up. Leveling up to certain points will get you new tools for your garden, new stores may open, 
 and new pinatas will be attracted to your garden because of your increased popularity.
  
  You control a cursor, so ordering a pinata to do something is a matter of selecting a pinata, and 
 then selecting the object that you want the pinata to interact with. The stores allow you to buy 
 items for your garden, accessories for your pinata to increase their value, food to feed the pinata 
 or attract new ones, and seeds for planting trees and plants that can produce fruit and also attract 
 new pinata. Pinatas can change color or even evolve, depending on what they eat or how they reproduce, 
 which always lead to increasing the value of your pinata and your garden. With over 50 species 
 of pinata, over 25 types of plants, and too many objects to place in your garden, managing how 
 everything fits in is what makes this game so fun. It is in your best interest to always have the 
 more valuable pinatas in your garden, so once you no longer need the cheaper pinatas, sell them 
 off and make space for new ones. If your garden becomes overcrowded, or too many objects are in 
 it, the garden becomes less attractive, and not only do new pinatas stay away, but residing pinatas 
 may leave. Once you have a system of how to maximize your profits and level up fast, the main concern 
 is how to attract newer, rarer pinatas. You may be given hints along the way, but you should always 
 experiment with what you have. There is a reference guide in the game that helps you know what 
 the requirements are for pinatas that have at least taken interest in your garden. It is then up 
 to you, as the designer, to reconstruct the garden to meet the pinatas needs.
  
  In designing your garden, you have complete control over what goes in every square inch of your 
 garden. Even though you only start off with a shovel, you will gain upgrades that will allow you 
 to dig ponds. The overall shape and look of your garden will always be changing, as you may go 
 from grassland, to a swamp, to even a lush forest.
  
  Along the way, there may be pinatas that come into your garden for evil intentions. These sour 
 pinatas, as they are called, can be transformed into good pinatas if their requirements are met, 
 or you can bash them with a shovel and purchase a very expensive object that keeps them from coming 
 back. Other creatures, called Ruffians, are not a species of pinata and are just there to make 
 your life miserable. There are ways to keep them off the garden as well, but that is a secret for 
 you to find for yourself. Also, some pinatas may be natural enemies, like the dog and cat, and 
 if they come in contact with each other, they will fight, leaving the loser to be eaten or ill, 
 which then much be treated. Viva Pinata is a very good looking game. The colors are bright and 
 sharp, the pinata models look soft and plush, and the lighting can make your garden feel warm or 
 wet and cold. Each pinata has its own animations and sounds, which gives some character and identity 
 to them. With some of the flying pinatas, however, ordering them to eat a fruit or a flower may 
 make them have to realign themselves with it, so before moving in on the goods, they might turn 
 away from it and position themselves so that they can make a straight line towards it. Nothing 
 too extreme, though. The music is subtle, but effective as well. Those who are familiar with some 
 of the jingles from the Banjo-Kazooie games, which are also developed by Rare, may feel at home 
 with some of these songs. The only real complaint I have about the presentation is with the store 
 menus. I can accept the fact that the items are listed in a slot machine, but the name of the objects 
 are written in this red text on a soft blue background, rendering it pretty hard to read.
  
  Although Viva Pinata is a very well built game, your main objective is to pretty much level 
 up, and not much happens after you reach level 50, which takes about 15 hours or so. As someone 
 who has come to love the Xbox 360 achievement system, I found much more in this game. The achievements 
 are very well implemented into the game, and since there was no main motivation to keep playing 
 the game, I had the achievements to lean back on. When playing the game for achievements, Viva 
 Pinata can get very addictive. There was always something for me to do, and trying to maintain 
 order in the garden while doing it all was very fun. However, I cannot expect you to get caught 
 up in the achievements. There are people who love them and then there are those who could care 
 less. When reviewing Viva Pinata I have to base it on what the game alone has to offer. I enjoyed 
 my time with it, but it does not guarantee you will. I find it unfortunate that Viva Pinata did 
 not have small goals and objective to complete along the way of building up your garden. You are 
 simply given a shovel and are told that you should try to be like the great legendary gardener 
 in the game. I can see how leveling up alone can be fun, but as the player, I always ask myself 
 what should I do next or what am I working towards. If there were no achievements, all there is 
 to do is level grind my may up to 50. Again, this can be fun, but can it hold ones interest for 
 long? Keep in mind this was designed for a younger demographic, and although I feel all of this 
 multitasking is way too much for a child to grasp, the task of making it to level 50 is just too 
 broad and general for anyone to accept as their main objective. As players, we need stepping stones; 
 smaller tasks that lead to an overall purpose.
  
  The question comes down to whether or not Viva Pinata is for you. If you are a fan of the achievement 
 system, then I highly recommend it because it can be very fun and addictive. For everyone else, 
 I would recommend that you at least check it out one way or another, because even though there 
 may be a lack of motivation to keep going, Viva Pinata is a very well built game with some interesting 
 gameplay elements. The engine is properly built; now all they need is some objective based gameplay 
 and they have a worthy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 1, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  In Viva Pinata, you basically are attracting these cute, funny, and colourful animals into your 
 garden... That's the jist of it. Now, you might be saying Wth? That sounds boring Steve, why would 
 anyone want to play that? . Well, if you have play harvest moon, then you might know why it is. 
 I can't explain how it's fun, maybe it's the seeing how the new pinatas act or see what pinata 
 will come to your garden next? I don't know, I just can't explain it, but take my word, if you 
 liked harvest moon games or any games that run down those lines... your most likely going to like 
 it.
  
  But, i have decided to break it down to the pros and cons of the game as most people would know 
 what the game is like from reading gamespot's review.
  
  Pros:
  - It's Different
  - Colourful and pretty
  - Very cute animals
  - Child friendly yet fun for adults
  - Relaxing
 
  - RPG elements
  
  Cons:
  - You'll be doing the same thing over and over
  - After you get to about level 50 (should take you about 15-20 hours) it starts to become a drag 
 as nothing is getting unlocked
  - Children may have problems durring the mid-levels, as that's when it starts getting hecktic
 
  - Replay value is low
  
  Well, I hope this has help. If you find this in a bargin bin, BUY IT. If you find yourself stress 
 after work or after school, maybe you should look into getting it also.
  
  Have a great day everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna get right to the basics here, skip all the crap.
  
  Graphics: The game is colorful, you think youre a geek for playing a colorful video game? well 
 you play video games? welcome to geeksville!!!! You wanna know how cool your video games are? ask 
 your girlfriend how cool. and if you don't have a girlfriend that's all just part of the test.
 
  
  Story: Help pinatas move in to your neighborhood, build them a house, make them eat other pinatas, 
 get them to do it by dancing. Oh and you can sell your pinatas like slaves or you can send them 
 to pinata central were they send your pinata to a party to die and you get a piece of candy, literally.
 
  
  Gameplay: Pretty simple controls, not much to write about.
  
  Online: You will shoot yourself with all the crap you'll have to put up with. GOD i hate gamerscores!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Will I need a Guide?: YES, buy the guide with the game!!! Mostly because you'll need to know how 
 to attract pinatas to your garden. Their pretty widely available, unlike the deadrising guide.
 
  
  Overall Grade: 8.25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  For a company such as Rare , one of whom isn't a stranger to making titles filled to the brim of 
 bizarre subject matter, has pretty much shown the top of the barrel with there newest creation. 
 Viva Pinata is a game that is very hard to pin down as far as games go. Indulging in amazingly 
 bizarre sceneries. As well as a gameplay style that shares many different perspectives from different 
 games. Which all wraps up in a game that is hard to be understood. Yet, with its many different 
 issues, and there really are some, it does all come together in a gameplay experience that is, 
 in one word, irresistible.
  
  In Viva Pinata you are placed in the whimsical world of Pinata Island. A island totally inhabited 
 by strange, yet, lovable paper-mica animals. As well as the people who care for them. You are put 
 under control the task of supervising a garden of your own. Where you must create a desolate land 
 into a pi&ntilde; ata paradise.
  
  The gameplay in Viva Pinata is a strange mix between The Sims and Animal Crossing . Start off your 
 garden with nothing more then a desolate land of dead grass and gravel, yet, before no time you 
 will have a land thriving with many different and varied pi&ntilde; ata creatures. To get pi&ntilde; atas 
 to visit your garden you must begin with a lower level pi&ntilde; ata to attract more higher level 
 pi&ntilde; atas. You begin with a worm, the worm attracts the sparrow, and then the sparrow attracts 
 the snake and so one and so forth.
  
  The Creatures of Viva Pinata are varied in there look as well as behavior. Each creature is a strange 
 spin off of a real world animal. Yet, with a snack related name. Such as a flying sparrow themed 
 pi&ntilde; ata with the last name as mint . Which together become Sparrowmint . Each creature as 
 well has there own behavior. For example, some creature just relax as other are more prone to fighting 
 other pi&ntilde; atas that invade there territory. Which is where you come in to stop them from 
 doing so.
  
  There are also Sour Pinatas , pi&ntilde; atas that are evil in nature. They will come in and either 
 persuade the resident pi&ntilde; atas to battle each other or battle other pi&ntilde; atas themselves. 
 Which is one of the areas of which Viva Pinata is more targeted for older more experienced gamers. 
 Since the game can get very out of hand at times, driving into a game that can at times be too 
 much to handle for younger children.
  
  There is also an entire level to Viva Pinata that requires you to breed you pi&ntilde; atas in the 
 form of a ritual called the Romance Dance .
  
  There are places where you can buy items for your gardens and pi&ntilde; atas from stores. As well 
 as an online mode that allows you the ability to trade pi&ntilde; atas with others over Xbox Live. 
 Which is a good feature, yet, it would have been nice to see more functionality with online. Such 
 as a feature that allows you to visit others gardens or something along that line.
  
  As far as achievements in Viva Pinata, the game deals them out in increments of 20. The achievements 
 run the gamete of small and easy requirements such as naming a pi&ntilde; ata. To achievements that 
 will take you very long to do. Such as becoming a Master Romancer for 20 different species of pi&ntilde; atas 
 or playing the game for more then 50 hours of real world in game time. The achievements overall 
 are very well designed and breath even more life into a game that is already very fun to play.
 
  
  The presentation in Viva Pinata is absolutely riveting. While it may not be up to the likes of 
 Gears of War as far as technical aspect goes. It borderlines perfection as far as art design. The 
 world is whimsical and vibrant with color. Complementing the games target audience of a younger 
 group even more. Even the pi&ntilde; atas themselves have a paper look to them to emulate there 
 pi&ntilde; ata look even more. The audio is also very well done. With the pi&ntilde; atas all having 
 there own sounds that really help the world come to life even more.
  
  The real problem with Viva Pinata is the fact that the game is clearly designed for children. Yet, 
 the gameplay is much the opposite. As it can be just too much for children to handle. making the 
 true target audience a little off for this game. Yet, at the end of the day. Viva Pinata is filled 
 with amazingly vibrant vistas and a fun and addictive gameplay that could serve to keep a player 
 hooked for hours on end. No matter what kind of game player you are, you owe it to yourself to 
 give Viva Pinata a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OJ99
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  When I was buying my Xbox 360, I struck a deal with the well mannered shop-keep upon whom I had 
 chosen to bestow my custom. Were I to buy a third additional game, it would be a mere &pound;30. 
 Tempted, I scanned the shelves. Seeing as Call of Duty 3 was bundled with the console and I was 
 buying Gears of War because at the time that was what you did if you were a shooter fan buying 
 a 360, an alternative to shooting stuff up was in order. This shot down Blazing Angels (pun intended) , 
 Full Auto, Dead Rising, and even Star Trek Legacy. Newly released Need for Speed Carbon was the 
 obvious choice but I hadn't finished Most Wanted yet so I didn't see the point; sports games aren't 
 really my thing, I was yet to discover how incredible Oblivion was and I knew Superman was awful. 
 Which left games I can't remember (which suggests what I thought of them) and the brightly coloured, 
 chirpy looking Viva Pinata, Collectors Edition. I knew about the game and had not long read the 
 glowing GS review, when I discovered I could have the collectors edition for the &pound;30 I was 
 suckered, and walked out confident that I had an alternative to blowing things up.
  To save space, my TV is high up in a corner of my room, this makes it a small screen, far away. 
 Therfore Gears of War, with its 3rd person view and dark colour scheme was very difficult to play, 
 something I hadn't anticipated. I gave up after two levels and resolved to try it on a bigger TV. 
 Next I completed Call of Duty 3, before finally trying Viva. I loved it, the bright colours, chirpy 
 music, cartoon style, simplicity were refreshing and I enjoyed starting my farm. I prepared ground, 
 sowed seeds, built houses and generally got things going. For two days I was happy, Viva is easy 
 to get into, easy to control and the constantly changing environment means its always challenging. 
 The sound fell foul of me first, 'chirpy' became 'annoying' and the irrepressible child-like joy 
 in every voice began grating. Next was the art, which had begun as inivative and fresh but became 
 ridiculous and wierd, I didn't like looking at characters that looked like they sprung from children's 
 drawings anymore. Finally I realised that to progress through the game I would need to destroy 
 much of what I had done to create new habitat. I found the prospect of doing this repeatedly in 
 order to house every Pinata and complete the game depressing. At the end of day 3 I put it back 
 the in box and its stayed there since. Due to Oblivion and constant replays of Halo I still haven't 
 completed Most Wanted, but I do see the point of buying Carbon now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff4747
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  At first, the concept of the game seems ridiculous. Perhaps it is, actually. But the game is one 
 of the more addicting games I've played in quite some time. It starts out basic, but quickly expands 
 and you'll find you have plenty to do. The achievement system really is what wins this game over, 
 you'll have several things to shoot for, making the game that much more fun to play. The graphics 
 are amazing, especially on a HDTV. The levelling system works well as more animals visit and more 
 items are added to shops as you progress. And since it's half the price of regularly-priced Xbox 
 360 games, it's that much more attractive to buy. I recommend this to anyone and if you snub it 
 because you think it's looks or sounds stupid, it's your loss. It will be 3am before you know it, 
 I assure you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game is for people with allot of time and pascience, but definetly not for me. I was one of 
 those person that believe that this will be the SIms kind of game, but I actually I don't think 
 it even goes near of the Sims experience. I won't say is bad but I won't say it's great, if you 
 like to garden and have Pi&ntilde; atas to name them hey go for it but then agian need allot of 
 pasciece if anything goes wrong oh man, it will go wrong so be careful and pascience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandonio358
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Amazing art styles, awesome graphics, good fun, so-so lasting appeal but the sounds can be irritating 
 and sometimes really just stupid. I think Rare has done well creating a strategy game related to 
 a cartoon as far as research, art styles, but really lack to impress me with the storyline, though 
 it is cheesy and cute for a 7 year old, it is too difficult for a 7 year old. I can't stress enough 
 at how much better this game could have been with better sounds and a better story. fanboyism aside, 
 I think this game is a definite buy for an 8-8.9 rated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  it seems like i play the same type of video game over and over so i got this one to give it a try 
 and do something new. BLEH
  
  it teaches you how to play at first, introduces you to characters and what you're supposed to do, 
 then you're just left to do it, whatever it is. there really is no direction in the game except 
 looking at the achievements menu and trying to get them. ANNOYING: you have to wait for new pinatas 
 to visit, then you have to get them to stay as a resident, then you ahve to keep the other pinatas 
 from eating them while you're trying to get them to romance and reproduce. this cycle repeats for 
 every single pinata that comes into your forest. it got to a point where you're just waiting for 
 stuff to happen and driving out the bad pinatas
  
  its a good game because of its graphics, sound, and originality
  
  its a bad game cuz there's 
 no real goal, motivation, or direction. The controls are overly complicated. it gets boring pretty 
 quick and then becomes steadily tedious from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolsen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to hand it to Microsoft and developer Rare for making a truly unique game experience designed 
 to broaden the appeal of the shooter-centric Xbox 360. Rare taps the gotta catch 'em all vein made 
 popular with Pokemon, and Microsoft launched a Saturday morning cartoon to help market the game. 
 Virtually every design choice reflects Rare's desire to reach out beyond the core 18 - 34 male 
 demographic: vibrant and whimsical characters, a garden setting, floral and pastel-heavy graphics. 
 Behind the candy coating, though, is incredibly meaty and compelling gameplay. You are a gardener 
 charged with attracting and breeding the best pinata. At your disposal are a variety of tools and 
 helpers purchased through chocolate currency, earned by selling your pinatas or other items in 
 your garden. The game throws obstacles in your way as well: hostile characters that poison your 
 pinata, fights between resident pinata and even a population cap. You can even name and accessorize 
 any resident pinata, becoming more attached to it..... right before you feed it to a more valuable 
 pinata to convince the new one to stay. Here is where we see the tenuous balance that Rare attempted 
 to strike. Rare has created an interesting and complex ecology simulator (complete with a food 
 chain) , but wrapped it in a child's coloring book. The result is a candy-coated meatball: too much 
 solid food for the kiddies, but too saccharine-sweet for the adults. If you are over the age of 
 13 and don't mind the packaging, I recommend you give Viva Pinata a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10054254
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what the world would look like if they legalised Drugs and painted everthing 
 bright green? in HD
  
  It would look like this, very bright with everything look a bit too funny for its own good. Be 
 warned this game can get you hooked.
  
  And with a few hours of gameplay you will see... that its saterday night you have spaced out for 
 3 days, uve been sacked from work, your girlfriend has left you but who cares... youve got Pinata's 
 to love you now...
  
  Definatly one to play, if your thinking i wonder if its any good give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is for kids. Only girls play it. Don't listen to remarks like that. This game is actually 
 quite good. You could conceivabley get all 1000 achievement points in one sitting if you've got 
 enough time and patience. The graphics are lush and colorful, and the cute little chirps and squaks 
 that the animals make, add a nice atmosphere to the game. So yes, this game is good, and it's easy 
 achievement points, so you may be asking, what are its flaws? Well, it really doesn't have many, 
 except for one glaring problem. And it revolves around the pinatas and the way they get along with 
 one another. Here's an example. Your little mouse pinata is kicking it under a tree, when low and 
 behold, your pretztail is there to gobble him up. Your choices are either let him injure him an 
 waste money on the doctor to come and fix it up, or bash the pretztails skull in. Either way one 
 of your pinatas is injured and you need that retarded doctor. And he aint cheap, I'll tell you that. Also, 
 lets you say you want that bee who's been eyeing your garden, to become a perminent resident. All 
 he needs to do is eat a butrercup. But the freaking bear you have, has made that his favorite snack, 
 and eats it up immediately after you plant it. You will spend tons of time trying to lure a pinata 
 to your garden just to have some other bonehead pinata walk in and eat the one and only requirements 
 the pinata needs. Otherwise, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I know its a little late for this review, cuz this game came out like half a year ago, but people 
 still love it, therefore I don't lose credibility and can't be called old-fashioned just yet. I 
 actually spent time beating 4 other games before deciding to play this, so yeah, I'm excused. Viva 
 pinata, its a beautiful world owned by candy filled animals, here to take revenge on all those 
 who have cracked their bellies open to reveal the delicious prizes inside. Actually, if that was 
 true, they should make another game like that, first person shooter for kids, ages 6 and under 
 only. I'm not saying that Viva Pinata is for kids only, hey anyone can play Harvest Moon, then 
 why cant they do the same for Viva Pinata?
  
  You start off as a new comer to a desolate broken up garden, here you have to pick up the pieces, 
 and attract and breed different species of pinata, they can make babies too, and you get this little 
 minigame while they are doin' it. These pinatas are designed after animals of all kind, and named 
 with referances to sweets, such as the Bunnycomb, named after the honeycomb, and its a bunny rabbit. 
 You can plant all sorts of things in your garden, from simple daisies to trees that grow gems. 
 At first look, the area seems small, but its very expansive cuz theres is A LOT to be done, its 
 addicting really. Ever get a cute little pet, and then you get the urge to get another one, and 
 another one, then eventually you have to expand your own living space to accomodate for the pets? 
 Yeah, Viva Pinate is something like that.
  
  The graphics are amazing, each pinata has its own distinctive features, and theres zero lag even 
 when there are hordes of Horstachios runnin' around. A nice touch is the fact that the pinata character 
 models actually have something inside them, the candy, you look at many many good games, but when 
 you use the camera to look through them, its just a hollow shell. Yeah I know, pinatas are supposed 
 to have candy in them, but aren't humans also supposed to have internal organs also?
  
  Pinatas can also evolve into another species, and in very rare cases, when the egg hatches, you 
 might even get twins, or a wild card, which is a pinata with a unique physical feature. You make 
 money by selling your produce or your pinata, and the currency is chocolate coins. The shops over 
 there provide everything you need to make your garden one of a kind. Its really sugary candy paradise.
 
  
  If they could add more things they should add an ocean where you could fish and capture aquatic 
 pinata, or even broader, being able to go capture wild pinata by yourself would be a fun thing 
 to add also. Since your charcter is just a cursor, an underwater garden might be possible, perhaps, 
 that way, they could have a whole new range of pinatas, ranging from shellfish to whales, plants 
 could be coral and sea grass, if they could make that, I'm sure this game could make history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lantern1080
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a really, really awful (Id be a bit more forward with how I put that, but do Gamespot 
 allow swearing?) game. When i heard about it, i was all excited, imagining the Pok&eacute; mon game 
 that's never been fully realised. A game where you actually head out into the wild to capture whatever 
 creatures, using whatever methods.... the garden would have been surplus to requirements if the 
 game had been like this. But no, to my disappointment, upon playing the game, i was given quite 
 possibly the smallest square patch of land, ever. So what, i guess i'll fix up my garden, which 
 was left to me in a terrible state, and then go off and explore? No, not possible... your floating 
 shovel is stopped by an imaginary wall, indicated by thick chalk lines. = (
  
  Ok then, i'll give it some time... surely the mags were singing its praises as a return to form 
 for Rare for some reason? So you do fix up your garden, i mean, it's not like you're given much 
 choice... and some Pinata come in, a Whirlm, and then a Sparrowmint.... and blah blah blah, the monotony 
 was already setting in. This is what the game is all about. You have barely any ****ing control 
 over the fun-factor.... you are just a tool (a shovel, a watering can, a grass seed packet) used 
 to put tick-marks on the check-list of every ****ing species of Pinata... and you do this, again 
 and again and again and again, until you're stuck in a mechanical rhythm of boredom. Yawn!
  
  There is no doubt that this game was aimed at preemies (prematures) ... a kind of sly way of 
 getting some youth support in the midst of all the Locust chainsawing going on. But there was supposedly 
 some depth to satisfy the hardcore? Excuse me while I go ahead and call BS! on that. Sure the 
 game gets harder... but its difficulty is due to annoyances which lead the game to be more frustrating 
 than satisfying, worthwhile, and enjoyable... in all honesty, I cant see kids enjoying this, and 
 anyone who actually does enjoy this game, is a sucker for the type of gameplay that can be likened 
 to repetitive chores (a la every RPG where you have to fight the same enemies a million times so 
 that your numbers are higher than the boss who youre currently stuck on..... nobody actually enjoys 
 that) .
  
  There is absolutely zero true depth to this... once you've played the first two hours of the game, 
 all that's left is bigger Pinata, with bigger check-lists. The most fun i had, was inbreeding... i 
 had some sick, welsh-style families going on.... which I then slaughtered with my hovering doom-bringer 
 (the shovel) Yeah... go me, right? :/
  
  Don't buy this game, there's no justifying it... for all it's happiness, and beautiful colour, it's 
 a vacant, soul-less pile of crap...
  
  (the score may seem a bit low... but frankly, this is a below-average game... and has been rated 
 thusly) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata, the game is very hard to describe.
  
  You raise animals in a bubblegum flavored landscape and do things to please them and make them 
 happier, even get them to romance.
  
  The gameplay is great for it's genre, if farming sim meets animal sim is a genre. There are a few 
 mess-ups in the gameplay department, but other then that, the gameplay is fantastic. The cursor 
 can be awkward in certain situations, and I've found a couple glitches in which pinatas can get 
 stuck, sometimes temporary, sometimes permanent.
  
  The graphics are pretty, not just in the acid-trip like colors, but in the smoothness of the water 
 and background objects.
  
  This game is totally great if you can get past the kiddy element (s) .
  If you are having second 
 thoughts, download a demo of the game from the Xbox Live Marketplace (NOT the Interactive Video, 
 the actual gameplay demo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadameMoo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  So you start off playing this game you think is going to be a waste of time, or just some little 
 cute kiddie adventure.
  Oh, but it is so not that easy. There are so many scenarios that can happen during game play that 
 can thwart your plans to attract a certain pinata. Perhaps others aren't getting along, or the 
 inferior pinatas are getting feasted on, or sick. Whatever it is, it makes leveling up and getting 
 what you want a pretty difficult task.
  
  Some how, this game draws you in and before you know it, more than a few hours have gone by. This 
 is definately a good game to waste time with, and to take a little break from all the heavy action 
 you usually engage in with other games. Don't let the bright colors and cutsie poo pinatas fool 
 you...
  
  Definately an awesome game, graphics are good, controls are easy, sound isn't irritating or distracting, 
 it's just a great game to get your mind off everything but the pinatas. And for $20, why the hell 
 not!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterchestnut
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Pretty impressive implementation on a god-complex childrens game. I really like the whole living 
 dynamic, concept is great with biozome interaction, and multiple layers of interaction in game. 
 The graphics are cartoon style, so flat/matte plastic surfaces work in the concept, but everything 
 is nice and smooth, with visual weight and good tones/highlights. Great fixed object definition 
 with very little sprite clipping overlaps. Beyond that though, the game plays for a 5 year old. 
 If you could drop out the flower menu and give me something of easier/faster interface I'd be able 
 to really enjoy this game more and want to play it again. The storefront is painful - and needs 
 a quick fix - eliminate the 'cute' actions between events and keep the current menu stay until 
 *I* back up. It moves a little slow, the challenges are a little later in than they need to be 
 and easy. Although there is a complexity and plan approach that you don't quite immediately and 
 begs for more play, the interface limits long term desire to repeat actions. repeat actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out I saw it on the shelf at one of my local retailers. I picked it up 
 and looked at it and was like, who the heck would play that? I rarely buy a game that I have not 
 checked up on but occasionally I will. I was surfing thru the newsgroups and boards and noticed 
 all these people saying how great this game was so I thought I may be missing out on something. 
 I played the demo and was not really impressed with the game play. I kept reading the info on the 
 internet and a friend started telling me that he had the game and could not put it away. He said 
 he had beat it and I could borrow it. I put it in and played it for about 30 min before going to 
 bed and the next morning I went out and purchased my own copy. I am still playing the game, I'm 
 about 3/4 the way thru it. I am not sure what it is that keeps me wanting more. Is it the fact 
 that it is not the traditional shoot-em-up, race, or stealthy game that I have grown to love? Is 
 it the fact that you are running your own Pinata business. I don't know. The graphics are great, 
 I like the fact that you can grow and customize your garden. You are the virtual god of this world. 
 You have to have certain requirements in your garden to have certain creatures show up. Then you 
 have to keep them happy so they will prosper. Even the villians, if properly manipulated, can become 
 part of your garden. I give this game a solid 10 for just being the exact opposite of every other 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan-666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  i went to argos after hearing loads of people say how good viva pinata was. when i heard them say 
 this i just smiled and waved goodbye to there remarks thinking of them as babies or children! then 
 loads of my m8s said it looks quite good so i decided to buy it. it cost me &pound;25 from argos 
 so i took the oportunity and brought it. it was a good choice i absolutly love it and i am almost 
 adicted to it!!!! the colours are brilliant and the gamplay is absolutly classic. one bad thing 
 about it though is the noises that some of the pinatas make drives me crazy!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Rare has mostly been associated with kid orientated games. Their main franchises, such as Banjo-Kazooie 
 and Conker have had a distinct cutesy visual style. While Conker was a case of being something 
 different from its cover, Viva Pinata is a cute game and is mainly focused on kids, but the main 
 question is, can adults play it and have as much fun?
  
  The answer is oddly yes. Despite Viva Pinata being about an island where Pinata are sent to kids 
 all over the world for parties, the focus of the game is one of great determination, gardening 
 skills and logic to do certain things. These are things a small kid might not be able to work out 
 alone, and may frustate them. You start out with a very small garden which is full of junk and 
 hard soil. The game has an in-depth tutorial system which seriously helps you get to grips with 
 creating a perfect garden. You are introduced to new people, tools, and of course Pinata as you 
 meet certain criteria, such as levelling up, having certain amounts of soil, grass or water, and 
 having certain plants and Pinata present. All the people and Pinata come with their own introductions, 
 which show them in black and white. When a resident is made, they'll show colour, and in some cases, 
 the black and white suits them better than colour, but it all fits in with the colourful nature. 
 The Pinata themselves can visit gardens, become residents and eventually breed . All of this makes 
 the Pinata seem a lot more than just a collecting game, but a farming sim. While not an original 
 idea, it's certainly one of the better executed games of this nature.
  
  The introduction of Sour Pinata and Ruffians however may be a little too much at one or two stages, 
 and the game doesn't explain that you could make Sour Pinata change to normal Pinata after meeting 
 certain requirements. This unfortunate lack of explanation may cause younger gamers to get overwhelmed 
 later on. However, there are certain things one can do that rectify this. One is to find out how 
 to capture them, and the other is to construct the Tower of Sour or purchase certain items to keep 
 Ruffians away. There is also an unlockable history of Pinata Island and about one gardener, named 
 Jardinero. This makes the game have a sense of purpose, rather than just constructing a garden 
 and hoping what you want comes in.
  
  In terms of multiplayer and online options, at release there isn't much online capability, in that 
 only really presents/pinata can be sent online, but newer updates hope to expand on this. You can 
 also do things with another controller with family mode which enables more than one person to handle 
 the garden at one time. Having said that, the game for an adult isn't too hard, as long as they 
 know what they're doing. The achievements are mostly straight-forward, but some need certain Pinata 
 to meet certain criteria, which isn't something one would expect. This makes the achievements easy 
 to do at first, but getting increasingly more and more difficult to do. There are also awards one 
 can get for doing certain things, like making Pinata appear, Growing plants, etc.
  
  Viva Pinata is a fun game for younger and older gamers alike. Younger gamers will appreciate the 
 cute visuals and charm Rare has come to show over the years, while older gamers will appreciate 
 the more in-depth strategic points of attracting creatures and gaining awards for what they do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Next-Gen Farming
  
  You play an upstart farmer on Pi&ntilde; ata Island -- a place where all the animals resemble the 
 paper-mach&eacute; party favors from kids birthday parties. Your goal is to cultivate the land 
 and attract all manner of pi&ntilde; atas to your fold. Of course, then you export them for profit, 
 but that doesnt come until later. The plot of real estate you start with is barely worth a drunk 
 urinating on, so you've got your work cut out for you. With just a shovel and some grass seeds, 
 you start the beautification process. Plant a few flowers and veggies, and the pi&ntilde; atas start 
 showing up. From there, your area flourishes with ponds, trees, and all manner of weird, wavy creatures 
 -- cute, colorful variations of everything from worms to foxes to elephants. This is an advertisement 
 - This story continues below human_sim RULEZZZZZZZZZ!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  Freedom On a Leash
  
  How does your garden grow? It's really up to you -- in a way. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata 
 gives you the freedom to choose where to plant things, where to place animal dwellings, and the 
 like. The irony is how tightly it holds your hand at first. This is definitely a game geared towards 
 kids first, as the tutorial portions are slow and methodical. Fortunately, it also means the controls 
 are easy and intuitive. Over time, the plot can become a hopping piece of real estate, with you 
 as the manager. New tools, abilities, and pi&ntilde; ata visitors pop up with dizzying frequency. 
 It's as if Rare took the dizzying variety that almost plagued its platformers, and stuck it into 
 a real-time setting -- where, honestly, it works much better. Dull moments are few and far between, 
 but when they come you'll welcome them as a time to take care of your more mundane responsibilities. 
 It's even more addicting than Animal Crossing, as there's always something to do. Proud Papa
  
  You definitely feel an emotional tie to what happens on Pi&ntilde; ata Island. When a roaming 
 Syrupent eats your favorite Mousemallow, you'll feel remorse. If you neglect watering your sprouting 
 hazelnut tree, you'll cringe as it wilts. The game does go easy on you, however: Plants only need 
 care until maturity, and animals won't starve. Kids may get a twisted version of the birds-and-the-bees 
 from this game, as well. It's your job to play matchmaker and bring romance to your pi&ntilde; atas. 
 When certain conditions are met, (fruits eaten, dwellings built, etc.) , your pi&ntilde; atas will 
 start to feel a little randy. Stick two together, and they'll do the ol' romance dance. From here, 
 a simple maze minigame will bring them together, so a lucha libre version of a stork will deliver 
 an egg. Smash 'Em All
  
  The pi&ntilde; atas themselves are likely the game's greatest asset. Graphically, they're colorful 
 and cute, and their accompanying sound effects are definitely things that make you go, Awwww Viva 
 Pi&ntilde; ata's paper-mach&eacute; style is evident in everything from the pi&ntilde; ata's limbs 
 to the grass on the ground. So long as you can stomach the bright colors that resemble tie-dye 
 vomit, it's an aesthetically pleasing game. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata tackles Pokemon's cuteness, Animal 
 Crossing's fun chores, and The Sims' relationships, and comes out tasting as sweet as the candy 
 its main characters are filled with. The game delicately balances entertaining, real-time gameplay 
 with sandbox sensibilities. It's the kid-appealing offering Microsoft has pined after since the 
 original Xbox launched, but ends up being so much more. Almost any type of gamer will enjoy livin' 
 la Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckwap3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best, (and one of the only) God Games i've ever played. Again, I 
 shall do this in a regular reviewing fashion.
  
  ***NOTE: I'm short on time, so I'll have to make this short.***
  
  Gameplay - Holy hand grenades 
 Batman! This game is great! Now, I've heard people coming off and saying Oh pish posh! This is 
 a children's game! Look at the pinatas! Well, it's not. It may be based on a T. V Show on the 4Kids 
 network, but it's not TOO kiddy. The gameplay is like a typical god game, only better, and fuzzier, 
 and cuter.
  
  Graphics - WOW! Is this the Xbox 360, or is this heaven?! The graphics are stunning, whether it's 
 the bloom effect to make it look heavenly, or the way the water moves, you can just watch it all 
 day. Really, you have to see it, to believe it.
  
  Sound - This part really shines, whether it's the Horstachio's whinnies, or the Barkbark's... well, 
 barks! I could go on, but that would waste way too much time. It's like you're sitting right next 
 to the pinatas!
  
  Value - I have to say this in a real short fashion (because I can't really think of anything long 
 and intellectual. :-| ) The game is definitely worth the price. Trust me, the sixty dollars is 
 worth it!
  
  Overall - This game is just heaven in a CD. Finally, A good god game in a long while! I recommend 
 this game to almost anyone. Except those grouchy people, that can't be put in a good mood by anything.
 
  
  I have to give this game a 9.6. A Superb game! Rare, you get an A+! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Its like animal crossing mixed with harvest moon. Its fun, and the candy canabalism is oh so hilarious. 
 You can change your land to your liking and theres straghety on how to use it and what pinatas 
 to let in. I let in the fox like Preztail and it killed 2 of my other pinatas and made another 
 2 sick. Also, to make some breed you have to sacrifice one of your other pinatas (as food) . So 
 it adds a hint of straghety to an otherwise entertaining game. finally one let down is that the 
 only sence of xbox live usage is trading you pinatas online wich is a good idea but i think some 
 sort of multiplayer should have been used just to give this game a bit more value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clubhaxor
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  In Viva Pinata you take over a garden. The beautiful, cute, awesome Pinatas are attracted to your 
 garden by what you put in it such as flowers, trees, grass area, water area. When people ask WHY 
 this game is so good it's hard to describe because it's just so unique and you have never played 
 a game like this before. While the idea might sound dull this is a great game with plenty of things 
 to keep you entertained. The story I found was pretty good, revealed in chapters of a book. You 
 will have fun trying to get all the different type and varient (color) pinatas into your garden. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  After making my pi&ntilde; ata worms mate over and over again, sometimes incestually and feeding 
 them to hungry sparrows so that they can mate continuously, sometimes incestually, and selling 
 their at that point- useless lives to a cash-addicted, crazed shopkeeper called Lottie for roughly 
 300 coins apiece, I begin to realise that, despite the bubbly artwork on the box I paid $60 for 
 and the delightfully fun and bouncy introduction I sat through before playing, this is definitely 
 no kids game.
  
  I dont say that because of the vaguely suggestive undertones (for which the game maintains good, 
 child-friendly taste, especially through this bizarre and biologically inaccurate concept of the 
 romance dance) . I say that because once you get under the games skin, you uncover something that 
 requires a lot of time, effort, and a sophisticated level of thought and strategy if you have any 
 hope of getting the most out of your cash. The Mexican, candy-filled, party-time premise is a deceiving 
 guise that gets kids to buy a game that will fly over their heads. That said; this is a terrific 
 game that will gobble up many of your hours provided you have the motivation required to play on, 
 and you will The premise revolves around you crafting a garden to attract different species of 
 pi&ntilde; atas and theres something refreshingly appealing about the games presentation that makes 
 you WANT to see what pi&ntilde; atas are out there. The game works in such a way that the bigger 
 and more exotic pi&ntilde; atas are the ones you have to work hard to see, and so I found myself 
 constantly digging, harvesting, buying, refining, planting and watering just so that I could see 
 more. And with over 60 different species of pi&ntilde; ata, each one characterized by its own unique 
 personality, the sheer depth is quite incredible. It will keep you hard at work on your beloved 
 garden for hours and hours.
  
  While Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is impressively complex, that may be its turn-off. It can be pretty discouraging 
 finding out that you need to do fifty things before you can get a certain pi&ntilde; ata to visit 
 let alone take residence. Sometimes perceiving the work ahead can cause you to sigh in exhaustion 
 as it may mean demolishing certain aspects of your blood, sweat and tear-stained garden to meet 
 these criterias. That said though, it can often be a good idea to run multiple gardens so as to 
 avoid too many major renovations bumming you out, rather starting anew on a new piece of land meeting 
 the criteria more directly from a fresh start. Similar to this, it can also be extremely discouraging 
 when ruffians just come in and smash up your beloved garden. You learn to really hate their guts. 
 The games visual style makes it hard to dislike. The environment and especially the pi&ntilde; atas 
 look fantastic which inspires pride in your hard work when you look over your creation.
  
  Overall what this game boasts is an extraordinary personality that enriches a deeply complex and 
 immersive garden simulation that will steal a good portion of your life. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I take my hat off - I was warned that this was the sim of sims with few arcade elements but I got 
 excited anyway and opened my wallet and they were right. The game is progressively more and more 
 difficult to the point where it takes a day to meet goals wayyy before it should. If things go 
 wrong they go wrong so badly that you may as well start again and bad things happen extremely frequently 
 toward the end to the point where I'd have more fun at work. This game is for people that dont 
 mind taking it extremely slow and spending all day naming foxes and coloring in their tails. The 
 achievements make sense and are probably the only enjoyable bit of the game. Dont get me wrong 
 - its someones unique and fascinating dream world but viva pinata the movie would have been more 
 appropriate than viva pinata the game. There are some really special ideas in here but theyre then 
 asking you to watch the same FMVs again and again and again to grind out to get a new animal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD3RULER
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  this is a great game that encourages creativity the pinatas look so real you can realy see the 
 texture on them and every pinata has a detailed personalitys and each house you can by for the 
 pinatas is so awsome espechaly the quack bery one my garden when i started playing loooked like 
 a dessert but now it looks like a forest whith two ponds and rivers i love the little quack berys 
 and newtags and the pretz tails are cute too try to keep the snakes away frome your garden the 
 get in to many fights medical biils are through the roof and never get a likatoad and a newtag 
 theres rivalry through the pond the nicest animals ive seen sofar are the quack berrys and never 
 get the chicken frome the pet stor it fights to much i have one thing to say about this game dont 
 juge a game by ists box art 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I decided I would wait a few days to reflect on Viva Pinata before I put fingers to keyboard to 
 put into words how I felt about the game. Rare really did a wonderful job in designing this game 
 and making it fun and intuitive.
  
  Basically, you are given a plot of land to develop into a garden to attract pinatas. each pinata 
 has requirements for being sighted, visiting, residency and romancing. Well I should say most since 
 some you can only get by evolution and some pinatas have x's listed next to them in those areas 
 that you can't fulfill.
  
  When I first started playing the game it was really cool to see the garden grow and new pinatas 
 come to visit. In fact, this was pretty fun until around the 40th hour when it started to become 
 tedious. You see, you only have some much space in your garden so there is no way you can get all 
 of the species at once. So you can either scrap everything and start from scratch or you can create 
 new gardens. Creating new gardens is simple enough and all of your awards and money follow you 
 over from the other garden (s) you have. What I didn't like was having to import/export pinatas 
 from one garden to another to meet requirements for different species. To do this you would have 
 to load up the garden the pinatas you wanted were and then box them up and mail them to yourself. 
 After that you would have to load the other garden and then unpack them. Time consuming is an easy 
 way of putting it. If they had a nice built in feature where you could auto import from the other 
 gardens that would have made it a lot more fun to use.
  
  Now I mentioned that the first 40+ hours were great but that it began to get tedious. Well thats 
 because of all the requirements in the later game for the more expensive pinatas. Meeting some 
 of those requirements were down right exhausting and I found myself actually nodding off waiting.
 
  
  As far as the achievements go I was glad that there were so many of them broken up all over the 
 place. But in reality, if you really wanted to get all the achievements except one that required 
 you to play for 50+ hours, you could probably complete it in 20 to 30 hours depending on how you 
 go about it.
  
  Rare and Microsoft should have really done something different with the marketing becuase honestly, 
 I don't think too many kids would have the patients to sit through all the steps you have to go 
 through in order to acquire pinatas in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fabled_SPARTAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Sure, you might get weird looks for holding a case that had an accident with a crayola box, but 
 the game is very rewarding and leaves you wanting more or capturing another pinata. Besides, its 
 not so bad if you turn off the voices and game music, add your own, and switch your controls to 
 advanced. (click left thumb stick for fast moving cursor)
  
  This game is so unique its a must have for any gamer that has a true sense of taste. Overall the 
 game is fairly easy, as in getting achievements and capturing the low end animals but there is 
 plenty of challenging 'quests' you can do in the game.
  
  I do not like how your maxed out garden space isn't that big, but you can make more gardens so 
 I guess its okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I know what you're thinking. Viva Pinata is a child's game and it'll be easy, right? WRONG!! it's 
 pretty complicated. You start out with a small garden and work your way to the top. You'll see 
 someone named Leafos, the daughter of a legendary gardener and she has an Irish accent. You also 
 attract very cute and funny looking Pinatas of every kind. If you noticed, every animal in the 
 game is a Pinata and they have very unique names that are an animal/candy type combination. Example: 
 Horstachio (Horse/Pistachio) Fudgehog (Fudge/Hedgehog) which is a pinata that looks like a raccoon 
 with a large hump on its back, and Sparrowmint (Sparrow and Mint) and not to mention Candary. (Candy/Canary) 
 As you progress in the game, you will see a new pinata and other things like Ruffians, red-masked 
 things that mess up your garden, Professor Pester and other stores in the Village. Viva Pinata 
 isn't an easy game when it comes to Romancing because some Pinatas need all sorts of requirements 
 like eating 10 flowers or a type of fruit and of course a house. Not to mention Sour Pinatas. They 
 are red and leave rancid candy in your garden and in order to change them, you need to do things. 
 This is a good game for anyone of any age. Rare isn't just Banjo-Kazooie or Kameo. It's a lot more 
 than that. I speak for everyone when I say that Viva Pinata is not a kids' game because there are 
 things that not even a kid would understand and older people would. Viva Pinata, Filled with fun, 
 filled with fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: Vibrant graphics, cute and cuddly Pinatas, tutorial eases you into the game, fun for 
 the whole family.
  
  The Bad: Garden maintenance becomes bothersome, game evolves slowly after 10 or so hours of gameplay, 
 no online whatsoever.
  
  We all know how game to movie translations end up. They are usually a big mess and are incoherent 
 to the source material. The same can be said for the reversed situation... and it gets even worse 
 when games are made from TV shows.
  
  But what happens when a TV show is based on a video game and that, surprisingly, it ends up being 
 a very good one? What happens is Viva Pinata, a virtual life simulator from publisher Microsoft 
 Game Studios and developer Rare Ltd.
  
  The object of the game is quite simple in Viva Pinata: Build the biggest Pinata garden you can, 
 using resources available to you. Although this game might seem like it's aimed towards a younger 
 audience, older kids can find enjoyment in it also.
  
  You start off the game by naming your garden. Then, as you survey the wreckage that will become 
 your Eden, you are assigned a shovel, a water can and an assistant. She will guide you through 
 the basics and will help you get your garden rolling along. Then, as you get the hang of things, 
 she will only intervene when new Pinatas are sighted or when you level up, or if you ask for her 
 opinion on things by selecting her.
  
  Landscaping is quite easy to master, especially with a magic shovel. This gardening wonder can 
 dig holes, create basins of water, even up terrain and even smack some Pinatas around. You'll also 
 be given a watering can, which will be used to water plants and trees. Both these tools will evolve 
 and allow you to do more things as you level up and as your garden becomes bigger.
  
  Speaking of leveling up, you'll have to do different tasks for that to happen. Making your garden 
 pretty, like adding some grass, ponds, trees, plants, and so on is a good start. Doing that will 
 attract some visiting Pinatas. As soon as a Pinata is spotted, there's a little cutscene introducing 
 it and an entry is added in your journal. You can then consult that journal to get information 
 on the Pinata, like what it takes for it to become a resident and what it takes for it to mate 
 with another Pinata. The more your garden is attractive and well maintained, the more you'll see 
 Pinatas roaming around it. Your garden will grow twice in it's life cycle.
  
  Let's talk about the stars of the show now: the Pinatas. Each species is named after a candy, since 
 Pinatas are usually filled with them. There's a pretty big population of Pinata, from cute and 
 cuddly ones to ugly and fierce ones, and they can all be tamed and become residents. When a PInata 
 isn't a resident, his color will be black and white or red, in the case of evil Pinatas. When you 
 find a way to make them want to reside, they will become a vibrant mixture of colors. You'll also 
 get to name each Pinata when it establishes it's home in your garden, which is kinda cool.
  Some Pinatas are not too fussy about becoming residents, while others have higher demands. Some 
 will want a certain fruit or produce, while others will need to eat another Pinata or require a 
 sizable amount of grass or water. Finding each Pinata's requirement is fun, but it can also become 
 a bit frustrating, especially when you don't possess the resources or chocolate coins to buy them. 
 You can earn these coins by selling the fruit you grow on trees in your garden or even by selling 
 some of your Pinatas.
  
  Another way to increase your PInata population is to have them mate. Once again, each Pinata species 
 will require certain things for it to fall in love and finally make babies , one of them being 
 a home. You can have the village builder build homes for your Pinatas which will cost you chocolate 
 coins.
  Once everything is in place, you just need to show one of them the way to the other and watch as 
 the magic happens. Naturally, we're not talking Discovery Channel stuff here, as the mating is 
 done in the form of a humorous and cutesy dance. Then, the egg is delivered to the happy parents 
 and eventually hatches, unveiling the newborn.
  You can also try to cross-breed Pinatas. This is somewhat tedious process and requires some work, 
 but the results can be very interesting.
  
  Naturally, the law of the jungle... or garden, in this case, applies. Battles between Pinata will 
 happen more often than not, especially if one of your Pinatas is in a bad mood. Of course, there 
 are ways to avoid these fights, like reassuring yourself that your Pinatas are always happy by 
 buying them some candy (yes, they eat candy) or ameliorating their living conditions.
  But having some of your Pinatas eaten is unavoidable, especially if you want certain species of 
 Pinata to reside in your garden. After all, it's all about leveling up.
  Some of your PInatas will get ill. This will happen if they eat bad candy or lose a fight. You 
 can then choose to cure them, by asking the village doctor to stop by which, naturally, will cost 
 you, or you can leave them be and an evil Pinata will drop by and put them out of their misery 
 for you.
  When a Pinata dies , it morphs outside of your garden and leaves behind it some candy for the other 
 Pinatas to chow down on.
  
  Keeping up with everything that's happening in and around your garden can become quite the chore, 
 so you'll have a couple of helpers available to you... for a certain fee, of course. You can assign 
 them to pick up the fruits from your trees, water your plants and scare away unwanted Pinatas. 
 This will relieve some of the stress, but I've found that the helpers don't exactly help you, most 
 of the time. Sometimes, they'll forget to water trees or plants, get stuck in your garden and then 
 just decide to quit their job, and so on. So I guess you're never happy unless you do it yourself.
 
  The villagers, on the other hand, are much more helpful. But, in this case, they run businesses 
 that require you to pay for what you want. You have the village store, where you can buy everything 
 you need, the builder that builds your Pinata homes, the doctor that cures your Pinatas, etc. All 
 of them work fairly well.
  
  The gameplay here is easy as pie to learn and master. The tutorial is very well done and eases 
 you into the game slowly. The controls can be adjusted, depending on the age of the gamer, which 
 is a very good thing, especially since this is a family oriented game.
  However, the game does become tedious and loses some of it's charm after 20 or 30 hours of gameplay. 
 Doing the same chores over and over might be enough to push certain people away. The visiting PInatas 
 also become very rare as you progress and level up, and sometimes you'll be without seeing a Pinata 
 stroll around your garden for the longest of times.
  
  The graphics in the game are one of it's high points. They are extremely colorful, in a cartoony 
 sort of way. Every Pinata looks vibrant and alive. The environment reflects very well the game's 
 day and night times, as well as the rainy or sunny weather.
  
  The sound is also alive and present in this game. Each species of Pinata makes it's own sound, 
 and these will vary for each action they are making, which brings a certain authenticity to them. 
 The voice acting is also excellent and each character has a certain parental aspect to them that 
 makes you feel comfortable. The soundtrack is generally pretty good, mixing some orchestral arrangements 
 which fit perfectly with the game's setting.
  
  If there is one thing I can reproach to this game, it is the very limited presence of online capabilities. 
 The only thing you can do here is exchange Pinatas with your friends who have the game. It would've 
 been nice to see them build on the XBox 360's Live capabilities, like having your friends visit 
 your garden, send helpers over to them or even have thieves to steal some PInatas from the unsuspecting 
 buddy. Live is a very big disappointment in this game... it could've been so much more.
  
  For what may have seemed like a bad idea at first, Viva Pinata turned out to be a very good game. 
 It's so easy to just pick up this game and start playing, due to the excellent tutorials and easy 
 gameplay. Even though it tends to become repetitive and tedious, it's still fun while it lasts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decon5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this, you pretty much want a short review telling you whether or not to buy/rent 
 this game. Rent the game, you'll have at least 5 - 10 hours of fun with it, and you can never actually 
 accomplish everything. No garden can have all types of animals, so making multiple gardens to accommodate 
 for all of them is generally something most people will do. The looks of the animals is simply 
 stunning, great eye candy, especially being able to change the colors of the animals
  
  The game overall is really fun. You get what you see. A lively vivid world of color and animals 
 that is full of replay value. It looks great, plays well, sound gets kind of irritating after awhile 
 though. If you've considered renting this game, I recommend it to anyone, young or old. Go out 
 and rent it if you are considering it, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Mister
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of Viva Pinata i thought WTF. But this game is truly amazing. From the time 
 when u first get a whirlm resident to when you complete the tower of sour, this game is tons of 
 fun. It may seem like game that could be dimissed for its kiddie looks but it realy isn't only 
 for kids, somestuff is actualy complicated to do. ain my opinions the best thing to do in viva 
 pinata is romancing them, (told ya this game isn't only for kids) . I highly recomend this clorful 
 game to any one who like games like the sims and black and white. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slap_shot
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  According to my son, this is the most fun, addictive game ever. Right out of the box he was able 
 to jump in, and there was virtually no learning curve or confusion - which is saying something 
 considering he normally skims past any tutorials or written instructions that might be present.
 
  
  The graphics and gameplay are vivid and interesting, and are actualy visually interesting enough 
 to keep an adult entertained for sometime - even though the gameplay may not be enough on its own. 
 As with the equally addictive TV show, the music in the game is exceptional.
  
  Overall, and excellent game for kids but likely not enough to keep the attention of an adult for 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I like Viva Pinata. I wish I would have bought it sooner. I had always wanted to rent it, but it 
 was always checked out. When the demo finally hit the Marketplace, I played it once and then was 
 hooked. I went straight to the store and snagged a copy. I really think of this game as a weird 
 cross between The Sims, Animal Crossing and a boat load of candy.
  
  Basically you run a garden filled with pinatas. All of the pinatas have funny names that have to 
 deal with candy. They really make me laugh especially names like Horstachio and Squazzil (I still 
 want to get both) . As the owner of the garden it is your job to take care of the pinatas and make 
 them romance and then eventuality get even more pinatas and then get more. It goes on like that 
 till the end of time. This game has a lot of micro managing so if that is not your thing you might 
 want to stay away.
  
  One might think that this game might be better off on the PC, but the 360 controller handles the 
 game well and features many shortcuts that make everything easier. The graphics are stunning. It 
 doesn't get much better than having pinatas all over the place in a brightly lit field.
  
  I recommend that everyone should at least download the demo and give this game a try. The demo 
 is the full version and rumor has it that it lasts till your garden gets to level 10. Meaning you'll 
 get a enough playing time out of the demo to decide if you like it our not. Currently priced at 
 $49.99, it is definitely worth it to smash some pinatas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarer1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It may look like a stupid game for really young kids, but its actually not. 
 I had great fun with this game and usually just play shooters like rb6 vegas and GOW, but I tried 
 this game and got addicted. The ease of gameplay and good graphics make this game addicting and 
 fun. You may easily find yourself playing for 4 hours at a time because there are so many different 
 pinatas to get! Also the achievements system works great for this game. It makes you want to try 
 different things and get different stuff. The only achievement that I wonder about is the master 
 longetivity one. How could you play this game for 50 hours? I mean 10....25 ok, but 50? common! 
 Anyways I think everybody out with a 360 should try this game even if it is not their type because 
 it wasn't my type but I found out that this game ROCKS! =) =) =) =) =) =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Well this is one game were it takes the saying.. Dont judge a book buy its cover.
  
  Under its kiddie look.. real life things happen and you'll have to start using ur brain. the graphics 
 are cool and relaxing, the gamplay is hard but fun and the feeling and repla is great.. The start
 
  You start off in a farm that a girl named leafos destroyed. anyways you have t rebuild the farm 
 and gather piniatas to live there. thats all to it.. There are also ruffians and bad piniatas that 
 come to annoy you and the piniatas fight all the time. So youll have to build everything like a 
 farm. The achievments are great and soooooo easy to get..
  
  NOTE: When playing and you want to make a new farm. You have to use you previos cash. ( The cash 
 u earn is all used by all farms) . Youll get this once you start playing...
  
  get this game now.. its cheap and its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogretroll123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is an ambitious and risky outing by Britsh developer Rare. Is it any good? Hell yes! 
 I'm going to tell you why!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay is fun, modifying your very own virtual garden, complete with Zany colors, tons of 
 cool cool Pinatas to tend to, and tons of other things to do. Think of it as Harvest Moon, only 
 easier, and well... Better! My only complaint is repitition. It does seem to get boring doing some 
 things after a while.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics are amazing. The game looks great, even in lo-def! Like I've said, the game is amazingly 
 Colorful, and has a cool graphical style (You can tell it's Rare.)
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music and Sound effects are typical High Quality Rare music. It does though, kinda get annoying 
 after a while. That's my only qualm.
  
  Overall, Viva Pinata is a fun game. If you have a 360, pick it up. Think you'll lose your manliness 
 playing it? No worries it's fun. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game may look like a kids game and can be, but beneath the shiny colors and friendly faces 
 there is a solid game with tons of depth and challenges. Viva Pinata is all about trying to attract 
 all different types of pinatas to a garden that you build and customize. Every pinata in the game 
 (over 60) all have different requirements to be attracted to your garden, these requirements ramp 
 up quickly and may leave some gamers scratching their head or feeling overwhelmed.
  
  A lot of the pinatas can be collected fairly simply with-out much planning, but once you have a 
 good amount of pinatas, you will soon learn that certain pinatas do not like other pinatas and 
 other various detriments. This is where the real challenge comes into play, some rare pinatas require 
 that you have certain pinatas in your garden already, so you must build up through a lot of requirements 
 of other pinatas just to gain the one pinata you are looking for. It takes a lot of planning and 
 strategy later in the game, sometimes you have to start fresh or just demolish you entire garden 
 to aquire some pinatas.
  
  This is definately not an easy 1000 gamerpoints eiither, you will have to invest a lot of time 
 into the game just to get 500 gamerpoints out of it.
  
  A great play for those who are looking for a game that will test their nerves and if they can stick 
 to a plan and police other pinatas. LOTS of micromanagement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrfly07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I have being playing this game for a month know and its pretty cool. i love how
  you can do whatever you want. overall this game rules. so if you like this kind
  games to let 
 you build your own garden then this game is a perfect game for you. olso if you have kids they might 
 like it. well i liked it and im not even a kid. if you like to rent it trust me im pretty sure 
 you will get addicted to this game. Amazing Game That Everybody Of All Ages Should Play. The Game 
 Has an addicting feel just like Animal Crossing and the sims which is very good. There are a bunch 
 of pinatas you could collect but the fun part and also challenging part is you must meet there 
 requirements for them to appear then visit and then join you. The game will be excellent for little 
 kids as because it is not violent and actually enjoyable to watch and paly the game. The Point 
 ot the game is to collect as much pinatas as you can and make there stay in your garden as wonderful 
 as possible. There are also pinatas that start sour but end up being sweet and joining you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  You may feel mean for watching poor little animals get cracked open with a shovel, but when you 
 find out they are full of sweet candy, you wont care. On Pinata Island you are given the task of 
 rejuvenating a once beautiful Pinata garden to its former glory. To fulfil your goal you must attract 
 Paper Mache animals called pinata to your garden. What pinata's you attract depends on what you 
 have in your garden. Eg. If you have a pond you will attract water pinata's such at frogs. Each 
 pinata has different requirements and therefore managing your garden to attract certain pinata's 
 is where the challenge lies. When a new pinata finally makes its residence in your garden you may 
 be able to romance them. Your pinata will need a house and certain other requirements and offcourse 
 another pinata. When your pinata have romanced and egg will be delivered and a new pinata born. 
 This is the essence of Viva Pinata: managing a garden. While it won't get your adrenaline pumping, 
 I can assure you it's not as boring as it sounds.
  
  Viva pinata has a huge amount of scope. There are so many pinata you can attract and tree's you 
 can grow, the variety is in abundance. Just when it starts to feel old, something new comes along 
 that you have to try and once you get hooked you'll find it hard to put your controller down. Anyone 
 who has played Kameo or Banjo Kazooie will recognize Rare's visual style that is wrought throughout 
 Viva Pinata. Bright colours and well designed creatures and characters will constantly make you 
 smile. It also earnt Rare the much deserved 'Outstanding Character Performance - Female' at this 
 years DICE awards. Released around the same time is the children's TV series, also called Viva 
 Pinata. I am yet to see the show, though somehow I can't imagine it sharing too many similarities 
 with the game. It might just be me but managing a garden doesn't sound like it would make a good 
 show. It may not be the most exciting game out there but it sure is one of the most compelling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I expect there's a point in the game where you will stop being told a new tip or technique ever 
 five seconds and you can actually get on with playing the game. I never got that far though... 
 there was just too much to do and none of it was remotely interesting.
  
  This game is also completely charm-free. I only know about Pinatas because my wife was brought 
 up in Mexico, but I've never viewed them as anything you could base a game on. Although the series 
 of Viva Pinata commercials* on Xbox Marketplace feature some defined characters, none of them appear 
 in the actual game. So what you're left with is an assortment of slightly freaky-looking animals 
 with weird names.
  
  Speaking of the Pinatas' names, the interface to this game is extremely clumsy. Just re-naming 
 one of your Pinatas is fiddly enough to ensure that you'll give up after a while - why couldn't 
 the game auto-generate some names for us?
  
  Also, what is it with Rare games and characters that have completely odd accents? I just couldn't 
 place the accent of the girl who helps you out at the beginning of this game - it sounded like 
 a mixture of Irish, Somerset and American... and it really irritated me after a short while.
  
  And, overall, the game is trying so desperately to be sweet it comes across as saccharine.
 
  
  There are some nice aspects to the design, but I honestly found Harvest Moon on the Gamecube easier 
 to get into (and that was extremely boring) .
  
  (* sold under the pretence that it's a TV Show) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chico375
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  i couldnt get over how much fun this is. when u first start its good, but when ur garden is full 
 oflife u will understand.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Game That Everybody Of All Ages Should Play. The Game Has an addicting feel just like Animal 
 Crossing and the sims which is very good. There are a bunch of pinatas you could collect but the 
 fun part and also challenging part is you must meet there requirements for them to appear then 
 visit and then join you. The game will be excellent for little kids as because it is not violent 
 and actually enjoyable to watch and paly the game. The Point ot the game is to collect as much 
 pinatas as you can and make there stay in your garden as wonderful as possible. There are also pinatas 
 that start sour but end up being sweet and joining you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --SharkTooth --
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  The game is perfect for little childrens! Instead vionlence you get a game that develop your child's 
 sensitivity and responsebility. The game has a very long game time, so it will occupied your child 
 for many many hours. Furthermore, the game is pretty simple, thats why it won't frustrate the little 
 kid. So if you are a parent to a little kids, don't forget to buy it! To a teen the game will be 
 nice, but not more then it: You will do the same simple actions again and again. The game mentioned 
 to little only. (The underneath score is related to kids) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainzzz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  just like what every person has said so far said it's soooooo addictive and easy to play and is 
 playable for every aspect of the gaming scale from the once a week person all the way up to the 
 hardcore players.
  This game has taken be by surprise because i tend to play the more mature games like Gears Of War 
 and Rainbow Six Vegas but yet i find myself playing a game that at first glance's look's like a 
 childes game but please don't let that put you off trying this game.... i guess it like a tube of 
 pringels once you pop u can't stop.
  I would have to have this on my game list now i have played it and i don't think i could part with 
 it... it's a game to hold on to i give it a good 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I've played Pinata for around 60 - 70 hrs now and there is still much to do. This game is long 
 lasting, it fells like you really get your moneys worth. The graphics a above average, but vivid 
 with color. The only thing that sucks is you can only have so many pinata's in your garden. It 
 becomes a tough choice when the time come to get rid of some. The nice part about the game is you 
 can have up to 8 gardens. Though you need to exit out of one in order to load another. Another 
 problem you may come across in the game is what to do like romancing, changing pinata's variants, 
 or evolving a pinata, how to attract other pinatas to become a resident. The only way to get all 
 this information is to download a walk through from GameFaq's. For people who realy like simulation 
 games this is a must CRACK game to own. You can even send Pinata's to other people. Sweet.
  Now I must get back to my daily Crack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought Viva Pinata, a child's game but, when i got it, and got my first pinata, that 
 is what really immerses you into the gameplay, watching the pinatas do their daily lives, growing 
 plants and more!
  
  I think I can easily reccomend this to anyone that is an 'all round' gamer.
  This is not one 
 of those you must do this games, you can do whatever you want, you can bash open pinatas with your 
 shovel, [I do not reccomed that] , you can split up fights, or you can watch them. You can tame 
 'sour' pinatas, or destroy them. It is totally up to you! I personally love this game.
  
  The ups:
  great visuals, pinatas interact with enviorment, there is a food chain, there are 'natural 
 enemies' just like you will see in nature, very open ended.
  
  the downs:
  Your 'family' or the 'village' wear these weird masks, Sometimes fights bewtween pinatas spread 
 and the next thing you know your garden is turned into a battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy4catz2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite the bright colors and cheery atmosphere, Viva Pinata definitely is the start of simulation 
 game on the X-Box. I can only hope there are more games like this. Quite an interesting idea, though. 
 Who knew pinata's actually had a life outside of stores. ^^;
  
  Anyways, it's like a restricted The Sims game. The basis of the game is that you attract pinata's 
 to your garden, make them a resident and then romance them. Then you have to option to sell their 
 offspring or keep them. There are many species of pinata's that you can romance and each pinata 
 has a special romance dance . Which is quite honestly, cute! You can also change the pinata's color 
 and name them as well.
  
  But pinata raising isn't the only thing you can do. You actually can plant and grow trees, veggies/fruits 
 and even weeds. But, there are it's drawbacks. That's about all you can do. But no matter, it's 
 a great game and even if you think it's a wussy game, I suggest you try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beldum555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the best simulation game since the Sims. You should get this game because if you liked 
 the Sims this is yours!! In this game you can attract pinatas and give them names, tags, out fits 
 and you can even feed them. You can also get seeds and grow plants, bushes and trees, but keep 
 them alive by watering them, but don't water them to much or they DIE and you don't want that to 
 happen do you. Get this, if you have x-box live you can trade pinatas with other people all over 
 the globe. Now get the game and and do your best to get all the pinatas. Take very, very good care 
 of them or else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Viva is a good game. Period. Graphically it's stunning. The game play is smooth and enjoyable. 
 The challenge is just right, for the kind of game it is. Depending on who you have on your friends 
 list, you may, like me, get the occasional message that reads something like: I can't believe you're 
 playing pinata! Or That games for babies and sissies. You just have to suck it up, and remember 
 that the same guy sending you that message probably just spent the last 8 hours playing through 
 Gears for the umpteenth time, because he'd rather do that than play some Viva. If you're interested 
 in achievement points, and who isn't these days, Viva will reward you with a pretty consistent 
 stream of achievements. Not so many that you bur them all up after 5 or 6 hours of play, but not 
 so few that you're playing for five or six hours before you get one. But what about the game itself? 
 It's about gardening, attracting wild pinatas to your garden, and getting them to take up residence 
 there. As your garden develops and the number of residents increase, the land your allotted will 
 increase, as well. Viva, if nothing else, is about change -- about finding new seeds, growing new 
 plants, and altering the status quo in your virtual world. But it's also about freedom. You can 
 do pretty much whatever you want, whenever you want. You can be a slob one day, raze the entire 
 garden to the ground, and start over the next day as fastidiously as you want to be. Tired of certain 
 pinatas? They're just paper -- it's okay to break them. Viva offers a lot to all kinds of players, 
 young and old. You do yourself a disservice if you refuse to play, simply because you think its 
 only for kids. You may not be able to chainsaw the Buzzlegums or Sparrowmints, but you can buy 
 them a house and breed them. If you haven't already, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game has rekindeld my love for Rare:) . I was skeptical about this game. Then i started checking 
 reviews, watching videos, alll that jazz and before i knew it i spent 67 dollars of my hard earned 
 money on this masterpiece:) . Well anyway about the game. Awsome Completly awsome. Best Rare game 
 imo. The graphics, are well.... little less that standard 360 games*coughGearsofwarcough* but i 
 love the lighting effects, ground textures, everything a good rare game needs:) . Well anyway It's 
 like a giant harvest moon/sim/animal crossing game, the pipnatas make it all the mower better. 
 With lovable characters, loveable cute adorable pinatas i adore this game. People who think its 
 a kiddy game and thinks it belongs on Wii should go and screw off. This game is brilliant, reminds 
 me of spore accually. In closing i love this game and Rare again. I just wish it was on Wii... why 
 nintendo... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuu121
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I had initally posted a review which was pretty negative about this game. I put my hands up and 
 say that I was wrong... Very wrong... This game has grown on me in ways which i didn't expect.. It 
 is a quality game and gives us some insight into the quality of the upcoming Banjo Kazooie game. 
 Gameplay is great and good fun and the pace is just right. Graphics are awesome and a defo next 
 gen.. It is very lovingly crafted and that is reflected in the high quality textures and UI. As someone 
 who is more pre-disposed to FPS, third person shooters (Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War) and RPG 
 (Oblivion, KOTOR) this game is a welcome distraction and is enjoyable. Dont get me wrong tho.. It 
 has something for everybody.. My advice is to give it a good chance and a good amount of time and 
 you will enjoy it immensely. I look forward to the next Viva Pinata which I hope will sell better. It 
 is the Stamper Bros last game with Rare and it will be interesting to see if Banjo Kazooie stands 
 up to the quality of this game. I for one hope so! A great solid gaming experience.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is probably one of the most overlooked games of all time. Just because a game looks 
 childish, it shouldn't be discredited. This game at its core is very deep, and can become too hard 
 to manage at points for the older crowd to handle. Viva Pinata sets you in a field that's full 
 of rock and trash. From there on you make your garden tidy and try to attract pinatas to your garden. 
 Certain features in your garden will attract certain pinatas. Such as water might attract a frog 
 pinata. Different helpers will become available for you to help you out in the garden for a one 
 time pay. One of the more useful helpers is the sprinkling, and by it's name you can tell she waters 
 your plants. Along with helpers, shops become available too. At shops you can buy seeds for plants, 
 candy to make your pinatas happy, decoration, and some produce items.
  
  As you progress, your garden will increase in size, you'll level up, and get shovel upgrades. Unfortunately, 
 you'll be introduced to bad things as you progress too. Sour pinatas will come and try to make 
 your garden a wreck, you got to give em a good whacking with your shovel to get rid of them. You'll 
 also be introduced to the infamous ruffians. They're invincible to your shovel, but it somewhat 
 scares them. They come in with the soul purpose to make you pissed. They can cut down your trees 
 with a single punch.
  
  If you are on the fence about this game, give it a chance it is a very good game, don't discredit 
 it because of its looks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B00ND0CK-S4INT
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Rare is at it again, but this time it's actually worth it! I know your probably judging them on 
 their latest game being Perfect Dark Zero or Kameo, but Viva Pinata is a jump back to their fun 
 and childish days of gaming. Viva Pinata is on par with some of their best, like Donkey Kong Country 
 or Banjo Kazooie. Of course like most Rare games it is geared towards a younger audience, but that 
 doesn't make it any less addicting. So there is no blood shed or severed heads, it doesn't need 
 any of that. Don't knock this game because of the E rating, give it a chance. If you do happen 
 to pick it up, you will enjoy every minute of it, I guarantee.
  
  This game easily has around 50 hours of gameplay, but the trick is that you never have to stop, 
 you can keep building and adding to your garden anytime you want, thats what makes it so accessible 
 to anybody. You don't have to make a commitment to it, but if you do it will definitely show in 
 the value of your garden. Plus the controls are so simple even anybody can pick it up and learn 
 within a half hour.
  
  The graphics are what you would expect from a 360 game, which is amazing. The pinatas walk around 
 in their environment with grace and beauty. It's fun to just watch pinatas interact with each other, 
 even get into fights. This game will go down as one of my favorite in my collection, and if you 
 own a 360 than you owe it to yourself to buy this game. We all know there aren't that many games 
 out on 360 that are worth buying, but this is definitely one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadthedog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  It's no secret that back in 2003, Microsoft bought Rare for $377 million. After Grabbed By the 
 Goulies, their first game for the Xbox and first flop, the games they developed became dark and 
 mature, yet they are not as timeless and addicting as the N64 games they made. Today, Viva Pinata 
 come close enough to Rare's classics.
  
  In my opinion, it's actually nice that Rare is going back to their cartoonie kid friendly roots. 
 The game is one of those god games such as Black &amp; White, The Sims and Spore. The only differance 
 is that this game is for beginners, kids and anyone who as never played a god game. You turn a 
 patch of dry soil and junk into a garden filled with life. Differant kinds of pinatas show up depending 
 on what you have in your garden. For example, if you have plenty of Whirlms in your garden, a Fudgehog 
 shows up, uf you have a lots of water in your garden, A Chippopotamus apears. Having them show 
 up is easy, it gets a bit trickier to make them visit and become residents. They have certain requirments 
 to visit and stay. The requirments varies depending on species like a certain amount of flowers 
 in your garden, what type of plant of pinata it eaten and ir you romanced a certain species. Your 
 resident Pinatas require a house and certain other requirments in order to romance. You play a 
 maze like mini-game once you direct two pinatas of the same species who have met the romance requirments 
 together and then the dance. I know it's weird but this is how they reproduce. You can buy clothes 
 for your Pinatas, seeds, fences, decorations for your garden and even employs to help you out.
 
  
  Like the rest of Rare's Microsoft published games, the graphics are amazing both artistic and technical 
 wise. The little noises the Pinatas make are just cute and creative, but the same can not be said 
 for the human characters. The game play is simple and fun yet it can be a few minutes until something 
 is happening in your garden.
  
  Overall, this game may be a bit to shallow for hard core god game fans, but for everyone else, 
 it's a definite buy or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkdawgy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Im a hardcore gamer, so you can imagine my suprise when i start playing Viva Pinata more than Gears 
 of War. For kids, you can play along the easy path, only aspiring to get worms and sparrows, but 
 for more experienced gardeners, you can try to get elephants, Hippos, and even a dragon. (Keeping 
 a hippo, elephant and a Dragon in a garden is a difficult juggling act) . Once you have played it 
 for about an hour, it is difficult to stop. Dont diss it because of the way it looks. Have you 
 ever played conker? can you honestly say that it was a babyish game? They were both made by the 
 same developer. You just have to give it a go, before you can honestly give an opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Rare has confirmed again and again that they can make a great game about anything. Viva Pinata 
 continues the trend. Viva Pinata is a game that will keep you entertained for dozens of hours. 
 You start off with attracting pinatas to your garden, growing plants, and romancing pinatas. This 
 will keep you entertained for hours because the Pinata's keep on coming until well past level 50. 
 After you have achieved most of the achievements and captured all of the pinatas, its time to create 
 your garden. From oak trees to gem trees, Hippos to Eagles, and Bridges to Roads, your area can 
 be designed any way you want. Most of you might think this is a kids game but its the complete 
 opposite. First off, it is very hard to contain your garden at the beginning and you might get 
 very emotional when your pinata that you've charished suddenly dies. It gets very complicated for 
 children so don't think this is a 'kids' game because its way different. With all the great things 
 Viva Pinata has, there are some downfalls. For one, animals 'leave' and get 'eaten' too quickly. 
 You might get a message that 'Your Pinata is about to be eaten' or 'Your Pinata is sad and has 
 left your garden' but by that time they are dead or have left your garden. They don't give you 
 any prior time to tend to the problem. Another problem is the lack of online but hopefully this 
 will be fixed in the future patches that the game holds. The final complaint I have for the game 
 is the lack of room where you can really make your garden amazing. There is no possible way that 
 you can divide your area because it lacks the room. Besides these little complaints that I've had 
 for the game, it is still a guilty pleasure. Rare has given us another classic. From shooters, 
 (Perfect Dark) to platformers, (Banjo-Kazooie) to racing games, (Diddy Kong Racing) Rare has graciously 
 contributed to another important genre in video games and this game will be remembered for years 
 to come. Show some support for this game especially since sales have been unfortunately lower than 
 expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckyjonny88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  A great game! the large sandbox/ free roaming space is superb, it allows anyone to play to no restraints, 
 no time barriers and no 'missions' too complete. The game may take a good hour or so to get properly 
 going but then the variations are unreal, and will keep anyone occupied for days! The range of 
 pinata available and items to use with them is huge, aswell as the many buildings and people available 
 to hire! I have yet to use it on XBOX Live s i can not really comment on it. The game may apperar 
 to be for the younger aged population, but it really isnt and s great fun for any ages! Very amusing 
 game, and your girlfriends or wifes will like it, as the pinata are AWWWW how cute! lol. It a serious 
 consideration.
  luckyjonny88 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the game of Viva Pinata and are reading this because you plan to not recommend 
 it... you better do it now. Because this game is BORING.
  
  First off let me get something straight. I did in fact used to like this game. I liked it so much 
 to give it like an 8.0. However the game just went downhill.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very dull. Alot of people compare this game to The Sims or some other 
 life simulator game. And the truth is its nothing like any RLS. You control a cursor while planting 
 seeds, watering plants, attracting pinata, mating pinata etc. You will do this so much that sometimes 
 you'll think to yourself Why am i playing this game again? .
  
  Alot of the time the pinata your trying to attract will only come based on certain requirements, 
 requirements like: Your garden will need to be covered with 50% water, 30% long grass, Grow an 
 apple tree etc.
  
  When you play long enough you'll realise that most of the things you do are pretty worthless. And 
 if you think that you can have this beautiful Garden of Eden with every pinata in the game, think 
 again.
  
  The damn garden is so cramped you cant even fit 10% of the creatures in your garden at once. Your 
 garden size grows every 20 levels, and by that time it maybe noticably bigger but youll quickly 
 realise all of the extra space is meaningless.
  
  Because even by the time your garden reaches max size you will get this annoying message ALL of 
 the time saying your running out of space. Even though not even half of your garden is full!
  
  If you even so much have a seed on the ground it takes up space! But not physical space, as 
 in the space you can see, but space thats in a damn jurnal!
  
  It has squares in it with everything in your garden taking a specified amount of space... Even accessories 
 equipped on your pinata's.
  
  When you have a garden that only has about 5-7 pinatas in it and you get that damn message you 
 will know what i mean.
  
  On a side note i get tired of pinata's fighting all the damn time. I cant tell you enough how frustrating 
 that is.
  
  Graphics: The graphics is the only thing i can say something good about. They are pretty good and 
 the colors are good too. I am trying to say the word excellent but i cant. Because frankly im getting 
 sick and tired of looking at them. And i must comment on what a couple of other reviewers have 
 said about the far off town you can see but cant get too. I know what they mean i was wishing to 
 go to those places as well.... but you cant. I stopped at level 46 and i couldnt get there so i 
 doubt 4 more levels would do it.
  
  Sound: Theres not much to say here because the pinatas dont make too much noise. Except the fact 
 that alot of people say it has humor in it. Where the hell did people hear humor!?
  
  Maybe it just wasnt funny to me so i didnt laugh to it, who knows.
  
  Value: I have never actually 
 owned Viva Pinata since i dont own an Xbox 360 but my friend does and its his game. He only paid 
 27 bucks for it because he used a gift card. I told him what occurs when you get far (I was farther 
 than him) and what problems arise, so he decided hes going to sell it.
  
  I hate this game and i will never play it again. Nor will i even touch it in a store. I stayed 
 up all night playing this game a couple of times and the last time it was just a huge boring yawn 
 fest. Im being completely serious when i say the last moments i have spent on this game were very 
 torturous. Before i stopped i wanted to get 800 of 1000 gamer points, now i do.
  
  Do yourself a favor and rent first, it will save you tons of frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this game down to a science...
  Graphics: Great graphics, smooth textures, fun and interactive pinata make this game extremely 
 appealing to the eye. Many players will find these graphics to be too cute or too animated but 
 that's exactly what makes the graphics great. They convey the essence of the game, which is a guilty 
 pleasure. It's not meant to be a hardcore, slit-his-throat type of game.
  
  Gameplay: Fun, entertaining, and refreshing. It seems like all the other xbox 360 games have aimed 
 for gore and violence. This game manages to bring a new thought to a game. It's simplistic and 
 easy enough for little kids to enjoy... but can be made complicated and tedious enough for older 
 gamers to enjoy as well. The controls are also very comprehensable and make for an easy-flowing 
 experience.
  
  Sound: It does what it needs to do but nothing more. The sound doesn't stand out but it still suits 
 the mood of the game well. The nice effects of joy when the pinata burst are fun and enjoyable 
 and really suit the mood of the game. Nothing stand-outish though, so it doesn't earn too high 
 of a grade.
  
  Overall: It's a really fun game for the most part. It can become very boring after a while, as 
 it introduces the same game just more complicated to attract new pinata. Some gamers will love 
 it, some will hate it. As for me, I enjoyed it for 15-20 hours and then completely lost interest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojahid_1st
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  After playing games like Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas i really did not see myself enjoying 
 this game. So I bought it for my wife and found myself addicted! This game really does ooze charm 
 and pure fun. The graphics are superb, the controls are so easy to pick up and play, and my wife 
 loves it! In Viva Pinata you start off with a dry patch of really ugly land, but it is not long 
 before you have it looking green and you attract your first Pinata. To progress in the game you 
 will want to convince these Pinatas to reside in your beautiful garden. As they become permanent 
 residents of your land they will attract more Pinatas, they will develope communty, they will fight, 
 and they will also Romance . The romance really is a fun aspect to the game as in order to get 
 the Pinatas getting it on you must first meet certain romancing requirements, these may include 
 having a certain amount of short grass in you garden, to more advanced needs. It is very rewarding 
 when you do get a more difficult species of Pinata to romance, and you will also be rewarded with 
 a baby Pinata!
  
  The game difficulty is almost perfect. You get more options as you level up in experience and you 
 won't find yourself with too many options before you are ready for it. It is worth mentioning that 
 there is also various challenges for the more advanced gamer. This brings me to the sour Pinatas. 
 Sour Pinatas are generally not too happy, and they will eventually become attracted to your garden 
 by either a certain plant, tree or produce. Or in some cases other Pinatas. For the more advanced 
 players looking for a challenge you could invest a little time into these Sour Pinatas and transform 
 them into good Pinatas. Or you could simply give them a wack with your shovel.
  
  It is also worth mentioning that if you choose to start a new garden you will have access to all 
 the money and upgrades if the other gardens, so you don't have to start from scratch all other 
 again.
  
  This game is really worth a look into. Even if all you do is rent it to put your original reservations 
 to rest you will not be disappointed. This is one game I will keep for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsongirl
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was designed by some folks with a quirky sense of humour.
  
  While standing in the store, musing over which game I should buy next, I picked this game up and 
 told my partner that I'd heard it was really fun but I was way put off by the kid-like packaging. 
 A father standing next to us said he'd heard the same thing from a friend of his, that the game 
 was really fun, and his friend had gone into like a detailed description of how and why this game 
 is for grownups. We all decided to pick up a copy. The clerk who checked us out asked us if we'd 
 played because he'd heard it was super fun. And so it goes.
  
  Viva Pinata starts you out in a tutorial-like garden that plays you through the basic controls. 
 Gameeplay is absurdly easy to master and moves very quickly. The colors are bright, the sound-track 
 is perky and you think, what the heck. Play on. But then about 30 minutes later when you've got 
 worms breeding like crazy in their little worm house to their 70s style funky music and you're 
 trying to figure out if you can make more birds to lure in the mousy looking things in order to 
 get one of those frogs which will eat those thistles and them become part of your food chain so 
 you can keep those snake-looking things... well, you realize you're in for the night with your 
 little pinata friends.
  
  I found myself frustrated a few times by my inability to get like-creatures together. But many, 
 many problems can be solved with a tap of the shovel or the sale of surplus beasties. And there 
 are some real laugh-out-loud moments when unexpected things happen. The game is super-cutesy. I 
 thought that might be a problem for my super-masculine partner, but he tapped into his inner child 
 and got a lot of amusement out of the cute names and graphics.
  
  I do think the mini-game gets boring really quickly and the 1-4 players thing on the packaging 
 is misleading. This is really only a 1-player game. It is a little cumbersome to buy and sell items 
 and the splash screens are somewhat irritating. Still, a surprisingly engaging game with plenty 
 to do and an oddly addictive quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colossi_killer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a wonderful, colorful and fun game. In this game, you customize a garden 
 to attract and house Pi&ntilde; ata residents. You can have different plants, houses, dig ponds 
 - there are so many things to do and take care of! Fulfill certain Pi&ntilde; ata requirements and 
 make the same species eligible to mate. If they do the romance dance, an egg will soon-after be 
 delivered and a baby will hatch. All Pi&ntilde; atas can be named and directed to destinations you 
 choose (even though Squazzils are hard to control) , including each other. The graphics are beautiful, 
 the sounds are cute but sometimes annoying, especially when Leafos takes forever to explain something 
 fairly simple. It is HUGELY addictive and will keep virtual life game fans playing for hours on 
 end.
  
  UPDATE: Months and several level-ups later this game still holds up - especially after learning 
 a lot of useful tips that have much improved my game from my boyfriend's 11 year old nephew :-) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata For 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Really Addictive Gameplay, 
 Very Nice Sound, Graphics Are Very Colorful And Nice To Look At, Achievements Are Fun To Earn, 
 Lots Of Different Garden Options.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Some Clipping Issues, 
 Sound Sometimes Spaces Out, Dastardos Is Very Very Evil.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  When I first saw the video 
 for this game, I was a little skeptical, but I looked further into it and decided to go ahead and 
 buy it on release day. Now, after a few hours with the game, I can honestly say that I do not regret 
 my purchase one bit. This has to be one of the only games that can be found fun by both kids and 
 adults, while staying on the less offensive side (no blood, cursing, etc.)
  
  
  Gameplay : To sum it all up, it's The Sims combined with pinatas, and the combination works brilliantly. 
 When you first begin playing, it starts off at a somewhat slow pace. Then, once you get the hang 
 of everything, you're thrown into a deep game that could make you feel somewhat overwhelmed. The 
 controls, while simple, can be used for a wide variety of things. Once everything gets put in motion, 
 your first few days go by very, very fast. You'll be so busy looking after plants, making pinatas 
 mate, and welcoming new visitors, that the hours just fly by.
  
  The way that pinatas are brought to your garden can be either very straightforward, or very difficult. 
 Each pinata has its own requirements for staying in your garden, and some of them can be tricky 
 to perform. And even then, once they're in your garden, you have to make accomodations for them 
 in order ot get them to do more advanced things (behave themselves, mate, etc.) The Sours don't 
 make things any better. When these critters come around, you'd better bash them with a shovel or 
 try and win them over to your side before they do too much damge. All in all, what looks like a 
 simple game can get very detailed and overwhelming.
  
  Once you've got everything under control and are efficiently managing your garden, the time just 
 flies by. Everything you do can, and usually will, have a side-effect on the world around you, 
 which can make the game incredibly detailed and fun at points. It's amazing how such a simple concept 
 could be this much fun. No matter what your age is, you'll probably like this game. It's a shoo-in 
 to be a sleeper hit. Even if you don't like strategy or sim-based games (I sure don't) , you might 
 find yourself wanting to rent this game and check it out for yourself.
  
  The controls are simple and kept very basic, even when you use the Advanced control scheme. It 
 takes a few minutes of messing around with the menus and controls to get the hang of what everything 
 does, but once you've got it down, it's very easy to play and the actions are performed very fluidly.
 
  
  Achievements : There are a total of 50 Achievements in Viva Pinata. The Achievements are a mixed 
 bag really some are easy to get and some take quite a bit of skill and some just take a long time 
 aka Master Longevity. The average Achievement in Viva Pinata sees you doing something in your garden 
 that is worthy enough to get you that Achievement for example (Growth Bonus : Grow 5 plants to 
 there max growth using Fertilizer) and some see you completing challanges given to you by the Masters 
 Of The Partys. Overall the Achievements are fun to earn although most of them don't make you feel 
 special when you have got them.
  
  Graphics : The first thing most people would notice in Viva Pinata is how beautiful the overall 
 game is. The fresh, vibrant colors emanating from every object entice the player and eye, and it 
 definitely helps the player immerse themselves in a fun, fictional world. Rare has never ceased 
 to amaze me with the sharp looking graphics of their games, and Viva Pinata is no exception. Also, 
 considering that everything is naturally multi-colored, the colors are even more vibrant and effective. 
 With graphics as sharp as these, I was expecting some framerate issues, but the only framerate 
 issues I've seen so far come whenever it shows a little cutscene, and even then the framerate problems 
 are so minor that it doesn't even bother you that much. The way that time passes isn't anything 
 revolutionary, but the way that the shadows change as time passes certainly is; they blend right 
 in and make the world seem natural. The weather effects are also nicely detailed, and it actually 
 looks very pleasant.
  
  
  Sound : The sound is very good. I found the voices of the characters in the game to be humorous, 
 but some may find it a bit annoying. This is easily remedied by turning the sound down or off. 
 I really liked the music and sounds however, so if you get annoyed with the voices, just bear with 
 it and enjoy the rest of the audio. I just wish I could have some better speakers then my computer's, 
 as they are broken and make buzzing noises every once and a while (And to think I still think the 
 audio is awesome!) .
  
  
  Viva Pinata is a rare gem; a game that doesn't come by very often. It's a shame that it isn't as 
 well known as other games, because it surpasses them in a lot of ways. The graphics are superb, 
 the gameplay is kept simple, yet fun, and the learning curve isn't steep at all. No matter what 
 your age is, you'll find something to love in the bright and vibrant world of Viva Pinata 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  As you tender your Fudgehogs and Pretztails in your Pinata Garden you wonder what would I be doing 
 now without Viva Pinata? . The simple answer is suffering with lag after being chainsawed on Gears 
 of War, Viva Pinata is marketed as a childrens game with its bright colours and cutesy characters. 
 Yet after playing it for a while you begin to realise that it isn't really. Viva Pinata is a mix 
 between Sims style management and Rollercoaster Tycoon garden improvements. Each one of the 75 
 or so varied species of Pinata can be romanced (mated) and some can be made into variants with 
 the use of some chilis and other plants and cross breeding. The controls are simple and the game 
 pace slow but you have a sense of joy when you've reared a whole family of Whirlms just to watch 
 them be eaten by some Syrupents.
  
  You really have to rent VP before buying it as it's a very specific game and will appeal to a similarly 
 specific audience. When you pick it up however make sure you can find your nearest rehab clinic 
 as it's just so hard to put down.
  
  TKQ out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox360 was released with two games developed by Rare, but they where kinda dissapointing. 
 Partly because of the extremely long time they've used on finishing them, so they therefor didn't 
 quite live up to the big hype. It didn't take long for Viva Pinata to come out, and to everyones 
 amazement it's excellent. It's deep and addictive and not as much a kids game as it first seemed.
 
  
  Viva Pinata is possibly the most colorful game ever. The game looks like new years eve, though 
 a lot more peaceful! All the pinatas look great and are mostly mixtures of real animal species. 
 You'll find a small elephant with wings and more usual pinatas like hens and dogs. All their animations 
 look great, and the whole garden really come to life.
  
  This game is peaceful, and doesn't really feature much music at all. It's soothing and that makes 
 it easy to play for many hours at a time. All the pinatas have their own sounds and all the charaters 
 feature speech. The game features multible languages, and even Norwegian which is great for the 
 younger players.
  
  Viva Pinata is a game without storyline or meaning, but still you'll be playing it. At first the 
 game may seem pointless, but after a while you really care for your pinatas, and you start calling 
 them personal names. Your garden will grow, more pinatas will come visit and you'll soon realise 
 that there are more to this game than just hanging around. There are several town citizens that'll 
 help you on your way, and there are a lot of things to decorate your garden with. You'll also need 
 houses for your pinatas to stay in while they do their romantic dance, which results in a new baby 
 pinata! The game goes on and on and later you'll get these huge pinatas that are like the main 
 price as a pinata gardener. The game has a lot to offer and makes you just wanna smile. I miss 
 some progression, and the game has a very slow pace. But it's still very good, and I recommend 
 it to young gamers, as well as ones with smily faces!
  
  +
  Colorful graphics. Calm music and a lot of sounds and great voice acting. There is a lot to do, 
 and a lot of pinatas to collect. -
  The game moves very slow, and lacks some progression. Takes a while before you're really into it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OjoDelPensador
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Viva Pinata because I was tired of serious, nerve-wracking shooters like Call of Duty 
 2 and Halo 2. Hey, I do enjoy those games, but I wanted something a bit simple and goofy. Viva 
 Pinata fits that bill alright! It also turns out to be a cool packaging of an RTS in a theme and 
 control system that appeals to young kids and adults as well. The player has to manage resources, 
 work through a progression of technology, and protect infrastructure. The play area is limited 
 which causes the player to have to make tough choices. There are gnarly bad guys to contend with 
 as well. So while it looks much different, there are many strategic and tactical elements at play 
 in a real time setting.
  
  I think the graphics are both cool and awkward. I like the little fluttering paper texture of the 
 animals, and the design of the pinatas, characters, and setting is usually pleasing to the eye. 
 Sometimes it is so surreal as to be jarring, but you get used to it. But at the same time, there 
 are graphics glitches such as when objects are lying in long grass, or when accessories are on 
 a pinata and the paper texture pokes through. Shading is good, and weather effects and ambiance 
 between night, day, morning, and evening all make for an engaging environment.
  
  The controls are easy to learn. Sometimes, things happen that are puzzling. My son was just playing 
 tonight, and he noticed that a helper was trapped . But it was not possible to tell how the helper 
 was trapped to resolve the problem. Sometimes there is a message that pinatas ready to romance 
 dance are having trouble, usually in getting to their home. Yet when I looked, I saw no reason 
 their way home should be blocked. That can be frustrating.
  
  But what is more frustrating to me are social messages that I expect are designed into the game 
 (and probably the TV show which I didn't know about until just recently... I don't watch much TV) . 
 If this game was truly an RTS in a different context, it probably wouldn't matter. But in this 
 game, the pinatas make new pinatas and form a little family. And the trouble is that there is no 
 male or female version of any pinata. A pinata is neuter. So, when you direct a romance-ready pinata 
 to another romance-ready pinata of its kind, you have two it versions getting together. Now, please 
 realize that I am coming from a conservative Christian perspective, and one of my concerns in society 
 today is how natural, traditional heterosexual marriage is being undermined. For all the trouble 
 I have to resist temptation, I think impressionable children should even be more protected from 
 being tempted to accept sinful behavior as acceptable. In the case of this game, the innocence 
 of children is potentially at risk in experiencing in play the forming and breaking up of families 
 between creatures that are the same gender (loosely considering 'neuter' as a gender) . Children 
 play at reality, so playing with same-gender relationships that form willy-nilly and bring about 
 children may impress them with the idea that all this is OK. A teacher, relative, or parent might 
 even use such a situation with little boy Johnny Doe or little girl Jane Doe: So, Johnny, if you 
 have two barkbarks that really love each other, we wouldn't want them to keep them from making 
 a family, would we? 
  
  With that said, if you are like me concerned about such messages, I think they can be neutralized 
 in this game by discussing them at an appropriate level with your children. Simply point out that 
 this game has a problem with this and that the child should think of the pinatas as male and female 
 when they come together. If you want to use it as an opportunity to talk about birds and bees, 
 well, just use good discretion, but I don't think it is necessary.
  
  In summary, Viva Pinata is an enjoyable game that can make players, including young children, think 
 about complex situations while in an environment that is engaging, enjoyable, and rewarding (even 
 if you can't take out the bad guys with a rocket launcher!) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven_bergen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow!!! What can i say, well i can say that this game is very fun to play. First you start off with 
 a piece of land then u have smash all the rock up to make it into soil after its in soil u get 
 unlimited amount of seed so u can make grass. When u got grass pinata will start to come to your 
 garden then in order to make them residents u got to make sure they got enough land, feed them 
 something, have a home for them, or let them eat a certain pinata that is all ready a resident 
 but every pinata has different resident requirments. You can also make your pinata fall in love 
 by checking off the romance requirements then you can make those 2 pinatas make baby pinatas then 
 u can sell them after well that what i do. To sum things up viva pinata is in my top 10 and i hope 
 it is yours too. Peace out ttyl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Rare's latest gaming creation, Viva Pinata, is a leisurely game that gives you a spade and assigns 
 you a plot of land, a tabula rasa of untouched earth for which you must mould a paradise, an ecosystem 
 that will cultivate life and attract Pinata wildlife.
  
  Like all great open-ended games, Viva Pinata presents a vivid, strikingly beautiful world that 
 very easily ensconces you in its embrace - and constantly rewards you with new discoveries, pinatas 
 and charming design.
  
  The basic premise is very simple: take a block of land and transform it into something livable. 
 Use the spade to create arable soil and the seed bag to sow grass. Slowly, but surely, your block 
 will reshape. New flowers need to be planted, new crops need to be harvested, and all the while, 
 you need to juggle the demands of the various pinata. Once you have created an ideal landscape, 
 the first set of pinata will begin sniffing around, and if it is to their liking, theyll become 
 residents and change from black and white to vivid color.
  
  Continue building your garden, hacking away weeds and smashing nasties (sours) , and you can begin 
 attracting multiple pinata of the same species. Fulfill the requirements to romance them (any pinata 
 will romance another, as long as they are of the same species) , and you can begin propagating the 
 species.
  
  And while you are working on keeping the various pinata happy and building up your ecosystem, more 
 and more pinata will begin checking out your newly developed paradise, and its up to you to entice 
 them in, if you wish. Each pinata species has specific requirements to visit, become a resident 
 and romance one another, so you are often juggling multiple pinata and their needs at the same 
 time.
  
  Your journal represents every achievement youve made in the game, from growing a daisy to becoming 
 a master romancer of flutterscotches, and if you are a fan of Achievements, then the journal will 
 become an essential tool in monitoring your progress. It also details every Pinata you currently 
 own, as well as those you can try to entice back in.
  
  Thankfully, as you create your patch of freshly manicured lawn, a trusty network of characters 
 become unlocked. Visit the town center and talk shop with Willy the builder (hell build your pinata 
 houses) or Doc Patchingo (some pinata just dont get on) , or hire a helper to water the gardens 
 or sell your produce. And there are more to unlock.
  
  Another great feature which isnt exploited to its fullest is Viva Pinatas online play. Gamers 
 can purchase boxes from the Post Office in the Village and pack away any item, from a pinata to 
 some spare change, and send it to their friends. Many pinata have a color variant and some are 
 far more valuable to others, so this can help budding gardeners early on, as well as give some 
 incentive on working to get some of the rarer and harder to tame Pinata.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no option to visit other gardens, which is a real disappointment considering 
 just how much time you can invest in working away at them. Were hopeful of a patch that will make 
 this feature available, or were hopeful this is something that developer Rare will allow in future 
 installments. It can be an empty feeling just sending a crate to another player and not get some 
 message in return, but then the player can always send a nasty to coerce some kind of response.
 
  
  The gentle learning curve is one of the games greatest accomplishments. It rewards the player 
 with more the more they play it. The kid friendly design is bolstered further with a multiple control 
 set up that lets parents play along with their kids, easy controls if kids want to play alone, 
 and a visual style that oozes personality and charm. There is even a video on the main menu to 
 inform parents about the features of Xbox Live.
  
  It can sometimes be a little overbearing, with the needs of your various pinata often outstripping 
 the funds you have to quell them. And then a few of them go and have a fight and you need to call 
 up the doc. Time to go build some fences
  
  And when you think youve seen it all, you start getting the call from Pinata Central for a certain 
 kind of pinata. These optional requests are a great source of income, and can raise the value of 
 your pinata and the status of your garden. Your patch of paradise can become a thriving business 
 in serving the needs of party children everywhere.
  
  Viva Pinatas undeniable charm and beautiful design only further attach you to them. Every time 
 you turn on the game, the creatures begin their routine and you almost bemoan the fact that you 
 left them the last time. The technically impressive title showcases the power of next-generation 
 gaming even in simple titles that dont require fast reflexes and complex button layouts. Visually, 
 Viva Pinata is uniformly impressive. You will rarely find any item that doesnt hold up to scrutiny. 
 And its just so beautiful.
  
  The visuals are backed up by an understated musical score that welcomes you into the game and sound 
 effects that mimic whats happening on-screen without fault. The various pinata have their own 
 voice and actions, and occasionally they can grate, but for the most part, each pinata is as lovable 
 as the last. The soothing music is gentle and welcoming, and changes daily as well as from night 
 to day, so your ears will be happy as you hum along to some infectious and well-designed sound.
 
  
  Overall, Viva Pinata is too nice not to like. While not for everyone, anyone who does enjoy games 
 should give it a go. It has the design quality to appeal to the young, which the hardcore may be 
 off-put by. While Viva Pinata is ambitious in its color palette, it isn't a child's game and can 
 be enjoyed by just about any gamer. Those willing to try will find an experience as every bit as 
 rich as those worlds gamers blast their way through, and an entertaining sojourn thats somewhat 
 different from the norm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this, I figured it'd be a fun and cute diversion.
  
  What I got, instead, was one of the most addictive interactive pieces of entertainment I've ever 
 experienced. The TV show may well be designed for children, but the game is designed for gamers. 
 Many, no doubt, will not buy it because the game looks like a kid's game --- and that is unfortunate 
 because few games will draw you in like this.
  
  The game, in a nutshell, is a completely blank slate. You can do almost anything you want. You 
 can make a lot of money learning how to properly grow plants or you can make money by attracting 
 pinata. There is no right way to pursue the ultimate development of your garden. You are armed 
 solely with a shovel, watering can, and a cast of supporting characters and your imagination.
 
  
  The difficulty in the game has a definite upward trajectory that manages to avoid making MASSIVE 
 increases in difficulty. Later pinata species are brutally difficult to attract and learning how 
 to properly grow trees to their maximum benefit takes time and patience. Every pinata has their 
 preferences and the juggling act of keeping everybody's preferences is a definite challenge, Some 
 pinata love water while others prefer tall grass. Some species simply hate one another and will 
 fight no matter what.
  
  Honestly, the depth is mind-boggling.
  
  The visuals are perfect for the game. You are raising wild pinata and the graphics are beautifully 
 bright and colorful. The sound also does its job extremely well --- you know quickly when an evil 
 ( sour ) pinata is causing problems in your garden.
  
  The only downside, outside of the lack of online play (though, with the game, it wouldn't be easy 
 to pull off) is the AI of the pinata. Later species are notoriously difficult to get in your garden 
 and when you actually have met all of the requirements to actually have them live there, they are 
 even more obnoxious about not eating the right things are what have you. The game is tough as is 
 --- piling on top just seems too much.
  
  If you give it a shot, you will LOVE this game. It's nigh impossible to hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrock13713
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I tend to lean toward the shooting genre, such as Gears of War, Call of Duty 3, and Counter-Strike 
 Source, all multiplayer-focused shooters. This game was given to me by my mother who wanted me 
 to stop disfiguring Locust on the planet Sera, and she thought it would be cute to have a pinata 
 garden on my Xbox 360 instead of a ruined battlefield full of corpses. I was mortified at first, 
 but as i progressed through the first minutes of the game, I realized how wrong i was. The premise 
 of this game is to rebuild a pinata garden to its former glory. In the process, you will meet some 
 interesting characters, many species of penguins, and experience gameplay that you never have before 
 in a video game. This game is an conglomerate of video game excellence. It has great graphics and 
 a great art style. superb ambient sounds, addicting gameplay that can be compared to the Pokemon 
 ideal of Gotta Catch 'Em All , and fun for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodkilla75
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best i've played in a long time. The fun and exciting game is just to much. Its 
 way to fun. This highly addictive game with its great graphics and fun story mode. The game has 
 a few down sides: It takes a little while to actually understand what your doing in the game. The 
 rating of your garden is hard to understand how they judge it . The up sides of the game are: its 
 fun and family friendly. It can be enjoyed by young children, teens, and adults. I give this game 
 an over all review of 10 out of 10 because once you play it you can't get enough Viva Pinata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I was randomly strolling around town looking for a game around &pound;20-&pound;25 and was expecting 
 to get something like fifa 06 or summit, but then i stumbled across viva pinata for just &pound;25 
 brand new!, i did not miss out on this bargain and got it straight away and accordin to my mates 
 just before i played it, it was meant to be good so i got home and sat down playing it, it came 
 to me when i started playing it its a good game, i like how you can grow plants and make ornaments 
 and attract different pinatas, i do also like how you can send eachother pinatas and chocolate 
 coins. according to a lot on my friends on xbox live it can get irritating at times and once you 
 get going the acheivments come to you too quickly and the game is generally short, but i still 
 do like the pinatas and being a adult i still find the pinatas cute and fascinating which is slighty 
 odd but hey! a good game nice graphics good gameplay try and get it cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdodds
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game for everyone, people may be put off by the fact it's a kids game. But 
 really anyone can enjoy it, when i picked this up i didn't know what to think, but put it in the 
 xbox and after about 10 minutes your hooked. I can understand why people are put off, but they 
 are the people who are missing out on this game. Some Pinata are hard to attract, others easy. 
 To attract some pinatas you may have to start a new garden with a completly different atmosphere, 
 but it's all part of the game.
  
  It's a very well thought out game and deserves a big well done to Microsoft and Rare. Buy this 
 game, you won't be disapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marionette_Lime
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I thought that it was going to be really bad, just another kiddy 
 game, I wasn't big into virtual life games (aka Sims, animal crossing, etc...) but as this game 
 came closer and closer to launch I really wanted to play it (mostly because my friend was really 
 looking forward to it) when the game launched I didn't pick it up but my friend did, I ended up 
 going over to his house and trying it and within a week after that I bought it because I loved 
 it so much, there's just so much to do in the game. Lots of different Pinata types and loads of 
 things to put into your garden, the possibilities are almost endless. Overall a great game and 
 anyone whose anyone should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtressbro
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  In case you were wondering, a cinnamonkey is one of the 60-or-so types of pinatas availiable for 
 you to discover in Viva Pinata. Let's start with the basics. This game looks kinda kiddy. But beneath 
 its cutesy exterior (personally, i like the pinatas - they're pretty awesome-looking) lies a deep 
 and involving gardening/management slightly zoo-tycoonish (in that you have animals) simulation 
 that reminds us all of one thing: You don't have to chainsaw something's head off to have a load 
 of fun.
  
  The graphics, I'll say, are actually quite impressive. Everything looks smooth, and each pinata 
 is detailed right down to that little paper flap on the tip of its tail. The game's pacing also 
 reigns supreme. It slowly feeds you new content to deal with, both good and bad, including a bum 
 whos head flips upside down when you give him lots of money, turning him into a happy travelling 
 merchant. Sure, some things in the game might be a little freaky (a girl with a mailbox for a head 
 running a post office... what the ---!?)
  
  The camera in the game is quite functional, and you shouldn't have a problem with it. Small sound 
 effects and subtle music make the game better without you even noticing, which is nice.
  
  You wouldn't expect much online play from such a game, and your expectations would be correct. 
 You can merely trade things with your friends over Live. Leveling up by getting new visiting, resident, 
 or mating pinatas is a great way to keep you going, and you gain ranks every bunch of levels. You 
 can even upgrade your tools (watering can, shovel, etc.) . There are plenty of achievements in Pinata, 
 some easy, some challenging, some pretty much automatic.
  
  In the end, Viva Pinata is an immensely satisfying and replayable experience, and no fan of good 
 simulation or management games should pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budchevolet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is all my 10 year old son plays! PERIOD!
  
  HELP!!!!!!!!!
  
  I sit and watch this game and it REALLY grows on you! I wouldn't mind if he would get hooked on 
 tactical shooters or sports games (I thought to myself) , but the more I watched him enjoy himself 
 playing this game, the more assuring I became that Santa got his money's worth!!
  
  He even got my 14 year old daughter hooked on it! Let's face it, us fathers would MUCH rather have 
 his teenaged girl AT HOME playing on the 360!! So it did turn out to be a blessing in disguise! 
 Thank you Microsoft Game Studios for creating this wonderful vitual garden!!
  
  - budchevrolet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Smyth
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a surprisingly good game based on tending a garden so that you can collect and breed 
 different types of Pinata. A bit slow at first, it basically becomes a romancing fest to get points. 
 You can breed the first type of Pinata over and over again and complete the game in 5-12 hours, 
 depending on how much you breed.
  It becomes a bit more fun when you try to collect all the Pinatas in the game, taking an additional 
 10 hours. After a while the game becomes seriously repetitive and boring. The multiplayer is nothing 
 to shout about either, allowing 2 or more people to control the same cursor, inevitably causing 
 arguments.
  Overall, its a cute and colourful game that gives well over 1000 gamerpoints but lets down due 
 to its short game span and crap multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata puts you on an island where pinatas are the main stay of the Isle! It is extremely 
 easy to pick up, and even the most technological illiterate can play this game. As you progress 
 throughout the game more and more pinatas will appear in your garden, and you are free to shape 
 it in whichever way you feel. The visuals are top notch, and the controls just right. The sounds 
 are not mind blowing since it plays second fiddle to the entire game. The odd and quirky faces 
 amongst the Island are always fun to see, and it keeps the game interesting. I would say this is 
 a definite purchase for any xbox 360 owner. Even those not keen to such a vibrant, and colorful 
 game should pick this up. The acheivement junkies will praise this game for it's ease of points. 
 This game is the first true simulation of life for the Xbox 360, and it does a great job of it 
 way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evian
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I initially thought this to be a childrens game, but I was glad to be proven wrong 
 because this game is charming in every aspect, and when I started playing, there were so many things 
 happening, keeping me involved that I couldn't call it a day because I was forever just doing this 
 and that and something new would come along which I just had to do and I'd end up playing into 
 the early hours of the morning, it's cleverly paced. As for graphics, they are really lively, fluent 
 and colourful and never fail to please the eye. The landscape that surrounds your garden is interesting 
 too, because it varies so much and contains alot of detail, such as the distant forests and jungles, 
 pinata central, the village, the swamp etc. Another thing which varies tremendously are the pinatas, 
 different shapes and sizes, colours, noises and movements. Even more so is when you romance a new 
 species, they all have their romance dance , each one unique and i always look forward to seeing 
 what their houses will look like. Then experimenting with your pinata by feeding them flowers and 
 fruit can make them change into a different pinata or change colour, making you appreciate the 
 detail in this game. The whole game uses zany humour which at times I found quite hilarious because 
 of its randomness. You're frequently introduced with new shop owners and characters which provide 
 a service of some sort, and they all prove useful and i find my self using all of them. You can 
 buy seeds which you then grow for whatever purpose, then you can try out different fertilizers 
 to see whether it will have the affect of a growth bonus which is fun. Rewards come with a lot 
 of things you do, even naming your first pinata. If you still think this game is for kids, rent 
 it because you'll learn to love it and regret dismissing it in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNAKE8153
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  There is something very addictive about this came and its not all the chemicals that come out when 
 you smoke the packaging. It's different... thats about. For some reason I get pissed that all my 
 **** plants died or that a certain critter would not come into my garden. Give it a try. Damn it... 
 I have to go a hundred words now. Its a good game for kids or a good game to sit down and let your 
 wife/girlfriend tell you how to catch a chewnicorn. Hey the ladys love it. Just don't tell your 
 friends. Oh and there is no multiplayer, so if you bought the game based on just the title of my 
 review.... I'm sorry, but I honestly don't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I was neither expecting a great game from Viva Pinata, or discrediting it of being an enjoyable 
 game. After the first time I started whacking the bad dirt in my garden with my shovel, I couldn't 
 put it down! It's hard to even describe what makes the game so incredibly fun... Is it the Gotta 
 catch'em all mentality that made Pokemon so popular back in the day? Or could it be quarkyness 
 of each pinata running around in my garden functioning as an intregal part of my garden's environment? 
 Either way, there is something satisfying about the mini cutscenes that play everytime a new pinata 
 has become a resident of my garden. The satisfaction grows each time I manage to romance a species 
 (which gets continually more difficult as the the garden attracts more exotic creatures) and witness 
 an amusing, nigh disturbing scene of the pinatas performing a romance dance. 
  
  Although the game can get a bit frustrating at times. When your pinatas are feeling their most 
 irratable they will refuse to do anything you tell them to do, they will snub your suggestions 
 to eat something, or even move to a certain part of the park! The frustrations are few and far 
 between in your simulated garden, and the addicting gameplay will keep you coming back to your 
 garden for hours upon hours to discover new plants, pinatas, and new discoveries to be found in 
 pinata island! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The first time I saw this I sort of chuckled but then thought well they have to make some games 
 for the kids. Then I started realizing it was on gamespot top 10 and so I looked into it a little, 
 I got addicted to it before even watching any gameplay movie on it. Wow was I wrong about earlier, 
 Viva Pinata is an amazing game, I find it almost funny when my friends try to give me crap about 
 this game. They try to laugh and say HAHA you have Viva Pinata, I just come upside their heads. 
 Ignorance is too common these days hah. Anyways If your looking at Viva Pinata, but your not sure 
 if you want to get it because of the kid look to it, don't worry I guarantee you everybody had 
 that thought going through their mind when they were looking to buy this game. It's a hella fun 
 game, yes I'm from the west coast. Some people discard it because you collect colorful pinata, 
 Who cares its the game that matters. Its actually pretty nice graphically too. Viva Pinata is a 
 game like no other, i would say a mix between Harvest Moon/ Sims but you collect stuff. I don't 
 know what to call it, you just have hella fun. So if you have a thought going through your mind 
 about getting this game just rent it try it out, I guarantee you'll be addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow a kid game about live piniata animals. Pretty twisted if you ask me. you can break em and make 
 others eat there inside (candie) . You even have sour piniatas that make others ill.... then some 
 dude comes along and bursts there inside out! Told ya it was twisted.
  but beside that point the game is actuly give it a try. You rent it tho not buy since it gets oretty 
 repetitive... like alot. maybe the game would be better with decent cheats. (not that i usaly use 
 cheats but any game with god mode or give you loads of money usaly makes it tought longer just 
 for a non-serious game)
  But the graphics are pretty kiddy kool , its easy to play once you get the hang of it (not that 
 simple for an 8 year old) . The caracters are kinda all kreapy (people with freak masks on , they 
 just look like pedophils or horny 8 year old killers)
  but piniatas arent the only thing in the game! Heck you can actuly garden too with loads of different 
 plants... and even some bad weed seed like poison ivy! (witch is worth kinda lots of money after 
 a while , but makes ur piniatas sick) .
  This is a must try .... just pretend its for your 9 year old sister or brother. Man the guy at 
 the video store (who is actuly a good friend of mine) laught at me when i got to the counter.
 
  oh well people suck anyway and try this one out!
  
  yours truly..... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I had to try this game out. 1) The reviews I have read seem to mirror the thought that 
 it is a surprisingly good game. 2) I need to have something around for when my 3 year old is watching. 
 Games like Gears of War just don't seem to mesh with 3 year olds. Surprisingly enough, this game 
 is good with high replay value.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Gameplay in an RPG is hard to gage. This game plays extremely well, and unlike other RPG's, it 
 moves at a faster pace. This game is very comparable to the Sims in several ways. The difference 
 is that Viva Pi&ntilde; ata moves at a much faster pace and it really relies on organizational skills, 
 ability to stay on task and being alert to almost EVERYTHING around you. It is much more interactive 
 than the Sims and surprisingly has an astronomical amount of breed of pi&ntilde; ata.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The vibrant colors and 3d scheme and depth give it an 8 but the plants, grass, 
 trees and flowers look very generic and cartoonish, which is understandable with this type of game, 
 but it still lacks the definition of your normal 360 game. The bright colors are the most noticeable 
 and positive portion of the graphics.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  The sound is bland and is very Nintendo 64ish. The surround sound is good, but the sound doesn't 
 matter much in this game. To critique it, I would have to say the sound was probably kept simple 
 to fit the game, but it could use improvement. Value: 9
  
  I won't lie, I love playing this game. Especially with an enhancer (some of you hippies and bob 
 marley fans know what I mean *wink* *wink*) , this game is one of the best chill and relaxing games. 
 It doesn't bore you... if anything it keeps you involved so you don't get bored. The garden continues 
 to grow as you get better, you make more money, can make your garden size physically bigger and 
 you can deal online. I would like to see a variety of mini games though or maybe a way to pin your 
 pi&ntilde; atas in a duel or fight or something online. Other than that, superb replay value.
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  While it is far from classic status, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata provides you with a 
 simple, fun and weird experience for hours. If you like RPG's (more specifically, games like the 
 sims) you'll like this. I personally like this better than any Sims game I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game looks like a kids games... plays like one... but.... this game isn't that bad if you give 
 it a chance. There are a lot of things you can appreciate from a gamers prospective. I gave it 
 a chance and have to say it looks and plays pretty good. It has a bunch of kiddy elements... but 
 thats about all you can say about that one. It has a good strategy to it and pretty nice visuals. 
 The game is a good rent or play if you give it a chance. I can not say if you are a shoot'm up 
 player and thats all you play.... this would be good... but if you are someone that gives everything 
 a chance... this is a solid play. Over-all this is a good 8 out of 10. It's a good change from all 
 the games available and you won't play anything else like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a very colorful, fun game, that can be enjoyed by people of all ages. If you had 
 the idea that this game was a platformer, it is not. What it is, is an enjoyable similation game, 
 featuring living Pinata animals as your sims. In this game, you will breed the pinatas to make 
 more, while some will come and join your garden depending on preconditions that you've accomplished. 
 Each type of pinata has it's own personality. Some like different foods, activities, some don't 
 get along with each other. You will spend most of your time carrying out preconditions, which will 
 open up new items and pinatas for you to play with. If you don't want to do that, you can just 
 have fun, and watch the antics your pinatas will get into to.
  
  This game isn't without it's problems though, it has some bugs. Sometimes the pinatas are unresponsive. 
 It also gets overwhelming, and quick, when you have multiple pinatas to take care of (they will 
 start fighting and killing each other, etc) . Another problem with this game, is that you will spend 
 90% of your time cycling through menus. This is not a huge problem since the loading time is pretty 
 quick, but it's the game's biggest flaw in my opinion.
  
  The game's best point is probably the graphics and animation. It is so fun watching the pinatas. 
 It is very colorful also, and a very good game for children, and adults that enjoy sims.
  
  Despite its problems, pick this game up if you enjoy sims, or if you have a younger family member 
 who has access to a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Longshot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game really caught me by surprise. I got a gift card for best buy for X-mas that was 
 40$. I was looking for a new 360 when I came across this colorfully strange looking box with the 
 360 logo. After checking it out a little bit and on a lot of recommendation from a friend I figured 
 what the heck, I'll give it a shot. When I finally got home and put the game in,...... I didn't 
 sleep for 3days. Concept: The main idea here in this pinata world is to well, collect them. There 
 are a lot of elements to ad, grow, make, buy, and build, for your pinata garden. You start off 
 with a small size garden and are taught the basics of how things are and can be done. Everything 
 from short and long grass to massive oak trees are available here. New seeds, tools, buildings 
 and even pinata also become available a higher levels. Gameplay: For those of you who might think 
 this is just a cute game for the kiddies, I think you might be mistaken. It plays similarly to 
 games like animal crossing or harvest moon. and while they may also be directed slightly towards 
 a younger crowd, they are still enjoyed by a broad audience. You start out trying to manage small 
 spaced garden with only a few pinata, you breed them and add new things to attract new pinata. 
 This is where things can get kind of hectic. Especially due to the limited space through out the 
 game. (Which is actually one of its only glaring problems. Aside from it sometimes being difficult 
 to romance flying pinata because there not always close to each other.) Anyway while trying to 
 attract new pinata, (and I'm trying hard here not to call them Pokemon) , you have to sometimes 
 add a lot of thing to your garden and have just the right stuff the need to become residents. Trying 
 to make sure you've got everything you want to get all the animals is a lot of work, fun, and very 
 addicting. The controls are also quickly and easily learned.
  
  Sound: One of the only lacking parts in the game. Its not bad when you start out and the music 
 fits fine with the game but it gets old about 5 hours into the game. This problem however is easily 
 fixed by the 360's music player.
  
  Graphics: The color in this game is the best I've seen in awhile. Its just nice to look at. The 
 detail on all the animals is amazing down to the smallest accessories you can buy for them such 
 as new teeth, hats, shirts, or whatever. Its especially nice for those of you that may have an 
 HD-TV. Also adding awesome new statues, fountains, pavement, fences, and trees can really make 
 your garden sweet.
  
  Overall for anyone who likes anything from the Sim's to Harvest Moon should definitely check this 
 one out. Even people who might just be looking for something different could problem find something 
 to occupy there time here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bheiner1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I have spent hours and hours playing this game. My wife is not so angry with me about the thousands 
 of dollars I spent on the HDTV and the Xbox 360 because we have a game that she enjoys playing. 
 She loves Viva. We were high fivin' each other when the Roario and the Chippopotamus finally decided 
 to visit her garden. It's marketed as a kids game, but Viva is decidedly more complex for even 
 advanced games. You probably won't get a sore thumb from playing this game or have an aneurysm 
 unless Professor Pester comes by and kills your prized pinata. I also found a great web site to 
 help figure out all the achievements: http://www. pinataisland. info
  Lots of great information and game play tips. I sometimes play this game with head phones to get 
 the full sound experience as I have yet to purchase a suitable surround sound system for the apartment 
 we live in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenfoot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought Viva Pinata becuase... well... I guess I don't know why I bought it, but I did, and its 
 been the only 360 game I've played since. The Gameplay consists of Making a garden, customizing 
 however you want, and waiting for any of 60 pinata species to be attracted by it and move in. After 
 they do, you can make ause for hothem, sell them, whack them with a shovel, or, if you have 2, 
 romance them. If you complete the pinata's romance requirements you can mate two of them, a process 
 which consists of navigating a maze and watching them perform their romance dance which suprisingingly 
 enough, isn't sex. After this, a lady brings you an egg and you have another pinata. You can get 
 money by sellign pinatas and fruits etc. which you use to buy a number of things to customize your 
 garden. Although it sounds repetitive, its proved so far to be amazingly addictive and highly enjoyable. 
 The graphics are cartoonish, but are still rather good, and do you really think a game in which 
 you raise pinatas would look good any other way? The sound is... well... not there, but this gives 
 you the perfect oppurtunity to exericise your 360s iPod playing feature. This game is 50 bucks, 
 the same price as games from the PS2 gen, so I'd say its definately worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoonster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who writes this game off because they think its a kiddy game is at a huge loss. This is 
 the most entertained i have been in a long time. There is so much to do and there is never a dull 
 moment. Its runs smoothly and does a great job of explaining what needs to be done, without giving 
 to much away. On top of this, the game looks great. It really showed what the 360 can push with 
 the colors and detail of the pinatas. Its great to see them change for the first time when they 
 become a resident of your garden.
  
  This game is no child game at all. It should appeal to almost anyone from 5 to 100. Anyone who 
 enjoys a god game will have fun playing viva pinata. Its simply to much fun.
  
  Rare gets an A for their bright, colorful, and just plain fun VIVA PINATA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italianman1203
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Viva Pinata around Christmas and I've been playing for a while now. I've played GoW 
 and oblivion alot and they were great too, its just I found something missing.... I wasn't having 
 as much fun as I thought I would. In VP I'm always having fun and theres never a dull moment, but 
 in GoW I either feel overwhelmed or its too easy. In Oblivion it's just too big. Don't take me 
 wrong their great games, but I think that the depth that VP offers is much more than GoW or Oblivion. 
 It gets the game of the year vote in my book any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  When this game was frist announced, I thought huh? This seems like a game for kids. Once I started 
 hearing more and more about it I got really intrested. Ths is a game for everyone.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Very addicting gameplay, it's very simple. The controlls are very simple to handle and 
 anyone can just pick it up and start playing it. The object of the game is just to run a garden 
 and try to get piniatas to come and live in your garden. To get them to come you must meet certain 
 requirments. This part is really addicting because you want to keep getting more and more piniatas. 
 Well, as you get more and more pinatas and make your garden better you gain levels, and you get 
 upgrades for your shovel and other items you need to use in the game. There is also stores to buy 
 houses for the pinatas in your garden. One of the most intresting things in this game is the romance 
 dances, each type of pinata have there own requirements for romancing. Once they have hearts over 
 their heads, you can romance them, and each pinata has their own dance, all of which are very amusing. 
 Breeding is also a way to get your garden to level up.
  
  GRAPHICS- This game has amazing graphics, the garden the pinata themselves have great detail. The 
 eviroment is insanley beautifull and colorfull. I have been seeing this trend, as time goes on, 
 the 360 games graphics have been getting better and better.
  
  SOUND- Well, there isn't much to the sound here, I mean the noises the pinatas make and the just 
 the little jingles and things like that, so there isn't much, but those things do sound great.
 
  
  VALUE- This game is really worth your money, you can just keep playing and playing this game, and 
 just trying to get your garden better and better.
  
  OVERALL- This is a great game that 360 owners should pick up, you will play it for a while just 
 trying to improve your garden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobobizarro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is one of those games you don't see yourself playing and yet when you do you 
 can't get away.
  
  The graphics of this game are stunning. Anyone saying otherwise is just biased on the fact that 
 they consider this a kids game. Which it can be considered as such, but as the game progresses, 
 I'm sure young ones will have a hard time couping with everything there is to do. This game is 
 for everyone, and is not as simple as it seems to be.
  
  I managed to get all the achievements of this game, and it was surely time consuming. But like 
 I said before, once you get in the game, you will not notice 4, 6 and even 8 hours pass you by. 
 If you think this is a game with easy achievements, then it's really based on your view. Some achievements 
 take no skill or time to get, but the majority of them do. Namely playing 50 hours real life (250 
 days in game) for one achievement. And some achievements you can't get until you are at certain 
 level. And how quickly you raise in levels is really up to how dedicated and what you are doing 
 to gain experience.
  
  The game is not complicated to get into, the game mechanics are simple. Some achievements you will 
 require to search for information if you want to do them quick, because you will spend over 50 
 hours if you try to discover them for your self.
  
  All in all, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a beautiful game, but really not for everyone. It trully is worth 
 a rent, and if you find it is for you, it truly deserves it's spot on your gaming shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay1995
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow I am surprised how fast this game became a hit . This game is great for all ages and is very 
 bright and colourful. If you like the Sims ,Pokemon harvest moon and animal crossing I am sure you 
 will like Viva Pinata . At first you will probably think Viva Pinata is a boring game but after 
 you smash all the hard soil and get a few pinata stay in your garden you will probably never want 
 to stop playing never stop again.
  
  Like I said if you think this is a kids game think again . So get off your butt and go buy Viva 
 Pinata ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  OVERVIEW
  
  When I first saw the video for this game, I was a little skeptical, but I looked further into it 
 and decided to go ahead and buy it on release day. Now, after a few hours with the game, I can 
 honestly say that I do not regret my purchase one bit. This has to be one of the only games that 
 can be found fun by both kids and adults, while staying on the less offensive side (no blood, cursing, 
 etc.)
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  The first thing most people would notice in Viva Pinata is how beautiful the overall game is. The 
 fresh, vibrant colors emanating from every object entice the player and eye, and it definitely 
 helps the player immerse themselves in a fun, fictional world. Rare has never ceased to amaze me 
 with the sharp looking graphics of their games, and Viva Pinata is no exception. Also, considering 
 that everything is naturally multi-colored, the colors are even more vibrant and effective. With 
 graphics as sharp as these, I was expecting some framerate issues, but the only framerate issues 
 I've seen so far come whenever it shows a little cutscene, and even then the framerate problems 
 are so minor that it doesn't even bother you that much. The way that time passes isn't anything 
 revolutionary, but the way that the shadows change as time passes certainly is; they blend right 
 in and make the world seem natural. The weather effects are also nicely detailed, and it actually 
 looks very pleasant.
  
  CONTROLS 8/10
  
  Nothing amazing or jaw-dropping here. The controls are simple and kept very basic, even when you 
 use the Advanced control scheme. It takes a few minutes of messing around with the menus and controls 
 to get the hang of what everything does, but once you've got it down, it's very easy to play and 
 the actions are performed very fluidly.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  To sum it all up, it's The Sims combined with pinatas, and the combination works brilliantly. When 
 you first begin playing, it starts off at a somewhat slow pace. Then, once you get the hang of 
 everything, you're thrown into a deep game that could make you feel somewhat overwhelmed. The controls, 
 while simple, can be used for a wide variety of things. Once everything gets put in motion, your 
 first few days go by very, very fast. You'll be so busy looking after plants, making pinatas mate, 
 and welcoming new visitors, that the hours just fly by.
  
  The way that pinatas are brought to your garden can be either very straightforward, or very difficult. 
 Each pinata has its own requirements for staying in your garden, and some of them can be tricky 
 to perform. And even then, once they're in your garden, you have to make accomodations for them 
 in order ot get them to do more advanced things (behave themselves, mate, etc.) The Sours don't 
 make things any better. When these critters come around, you'd better bash them with a shovel or 
 try and win them over to your side before they do too much damge. All in all, what looks like a 
 simple game can get very detailed and overwhelming.
  
  FUN FACTOR 10/10
  
  Once you've got everything under control and are efficiently managing your garden, the time just 
 flies by. Everything you do can, and usually will, have a side-effect on the world around you, 
 which can make the game incredibly detailed and fun at points. It's amazing how such a simple concept 
 could be this much fun. No matter what your age is, you'll probably like this game. It's a shoo-in 
 to be a sleeper hit. Even if you don't like strategy or sim-based games (I sure don't) , you might 
 find yourself wanting to rent this game and check it out for yourself.
  
  OVERALL 9/10
  
  Viva Pinata is a rare gem; a game that doesn't come by very often. It's a shame that it isn't 
 as well known as other games, because it surpasses them in a lot of ways. The graphics are superb, 
 the gameplay is kept simple, yet fun, and the learning curve isn't steep at all. No matter what 
 your age is, you'll find something to love in the bright and vibrant world of Viva Pinata 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfboi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Viva pinata is a great game and is not just for little kids. It is actually quite violent in places. 
 You can kill your pinatas and your helpers by whacking them with your shovel.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  When you first start playing viva pinata you think its terrible but the more you 
 get into it the more things you unlock and the more secrets you solve. Things are happenning all 
 the time and there are surprises everwhere. There is always something to do with either your pinatas 
 or plants.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics on viva pinata are really good. But it doesnt say much since it is very cartoony. 
 In general they are great, but sometimes it can get too bright and you can't see whats going on.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The only sound on viva pinata are the noises your pinata make. This is really good buts thats all 
 there is. Some music or something would be nice.
  
  VALUE
  
  Viva pinata is great value as you can never get bored of it since there is always something else 
 to do. It would be better if there were different modes except for the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I traded my Boss for Tony hawks project 8 this weekend, and wow I was amazed at the level of detail 
 the complexity and the dam imagination that was thrown into this game. Ok fro the packaging I was 
 completely thrown off. Underneath is a great kids game, great teen game, and great adult game. 
 I cannot get my 4year old son off this game....... (he cant even read yet) The tutorial is so well 
 put in place that he just follows the verbal commands and has already a pond ducks, houses for 
 all his animals, money. I cant begin to explain how excited I am to go buy this game after I return 
 my boss's copy to him. Ive never seen a game that has my son micromanaging anything. He wants 
 to attract a hippo? And this all happens without my direct supervision. Now thats a statement 
 directed to and about the creators of this classic. I recommend for all ages..... hell after my 
 son showed me how to get down I even made my own garden, Im trying to get the snails to turn good 
 like my son showed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auanonymous
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Don't let this game's television counterpart fool you. This is not a kids only game by any means, 
 don't get me wrong kids will love this game but so will you. At first you start out with a relatively 
 small garden of dried out dirt and you have to take your old, rusty, cracked shovel and whack the 
 ground to get to the good dirt and you will instantly attract a small pinata which intern attracts 
 a better, more valuable pinata and so on. You probably think that this is a short game, but it 
 actually has a lot of depth and many different types of pinatas. I strongly suggest this game to 
 anyone who even remotely like micromanagement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8torsbizktai20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Well i came into this game expecting something my sis and I could play together, since she cant 
 really play gears of war or other bloody shooters hehe. As soon as i put the disk in i got hooked 
 on the bright colors, pleasent sounds, and beautiful graphics. The gameplay is very well put together 
 and it is a joy to play. Getting those high level pinatas into your garden makes you giddy later 
 on. The graphics are amazing for what they were going for. One of the best looking games i have 
 ever seen. Sound pretty basic but very good. I got a good 50 hours out of the game (hehe goin for 
 the achievement.)
  
  The only downside is that once you get to the higher levels and get the higher level pinatas, you 
 sort of lose interest. But i easily got 20-30 hours of enjoyment and an excellent break from all 
 the mindless shooters that the 360 is famous for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redeer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Everyone thinks this is a little kid game, it's not. Ther a lot of voilence, not to easy work, 
 and sour pinatas. Now sour pinatas are not good. They bring violence to the game. They come in 
 and poisen you pinatas, now some shovels can not hurt them so you have to pur water, but if you 
 have an O. K. shovel you will be able to kill them. Growing a population- know different items attract 
 different things, for example a pond atracts lickatoads. And a carrot attcracts a bunny. So try 
 spreading out your pinata garden so everyone will come Romance-Now pinata love to romance. There 
 are a few steps. 1. But them a house. 2. Give all the things you need to to that species ( in the 
 menu) 3. Click one and then the other. 4. play a miniu game (if you fail they don't like eachother 
 any more) 5. romance dance, now on the romance dance that you only watch the first time, they dance 
 and dance and every breed has a different dance. Village- this is were you go to Hire workers, 
 Buy pinatas and accesoires, Buy houses (romance) , General store, and a medic, theres, one more thing 
 but I am not thay far So have a good day and I hope you agree with me that this game is good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Most people thoguth Rare lost it with Kameo and PDZ. I on the other hand thought other wise. Kameo 
 and PDZ were both good games, however it seems most people will agree when I say that this game 
 is a great game you cannot hate. As simple as it is to pick up and play; especially for a god game, 
 theres no reason not to try it. It has the cutesy characters for the kids, but has the gameplay 
 that captures the adults and teens. Supported by some of the most impressive graphics, it lets 
 you bring to a life a garden created by you to attract different varieties of pinatas. These pinatas 
 are customizable, nameable, and mateable. Indeed, you can mate the pinatas, retrieve their offspring 
 and sell it for moolah a. k. a. chocolate coins. You have a builder to create houses for your pinatas, 
 you hire people to maintain your plants and whatnot and you can go shopping. Though it may not 
 sound at all interesting, you must give it a try. When i first put in the disc and saw a dancing 
 pinata horse I thought, what the hell did I just do.. but once I gave it a chance it turned to 
 be such an addicting game I could hardly put it down. Its worth the 50$ no doubt, and hopefully 
 more people will go out and realize its a great game, rather than judging it first on its kiddie 
 visuals. Rare has created a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cisumurug
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  The good: Everything about this game is really quirky in a good way.______
  
  The bad: Being as it is designed 
 for the younger age group, it's learning curve is too  
 
  _____In Viva Pinata the goal of the game is to attract these eccentric pinata creatures. Raising 
 and breeding them. You start off as a novice gardiner. Given a small chunk of land that within 
 time and exprerience becomes larger. As soon as you begin a new game you go through a manditory 
 tutorial in which step by step, shows you the control scheme and how your garden works. But even 
 with the tutorial, shortly after you begin you start to feel overwhelmed. It's hard to tell what's 
 going on when you're being bombarded by frequent cutscenes. You then soon learn that attracting 
 these pinatas can involve a lot more work then it seems.____________________ 
 
  _____Each individual species have different requirements for you to meet. Going in order you first 
 need to have them visit. All this means is they'll come in you're garden for a short period of 
 time, looking for an ideal habitat. The next step is making them become residents. This means that 
 when you have one visit, they'll stay if you have something of their liking. For example food and 
 living conditions. Growing plants and trees have a strong effect on this. When you have two residents 
 of the same kind, you can romance them and reproduce more. But in order for them to romance, you 
 need to do even more in terms of requirements. You'll know they're ready to romance when there's 
 a pinkish heart over their head. For each time you romance you play through a mini game maze. Depending 
 on the level of the pinata determines the difficulty. When you start you're separated from your 
 partner and you have to make it to the end of the maze to regroup. There is red bombs that outline 
 the maze and when you touch them you lose a life. If you have more of the same pinatas all at once, 
 the less lifes you'll have when it comes to the mini game. In other words you need to take caution. 
 Don't be a 
  
  
  _____In the begining, you'll 
 be getting lower level pinatas. The higher the level, the more challenging they become to obtain. 
 You work your way up so when they do appear later on you'll be prepared. With that said, you shouldn't 
 have much trouble at first. It's like the pinatas keep comming. But that isn't neccasarily a good 
 thing. You can manage the population by selling your stuff. If you're overcrowded with pinatas 
 you can always sell them and things related to them. Depeneding on how attached they're to your 
  
 
  _____Some pinatas won't get along with another and will fight. Sometimes this is inevitable but 
 there's ways to overcome it. As a gardener you learn from your mistakes. The more you do to improve 
 things, the faster you'll progress. Thus you'll be earning more chocolate coins to spoil your garden 
 with. You start off at level 1 and you gain levels buy having a more succesful garden. You also 
 earn upgrades for your garden tools. This is a good idea since your garden becomes more demanding 
 and ofcourse you don't want to be stuck with a lousy shovel or a pour watering can._________________ 
 
  _____The whole setup is really intuitive and provides a smooth interface. You can easily loose 
 track of time with the addictive gameplay. Plus there is variety of things to do. To keep you eyes 
 glued to the screen, the graphics are impressive with a peculiar art style. The same is said with 
 the music. Catchy loops and Banjo Kazooie type motifs. Although while it's original it has a familiar 
 sound. The game has a really unique feel to it that can easily be overlooked by some. To keep things 
 interesting in your ever changing garden, you're allowed plenty of room for error. The game itself 
 isn't straitfoward at all, you play it how you want to. So that means you change whatever you like 
 and follow a different strategy. The online provides a way to send stuff to your friends. You simply 
 place whatever you want in specified crate. This is a great idea considering you can help out someone 
 or trade. This is all linked to an in game post office where you send and recieve  
 
  _____There isn't much wrong with the game. It's an aquirred taste. A game this creative deserves 
 its credit. Except it's really too involved for children. It's a garden simulation game after all. 
 Kids don't have the attention span to stick with it. Besides the point, don't stray away from this 
 game just becuase you think you're too old. It takes a bold move to play kids game seriously, but 
 by all means get this 
  
  
  By John Van  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElithKhan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Where do you start. I think i looked at Viva Pinata like everyone else did to start off with What 
 is that? . So i forgot about it until a few days ago, where i came across some of the episodes 
 that are being aired in America that are also on Xbox live, so i downloaded a few and i was stunned 
 by the graphics in these videos. I then headed to my pc, checked out some game play videos and 
 reviews.
  
  Well i bought Viva Pinata and my god is it fun, 7 hours gone like that. So you get a shovel and 
 some land and little pop ups appear now and again at the start to help you in the right direction. 
 There are tiny loading times when you go into shops etc which some people said was annoying but 
 if any of you have played oblivion youll probably think to yourself Call that a load time? 
  
  After a few hours your garden is really starting to take shape and you cant help but smile 
 watching your little pinata fly/run/crawl around your garden exploring till there little hearts 
 (do pinatas have hearts?) are content.
  
  The detail on the pinatas themselves are brilliant, if you zoom in you can see the detail on them 
 and there not just blocks of colour.
  
  I cant really say there is anything bad about this game, the sounds your pinatas make and just 
 little things like that, the music in the background, cant say it really done much for me, its 
 good if you sit and actually listen but eventually you tune it out and just get on with the game. 
 That may seem silly but some games you get a certain tune that really catches your ear and you 
 really listen to it, i guess they weren't really going for an epic soundtrack when your playing 
 the role of a gardner so you can't really complain.
  
  Personally i think everyone should own this game, it is such a change to everything else available 
 on the 360 at the moment. All in all a brilliant game to have in your 360 shelf that could proudly 
 sit along side games such as Gears of War and Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  It seems that alot of gamers would consider this Xbox 360 video game to be just for kids. And to 
 speak the truth, so did I. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a children's television show, that focuses on 
 talking Pi&ntilde; atas. Sounds a bit stupid for a show ( and a game ) . Viva Pi&ntilde; ata was Published 
 by Microsoft, and Developed by Rare Ltd. We saw this at last year's E3, and many people were thinking 
 Wtf? (Due to the pi&ntilde; atas and everything) , and that caused alot of people not to try it.
 
  
  The thing's you do in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata are basically building, planting, watering your Pi&ntilde; atas 
 garden. You start off with this horrible piece of land, that you have to fix, and build into a 
 garden. You only have a few tools at the start, but when you get playing alot, you eventually get 
 better tools.
  
  But as easy as that sounds, there are a few obstacles that you should avoid. because along with 
 all the plants in a garden, there's bound to be pests. You should at least learn how to get rid 
 of them first instead of ignoring them.
  
  But, if gardening is too dry for you, you still may like this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McSqueaky
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata offers hour after hour of addictive, engaging gameplay for all ages. While it may give 
 a child-like first impression, this game really goes to show that you should never judge a book 
 by its cover.
  
  The beautiful graphics will just blow you away. The detail put into everything is so carefully 
 and skillfully done in every aspect. It is quite a sight!
  
  The gameplay is unique and innovative and the easy controls allow for a smooth gaming experience. 
 Rare has done an excellent job. While the game is very different from anything I've seen, it manages 
 to keep its form. It shows how different a game can be while still being well done. The sound is 
 very nice, from the cute sounds of your pinatas, to the beautiful music. The voice acting is well 
 done and professional.
  
  Even though the game may not appeal to an older audience at first sight, you will regret neglecting 
 this game. No Xbox 360 is complete without Viva Pinata! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game to just sit down and play for fun, there is no stress its a game for 
 all gamers just to have fun... its a nice break from playing gears of war all the time. You can 
 take your time and just have some pinata fun. I think every gamer should own this just because 
 its a fun game and will keep you occupied for a long time.
  
  Overall this game does not have any major problems and i do not get aggravated with this game as 
 i do with most, and if you do you can just take it out on your pinata. haha.... Fun gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkisielewski1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I know that many will scoff at this title and never give it a chance, but you would be missing 
 out on a gem of a title that is in the top 5 games of the year on all platforms. While it has been 
 marketed to children, one would be remiss if they didn't check out the depth that this title has 
 under the child-like exterior and veneer. Once you get two to three hours into this game it is 
 apparent that this is an incredibly deep and immersive game that challenges you around each corner 
 and begs you to play it more.
  
  A few bugs and glitches aside (that cause the game to lock up when the auto-save feature conflicts 
 with in-game tasks every so often) , Rare has managed to bring out the addictive nature of each 
 one of us. The achievements are wonderfully crafted and provide a level of challenge that keeps 
 your attention peeked in places where it may wane. Besides, nothing is better than blinging (and 
 this is the term in the game) your favorite Pinatas out and seeing yourself becoming attached to 
 some of the more endearing ones.
  
  In short, give this title a chance, and you will find a wealth of fun to have. It is a welcome 
 change from the genres that are the mainstay and bread &amp; butter of the 360. Don't let the cute 
 exterior fool you into thinking this title is for kids, because the reality is that it is geared 
 more towards the more adult crowd that the 360 is filled with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billym99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a great game, very enjoyable. Be be warned, it can be very addictive. The basic 
 premise of this game is to build a garden that will attact inhabitants from the local area (pinatas) 
 and provide a setting where they can live and reproduce... sounds easy and too kid like, right?? 
 Well, I will admit it is not the hardest game I have ever played, but later in the game when you 
 go after high level pinatas it can get pretty hard. It is a lot of fun to tailor your garden to 
 the needs of the pinatas you are trying to attact.
  
  The visuals of this game are very impressive. Think Kameo... On an HDTV this game looks fantastic. 
 Sound is good, although nothing revolutionary. The control scheme works great for this time if 
 sim-like game. The gameplay is very engrossing, it's not hard to put 30-40 hours into this game.
 
  
  All in all, I highly recommend Viva Pinata to both the young and old crowds. Don't write this off 
 as kids only or you will only be missing out on one of the top games of 2006! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game came with the xbox 360 package that I chose for Xmas along with Gears of War and PGR 
 3. Of course I just tossed it aside and got on with the other 2 games, almost forgetting it existed 
 after being sucked into the other 2 games. But after a few days gaming, I decided to give it a 
 try. At first I was simply confused at the Pokemon meets the Sims gameplay, and was ready to dismiss 
 it as the free, bundled game that it is. But... then i got hooked. After about an hours play, you 
 start to realise how glorious this game is. When a new Pinata rears its beatifully crafted head 
 from the world that surrounds your garden, you feel an immense wave of joy. When you finally sort 
 out the requirments for 2 pinatas to mate and that little heart appears above their head, you feel 
 that joy. When you grow a plant to its maturity and see it in its full glory, creating shadows 
 that seep through your garden as the sun rises and sets, you feel that joy. Once you have done 
 all of these things for the first time, you will be addicted. You will want to grow more trees, 
 make more pinatas resident to your garden, and become the best damn gardener Pinata island has 
 ever seen. The game is incredibly deep, with over 60 pinatas to care for, and lots of different 
 variations of each. This may look like a kids game, but later challenges require great patience 
 and experience. There is a ton of things to do, and you will want to do all of them. Seeing every 
 pinata and doing everything there is to do will take even veteran gamers an age to do. The graphics 
 are incredible, from the fuzzy, brilliantly created pinatas to the colourful and heart warming 
 surroundings. You find yourself admiring the background of your garden; the distant village, the 
 snowy mountains and the swampy forest. All of it looks superb and makes some of the slower bits 
 of the game much more enjoyable. The sounds of your pinatas range from cute to interesting, and 
 most of them are generally fun to listen to. A sleeping Whirlm is a real highlight. The music is 
 light and unannoying, which you would expect from a game like this, and is generally enjoyable 
 to have in the background. Sometimes as you are playing this game, you will hit a dragging point 
 where you fail to see anymore new pinatas and nothing new hits the shops for you to play with. 
 These slow points can be boring as a couple hours before hand you were seeing loads of new faces 
 and recieving lots of new plants to grow. These pacing issues could do with a bit of a tweak, maybe 
 spacing out the sightings and the seedage so that youre not sat around waiting for something to 
 happen. Another issue is the difficulty. For a 'kids' game, this game is extremely hard. There 
 are things to do that you will never, ever think of trying. For example, to get one species of 
 pinata, you have to feed the 2 mating pinatas a certain berry, and then when the baby is born, 
 you have to watch as it bounces and hit it on the head with a shovel on a specific bounce for it 
 to evolve into the new species. How is any adult, let alone a child, meant to think of this? A 
 lot of the game is left up to trying every single thing you can think of to try get that extra 
 species. For me, this would take years upon years of my time, so I recommend a basic online walkthrough 
 just to give you some pointers instead of leaving you completely clueless. But all in all, this 
 is a great Sims style game which deserves your time and effort, despite it being based on a zany 
 looking kids show. The Good - Lovely graphics - Addictive - Lots to do and see - Warms the heart
 
  
  The Bad - Some tedious elements - The 50 hour achievement just isn't fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning visuals, very addictive gameplay, very colorful and cute, way better than I 
 ever thought it would be.
  
  The Bad: Little kids will hate it when their Pinatas get eaten, will ask questions about the romance 
 dance ...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When Microsoft and Rare first unvailed Viva Pinata to the public, I thought it was a dumb consept 
 that wouldn't intrest me at all. I had to try it when my younger brother baught it, and have to 
 say that I am shocked at how good this game actually is. In Viva Pinata, you become a gardener 
 working to make the loveliest garden ever. Your garden will attract Pinatas, who will settle in 
 if you have what they need to survive. Along the way, you have to worry about the Pinata food chain 
 as well as evil sour Pinata and vile NPCs who want to destroy your lovely garden. Viva Pinata has 
 a lot of the flair that Pokemon had, because you've got to catch them all. Before you can do anything, 
 you have to make them residents of your garden. Each Pinata type has different requirements such 
 as they have to eat a smaller Pinata or have a pond that, if you accomplish, will convince that 
 Pinata to become a resident. If you have two of the same species of Pinata in your garden, you 
 can breed or romance them and reproduce baby Pinata that you can sell, or keep to lure bigger Pinata 
 into your garden. The single most important thing you need to do with the Pinata you gather in 
 your garden is romance them. This has different requirements, just like those required to make 
 a Pinata a resident, but they are always more challenging. Once you accomplish these requirements, 
 your Pinatas preform the romance dance and eventually an egg will appear that will hatch into a 
 baby Pinata. Young children I'm sure will begin to wonder about what their parents' romance dance 
 looks like, so be prepared for that.
  
  Honestly, this game is designed to appeal to children who would also watch the animated show, but 
 the game appeals more to older gamers for several reasons:
  
  1. The food chain thing may make younger gamers sad when their lovely Pinata get's eaten by a bigger 
 one.
  
  2. They won't understand the romance dance thing. 3. It's wrather complex to control and understand 
 how to play.
  
  This is a game that you can play for ten minutes or hours on end and it is just as addicting as 
 it ever has been. If you want something different to play on your 360, this is an excellent choice. 
 Gameplay: It's complex, yet very addicting and satisfying to gamers of all ages.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best visuals the 360 has to offer.
  
  Sound: Excellent sound effects 
 add a lot the the game's atmosphere.
  
  Value: It's $50, but it's unique enough and fun enough to be worth that price.
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 P Diddy and Mr. T are Romancing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Neccers
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game, when i first played it, seemed to be really cheesy and simple, but the more that i played 
 of Viva Pinata the more i found that i like it, and i am actually quite addictided to it. Teh actuall 
 gameplay is really simple wit all of the tool commands, pinata control etc. are really easy and 
 took only a couple of minutes to pick up. The graphics are scertainly 'unique' but although they 
 may look cheesy and childish they actually make the game stamd out from the crowd. the sound is 
 qiute good, but some of the sounds are very very annoying. The value of the game i think is quite 
 good as with its open endedness and is unlimited customisation the game could last for absolute 
 ages....... Overall the game is great and i would recomend it to all, even if they dislike the 
 graphics as the game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game took my by surprise i little bit. I did not know if i was not going to like it. i read 
 reviews and they said if you enjoy Animal crossing and Sims and Harvest moon you will like it. 
 I really like those games a lot but was not sure about the whole garden thing and it looked really 
 kiddish. So i got it for Christmas and has become one of my favorite games of all time. I love 
 the way you can grow your garden. from a small patch of land to a huge pinata infested garden. 
 You will start out with smaller animals (worms, sparrows, mouse etc..) but the rest is at your hands. 
 If you want to have a water garden you can start getting Ducks, Swans, Beavers, Hippos etc... or have 
 long tall grass for zebras and Does (deer) . you can make our garden have what ever you want. Trees, 
 plants fences, Pathways. Each animal needs requirements. Appearance, Vister, Resident, and Romance. 
 if you fill them you will unlock that thing. And you have to pick what animals are your favorite 
 to keep in your garden. Also there is challenges there can't be all fun and games in the pinata 
 life. There are first the sours. sours main goal is to mess up your garden by stealing items, starting 
 fights, eating seeds, etc.. They too have a requirements. If you meet the requirements for resident 
 it will go into a cocoon and change into a tame pinata to live in your garden. By doing this you 
 gain alot. One whatever they did to mess up your garden they will do the opposite. For example: 
 if a sour pinata eats seeds then once its tame it eats weeds. also you add to the tower. they will 
 make sure the evil pinatas don't come back. If for some reason you can't get the sours in your 
 garden you can buy the blocks for set price. Also pinatas can be sent to parties to complete missions. 
 you will gain candy and money when you do this. you will get a notice for what pinata they want 
 and you can say yes or no if you like. This game is packed with tons of things to do and you will 
 be playing this for a very long time. This gets a perfect score because i can't find anything that 
 i would change in it. The graphics are crisp and with a lot of personality to each animal. value 
 is great you get a lot for the buck. The special addition is very cheap. This game is not for everyone 
 however. if you hate sims animal crossing and harvest moon don't get it cause most likely you will 
 not like it. but if you like any of the list above then you will really enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  A fun filled adventure for everybody, seriously! When you start up it's addressed to like a 5 year 
 old, The computers talk like the main character on a young kid's show and at the beggining you 
 have to get rid of all your junk in the garden and make it look like a pinata masterpiece.
  
  This game has perfect graphics and sound, with great strategic gameplay, this game is a unique 
 piece of art. Some how this reminded me of harvest moon taking care of a garden full of animals, 
 oh well I can't complain. If someone was to just look at the game, they would think it was a baby's 
 toy, if they rented it or bought it, they would have hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  The Good &gt;
  - Very unique game, a good break from shooters
  - Gameplay reminds me of RTS, very well designed
  - Wide variety of things to do
  - Good potential 
 for replayability
  - Sending Pinatas online is a nice feature
  - Pretty good presentation
  - Best Achievements to date
  
  The Bad &gt;
  - Limited number 
 of Pinatas or objects you can have - No indicator to when you have a full garden
  - Fertilizing trees sucks
  - Limited Camera angles
  - Multiple Saves is missing
  - Viewing 
 an event or fight should directly take you there - More possible views would really help
  - Night visuals could be better
  - Manual has very little info 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is an open ended garden sim where you develop a garden that is meant to attract the 
 many species of Pinata Island. This game is very colorful and bright but every 360 owner should 
 experience this game.
  
  You start the game out with an old plot of land that has very hard dirt and various objects scattered 
 throughout it. This part of the game serves as a tutorial although it doesn't feel like one. Slowly, 
 the game introduces new items and abilities when they are needed so you don't get hit with too 
 much information at any specific time. You must smack the dirt with shovel in your garden in order 
 to make it soft enough for planting grass and other plants. You can also smack the objects in the 
 garden to get some chocolate coins to get you on your feet.
  
  Once you get the ability to plant grass the game takes off. Planting enough grass will attract 
 the lowest species in the food chain, the Whirm . After the whirms move in to your garden you may 
 attract other species, such as the Sparrowmint , without even lifting a finger. Other species may 
 decide to visit your garden based on a number of factors ranging from having enough water in your 
 garden to having certain types of plants.
  
  Of course not all Pinatas get along with eachother. Some will hunt other Pinatas (the sparrowmint 
 hunts the whirm) , and other times fights will break out between clashing species. Fights are always 
 harmful because one Pinata is going to end up ill . When your Pinata is ill you must call the doctor 
 (who is a man in a monkey suit that drives on a little clown car) before Dastardos comes. I won't 
 reveal exactly who he is, but if you Pinata is ill he will be on his way to break it (a. k. a. kill 
 it) . Fences are the biggest solution to stopping fights in your garden.
  
  There are a few other characters that you need to know about and I'll explain the two basic ones 
 since you will encounter them rather quickly. Leafos is your helper in your garden. She doesn't 
 actually do anything for you, but she gives you hints and tips when you need them. The other character 
 is Seedos who visits your garden on a daily basis. You can talk to him and he will give you a seed 
 (sometimes one you don't have already) or you can smack him with your shovel and he will drop many 
 seeds. Beware of hitting him however, because the next time he visits he will drop weeds all over 
 the place.
  
  The gameplay in Viva Pinata is the best part of the game. It is excellent at what it sets out to 
 do which is to create an innovative game that will interest all audiences. The controls are easy 
 to learn for anybody and that is on the advanced setting. Sometimes it is rather difficult to select 
 things in the garden (especially fast moving Pinatas) and sometimes when you select things they 
 will deselect for no reason. Hopefully an upcoming patch will fix this issue.
  
  The graphics have their own unique flavor. They certainly aren't going for the realistic look but 
 look good regardless. The colors they use make knowing what you are looking at an easy task. Some 
 (very rare) framerate issues occur, but they don't take away from the overall experience.
  
  The sound is also colorful , but in a good way. The Pinatas sound peaceful even when fighting. 
 Music plays at appropriate times indicating when danger is near or animals are fighting. When nothing 
 bad is happening, peaceful music plays softly in the background telling you everything is ok.
 
  
  Viva Pinata is easily one of the best games of 2006 and is, at the very least, worth a rent for 
 every 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  i began playing this thinking about the show, then about animal crossing. then, i noticed. this 
 game is one of the most addicting games ever, its my achilles heel, i guess. but there isn't anything 
 quite like trying to get pinatas onto you land, so they can become yours.
  
  while at the beginning, its a little slow, but what game isn't?
  
  i suggest renting this game 
 before you buy though, its amazingly addictive, and who cares if your friends laugh at you for 
 raising little paper-meche animals. while some of the finer points of the game could be a little 
 smoothed over (plot anyone?) and some could be a little harder. (infinite money resides in the 
 chili plant) . it works out overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshotgunner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a game where you begin with a garden full of junk. After some time and work, you 
 can get this pile of junk into a beautiful Pinata full playground. Some times you will have to 
 get rid of smaller Pinata, such as the Mousemellow or Mothdrop.
  
  Gameplay: A little hard to learn at first but once you do you will never let go of this game.
 
  
  Graphics: Beautiful Pinatas. All 60+ of them. Everything looks great.
  
  Sound: Could use more. The music is good. Pinatas don't make alot of sound.
  
  Value: Worth 
 all your money. Maybe 10$ more.
  
  Tilt: Loved it.
  
  All this added up and I give Viva Pinata a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  For a start this is not a kids game do not judge a game by its cover becuase i did and got it wrong. 
 This is a great achievement for something new thats never been done on any system before the pinatas 
 look great and are fun to play with there is a lot off things to do in this game which makes it 
 fun such as to make new pinatas come to u, u need to get every thing that they would need for them 
 to stay and b happy in u place so u need money (game money) and you need to no what things the 
 pinata needs and the way to do this is buy pressing A on them then see what types off things they 
 need this could rage from a flower to any thing you could think off its all in this game and the 
 graphics look great the gameplay is solid also you can sell some things in ur place and put them 
 on XboxLive erm well i just got the game 2 days ago and im lovin every minute off it i give it 
 a 9/10 becuase once u start playing it u just dont want to stop and there are 60+ pinatas in the 
 game and they can come to ur place @ any time some ur always busy and ur always thinking off new 
 ways to get new pinatas in ur place thats my review sorry that it did not tell u very much about 
 the game but i have only had it for 2days and all i can say is people off all ages would love this 
 game and if you have a 360 r thinking off getting 1 this should b 1 off the games you should get 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: un4givenmatt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, just recently I bought this game from BestBuy. When i first saw the cover I thought wow this 
 is a game a little kid would like . But i gave it a try, so i popped it into my xbox360 and saw 
 the opening song. Then i started playing and got started. I got into a part where i got my first 
 squazill and I LOVED the game. As I mentioned before this game is very original, you start on a 
 piece of land that is littered with trash and dead grass. As you build up and get more pi&ntilde; ata 
 it gets more diffcult and more fun. If for some wierd reason you are on this website and haven't 
 gotten the idea that this is a good game and are thinking wow this is a game a little kid would 
 like then you are sadly mistaken. The graphics are wonderful the sounds that they have are good 
 and gameplay is great. So, if you want a good game that is original then get viva pi&ntilde; ata 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOTHIK9s_CL
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for My little girl - who absolutely loves it - and late Friday night after she 
 went to bed, I thought I would fire it up for a few minutes just to see what she was giggling at 
 earlier.
  
  Let Me tell you ... this game was surprisingly fun and addictive.
  Its essentially an RTS, but with colorful pi&ntilde; ata creatures and gardening instead of the 
 typical non-renewable resources and troops.
  
  If you are an animal lover at all, or just susceptible to anything cute and cuddly, you will like 
 this game.
  
  And if you are just looking for something clean and fun for your children, I would recommend buying 
 this game for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Ive never played a game like this before, and I was very surprised that it was this much fun. 
 If anyone Xbox 360 owners out there are avoiding this game because you think it is for little kids, 
 then youre fools. Seriously, even just rent it to find out its awesomeness. Anyway, you start 
 out the game with a garden. Not very big, and pretty wrecked. You have to fix it up and start doing 
 what you have to do to attract your first pi&ntilde; ata. This is where the addiction starts. obviously. 
 The controls are very responsive, and the menus are well laid out, allowing for easy shopping, 
 hunting etc. Also the game is pretty easy to pick up. There is a helper in the garden that you 
 can talk to whenever you need help, and theres a pretty extensive tutorial at the beginning to 
 get you up and running.
  
  One thing youll notice right away is the very nice graphics. The environment is very detailed. 
 You can find yourself just looking beyond you garden a lot just to see what things exist out there. 
 The pi&ntilde; atas look very cute and cuddly, and overall very cool looking up close. The art direction 
 in the game is cool. Not only do a lot of the pi&ntilde; atas look awesome, but so does the way 
 the trees look, how they grow, how the fruit looks, hot the pi&ntilde; ata homes look etc. It all 
 looks pretty and very colourful, but dont let this put you off the game. The music in it suits 
 the game very well. Some similarities to other music is well. (it may be just me, but every time 
 I heard this one song, I was reminded on Final Fantasy X)
  
  If you thought this game was just for little kids, then your wrong. Its actually pretty deep, and 
 there are a lot of things to fin out, that I doubt any kid could. Mixing fertilizers with plants 
 to allow them to grow more, feed specific items to pi&ntilde; atas end up with variants or even 
 evolve the pi&ntilde; atas etc. Theres a lot of stuff in this game to experiment with, and it only 
 adds to the fun.
  
  Overall this is an extremely fun game, and I mean extremely. I honestly had a lot more fun with 
 this than I did with Gears of War, and Im a big shooter fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovealicea
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  When most people see the cover of Viva Pinata they will think oh its just a kids game but dont 
 be fooled by the outrageously bright colours, this game is for everyone of any age, just remember 
 to buy some sunglasses first. You start the game with a small crappy peice of land, filled with 
 junk and with not a Pinata insight, but before long your garden will be overflowing with all manner 
 of colourful critters. The game might seem simple at first with u luring your first little whirlm 
 just by smashing up the junk and revealing the dirt beneath, but it's suprisingly complex with 
 you needing to complete several things to lure the bigger and better Pinatas such as the Fizzlybear. 
 Viva pinata has a perfect difficulty curve where there is always a challenege and more Pinatas 
 to lure into your garden and maybe even mate. Overall Viva pinata is the most innovative and orginal 
 game on the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoterTod
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  In a world where Pinatas breathe and move on their own. That is the world of Viva Pinata, one of 
 the best Xbox 360 games right now.
  Is very simple and is fun for all ages. You play the role of a lucky gardener who just inherrited 
 a garden. Unfortunatley when you
  get there you find that your garden is nothin more than a junkyard. You meet a girlwho tells you 
 everything to do to make your garden healthy and attractive. On the first day you meet a worm-like 
 Pinata with a pokemon like name. You also get a house for him
  /her and get some roance between two of these Whirlms . As you progress you meet more Pinatas that 
 are harder to get into your garden.
  Soon your garden goes from a desert to a town of Pinatas. But there are also bad Pinatas that will 
 try to hurt your garden. Overall Viva Pinata will keep you playing it for months with entertainment. 
 So with that I give Viva Pinata a 9.6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  It may not have the draw of some of Rare's Nintendo games, but Rare has done good by me. This game 
 is really open ended, the only direction you get is from achievements and rewards for leveling 
 up, but none should affect the way you play much. The design is cute, but really pleasing to the 
 eye. I've read some reviews saying that too much micro-management, but I have not found that to 
 be true for the way I play. If you pick and chose which pinatas you keep in your garden then you 
 should be able to avoid most fights. There is a limit to how many pinatas you can have in your 
 garden at any one time, so I find it best to focus on a few and master them and move on, but my 
 wife finds pinatas she likes and holds on to them. That brings me to my one big complaint, my wife 
 has been hogging my xbox 360 even since she get me this game for Christmas. But, it has been a 
 way for me to get her back into gaming. As a rule she doesn't play video games. The last game I 
 was able to get her to play was Animal Crossing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da1ShrpSh0trGrl
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  New Page 1
  
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: The purpose of this game is to build a garden attract pi&ntilde; atas which represents 
 an animal and make the environment suit to their lifestyle, by providing them of pi&ntilde; atas 
 they usually feed of and building them a house. From then on you will work on the evolution, procreation 
 and illness of the pi&ntilde; atas. Another aspect you will work will be plants and vegetal life; 
 you will need to plant threes, flowers and seeds to then harvest them as well. This of course will 
 cost (chocolate gold coins) and but will make you profits (chocolate gold coins) at the end. As 
 in real life any gardener needs help to take care of so much land, this game is not any different 
 you will need to hire assistants to help you watch, &nbsp; harvest, and take care of land and wild 
 life on your garden. You will also deal with some food chain issues.
  Stop eating him!!! &nbsp; Viva Pi&ntilde; atas game play its what I call a highly educational 
 game and very ideal for the ages from 5 to 10. &nbsp; Still the game might be enjoyed at age depending 
 of your gaming preferences. My personal experience with this game was as a rental and I was a bit 
 disappointed at first. Since I had it I mind as well gave it a chance and after some gameplay it 
 grew on me. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata its what I will consider the animal and vegetal &nbsp; lifestyles 
 simulator. &nbsp; This game is constantly changing and you see every step of the process if you 
 stand and watch. &nbsp; I believe this game is&nbsp; on of a kind and very innovative and of course 
 very involving as you will need to know your pi&ntilde; atas foods and needs, you will also need 
 to know the conditions your plant will grown under and types of fertilizers it use. No worries 
 the game will guide you thru most of the situations, it wouldnt hurt to look at a few guides on 
 this site as they can be very helpful though. One guide I personally recommend is Viva Pi&ntilde; atas 
 Gardening guide. &nbsp; I consider this game to have a very easy gameplay and the &nbsp; difficulty 
 its set by default so it cant be changed. However, the game might not be hard but I guarantee 
 you it is time consuming. &nbsp; This game will allow you to save at any time and also has an auto 
 save feature that will automatically save the game every few minutes or after any achievement or 
 major event. &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  Achievements: Achievements on this game are not a big challenge as you could easily make between 
 100 to 200 points without a big effort or a big time consumption. &nbsp; If you decide to spend 
 a bit more time on the game then you might even be able to make about 300 points easily. &nbsp;
 
  Display and Sound: The graphics are very fresh and attractive, you will see a wide selection of 
 colors on your pi&ntilde; atas but also you get to enjoy the reflections and shadows great display. 
 One great example is the &nbsp; water pounds they look very &nbsp; real and as the day transition 
 you will see the shadows and environment lighting and reflections transition with perfect harmony 
 along. The sound its amazing as if you have surround sound you will hear every sound made by the 
 garden animals all around you making you feel like you are inside of the game and the environment 
 its all around you. &nbsp; I believe this is one of the best features of the game. &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  Dislikes: I was not very pleased with is the fact that there are many long clips during 
 the game that will not allow you to skip them. Also, there is some occasional short lag during 
 gameplay but mostly when its performing auto save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  This seems to be a childish game that provides silly creatures and easy gameplay mechanics to appeal 
 to the kiddies, but let me tell you, its the exact opposite.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is really simplistic. You just buy seeds, plant them, water them, sell the fruit. 
 You can buy various items for your garden such as fences, statues, fountains, and pathways and 
 place them wherever you please. As you gain experience points from different activities such as 
 breeding, planting, and playing the game you can buy new items at the village. With different plants 
 and pinatas in your garden you attract new pinatas. Each pinata has different requirements to live 
 in your garden. Whether it be 25% of it needs to be water, or have apple trees, they come whenever 
 you meet the requirements. Once in your garden they can be bred to create offspring, which you 
 can sell for money, not that you would want to destroy such a beautiful family.
  
  Some pinatas can evolve into newer pinatas which creates a deep gaming experience. They can also 
 be changed into different colors using different fruits and items.
  
  In this game you will always be busy doing something. It will have you addicted for many many hours, 
 and you will be suprised at how deep and well rounded it is.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics for this game are actually very good. Everything is extremely colorful and crisp. 
 When you walk through your garden you will be soothed with the rainbow colors found on every corner.
 
  
  Even the water has detailed reflections and looks like real water. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  SOUNDS
  
  Each pinata will make a variety of churps and burps and growls, which adds to the immersiveness 
 of the game. It just gives each animal individuality, and entertains you as you play.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall if you are looking for a very good 360 game, then buy this. It is really a hidden gem that 
 not enough people appreciate. Its addicting and very entertaining. Its a game where you can relax 
 and play, and not have to worry about getting jipped by the computer or failing a mission over 
 and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  positives: colors look great. Doesn't seem fun, but raising a pinata farm is a blast. Very addicting 
 game will leave you playing \for hours and hours until you pass out. Plenty of types of pinatas 
 and varieties keep you playing. Easy for anyone to pick up and play dispite of age.
  
  negatives: online suuport could have seen more detail and more effort.
  
  Overall, Viva Pinata 
 offers a fun experience to keep you playing for hours and hours despite of how old you are. DOn't 
 let the kiddy look of it fool you. This game is easily recommendable for anybody who likes the 
 sim type games and anyone who is a pinata freak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrathofchardo
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata isn't worth all the hype that it has been given. Sure the graphics are really pleasing 
 to the eyes and its a different game from say Gears or Oblivion, but it just isn't that great of 
 a game. For starters there isn't really a drive to get more pinatas to come into your garden or 
 to breed your pinatas. The garden itself feels very cramped seeing as your garden consists of a 
 tiny square area that you can only work in. The sounds arn't that great, but who expected a lot 
 from pinatas anyways right? There isn't any replay value because you just keep playing your one 
 garden which is actually a good part about the game. I don't think this is a game to go out and 
 buy, just go rent it and see what you think. It is also a very hectic game seeing as one moment 
 your pinatas are fighting then they are dying then you don't have enough of this or too much of 
 that. Its just simply not that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I'm a hardcore gamer, but this my friend.... this game is one of the most addicting games available.
 
  
  Normally I play games in 1-3 hours, but I've played Viva Pinata in 16 hours almost each day. It's 
 crazy addicting, dangerous! ..... The graphics are also absolutely amazing.
  
  If you think the game is only about building a garden and look at pinatas, then you'r wrong!
 
  
  The ultimate sandbox game. It gives players plenty of opportunities to experiment and explore, 
 but it also has enough meat to really attract gamers interested in strategic play.
  
  So.. buy it if you like to create!
  
  If the game had a bigger garden, I would rate it 9.8 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. It will not blow your socks off, but it will give you enough entertainment 
 value to make it feel like you got your moneys worth. I purchased mine for 29.99 at Best Buy recently, 
 so I think the prices might be falling on the game. At a $30 price tag, it is well worth the purchase.
 
  
  I would highly recommend looking through a few of the walk-throughs on Gamespot, because I spent 
 a solid 5 hours aimlessly wandering through my garden wondering what to do. Once I started picking 
 up on a few things, I checked out a walk-through and realized I wish I had done that 5-hours earlier.
 
  
  If you are looking to rent this game, with the help of the walk-throughs, you can get through 99% 
 of the achievements in a weekend, so a rental is more then feasible too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun. Suprisingly many people consider it a boring kids game. But its actually 
 a very fun simulation. You own your own pinata garden and you need to take care of all of your 
 pinata's and keep them away from Sour Pinatas. These beasts come and try to get your pets sick. 
 You can whack them with a shovel or hire a guard to scare them away. The game trys to stick humor 
 in with the shop keepers. For example you'll find that the Paper Pets shop keeper can make you 
 laugh with her tired, boring, emo personality. Costalots store features a greedy shopkeeper that 
 is also here to give you a few laughs. Taking care of pinatas, and keeping them safe never felt 
 so fun. The graphics, while not next gen look pretty nice. They are colorful and good enough to 
 keep a young kid smiling. The voice overs and sound track are very impressive as well. Overall 
 Viva Pinata is a great game for the whole family. If you ever pass it up and think your kid may 
 like it I definatly think you should give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  We can't stop playing this game! My entire family is addicted to this game. Everyone from my 8 
 and 11 year olds, to my wife and I love this game. It is so completely immersive that you just 
 can't stop playing. The character design is very unique, the graphics are great, but not jaw dropping, 
 and the sound is good (except for the crying Pinatas!) This is a family friendly game that is safe 
 for the whole family. The only thing that it doesn't have is online, but I don't see how that would 
 work. Okay, someone may say that it does have online and you're right, it does have a limited online 
 ability in being able to trade with other players. That's it though.
  
  This game is a definite buy. You will want to play this. The achievment points are very different 
 and they are all 20 points each. Give this the chance it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerM24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is the most recent game that i have bought and its a change i must say. For example 
 i went to rated M games like GoW to this rated E game. This game has 100 hours of game play which 
 is very good and also the graphics are very cool and well done. Although this game is rated E, 
 its one of the most difficult games to play on the 360 because of the decisions and strategy that 
 i had to put into it. Im in love witht the graphics because it looks like they took the graphics 
 from the tv to the 360 which is awsome. this game might look easy but it isnt because your garden 
 animals can get into fight and get ill and cost you some $$$$. Its also hard because of the poison 
 animals that can kill your animals amd what now. Go out and buy this no matter what age you are, 
 Im 13 and i love viva pinata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a downright amazing game from start to finish... The only problem is that no one 
 will ever know. The Viva Pinata sales have been extremely low and Rare is thinking of taking it 
 out of print. Due to poor advertising, no one knew of its release. Unfortuanutely, this great game 
 will never be known. The graphics in Viva Pinata are pretty good. The environment is very bright 
 and detailed. The whole Pinata world has this nice calm, happy feel. But when you zoom into a Pinata 
 or object the detail goes way down. The water effects suck, and Pinatas can look a little ugly. 
 Thankfully the environmental detail makes up for it.
  
  The gameplay is very well done in Viva Pinata. You basically build a garden and fill it with plants, 
 Pinatas, pinata houses, and other objects. You can grow plants, and while there growing water them 
 or fertilize them. You can also place misc items around your garden like fences, roads, statues, 
 and other decorations. The main objective is to interest pinatas in your garden, and eventually 
 have them become residents. Some pinatas require certain objects or foliage in your garden for 
 them to visit, and even more for them to become residents. Another neat aspect of the game is that 
 you can breed Pinatas to have kids. Again, there is a certain requirement each pinata needs to 
 mate which can vary from eating other pinatas to having a certain plant in the garden. The gameplay 
 aspect of the game is great and the controls combine to make this game a great experience.
  
  The sound is good. Nothing special with the sound effects, each pinata makes a different noise 
 when it roams your garden and are all unique. The music is great, its a very calming and good sounding 
 melody that unfortuanutely only occurs at night and is very infrequent. Overall sounds great.
 
  
  Viva Pinata is a one of a kind game. Its got alot of unique gameplay elements and has great graphics. 
 Its not too much aimed for kids, even though it is riddled with online safety for children videos. 
 Its a pretty in depth game that has alot of things to do, but gets old fairly quick because there 
 is never a real objective. This can be both good and bad because it gives you freedom to do whatever, 
 but without objectives, the game can seem pretty pointless other than growing a garden and achievements. 
 Another problem is that you can only have so many plants and or objects. This really dampers the 
 fun because if you want to make a jungle or a forest, your out of luck. Another problem is that 
 the map is pretty small, even after you get completely upgraded it isnt big enough for anything 
 but a small garden. This game is definately worth a few rentals, and maybe a purchase since its 
 only $50. But its going to be rare soon if they take it out of print so pick one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidlee3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and hard to put down. It is one of the best world building games out there. I 
 found my-self playing a lot of defense trying to save the pi&ntilde; atas from getting sick or being 
 eaten. Some people ask me what game is this like?, I would say it is a 3D cross between The Sims 
 and Black&amp; White. You get the options to customize the land and the living conditions for the 
 pi&ntilde; atas and you get to play the ruler over that land. A great game for all ages.
  
  Some people have wrote that they have put down gears of war to play this game and I can see why, 
 from my point I put down WoW to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  The comparisons are evident in the game, and they are everywhere in the reviews: Animal Crossing. 
 The Sims. Harvest Moon. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata takes some of the best aspects of these games and creates 
 something not necessarily innovative, but purely addictive. Viva Pi&ntilde; ata seems innocuous 
 enough, and its colorful design and apparent kiddy demographic may be off-putting to gamers who 
 are much more inclined to adrenaline, blood, and butt kicking. While more of the aforementioned 
 frag-fests are simply variations on a theme (though this years Gears of War did so excellently) , 
 Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is the 360 game with appeal for the Wiis intended audience: casual gamers, 
 non-gamers, kids and the non-arthritic elderly. Under its shiny candy coating, however, is a deep 
 and rewarding game showcasing a scintillating world full of garden design and animal husbandry. 
 And it is fun.
  
  The garden is the real star here, as landscaping and horticultural design attract certain species 
 of Pi&ntilde; ata Islands resident pi&ntilde; ata animals. One incredible potential addition to 
 the game would have been the ability to watch, at any point, a fast-motion view of ones garden 
 from the opening of the game to its current state, as the garden is in a constant state of flux, 
 from animal traffic to gradual and sometimes sudden upheavals of large parts of the garden layout.
 
  
  With an all-purpose shovel and a watering can, both of which are upgradeable, you can grow flowers, 
 trees, and plants, and even cut down trees and dig (and fill in) ponds. Pi&ntilde; ata Islands 
 village is home to a handful of stores that carry any good or service you may need, from purchasing 
 seeds and accessories for pi&ntilde; atas, buying domesticated pi&ntilde; atas or even paying a sort 
 of bounty hunter to drag back a pi&ntilde; ata you already had. In all of this, the game does have 
 some noticeable lulls. Being stuck without a seed you may need to attract a certain animal definitely 
 makes the time drag, and pestering Seedos or even beating him with the shovel doesnt get it  
 and until you get it from him, or he leaves it for you, it cant be bought at the store.
  
  This is a game with quite a few small hidden gems and secrets, and they are as rewarding as anything. 
 Attracting a rare pi&ntilde; ata and making them resident, finding new variants of pi&ntilde; atas, 
 or even cross-breeding pi&ntilde; atas to create something new, are all satisfying and lend a lot 
 to the game experience. There are a lot of complicated parts of these procedures, of course, and 
 there are a lot of guides and FAQs online to help the less hardcore gardeners out with the more 
 rare accomplishments.
  
  Achievement points are divided up well, rewarding the gamer with points for baby steps and large 
 accomplishments as well. Unfortunately, every achievement is set at 20 points, so the size of the 
 task doesnt matter, point-wise. It would have been nice to see the harder achievements, many of 
 which are secret, count for more points than the basic ones.
  
  For fans of leisurely pace and lots to do, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is highly recommended. Its also 
 advisable that anyone, regardless of their taste in games, try this one out. It may spend more 
 time in your 360 tray than you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LamontCranston
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Now when i go into a game looking like Viva Pinata i go warily. But after about an hour of play 
 i found this game to grow on me. Like some sort of insidious virus seeking to ruin my life. I have 
 found this game to be the demented brother and or sister of the tycoon genre of games. You can 
 build a thriving garden while keeping your papier-mache cretures to fend for themselves. And, as 
 i have found out, concentrating your different pinatas into separate camps works great. Overall 
 i found this mix of colorful visuals and imaginative gameplay won me over. And Ive been playing 
 games since before i could read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lothairsen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata at times goes out of its way to remind you that it's based off a children's TV show. 
 The intro screens are rather over-the-top cutesy, and cutscenes from gameplay include pinata romance 
 dances to cheesy disco tunes and characters that resemble some Nickolodeon Jr. TV show from the 
 90's. These are the times when I feel a little uncomfortable having the game up on the screen in 
 the presence of others my own age. However, if you look past that (and you certainly should) , Viva 
 Pinata provides a surprisingly deep sandbox game with a complex ecosystem for you to play around 
 with to your heart's content.
  
  The game starts out simply enough, with you in charge of an overgrown garden with the task of rebuilding 
 it into a paradise that will attract the 60 species of pinata that roam the island. Attracting 
 your first species is rather simple. After that, the demands of the pinata grow more and more complex 
 and tensions within your ecosystem (like the bird species Sparrowmint constantly fighting with 
 the wormlike Whirim, for example) force you to apply a careful hand in cultivating your garden. 
 The strategy here can be surprisingly deep. To attract residents, you must fulfill certain requirements 
 like having certain terrain types or plants in your garden, and then to get them to romance and 
 produce offspring you must fulfill still other requirements like providing them prey species and 
 a home to live in. The demands on your space and concentration can seem at times overwhelming, 
 but luckily you are provided with increasingly powerful tools and items as your garden grows. This 
 development, which you earn by accumulating experience points, provide a nice RPG element to the 
 game that is reminiscent of the farming sim Harvest Moon.
  
  The world itself is richly detailed and very colorful, and is overall quite pretty to look at. 
 Each of the pinata species immediately stands out, no small feat in a game that features so many 
 species. They also come in multiple color variants, which you can uncover through the course of 
 the game. The environment itself is also very pleasing to look at, with lush grass, nicely reflective 
 water, and interesting building designs. Overall, Viva Pinata's graphical presentation matches 
 the mood of the game very well.
  
  The most surprising part of Viva Pinata, at the end of the day, is probably its challenge. Despite 
 the fact that it looks like a children's game, your garden can often be quite difficult to manage 
 as you juggle the different demands of your pinata. In fact, the challenge to children may seem 
 overwhelming, as making mistakes can sometimes be costly, for instance, if you have to constantly 
 pay to heal your pinata after fights. However, overall the open-ended nature of the game makes 
 for an excellent game for all ages and one that you certainly has replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_jay0507
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  When you first pop this game in and get it going, you are stuck with this crappy, kind of small, 
 piece of land that has junk everywhere. You have to clean it all up and after like 30 minutes, 
 your garden will look great and you will be like Dang, look what a good job I did. .
  
  I, personally, am addicted to this game, and you kind of feel bad for liking it due to it looks 
 like a kiddie game, and it is in a way, but it's still very fun. You will find yourself just wondering 
 around your garden making sure everything is going good, then something will go wrong and you will 
 have to fix it, then you'll be like Hey, I know what would look good here. then you go buy something 
 off of this lady and put it in your garden.
  
  After a while, once you plant a variety of seeds, more and more pinata's will visit your garden 
 and you have to see their Resident Requirements then give them what they want and their yours. 
 Got two? If so Romance them and sell their offspring if you like. You can also buy these accesories 
 for your pinata's and name them too. Some of the accesories include glasses, hats, and scarves.
 
  
  Of course it's not all fun and games, you will get these Sour Pinata's who like to come to your 
 garden and either kill a pinata, or drop off some sour candy which will make you Pinata's sick 
 and you will have to pay a doctor's bill in order to keep them alive.
  
  In conclusion, this game is worth $60, and so it's easily worth the $50 that you pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazaa54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Ever since its showing at E3 this past year, Viva Pinata was a game that has been analyzed and 
 criticized by just about anyone that has seen it. First dubbed as just a kids title, Viva Pinata 
 was later released to critical acclaim, but limited public reaction. The real deal with Viva Pinata 
 is that its not just a kids game, nor is it a reason to buy an Xbox 360. Viva Pinata turns out 
 to be aimless fun that will either have players hooked, or unhooking their controllers.
  
  When someone first sees Viva Pinata, they will obviously think like many did their first time seeing 
 it, that it is a kids game, made by some marketing team to bank off of the success of the Saturday 
 morning cartoon. In thinking this, that person would be wrong, because, aside from the fact that 
 the cartoon was based off of the game, Viva Pinata is a real game made to be played by anyone, 
 not just a marketing scheme like so many other kids games are today. If people can get over the 
 literally cartoonish appearance of the game, they will be able to see that it looks very good. 
 There is quite a nice style with which the pi&ntilde; atas are made, and aside from the characters, 
 the world is vibrant, colorful, and really nice to stop for a few seconds and look at. While at 
 first glance, it may not have the same graphic beauty as other 360 games (Gears of War, Dead Rising, 
 etc.) the graphics are fantastic, and it really is one of the best looking games in terms of style, 
 on any platform.
  
  So, if somebody can appreciate or at least get past (if they cant manage to embrace the immature 
 feel) the graphics they might give this game a chance. This is where their risk will either flourish 
 or fall. Some players, those who enjoyed other games of this type like the Sims, or Black and White, 
 will probably fall in love with Viva Pinata. However, for those of us who do not appreciate more 
 open ended games, it is at this point, about an hour into the game, that the love affair with Viva 
 Pinata will end. Once the garden has been cleared of trash, grass has been planted, and you have 
 attracted your first few pi&ntilde; atas, the game will start to unravel as the pointless micro 
 manager that it really is. After the first few minutes of establishing yourself as a gardener have 
 ended, you will come to find that there is no reason that you are doing anything. Dont get it 
 wrong, open ended games are fantastic, but there is a difference between begin open ended, and 
 straight up pointless. If you come to ask yourself, Why am I playing this game? and cannot answer 
 the question, that is when you know this game is not for you. However, if you can give yourself 
 a definitive answer to that question, or are so engrossed in the experience that you never even 
 need ask it, Viva Pinata is your game. If you can get into it, and either have no reason for it, 
 or are totally sure of why you are playing, then you have found one of the best and most addictive 
 games of the year. But, when you dont know why youre playing, and are not having fun doing it, 
 you should drop this game, and just forget about it. Its not for you.
  
  Viva Pinata is a niche game, although vastly different in the way most people would perceive. It 
 wont be just kids who will dig this one (probably less kids than people would think because of 
 the games complexity) , it will be anyone who enjoys a good god game. While Vivas style is beautifully 
 camouflaged behind kid friendly and cartoonish graphics, there is no getting around the fact that 
 the games substance is not as wonderfully disguised as the graphics are. The game may look secretly 
 great, but after not more than a few hours, it will be glaringly obvious that this game is only 
 for a certain audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  ... but I actually own a game where animals stuffed with candy hump each other in a garden where 
 I grow buttercups and pumpkins.
  
  And not only do I own it, I happen to LIKE it. Quite a bit, in fact.
  
  LSD was clearly involved 
 in the genesis of Viva Pinata, but thankfully the developers were experiencing a good trip. The 
 game is shockingly addictive and substantive, and I hazard to guess that if you spend 30 minutes 
 playing it, you might very well be locked in for another 30 hours or so before you finally pause 
 to take it all in. What's remarkable -- and kind of aggravating, too -- is that all the pretensions 
 about next-gen hardware being necessary to create the best games are proven spurious with a game 
 like this. You're telling me we had to have three processors, 1080p and Dolby Digital support, 
 and wireless connectivity just to grow a few pinatas in a little ol' garden plot???
  
  I kid because I love. Viva Pinata does take advantage of the 360's power but it doesn't abuse it 
 needlessly. Animations are simple and the rest of the audiovisual package is executed beautifully, 
 but in an understated fashion. The emphasis is on fun, and Rare put more of that in the package 
 than I would have ever guessed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe Viva Pinata because you can't really compare it to anything else, which is 
 quite good because it means it is original. If I were to attempt to describe it I'd say it was 
 a cross between pokemon &amp; the sims. The things you can do are quite varied but you can often 
 reach a point where you have to wait around for something to happen. The creatures are quite colourful 
 &amp; imaginitave but they aren't really original just real animals put into Pinata form. Sounds 
 good &amp; looks great &amp; with all the things you can do gameplay can be quite varied but if 
 you are over 13 you may want to avoid this game, having said that I enjoy it very much so &amp; 
 I'm much older than 13. A very good concept that has been caried out well but may need some polishing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badfur0
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  viva pinata is a game that is for kids to adults, the controls are very easy, the graphics are 
 pretty good too, but it is one of those games where you would just play it a little bit. im not 
 saying this game is bad, just not worth $50. you should just rent it. there are many different 
 pinatas that come to your garden and you can grow things. you can have your pinatas make other 
 pinatas by doing specific things for 2 of the same pinatas. after a while it gets kind of boring 
 but that is just my opinion. so i suggest that you just rent it .
  I give Viva Pinata 6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerhitter0418
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata for the Xbox 360 is a very fun game to play because it has great graphics and amazing 
 depth as you try to attract animals to your habitat. The animals have names that are similar to 
 sweet foods like Sparrowmint which is similar to a Sparrow so you can see how they tried to make 
 it fun for everybody to play. The main reason that this game may scare people away is that it looks 
 like it's for kids but I disagree with this a 100% as this game is just a fun game that all audiences 
 can enjoy and spend countless hours playing. So I suggest that any Xbox 360 owner no matter what 
 their age should pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is one of most amazing games i've ever played. The graphics are amazing! Sounds are 
 cool, and the Pinatas are weird and colorful, but still maintain the cool factor. Let's break this 
 down. The Gameplay is fun and will keep entertained for hours and hours until your system overheats. My 
 point is that is you own an Xbox 360 get this game becasue it's fun and enjoyable for all ages. In 
 the very beginning you'll get a piece of garbage that contains dead grass, and junk. You'll end up 
 smashing the junk and dig into the dirt and funniest part of it all that you do it all with one 
 simple button push. As you're building or smashing you'll attract your very first speices called 
 a Whirlm once you have digged through all the dirt you get grass packets which is when you'll get 
 a Whirlm as an official member of your garden. Once you've got a Whirlm you'll get more and more 
 Pinata ,but they won't stay until you've met there Resident Requirements which are tasks you must 
 do for that Pinata to make it change colors and become a Resident in your garden. Graphics are 
 colorful and fun to look at. You will be AMAZED! They look like the T. V. show ,but the graphics 
 on the show are awesome also. The liitle sounds each Pinata makes is cool because each Pinata has 
 its own house and its own house. When the builder comes to build a house for one of your Pinatas 
 you'll hear him hammering and/or drilling which is exactly what it should sound like. The value 
 of this game is oblivously at its best. This is a game for all ages kids 6-under will button mash 
 or listen to the tutorial.10-under will understand a little more than the 6 and under group will.11-up 
 will hopefully be smart enough to find this game out and make an excellent garden, and if not then 
 that's pretty sad. Overall Viva Pinata is at the top of the 360 games list neck-and-neck with Gears 
 Of War (about and inch better) . I enjoyed this game and found that it suceeded past it standards. That's 
 why I give Viva Pinata, one of very little Xbox 360 exlucisves,10 Pinata throughing bombs while 
 fighting out 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun to play if you like the fish tycoon series. Viva Pinata is definitely 
 a game to rent or try once. But keeping a pinata garden takes a lot of care, and can get repetitive. 
 Also, the online play is pretty limited, and this game lacks multiplayer. The good thing about 
 this game is that the graphics are a dream come true: they look better than some kid's cartoons 
 out there. There's nothing too dificult about this game so its good for people of all ages; but 
 people that play the game must be extremely devoted to the garden. Daily people have to sell and 
 buy new pinatas, keep out bad pinatas, and so much more. This game is like nothing else on the 
 Xbox 360 at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  this folks is truley the landmark of xbox 360 gaming it is the first of its kind on the 360 as 
 nothing has approched it as it has succeded in many different ways showing that colourful visuals 
 are does not mean that it is not for kids this is truly a landmark as now tyhat the 1st has braved 
 the charts ,many will follow all wanting a peice of its succes the gamelay is simple edger of seat 
 stuff and simply when you create multpy gardens it comes into its own and is absolutly spectacular. 
 this is a must buy for any fan of the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatesieg
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game I didn't know what to expect. Some said it was like Animal Crossing, 
 others said it was like harvest moon. After buying it and playing it to death for two whole days 
 I can say that it's one of the most addictive garden growing game I've played so far.
  The graphics look superb, even on a crappy TV, and everything is so colourful! From the first whirlm 
 that wriggles into your little wasteland at the beginning to the the annoying Dastardos, who smashes 
 up sick pinatas (curse you!!) . The gameplay is simple to understand, with the game aiding you step 
 by step throughout the first few hours.
  There's just so much to do, from growing plants and food and selling them to romancing your pinatas 
 to create baby pinatas. Kids will love this game (my brother was glued to it) , and I think you 
 will to.
  The only thing that stops me from giving this a higher score is the lack of Live options. All you 
 can do is download accessories for your pinatas and send stuff to your friends. Hopefully in the 
 near future there'll be a download so that you can visit your friends' garden.
  All in all this is a fun little game that, if you look past the kiddie style of graphics, can leave 
 you wanting more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkeli
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This must be one of the best games for children and adults. My self is soon 19 years old, and even 
 i can't let go of the game. Just have to see what would happen if i do this and if i do that. The 
 only thing i don't like with the game, is that you have to play for a long time to unlock some 
 things, and you can't play free mode. I've still not manage to visit a friend, maybe i haven't 
 seen it yet, or maybe it will open later in the game. But if you take that away, this game is one 
 of the greatest game ever, after Halo and Oblivion... Hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdPizzaKid111
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I wasn't sure why I had bought Viva Pinata. At first glance, it is merely a childrens 
 game. I suppose it was the highly creative and fresh new gameplay I hadn't seen for a while. This 
 game was worth what I payed, and I am not embarrassed to say that this is one of my favorite games 
 of the year.
  Viva Pinata puts you on Pinata Island, in control of (at first) a small barren patch of land. You 
 have to clear all the junk out of it, and essentially transform it into a paradise. While you are 
 making this paradise you will see a lot of pinatas, you can attract them to your garden for you 
 to make them residence. The game is really strong in creating a lot of fun pinatas, you will find 
 yourself so excited to get some of them. You can mate your pinatas, then sell the offspring for 
 cash as soon as its first breath of life is taken. Essentially this is Viva Pinata. To be honest, 
 the overall premise of the game is simple. You get pinatas, mate them, and sell the babies for 
 money to customize your garden and attract more rare pinatas. But the game is more than that. The 
 games graphics are spot on, and the audio is fantastic. Over all, if your looking for a great game 
 to play, Viva Pinata should be one of your first choices, even if it does look like a game for 
 six year olds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmc2u_64
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Viva pinata takes place on pinata island. The island is one big home for many pinata's like barkbarks (dog) , and 
 quackberries (duck) . You're going to start with a used to be garden. At first your piece of land is 
 a junkyard, but if you take good care of your land, it'll be a fantastic garden filled with many 
 pinata's and decorations. But before you can have a beautiful garden, you're gonna start at the bottem. Your 
 first and most basic pinata is the worm. You'le have tools such as a shuvle, watering can, and grasspackets. Anyway 
 the graphics are really detailed. The sound is really realistic. The gameplay is really fun and it 
 is just right. If you own a x-box360, you should get Viva pinata. So don't beat em', join them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainsPYT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Theres really not much to say about Viva Pinata other then the fact that it is totally and crazy-like 
 addicting! I find myself playing in the wee hours of the morning just so I can have the right amount 
 of berries or whatever to get a certain Pinata to vist and even stay in my garden!
  
  As many other reviews have said, even though this game was ment for children is it just alittle 
 too off for a young mind, I even find myself loosing track of something and then out of the blue 
 an enemy will appear and just smash one of my danged pinata's! It's annoying and there is a high 
 chance that a child would either bust a tantrum or even cry over the loss of their animal friend. 
 (Oddly enough it has happened)
  
  The 360 was just the perfect system to bring this game out on, the smallest detail is and can be 
 inspected in this game from the colors on a pinata to a crack in a housing for one. If this was 
 put onto any other system it could have been a major flop.
  
  One little thing that RARE seems to have altered was the lacking of annoying, repeating background 
 music. The music itself changes with every pinata from contury, rock, rap to even classical when 
 it comes to romancing. While as in your garden, the music starts to play at random and it never 
 some nasty high pitched jingle, rather then some soothing melody to help you tend to your planting!
 
  
  Besides being high addictive, the game is just and reminds me of my olden days of spending endless 
 amount of time playing Harvest Moon, let along Animal Crossing which is what this game seems to 
 cross over if they had a messed up flipper baby!
  
  As many a gamer remembers in games like that you'll find yourself wanting every achivement and 
 prize for trying to reach that 100%. In Animal Crossing, you collected a whole room set to gain 
 points while in this game you'll find youself having to breed, aka 'romance' pinatas to gain awards 
 for having tamed these... beasts? This can take several minutes to hours as well as money melting 
 away for every pinatas special needs...
  
  This is a game for the next gen fans of the old Harvest Moon and Animal Crossing fans. More people 
 will most likley be drawn to it as well besides those familiar games which first come to mind. 
 It's not confusing its just consuming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Bahamut3784
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Pi&ntilde; atas In a game? I no its hard to believe but Rares latest creation Viva pi&ntilde; ata 
 puts you in the driving seat of your own little world of candy fun . Starting as a rookie gardener 
 you are left in charge of a small and grotty piece of land and greeted by Lefos the daughter of 
 a famous and arrogant proprietor Gardener. From then on the game is your oyster. Using the generous 
 gifts of Lefos you begin to level the land ,grow grass and encourage your first pi&ntilde; ata. 
 Ok to begin with the game may seem a little easy and you may feel like every thing you do is going 
 to lead to a new pi&ntilde; ata but the game is aimed at a young age. Depth however soon becomes 
 apart .after you have learnt to house and breed pi&ntilde; ata you begin to realise the size of 
 the game and if like me, you will be hooked. Using seeds and digging ponds will engorge new types 
 of the sweet filled characters but more advanced operations like customising and feeding your pi&ntilde; ata 
 allow you to breed and introduce the rare kinds of pi&ntilde; ata . Swell as the obvious breeding 
 an collecting you can also get your hands dirty gardening and dealing with the sour pi&ntilde; ata 
 a group of evil minded fellers that try and make your life as hard as possible. Hiring workers 
 and look outs is one way to deal with them but for a harder challenge just trying to get them to 
 live in your garden it is by no means easy. This brings me firmly back to the target age of pi&ntilde; ata 
 looking at it logically a child will love the game but they are going to struggle with the later 
 stages. So maybe this game isnt for kids. Truthfully its for every one and anyone which makes 
 it a revolutionary title. few games can hit every age and gender and viva pi&ntilde; ata dose. Graphically 
 this game has its own beautiful and unique style its bright its colourful but it also has a sense 
 of realism. Water textures lighting and shadows adds to the effect and the occasional drip of water 
 can be seen on the camera in rain which adds a warm pleasant feel. The only down side to the colourful 
 graphics is your head. On a HD TV it left me after long playing hour with head aches but im not 
 complaining it was worth it.
  
  The sound is up beat but not outstanding you hardly notice it when your admiring your garden and 
 when fights accrue the sound effects can get old but this is by no means a put of and is very like 
 many games of the same genre (not that there are many) . Also when shopping or interacting with 
 other characters their responses seem few and this also gets annoying. In response Lefos has a 
 hole range of hints that can be obtained and the contents seems vast.
  
  Value wise this game is more than worth its money families will enjoy it in small quantities but 
 hooked gamers could easily spend 40 hours plus on their garden to get the extra thrill of 1000 
 gamer score. The game also allows you to use different gardens to customise and to start again 
 when they just get to packed or dry. this also carries your money and level so you dont have to 
 worried about losing your shovel upgrades or hard earned chocolate coins. This adds tones more 
 life span to the game and keeps the pi&ntilde; ata experience fresh and personal. I think Viva pi&ntilde; ata 
 is a must for the young at heart, humours or immersive gamer and I think most players will find 
 their own features that will incise them to play on . I enjoyed it and I hope you do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  I only rented this game and I think I'll be getting it again.
  
  At first I was very confused about what the point was to this game, but eventually I learned how 
 to do little things.
  
  Some people find this game very addictive, but I don't. It actually gets annoying how slow the 
 process of building a big garden can be, I guess thats why I kind of compared this game to The 
 Sims.
  
  I think more work could have been done on the Pinata's though, because when the Pinata's move, 
 the stuff that they're covered in seems to just be still and doesn't bend with the Pinata, so often 
 I see them just combining into eachother.
  
  You should just rent this game to make sure you're into this type of game before you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Note about my Final Verdicts. They are not meant to be reviews on how you play the game and what 
 its all about. My verdicts always assumes that you know what the game is all about. I always recommend 
 reading GameSpots reviews before reading my own verdicts. Im not here to tell you how to play a 
 game. Im just telling you whats good and whats bad about a game you already know.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  + Perfect control 
 layout and an excellent learning curve combined with a smooth camera ensures a very pleasant experience 
 free from annoyances that such things otherwise might cause.
  
  + Gameplay that changes and evolves with the player that makes this game totally accessible and 
 fun for people of any age. If you&acute; re 10 years old you might not be able to attract more advanced 
 Pi&ntilde; atas to your garden but you probably will have just as fun with your worms and squirrels 
 since you&acute; re so young. You wont care if your next tree is a new kind of tree as long as you&acute; re 
 planting a new tree. If you&acute; re like me, grown up, you will enojoy gaining levels, getting 
 Master Romancer for every speices and making sure your every tree is watered, that every challenge 
 is completed and that your garden looks as good as it possibly can. The game will also adjust the 
 difficulty after your playstyle. The 10 year old wont have to defend his garden from nearly as 
 many badguys as the grown up playing the same game.
  
  + So very very charming Pi&ntilde; atas. Everything from their animations, to their facialexpressions 
 to their sounds makes them all so very cute, funny, charming and alive. They will melt even the 
 coldest of hearts in the blink of an eye. The first time you see a Buzzlegum sitting on a flower 
 and sleeping... Im telling you, be prepared.. The Pi&ntilde; atas will constantly bring a smile to 
 your face when you&acute; re playing this game.
  
  + Smart combination of Dungeon Keeper influenced creaturemanagement gameplay and Theme Park style 
 building. This together with the whole story of the Pi&ntilde; atas makes for a strong and original 
 gameidea.
  
  + Wonderful graphics. Sure, this engine cant compare by far to the Unreal 3 engine and the likes 
 but the overall quality of the graphics are excellent and its combined with a really sweet design. 
 Everything from the Tower in the background to the clouds to the design of your Pi&ntilde; atas 
 and their homes. It all feels very Rare (the company behind the game) . Overall, the really cozy, 
 happy and bright design of the game can be compared to the launchtitle Kameo - Elements of Power 
 wich, just as VP, had a very warm feel to the graphical design that really made you warm inside 
 and gave you the fairytale feeling that few other games can give you if they&acute; re not coming 
 from Nintendo. I couldnt help but notice that the home for the Ape Pi&ntilde; atas are taken from 
 Donkey Kong Country to the SNES. An old Rare title that was one of my favs back in the day.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  - To much loading between menus. If you want to check the info on a plant or a Pi&ntilde; ata it 
 will LOAD. If you want to enter a shop it will LOAD. - Overall the menus feel a bit sluggish and 
 laggy and it feels like you&acute; re doing more menubrowsing that you want to be doing. Peter Molyneux 
 should really have looked into this game and made the interface more integrated into the game. 
 (just look at The Movies from Lionhead Studios. WOW theres a good ineterface) . Here you&acute; re 
 just flipping in between menus to do the easiest of things. Also i would have liked an option to 
 lift up my animals and move them around.
  
  - I miss a system for quickly finding a specific animal and as the interface works now you often 
 miss when you want to select a pinata since some of them are moving around very fast. When you 
 finally select one it might also bug so that it wont go where you&acute; re telling it to go.
  
  - The Pathfinding for the AI is pretty broken at times. Sometimes Pi&ntilde; atas will completely 
 ignore orders and sometimes their goal is to far away and they will just return to sleeping or 
 whatever. Very frustrating.
  
  - The game sometimes falls into some serious pits of boredom where no new pi&ntilde; atas are entering 
 your garden, no new trees can be planted and no new things can be done with the races you already 
 have. There are some hours in VP where you are just sitting around doing nothing but looking over 
 your garden and smiling at the cute animals. Some might like this and i think the game was intentionally 
 designed like this. If you want things to happen around you all the time when you&acute; re playing 
 a game, VP is not for you. This is a very laid back and relaxed game that you by no means should 
 be playing when you&acute; re in a hurry. You need to be able to enjoy the sometimes very slow pace 
 of the game. Maybe build a fence? Dig a pond? Feed your Buzzlegum a flower ?
  
  - The Garden is to tight and small. I want to be able to plant MORE trees and flowers but after 
 a while it tells you cant plant anymore because the garden is getting to packed. I look out over 
 my garden and i see like 5 trees in it... The garden really never turn in to the huge garden that 
 I want it to be. You are actually best of just selling pinatas and plants off and concentrating 
 on 1 or 2 races at a time and a couple of trees at a time. NOT the way I want to play a game like 
 this. The scope and size of the game is overall a dissappointment.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Final Score: 
 8.0
  
  Very cute, very charming and very relaxing for people of any age. But it has a seriosly crippled 
 interface and it can be way to slow for some to find the motivation to keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  As usual Rare have come through with yet another superb game in their line up but this one even 
 by their standards is bizzaire. That isn't a bad thing however because if you can get past the 
 cute and cuddly graphics and get into the underlying gameplay then there is lots of fun to be had 
 and a very good challenge.
  
  The visuals in this game although cute are very impressive, the frame rate stays stable even with 
 pinata's all over your garden aswell as plants buildings and whatever else may be wandering around. 
 The overall quality is quite outstanding the only minor glitch I have spotted is the refresh on 
 the water can be delayed sometimes so as you rotate the camera sometimes the reflection doesn't 
 show what it should for a few seconds then it will pop into view. This is a very minor gripe and 
 does not detract from the overall quality.
  
  The sound is also spot on, each pinata has it's own unique voice and sounds as you would expect 
 but some when you first hear them are down right hilarious. The most noticable one being the Sour 
 Macaracoon. The voice work done for the shopkeepers and your helpers is of a high standard but 
 there is one shop what can become annoying. The main store where you buy all the seeds and garden 
 accessories for your pinatas can be a little annoying due to the shop owner, she is usually rude 
 and obnoxious as your browsing and buying items, after a while of hearing this you do have to wonder 
 why they had to make that character so annoying.
  
  The gameplay is rock solid and the learning curve is perfect as you can't do anything your not 
 ready for until you have mastered all the basics, new items and abilities are added at exactly 
 the right times as you progress with your garden or gardens as you can have multiple and your level 
 and bank ballance is shared across them all so no need to start from scratch every time. As good 
 as this game is however it isn't without some minor issues, the biggest being the pathing, it can 
 be a challenge getting two pinata's together to romance especially the flying ones and your helpers 
 can often get stuck on items and even though they could just turn around and walk the other way 
 they dont and often you need to sell the item they are stuck on only to purchase it again.
  
  Even with the minor issues this game is still great fun and worth playing for anyone just looking 
 for something out of the ordinary or anyone who just likes life sims or strategy games alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  now I know what you're thinking oh viva pinata can't be any good it's a kid's game! However, it's 
 not a kids game at all, in reality it's one of the more challenging strategy games I've ever played. 
 See what makes it so difficult is that sometimes pinata species don't get along so they will start 
 to fight then it seems right after you break up the fight a sour pinata gets into your garden and 
 poisens your pinatas and makes them ill! The romancing minigames you have to do when you are breeding 
 pinatas is a lil tedias at times but on a whole it's not too too bad. I HIGHLY recondmend going 
 out and picking up viva pinata as your next game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - For a long portion of the game you have to play this boring mini game with loads screens 
 every second , and then once you play that too much you have to sell piniatas and other piniatas 
 come over and then you gota make sure some bad pinatas don't come and eat your pinatas so you hit 
 them with a shovel and then the good pinatas start killing each other and you gota tell the new 
 pinatas where to go so they can join ur garden and you only get a small piece of land to mantain 
 and the pinatas can leave it and walk somewhere while your stuck in this little area and then you 
 gotta keep playing mini game so you can sell your piniatas that you started with for 100 bucks 
 each and then guy eats your pinata if u dont call doctor soon enough and then you never win ever. 
 The controlls are pretty clusmy as well .
  
  Graphics - Artistic and glossy .
  
  Sound - What you would come to expect from a game about piniatas
  
  Value - No multilplayer 
 but the game never ends Good Tilt - Supports full screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Initially, I wasn't half as excited about Viva Pi&ntilde; ata as my husband was. Maybe because that 
 preview animated episode on Xbox Live left me with this really creepy feeling regarding the pi&ntilde; ata 
 animals. But after watching him go through the first few goals of the game in this cute, colorful 
 world full of super-cute pi&ntilde; atas with funny names making adorable sounds, I changed my mind.
 
  
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a mix of Harvest Moon, Animal Crossing and The Sims. The purpose of the game 
 is to manage a garden to attract visitor pi&ntilde; atas and turn them into residents. However, 
 what seems like a simple kids game turns out to be a micro-management enthusiast's dream.
  
  Starting out with a few basic elements, you begin shaping the garden. With the shovel, you 
 can break the hard soil and dig little holes to plant seeds. The grass seed package lets you plant 
 grass instantaneously. The water can takes care of your seedlings and growing plants. The shovel 
 and watering can get upgrades as you progress through the game, so you will be able to dig ponds, 
 cut down trees and water for longer periods of time without refilling.
  
  Every change you make is prone to attract a certain kind of visitor. At first, they come in black 
 and white only, meaning they are still in their wild state. As they step into your garden and find 
 one of their requirements for becoming a resident, they will change colors. This can be a type 
 of food, a plant, a certain amount of grass or water, and the respective house for the species. 
 But houses will only be available once the Builder comes to visit you.
  
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata has a level up system, represented by the daisy clock's petals. Every action 
 you take to improve your garden (building a new house, breeding, planting, having visitors) awards 
 you with experience points. Leveling up increases your rank as a gardener and gets you tool improvements, 
 unlocks new NPCs and more items in the shops.
  
  A lot of things happen in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. It's like you're constantly reaching new goals: the 
 Builder appears, a new pi&ntilde; ata comes to visit for the first time, another becomes a resident, 
 you grow your first plant/tree/shrub, new shopkeepers appear in town, helpers become available. 
 You even receive challenges to pack a couple of pi&ntilde; atas of a certain species in a box and 
 send them to the factory.
  
  But some events aren't so fortunate. Pi&ntilde; atas will occasionally fight, but you can stop them 
 if you whack them with the shovel in time. If you don't, they will keep fighting until one of them 
 falls ill. Sick pi&ntilde; atas require a doctor's care, so you must call him in to heal them. Pesky 
 visitors will also show up, one in particular was really annoying me since he kept covering my 
 pond with dirt. You must keep an eye out for sour pi&ntilde; atas, since they cough up sour candy, 
 which makes your pi&ntilde; atas sick if they eat them. If you see a sour candy, break it with the 
 shovel. Sour pi&ntilde; atas can be domesticated if you meet their resident requirements.
  
  Obviously, and as in any micro-management type of game, there is a budget to do all this. The currency 
 is chocolate coins, and the best ways you have to raise funds are to breed pi&ntilde; atas, sell 
 pi&ntilde; atas (I always keep a pair) , as well plant trees and berry shrubs to sell the fruit.
 
  
  Breeding the pi&ntilde; atas is a mini-game itself. Once you have met the romance requirements of 
 two pi&ntilde; atas of the same species, you direct one to the other and they will start romancing. 
 The mating rituals are very cute. Yes, I did just use mating ritual and cute in the same sentence. 
 Every time you mate a species for the first time, you get to see how they do it. The pi&ntilde; atas 
 will put on a dancing show in their house for you to watch, and then you just watch the little 
 hearts fly and wait for an egg to be carried into the garden. The egg will hatch after some time, 
 and the little pi&ntilde; ata will eventually turn into a cocoon and evolve to maturity. Every time 
 a species breeds, you will have to fulfill their romancing needs again.
  
  Breeding keeps your garden evolving and it's a way to provide food for other pi&ntilde; atas. For 
 example, Sirupents need to eat Mousemallows to become residents, and they eat Lickatoads to reproduce. 
 So as you can see, your garden is an ecosystem that needs balancing.
  
  But there is even more to the pi&ntilde; ata garden. Pi&ntilde; atas can change colors depending 
 on what you feed them, but they can also evolve into other pi&ntilde; atas. Some pi&ntilde; atas 
 can make certain produce, for example Buzzlegums can make honey from daisies, but you need to build 
 a hive first. You can accessorize your pi&ntilde; atas by purchasing items from the Paper Pets shop. 
 And you can even trade items with other players via Xbox Live.
  
  Someone asked me if I would recommend this game for an 8-year-old. It's obvious that children will 
 be attracted to Viva Pi&ntilde; ata by its colorful look, cute characters, fun animations and easy 
 gameplay controls. But once you get past the cute and cuddly, you find a complex micro-management 
 game underneath that may turn off young players after a short while, since there is so much to 
 control.
  
  For parents wanting to know if it's worth a purchase for their children, I would recommend renting 
 it first to see how your young ones react to it and what kind of lasting value will it have for 
 them. For everyone else a little more comfortable handling the breeding, fighting, planting, watering, 
 healing, planning, building and expanding, it's a sure buy.
  
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is a dream come true for the control freak (me!) with a thing for gardening. 
 From the style of peaceful gameplay to the pleasant music and crisp graphics, Pi&ntilde; ata Island 
 is where we all should be this holiday season.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and Gardener's Guide at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=vivapinata 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomadknightz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  In Viva Pi&ntilde; ata, the titular pi&ntilde; atas are actually captured or cultivated not just 
 designed. The game lets you play as a gardener to cultivate these pi&ntilde; atas, which are now 
 in great demand. However, dont expect to be the premier gardener as soon as you step foot on Pi&ntilde; ata 
 Island. The game has around 70 different species of pi&ntilde; atas, each with their own requests 
 for living in your garden. Achieving a certain task will allow you to see one of these pi&ntilde; atas. 
 Once youve seen it, the game lets you know what you need to do before they even considering visiting 
 or moving into your garden. Once they moved in, youre once again given criteria for them to have 
 offspring in your garden. The games graphics are great. Despite the ambiguity of the stylistic 
 merits, the game shines technically. All of the pi&ntilde; atas, flowers, trees and gardens in the 
 game look great. The game realistically renders the pi&ntilde; atas, and they actually look like 
 a real pi&ntilde; ata should. The animation system is well done and gives the game a lot of its 
 charm since the pi&ntilde; atas have different personalities that are expressed by their movement.
 
  
  The games audio is equally impressive. The soundtrack is subtle but effective and sounds great. 
 The sound effects are largely comprised of animal sounds and voices, which are okay, though they 
 repeat too often to be truly charming and enjoyable. They never get annoying, though, however, 
 the store bell surely can get annoying.
  
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is solid, enjoyable fun for the whole family. While odds are that your little 
 sibling will enjoy some of the games charm more than you, the underlying gameplay is satisfying 
 and challenging enough to engage older players as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way, this game is not meant for a kid. Yes, the graphics, characters, 
 and the sounds are aimed towards a 6 year old... but there is so much depth that even a 10 year 
 old might find this game challenging. Viva Pinata is very similar to games like Harvest Moon or 
 Animal Crossing, where practically every element is simulated one way or another. Object of Viva 
 Pinata is to attract Pinatas to your garden, think of these Pinatas as the typical bugs/animals 
 that you might encounter around your house. How do you attract Pinatas to your garden? Well, by 
 planting trees, and digging ponds... simple as that. Once you plant certain amount of trees, and 
 Pinatas come to your garden to live, you can gain level... the more level you gain, you can buy 
 different types of seeds, plants, items for your garden. Once a Pinata decide to live in your garden, 
 you can farm the type of Pinatas by reproducing them. For example, a Pinata might want shelter 
 and specific type of food... once you meet its demand, its ready for the romance scenario... once 
 two of the same Pinata's are in this mood, you can make them, um... reproduce Pinatas. Once the 
 baby Pinata rolls along, you can sell it; or there might be another kind of Pianta that might like 
 to eat it.
  
  Pinatas have a life of their own, they will wonder around the garden, they will pick fights with 
 other Pinata's... all that good stuff. Now, all of this is going on while you are doing your best 
 to improve your garden. You start out with small number of seeds, but as you gain more levels, 
 you have access to more and more different kinds of seeds. Once you plant the seeds, you can water 
 them, sell their fruit, or sell the tree as a whole. To sum up the game play, there is just too 
 many things you can do in Viva Pinata... the concept of the game is very simple, yet the depth of 
 this game goes so far that a 6 year old will find this game very challenging. Graphically this 
 game looks like it's Saturday morning cartoon counterpart, and the sound also stays true to it's 
 nature. Control wise, this is a very easy game to pick up and play, almost every action that you 
 need to know is done in screen. Once you play Viva Pinata, you forget that you are playing a game 
 with cartoon graphics... most of the time the game keeps you busy with the events in your garden. 
 I had doubts picking up Viva Pinata, but after reading a few reviews online and talking to some 
 people who played this game, I was sold. If you look at pictures and movies of this game, it does 
 not look appealing at all... even if you go beyond the kiddie image it's hard to tell the depth 
 of Viva Pinata. If you are looking for a game for your 360, and you are done with Gears of War, 
 then give Viva Pinata a look... it will keep you busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koobert
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata tries its hardest to make you not purchase it. First of all, its from developer 
 Rare, whose post Microsoft purchase efforts, such as Grabbed by the Ghoulies, have been terrible 
 to the degree that, upon playing these titles, your Xbox might explode out of spite. The second 
 is its packaging, at least the deluxe-two-disc set - you cant feel anything but creepy or sad 
 as you bring this My Little Pony-esque plastic rainbow up to the counter. Finally, after you get 
 the game loaded into your system, youre going to have to deal with the opening movie, starting 
 off with a shudder inducing call of Its party time! from a sunglasses-wearing horse pi&ntilde; ata. 
 Like how The Mask did! Unless you want to regret your purchase, just keep jamming start until you 
 get to the menu. You absolutely do not want to watch this video. Then the game starts, and you 
 begin your garden, and quickly you realize  hey, this game actually is pretty damn good.
  
  The genre is hard to define, but if you try to mangle together a Sims / Animal Crossing collecting 
 and social management game with a farming game like Harvest Moon, and an ecology simulator, youd 
 be on the right track.
  
  Isnt this a game for children? It might have started out that way, based on the emphasis of the 
 merchandising and cartoons. The game itself, though, occupies a bizarre netherworld of being too 
 complicated for some children, and too kiddie-looking for most adults. The core gameplay involves 
 tilling soil, planting grass, vegetables, trees, and other vegetation to encourage a variety of 
 pi&ntilde; atas into your garden. You start off with a dry patch of cracked earth filled with decaying 
 junk. After a minute or two of tilling, and smashing objects with your broken shovel, youll get 
 your first visitor to your garden  a large worm, or as the pi&ntilde; ata species is labelled, 
 a whirm. You can highlight and select this creature, and find out its residency requirements. It 
 doesnt take much at first to get a pi&ntilde; ata to join your garden  the whirm will be happy 
 enough that you have tilled soil and some grass. Once a pi&ntilde; ata is a resident, you can control 
 its behaviour to some degree, as well as give it a name. Having the whirm as a resident of your 
 garden will attract its natural predator, the sparrowmint. A second whirm will also appear.
  
  At this point, a whole ton of new game concepts are jarringly introduced to you at once. Once 
 you get two members of the same species in your garden, such as two whirms, you can get them to 
 romance each other. To get in the mood, they both have to meet romance conditions. For these early 
 creatures, they are simple, but get more complex as the game progresses. The whirms dont take 
 much, only that they have their own house, which you can buy from one of the creepy-looking villagers. 
 This whirm brood will occupy valuable land on your garden, but is the only way that you will get 
 more than two whirms. Once the romancing conditions are met, simply click on one whirm to highlight 
 it, and then command its attention towards the other. As all creatures are gender neutral, they 
 will instantly romance, fall in love, and get dirrrrty. This cuts to a mini-game, which requires 
 that you navigate the creature to its partner through a maze. Not too hard, except that every pi&ntilde; ata 
 has a differing mode of movement. Later creatures might be less controllable, making these mini-games 
 increasingly difficult. After successfully navigating this maze, you are treated to a slightly 
 disturbing video of their mating dance, unique for each species. It then returns to your garden, 
 where a pi&ntilde; ata egg is delivered, and quickly hatches.
  
  At the same time, youll be hit by the romancing requirement of the sparrowmint  to have eaten 
 a whirm. Would you rather have a garden full of whirms, or sparrowmints? And since you previously 
 named your whirm, you might be a little unhappy with the idea of sacrificing it to a sparrowmint. 
 Children will possibly cry at the harsh realities of nature. Tell them to deal, because theres 
 going to be a lot more pi&ntilde; ata-killing in their future.
  
  Elements of the village slowly become unlocked. You can earn money by smashing up the junk in the 
 garden, playing the maze mini-games, and mostly, selling the fruits of your gardening labour. You 
 will be given free seeds every day by one of the creepy villagers, and can purchase new flowers, 
 vegetables, and fruit plants from the shop.
  
  For the first thirty minutes or so, the game hits you with game-interrupting cut-scenes and tutorials 
 every ten seconds or so, which leads to one of the games problems  at some points, it runs so 
 fast that you dont have any time to sit back and enjoy the garden that you are creating. These 
 tutorials are explained to you by the Irish-lilted Leafos, whose heapings of praise are both irritating 
 and patronizing. Yes, this is a game meant for children, but really, do they need all that positive 
 encouragement? Theyre already smart-mouthed little bastards. On the plus side, Leafoss accent 
 is easily imitated, much to your enjoyment and to the unhappiness of your friends and family.
 
  
  After romancing your first couple of species, the game finally starts to let you do your own thing, 
 unbadgered (unbadgesicled?) . This will be your first stumping point, as the game doesnt do much 
 to let you know what to do next. Once you start experimenting with the services available at your 
 village, most notably the crops for sale at the store, youll realize that its up to you to start 
 randomly planting things until newer, more exciting pi&ntilde; atas become available to you. The 
 conditions for attracting and keeping pi&ntilde; atas get ramped up, and some require that you already 
 have some fairly exotic fauna residing there already. Youll spend your time planting new crops, 
 harvesting, selling, and trying to keep your pi&ntilde; atas out of trouble. Some trouble, like 
 a predator eating a smaller, vulnerable pi&ntilde; ata is beneficial to the garden, but fights between 
 two pi&ntilde; atas can result in one or both of them falling ill, which takes some money to fix 
 via a visit from the monkey doctor.
  
  And what do kids love more than reading, right? Right? Theres a whole bunch of that in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. 
 Much of the text is narrated, but encyclopaedia entries, which are crucial in understanding how 
 to lure in pi&ntilde; atas and make them romance, are silent. This could be a problem for slower 
 readers.
  
  No matter if on a 1080i HDTV or a standard-definition television, the game looks good. The real-time 
 rendered graphics are smooth and lively, with great papier-m&acirc; ch&eacute; fur effects, and 
 wincingly cute animation. It looks better than much prerendered CG floating around in the abyss 
 of childrens television. Theres plenty of lighting effects, and it does a great job of giving 
 each pi&ntilde; ata a unique look, movement, and range of emotions. The villagers designs, cartoonish 
 humans adorned with Mayan-style masks, arent the most pleasant looking things around, but theyre 
 not really the focus of the game. The sound, aside from some irritating human voices, is quiet 
 and pleasant, featuring an oboe-heavy cartoon soundtrack, and pleasant garden noises. The pi&ntilde; atas 
 themselves squeak and grunt, but dont talk.
  
  Mostly, the game controls well. Using the controller as a pointer is never the most fun way to 
 play a game, but its fast-paced and doesnt get in the way. What does, however, get in the way 
 is the four-to-five step process for buying and selling things. The game asks you three times to 
 confirm purchases, which can get annoying, especially when theres an attack on one of your favourite 
 pi&ntilde; atas in the still-moving background. As mentioned before, theres also a problem with 
 pacing in the game. Things, such as crops growing, pi&ntilde; atas getting eaten, and visits from 
 new creatures, happen very fast. Theres not much time to sit back and enjoy. It also can be directionless 
 at some points, where nothing seems to be attracting new pi&ntilde; atas, and the conditions for 
 getting your existing pi&ntilde; atas to romance are unreachable. You do have to figure out your 
 own goals and then make them happen, but it can be a slow process.
  
  Good luck finding a gamer your own age to trade pi&ntilde; atas with online. While this process 
 isnt necessary, pi&ntilde; atas can evolve in different directions, and it can be hard for you 
 to get pi&ntilde; atas that your friend received easily. Since you can generate an unlimited supply 
 of pi&ntilde; atas through romancing, its not a problem to knock your pi&ntilde; ata up and sell 
 their kids over the Internet, the morality of which is debatable.
  
  Whether or not your kid will enjoy this game has a lot to do with his or her age and personality: 
 it most likely will frustrate the kid at first. Fortunately, theres not a lot of ways that you 
 can lose at Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. If your kid is naturally advanced for their age, they wont have 
 any problems figuring out the requirements for gaining and keeping their pi&ntilde; atas, but less 
 skilled kids might need some parental tutoring.
  
  As for adult gamers, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata can only be called an acquired taste. If you are fine with 
 playing games that have an overtly childish aesthetic, such as Animal Crossing, youll do well 
 with Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. Once you get past the patronizing presentation, youll find that its 
 an enjoyable game with a great look, personality, and style thats worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optlplex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  when I play there is always something to be done. Every so often you can rest and look at your 
 own masterpiece. All the pinatas are different in a cool way and all have special wants and needs. 
 you will make them happy or mad. It is like having your own little world. A lot of people think 
 its a kiddy or babyish game but people need to give it a chance. I think that people play a little 
 much shooting games and maby need to play more games like Viva Pinata or Viva Pinata. I like shooting 
 game but it was nice takeing a little brake for a little wile or more like people say it as hard 
 to quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this today based on many of the reviews here. First off, it's just a beatiful game. Every 
 color in the rainbow is represented here. Next, it's got some cool originality to it, and the Xbox 
 360 desperately needs a few platformers (for that matter, the Xbox 360 could use a mascot or two) . 
 I'm a big fan of the early Crash Bandicoot and Spyro The Dragon games (the later ones were horrible 
 for each though) . I thought this might be similar, but I was charmed to find it more like a world 
 you create. No surprise there, since the digi-pet phenomenon is no stranger to the gaming industry. 
 So I put in my first 2.5 hours waiting to find out what other reviewers were claiming to be so 
 adult about it. The fact is, it gets pretty boring after a while. After 2.5 hours I was still confined 
 within the 4 field lines looking out at a vast scenery I couldn't access. It gets boring watering 
 plants and such, and cycling through day and night sequences. I keep waiting for something significant 
 to happen, but all I get is an occasional good job! message from the MC. I got whirlms mating left 
 and right, and every time I mate them, I have to perform the same over-simplified mini game.
  
  Personally, I still think this game is strictly for kids, and even kids probably will be bored 
 with it after about an hour or two, because there doesn't seem to be any real point to it. I also 
 think many of these Xbox 360 game reviews are from people who emphasise the graphics end of gaming 
 over substance. Most of the game graphics are awe inspiring, especially lately, but games like 
 this one leave me wanting a bit more.
  
  I suppose I might be knocking the game a little too hard. It's impressive enough to rent or buy 
 used at half price, but this just isn't worth $50 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noleander
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I played Viva Pinata with my 6 year old daughter. I wanted to like the game, and I wanted her to 
 like it: there arent many good XBox 360 games for 6 year olds.
  
  The game is unique, and I'll give Rare credit for coming up with something creative and unusual. 
 The colors are bright, and the characters are funny. The game is not too hard for a 6 or 7 year 
 old to get the hang of (tho they may need an adult to read some of the words) .
  
  But the game is just not that engrossing. First, it is very claustrophobic: you start with a very 
 small garden, maybe 20 x 20 yards, and you cannot move outside it! You are on an island, and you 
 can see all sorts of interesting buildings and structures in the distance ... but can you get to 
 them? No. Very frustrating. Sure, the garden gets larger (very slowly!) as you play more, but you 
 are still constrained .. you are in what feels like a prison. Perhaps after huge amounts of play, 
 you are finally rewarded with escaping your garden, but that hasnt happened to me yet.
  
  Second, the game is rather boring: You're trying to attract pinatas, and you have some limited 
 info on what to do (plant seeds, feed them certain things) to attract them ... but that gets very 
 repetitous very fast. I figure I've planted about 1,000 seeds and sown grass, and built ponds, 
 .... yawn.
  
  Third, the game changes too slowly. I suppose that after a few score hours of playing, some new 
 scenarios may open up (ooooh ... a 4-headed snake!) but the modern game player demands something 
 a bit more engaging. I think that after playing a single scene for 1 or 2 hours, the modern player 
 demands to be rewarded with a new scene, a new challenge. In Pinata, you are lucky if you get to 
 spot a new kind of Pinata. On the plus side: the game has some wry humor, and the actors they hired 
 to do the voices are excellent (mostly British accents and idioms) .
  
  Bottom line: adults will find this novel, but boring after a couple of hours. Kids may or may not 
 get bored. My daughter prefers Sonic to this, because Sonic has more things going on, more scenery.
 
  
  Id say it is worth $15 to $20, but not the $49 I paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I have a hard time wondering what age group Rare made this game for. It looks like something kids 
 under 10 should be playing but the actual gameplay would go right over their heads. Some teenage 
 gamers will hate the tone and look of the game because it looks like its for kids. You see, you 
 have to balance the needs of various animals and some of those animals will eat the other animals. 
 You have to genuinely plan out what animals and plants you want for your zoo to succeed. Like other 
 sandbox games, you can't ever lose the game and you always have a choice of bulldozing your garden 
 and trying again. I can't imagine the typical 10 year old having the patience to create a full 
 garden with animals. There are many many variables that will cause the garden to fail.
  
  Older gamers will see the impressive gameplay underneath the hood. Older gamers will also enjoy 
 the dark sense of humor (which is also very British) in just about every aspect of the game. The 
 graphics are extremely imaginative and there was clearly some very talented artists creating the 
 look of the game. It easily gets best graphic design in a 2006 game.
  
  The worst thing I can say about the game is that the cursor you position around the garden isn't 
 always as precise as it needs to be, but it doesn't break the game. It also bears mentioning that 
 this is essentially a collection game where you are trying to attract all of the different animals 
 into your garden, but not all at once because they'll fight or eat each other. If that sounds not 
 interesting or fun -- you should at other games. Rare created a genuinely excellent memorable game 
 here, but I'm not sure the typical console gamer will give it a chance. Its their loss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Viva is a tough game to describe. It's sort of like the Sims, or of like Simcity, kind of Pokemon-ish, 
 but unlike all those games in very fundamental ways. I actually think the most accurate comparison 
 is with Simcity. You don't really control the Pinatas like you control people in the Sims; you 
 control the landscape, which in turn influence, but not determine, the behavior of the pinatas.
 
  
  That may not sound like much, and in a way it is a very simple concept, but it can also get very 
 complicated. In fact, one beauty of this game is that it can get as complicated as you want. Want 
 a simple garden, you can have it. Want crazy amounts of stuff, that's also available.
  
  Let's break it down a bit.
  
  GAmeplay: Excellent. It's a sim-type game that is so addicting, 
 it's very hard to put down. It's also open ended, which is a nice touch. Graphics: Very nice indeed. 
 In fact, the cutesy pinatas actually add to the humor and gameplay of the entire game. It just 
 wouldn't be as fun without them looking the way they do.
  
  Sound: It's great, exactly what the game needed. Cute sounds, funny music; it all adds to the fun 
 and atmosphere.
  
  Value/Lasting appeal: Excellent. This is a game you can come back to easily. I imagine I'll come 
 back to the game one year from now and get lost in it again. Although, at this point, I don't know 
 why there isn't more online support.
  
  The Bad: 1. There's not much to complain about. I think maybe the biggest problem i have with the 
 game is the interface. It'd be nice to have a mouse in a game like this, to quickly move from areas 
 of the garden that need attention. Still, the interface isn't all that bad.
  
  2. I would have liked to seen more in the way of explaining what certain items tend to do when 
 you buy them and place them in your garden. Many items can be purchased, but the game tells you 
 next to nothing as to what they are for.
  
  3. There are some load times between screens, not long, but could be shorter or eliminated altogether.
 
  
  4. The package is retarded. Not the visual looks, although i can't say i love that either, but 
 the actual stuff it's made out of. It feels like cheap fragile packaging that won't last or take 
 a beating like the other packages that 360 games come in.
  
  Still, none of these complaints are all that big or ruin the fun.
  
  Overall, the game is excellent. 
 No kidding this is easily one of Rare's best games. It's fun, it's innocent, and so addicting. 
 The game deserves the critical praise it's been receiving. Count on a sequel that's twice as large 
 and twice as many Pinatas!
  
  Worth buying? Yes, easily!!! It's honestly one of the best games of the year, on any platform. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reanor2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to be brief and to the subject.
  
  First Impression:
  
  Very colorful, pretty graphics. This game is using unique pinjata type of models, you won't see 
 pretty smooth anti-aliasied characters. Everything in this game is made out of paper, well at least 
 pinjatas. And since pinjatas is almost all you see throughout the game with exception of helpers, 
 thats why everything. If you like games of different genres, slow paced, involved, then you will 
 like this one. It attracts you with nice graphics and keeps your interest with variations of different 
 monsters/pinjatas you can attract into your garden and aftrerwards breed.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Very colorful, unique style of displaying the power of XBox 360 video chip. Never gets boring, 
 night replaces dy, rain replaces sunny weather and so on.
  
  Interface:
  
  Sometimes glitchi, due to background loading (thats what i think happens) . Other people thinnk 
 its a framrate drop. I think its nothing to do with fps, i think since game has no loading screens 
 system loads new content from DVD in real time in the background. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire1504
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I felt that it seemed a bit to childish, but I also feel that even if you don't plan on buy you 
 should rent. It keeps entertained for days and even with a guide is still quite hard. I found that 
 I was up all night and all day not even getting on the internet or watching TV just to play more 
 and more. In fact one of the things that drew me to this game was the bright, exciting colors and 
 some how good graphics (considering it is a pinata game and all.) Another thing I really like was 
 that there aren't too many games these days were you get to raise animals or control an environment, 
 and this was the best of that kind I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  i need to be hones the fisrt time i saw this game announce at E3 i thougth why is doing such a 
 crapy game but believe dont let the appearence of o litlle boy game that this game produces a first 
 sight make you dont play this game. I admit the the mayor problem of the game well is that it doesnt 
 have a basic histroy but i has a great gameplay visuals and enviroments a there is a lot of things 
 you can do at the garden sims fans qould love this game you will spent many hours of fun with this 
 one even if dont like this type of you should give it a try a rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slappyjam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has ever taken great pride in building a thriving metropolis in sim city or enjoyed 
 watching a civilization grow in CIV, you will love this game. At first it may come across as a 
 game intended for an 8 year old, you will find that it's actually for all ages. As you play the 
 game more, you'll find that there is more depth to the game than what you initally find on the 
 surface. The pinata's AI is well done and you'll find that they behave much like you would expect 
 the animals to in life. What at first seems simple becomes more difficult as your garden grows. 
 Keeping malice out of your garden quickly becoms an arduous task as your garden grows and becomes 
 more lush.
  
  All in all, this game is a great game to melt away to. Once you being to play you'll find yourself 
 3 hours into your garden when it felt like you had just started some 30 minutes ago. Dont let the 
 rainbow and butterfly theme of the game turn you off; this is a great game for anyone, not just 
 kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keenan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  A very well made game. That is the best way to talk about this game. Forget how you look when your 
 room mates walk by and beak you for playing a kids game. For how this game makes you stop playing 
 Gears and rainbow 6 Vegas. Forget it all. All that needs to be known is that once you give this 
 game 1 hour of your time. You will be hooked. Collecting the Pinata' s is like collecting achievement 
 points. It is addicting all the way through. If you don't buy it, make sure you rent it. Good games 
 like this should be made all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I had an extremely long, fairly in depth review written up (in depth for me, anyway) but then the 
 window decided to freeze, didn't it? So I'll just try to sum it up as best I can.
  
  This is one of the best reasons to own a 360.
  Especially if you're into games of an open ended 
 variety.
  Theres no clear cut goal here.
  You just set your own. This'll usually revolve around attracting a variety of pinata animals to 
 your garden.
  It's more fun then it sounds.
  Though if you didn't like anything like harvest moon, animal crossing or to a lesser extent The 
 Sims I can't imagine you liking this very much.
  But who knows? It could suprise ya.
  
  The graphics are bright and attractive. You might be turned off by the childishness of it's appearance, 
 but that'd be your loss.
  It's very stylistic. It's different. You can't hold that against it, even if you don't like it. 
 Sound effects are fine.
  The voice acting is of reasonable quality.
  The various noises pinatas make are generally adorable.
  Heard a doenut do it's squeeling thing 
 and was just adorable.
  
  Unlike most games to be branded 'fun for all ages' this one is fun for all ages and not just those 
 aged in single digits.
  
  It's real easy to recommend.
  And it's definately one of the best games 360 has going for it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scazmaniac
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  A game full of child safety manuels and info in its box this game is definitely not just for kids. 
 I had doughts previous should i buy this game? the answer... HELL YEAH!!!
  
  8.3 the official review is a worthy and fair grade, I don't want to be overally biased about this 
 game even though i should be.
  
  My flatmates dislike anything that occassiates with the 360 yet they found this game highly immersive 
 and hard to stop playing. We have lost hours solely on this fun game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  As said previous totally immersive and hard to stop playing, you'll have hours of fun. To begin 
 with you start the game off with a small track of land at your disposal which at first looks like 
 a total dump. Therefore you have to tidy it up to start the creation of your beauitiful garden. 
 You gain spades and water cans etc as you go through the 10 minute tutorial in which to form your 
 grass and soil etc. As you start producing more and more wonderful landmarks Pinata soon arrive. 
 You have fellow builders and helpers to increase the beauty of your garden. Thats just the basic 
 answer but it goes into more depth.
  
  Graphics
  
  Beautiful vibrant and colourful imagery and works well with either standard and HD television sets. 
 I have a standard television myself but have played in the stores with a HD. The difference? just 
 brighter and the background stands out more.
  
  Sound
  
  The music from the main menu to the in gameplay sounds awesome. Its perfect and blends well with 
 the game
  
  Value
  
  Finally a game RARE can be proud of for the 360, theyve learnt from there errors with Perfect Dark 
 and Kameo (dont get me wrong, there just okay games but not RARE's best) Banjo Kazoo bring it on!!!
 
  
  Overally a game every 360 owner should have in his/her christmas stocking... just ignore all those 
 child manuels that stare at you when you open the box. I guarantee you'll enjoy it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  The more games I play, the hungrier I get for something different. Games like Katamari Damacy and 
 Guitar Hero and Dark Cloud 2 come along, and the world is a wonderful place. So along comes Viva 
 Pi&ntilde; ata, an absolutely weird game filled with paper mach&eacute; animals who get smashed 
 open and eat each other's candy guts. You have to play host to these critters and make sure they 
 have everything a pi&ntilde; ata needs to entertain children at parties.
  in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata, you are a gardener who inherits a crummy old garden from the old man on 
 the hill. The place is a wreck. There's junk everywhere, and the ground is dry and cracked. With 
 a few simple tools - a shovel, a gardening can, and a pack of seeds  you clean the joint up and 
 attract your first pi&ntilde; ata: a Whirlm. All the pi&ntilde; atas have candy-themed names. There 
 are elephanillas, macaraccoons, doenuts, flutterscotches and horstachios. All of the animals are 
 really well-animated, but some of them look way cooler than others.
  There's a groove in Viva Pi&ntilde; ata that is the same for most animals. You have to do certain 
 things to get a pi&ntilde; ata to show up outside your garden. Then you do something to get the 
 pi&ntilde; ata to come inside the boundaries of your garden. Next, you have to do something else 
 to convince the pi&ntilde; ata to stay. At this point, a black-and-white pi&ntilde; ata changes colour. 
 Next, you have to attract a second pi&ntilde; ata. Once you have two of a kind, you have to make 
 them happy enough to do the romance dance. All of the pi&ntilde; ata have a special dance, and they're 
 usually pretty funny. The lovey-dovey pi&ntilde; atas attract an egg that is delivered by a fat 
 flying lady in a mask who swoops down from the top of a mountain, just like in real life.
  f you romance your pi&ntilde; atas enough, you become a Master Romancer for that species. (At this 
 point, I usually sell their house out from underneath them, and hawk all of my doubles at the store. 
 Mwa ha ha!) Finally, if you're really creative, you'll find a way to evolve your pi&ntilde; ata 
 into a new form. (Hmm ... smells a lot like Pok&eacute; mon to me.) Finding variant forms can be 
 really tricky. It's a matter of trial and error, or (more likely) looking them up in a walkthrough. 
 Here's an example: if you feed a bluebell flower to a white flutterscotch, it'll turn into a blue 
 flutterscotch. Sounds easy, right? The trouble is that there are hundreds of items in the game, 
 and there are even some variations on THOSE items. Trying every possible combination of items to 
 feed to your 60 pi&ntilde; ata species is gonna take FOREVER, and it's not gonna be very fun.
  Those are the basics, but there's so much to Viva Pi&ntilde; ata that you just have to play it to 
 understand. I've been sinking a few hours a night into it, beyond the first 20 hours I sunk into 
 the game when it first hit my hot little hands, and it's still very fun. I like that many of the 
 Achievements are secret, and I have to discover how to unlock them.
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is by no means perfect. I found a lot of bugs while playing the game: pi&ntilde; atas 
 would get stuck in the ground, invisible pi&ntilde; atas would appear that I couldn't click on, 
 and the evil Ruffians would spend hours tormenting my garden, seemingly stuck on the borders and 
 unable to move. The sour pi&ntilde; atas that visited my garden looked very cool, but once I changed 
 them into nice pi&ntilde; atas, a lot of them looked totally stupid. I'd rather have a sour sherbat 
 than a nerdy sherbat any day! The game's story runs out pretty early, and gameplay gets kind of 
 boring and repetetive when you hit the highest levels. But when you're just starting out, there's 
 so much to do that it can feel overwhelming. And by this point, if I have to hear the obnoxious 
 DING DING of the shop bell one more time, I might have to bust somebody open with a festive stick.
 
  Despite these complaints, I still really enjoy Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. I can easily recommend it to 
 fans of the show, and to any XBox 360 owner. The graphics are beautiful, the humour is wacky, and 
 there's a LOT to do in the game. If you wanna do more smashing than gardening, look for a game 
 with more action. But if you enjoy games like Animal Crossing and Harvest Moon, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata 
 is a best bet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decide666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  if this does not get game of the year or comes 2nd or 3rd i shall print off this review and eat 
 it.
  
  iv never seen a game before with such great and adictive gameplay, stunning graphics and loads of 
 fun its sertonly not just for the younger gamers of this world infact i would say too an extent 
 coz all the detale thats gone into it any1 under hhmm.. 13 would in my opion find it challageing. because 
 of that u cant just pick up the controler and play it there is quite abit to learn n get the hang 
 of tho its clearly explained too you threw out the game in a kind of little totoral, the gameplay 
 is deep and challaging its a colourfull and happy game just what a world full of violence needs 
 in my opion.
  tho if you a impatient gamer it might not be for you. its brillant, fun, creative and oringal. everything 
 you would want from a next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny_Anaya360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  In Viva Pinata you start off the game with a small patch of land that will ultimately be turned 
 into a bright, colorful garden in which various pinatas will roam and interact. You are given this 
 small patch of land by a legendary gardener named Jardiniero. It's been abandoned for quite awhile 
 and it's up to you to turn it into a masterpiece. 
  
  When you get to the neglected garden you will meet a girl by the name of Leafos, who passes the 
 time by looking over the garden, she will guide you and get you set. By the time you finish up 
 talking to her you would have recovered a shovel, watering can and a packet of grass seeds to start 
 your garden with. At this point the game isn't very difficult, but you will find it much tougher 
 and challenging later on.
  
  After you beat the hard ground with your shovel and plant some seeds to grow grass you will begin 
 to attract some wild pinatas. In order to make the pinatas visit and to make them a resident you 
 will need to complete certain requirements. In example, to make a Whirlm a resident you will need 
 your garden to be 5% grass, or if you plant a fruit seed, a Pinata will be intrigued and visit 
 your garden.
  
  In the early stages of the game it can seem as if almost everything you do has a positive effect 
 on the local wildlife. But as you level up and gain access to more abilities, more seeds, and better 
 tools, the demands of the wildlife that you'll be trying to get into your garden increase proportionately.
 
  
  Viva Pinata has a excellent learning curve. It gives you excellent advice on how to do things and 
 doesn't just give you them all at once. It does a great job of giving you new abilities over time. 
 It also doesn't let you get ahead of yourself, which is based on the way that you level up in the 
 game.
  
  While you're experimenting with telling your piatas to eat different things, you'll also want 
 to try out different colored fertilizers on any seedlings that you plant. If certain Pinatas eat 
 the plant thay may change color or even become a new species!
  
  At diffrent ponts of the game you are allowed to buy helpers which are ''self explanatory''. At 
 the begining of the game you can hire a Sprinkling, which will water all plants, seeds, trees and 
 so on. You also will gain access to many more later on.
  
  As you progress, you'll unlock a number of different stores and other useful characters. You'll 
 be interacting with most of these characters quite frequently. Their services don't come cheap, 
 but the game's chocolate coin currency should rarely be a cause for concern because every item 
 and piata in your garden can be sold quickly and easily if needed.
  
  Your Viva Pinata journal does a great job of tracking and arranging all of your accomplishments, 
 which makes it an easy resource to refer back to if needed. The journal also contains a very detailed 
 instruction manual and a storyline of sorts, which is presented by a couple unlockable journal 
 entries or Chapters.
  
  In conclusion, This game is easy enough for children to get the idea, but that doesn't mean adults 
 will not enjoy this great game. Don't pass this up just because of the great artstyle that you 
 would think would be better suited as a childrens game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Viva pinata is a pseudo sims-like game giving you your little portion of land to turn into your 
 very own pinata paradise.
  
  The graphics in viva pinata are very colorful and attention holding. The quality is very good and 
 is one of the better looking games on the console. The gameplay is very unique, putting you in 
 a garden to do pretty much anything youd like to do. Whether it be spawning pinatas or raising 
 seeds to plants or anything. The game has lots secrets and extras that can keep any person of any 
 age group playing.
  
  The sound is very good and imaginitive with great quality.
  
  There is no multiplayer but you can send stuff to other people via xbox live.
  
  all and all 
 a great gaming experiance worth the gaze of any player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Church069
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  When I was saw Viva Pinata, it looked interesting but it looked like it was more of a game for 
 kids.
  
  After a friend told me how good it was, I tried it out.
  
  After you get past the childish look, you end up finding a very deep and innovative game. The objective 
 of this game is raise a garden to attract animals (pinatas) to live in your garden so you can care 
 for them until the request. At first the game seems be kind of overwhelming because they throw 
 alot of info your way to get you started, but it dies down rather quickly so you feel at ease to 
 tend to the garden.
  
  Each pinata has their own method of attracting them. Some are very easy and others can be quite 
 difficult. Also the pinatas can be romanced to create a new pinata.
  
  The Xbox 360 achievements are reasonable. Some are very easy to unlock because it just requires 
 you to do simple tasks like making a label or naming a pinata. Some of the achievements are difficult 
 to obtain, because they are kept secret. The only way to find out what they is to unlock them.
 
  
  Xbox Live was not used to it's full extent. The only thing you can do is to trade crates of items, 
 workers, and pinatas with other players. I feel that more could of been done with the online features.
 
  
  My only (minor) complaint about this game is the method of progression. As you advance your gardening 
 skill, new things become available to you. Most of the time in order to progress, you have to tear 
 down alot of the work you have done previously in order to make room for new bigger things. It 
 is not a big problem but it does take away some of the flow of the game.
  
  Other than the minor problem this game is a great buy. The game is very addicting and fun. Remember 
 to try it before you go on judging it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keeval
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata - a game for kids and adults alike. I was very dubious about buying this game, due 
 to the cuty nature and look of the game. However after reading several reviews and player reviews 
 here I decided to buy the game.
  
  Starting off the game is fairly simplistic - but as your garden gets more and more enthralling 
 the pinata - more visit. If you do things correctly some may even say - and thats when the fun 
 begins, trying to breed them, and keep them alive! Fights break out, sours invade and other things 
 happen to keep you on your toes.
  
  Expert gardeners get upgrades and you can experiment and sometimes even create new species that 
 you can further customise by naming and giving accessories - and finally selling them to other 
 players.
  
  After playing for a few (around 10!) hours I agree with the majority. This game is excellent, addicitve 
 and lots and lots of fun. It draws you in slowly and before you know it huge chunks of time have 
 flown past and all of it fun!
  
  Don't debate... buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I have grown up with Rare from the Spectrum beginnings as Ultimate Play The Game (Alien8 gamer 
 pic) through to the '360 launch title Kameo . In my opinion, Viva Pinata restores Rare's credentials 
 for creating quality, simple, challenging but fun games that they pioneered in the Spectrum and 
 Nintendo days. Viva Pinata is the Blast Corps of the '360 era.
  
  The basic premise of Viva Pinata is to construct and manage a garden in order to attract and breed 
 wild Pinata. The overall objective is to continually to expand and attract bigger and more valuable 
 Pinata to your Pinata Farm.
  
  The core gameplay couldn't be simpler. Find out what the Pinata you want needs and provide it: 
 from fruit and flowers, to other Pinata lower in the food chain. Along the way you encounter Sour 
 Pinata, who drop toxic sweats, weeds, and other annoying Visitors. The easiest way to describe 
 Viva Pinata is Theme Park meets the Sims; the sandbox nature of the garden means you spend many 
 enjoyable hours tweaking and designing, whilst trying to get your Pinata to breed or new Pinata 
 to become established. It is great fun.
  
  Each Pinata is a paper-and-sweet version of a real animal, so you have Flutterscotches (butterflies) , 
 Raisants (Ants) , Lickatoad (Toads) and so on. The game presentation is slick, cute and distinctive 
 and you'd have to be very cold hearted not to love it. Some people have commented that it looks 
 childish, but really the visual style is very appropriate for a game based on Mexican Toys full 
 of sweets.
  
  Young children will enjoy the early game and are unlikely to progress much further, which is quite 
 good as the game can actually get quite violent at higher levels: spade bashing, and Pinatas eating 
 each other. The learning curve is spot on and the game will begin to really challenge you from 
 level 10 onwards.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Everything has a paper texture and looks wonderful, with vibrant colours 
 and some great Pinata animations. If there is a small criticism: the mini-games look a bit naff. 
 The Mexican styling is spot on and the human characters, complete with masks (very Majora) and 
 well drawn and animated.
  
  The game sounds are good, and the voice acting is excellent although a little patronising to begin 
 with. As it is a Rare game there are some good British regional accents in there too and some funny 
 British-style names.
  
  I can easily see this game taking up many hours of the Christmas holidays and offers good fun that 
 you can dip in and out off. The ability to send Pinata or other items via Xbox Live is a nice touch 
 although the ability to view other people's gardens would have been nice.
  
  In summary, Viva Pinata is a compelling, addictive and charming game that really demonstrates Rare's 
 pedigree for great games on the '360. Play Viva Pinata and you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  Viva, Viva, Viva... I love this game..
  
  It turned up last Thursday (yes, we had to wait 3 weeks after it was released in the US) and I 
 didn't really get a chance to play properly until Friday night. But what a session it was, I stopped 
 playing and went to bed about 6 hours later :)
  
  And over the weekend I introduced my Son to it and now we are fighting each other for Xbox time, 
 something I thought would never happen.
  
  So this is Microsoft's first real childrens title for the 360 and I have to say, they have really 
 excelled themselves. There is so much to do in it and it leads you along at just the right pace, 
 not giving too much away early and allowing you to unlock new features just as you exhaust the 
 current ones.
  
  Visually it is very pleasing to look at and it sounds good as well. The animation is spot on and 
 I only get the odd slow down on screen when the auto save kicks in.
  
  There are plenty of animals (or Pinata's) to entice into your garden and they all have different 
 needs and requirements to first get them to stay and then secondly, get them to produce little 
 baby Pinata's.
  
  The 'Romance Dance' is a cool way of increasing the population and has a little game that goes 
 with it to add an air of challenge to it all.
  
  As you go along you get extra options in the garden to make it look better and be more appealing 
 to your current residents. Also you can buy new things that will entice new Pinata's in, hopefully 
 convincing them to stay.
  
  There is so much to see and do that this little review can't really do it justice. If you like 
 making things and managing them then this is the game for you. My six year old Son loves it and 
 is totally hooked. So not only does it lead him along at a pace that he can undestand and react 
 to but it also has enough to keep me interested and playing.
  
  Which leads me onto one of my favourite bits of the game, the ability to just pick up another controller 
 whilst my Son is playing and jump in and help him out in his garden. It's a bit like co-op play 
 but is good because the screen does not need to split.
  
  Anyway, enough of all this writing, I need to get back to my garden and do some more work....... 
 I would definitely recommend this game, it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Alright, this game is fantastic, no I really mean it.
  I mean, I am now 14 but I think that someone who's is 30 or maybe 40 would like this more than 
 I ever can do!
  This is just so strange, you wouldn't expect anything like this, and now its here, its just strange 
 how much you would like this game.
  I mean, you will be so happy when you see the horse, and that's just such a great feeling of responsibility 
 , and thats just strange.
  
  Now I have a very large garden. and I am sow far, and I just want to start all over again, because 
 I really believe that I can have even more fun the second time.
  and that's just great.
  
  Greetz max&Yacute;&yacute;&Yacute; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a little boring at first, but once you get in the game, its really hard to put down. 
 This is one of those game that you should play after you play a freekishly intence action game 
 like gears of war or halo 2. VISUALS: this game has fantastic visualls with wonderful colours of 
 all kinds.
  AUDIO: well done audio and sound here, has very amusing sound affects, at first its pretty repetetive 
 because all your doing is patting the ground and guess how poopy (can not say other word because 
 it will be bleeped out) that is.
  GAMEPLAY: Pretty repetitive at first but once you get the conrtols and everything, well this game 
 will be a breze. very humurous fighting scenes where the pinatas shoot out a bunch of different 
 stuff like trumpets or wheels.
  
  I definetly say you should get this game, even if your 18 yrs of age just try it out for the first 
 30 minutes and you'll luv it... unless your as goth that hates colourfull S H I T :D i found a 
 way to say bad words :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICMonkeys
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic, its burtsing with colour, character and cuteness, and the good 
 part? The novelty just doesn't wear off.
  
  It all sounds very simple to start with, build a nice looking yet economical garden for your friendly 
 little Pinata's to live in, what could possibly go wrong?
  Well, first off your friendly little Pinata's sometimes arn't so friendly, starting fights with 
 other Pinata residents and basically throwing your garden and its inhabitants into a tizz. Then 
 you have the Sour Pinata's and Ruffians running around trying to harm your poor little Pinata's...
 
  
  But none of it gets frustrating, its something you can pick up and play after a stressful shoot-em-up 
 or racing game and just relax with it, yet there's always enough to keep you busy and occupied.
 
  
  Just the right balance, Viva Pinata!
  
  Bravo Rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyButt123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- I am not that high of a level but from what i have played it is a great game. Just it 
 can get a little repetative at a time. Moring Night Morning Night Build Pinata Build Pinata. But 
 in another sense it is rather addictive and fun and cute.
  
  Graphics- They are REALLY REALLY REALLY GOOD. The colors and animations relate to kameo a litte 
 but the textures are more cartoony but the graphics are so good. They Pop out at you and taht is 
 what makes it so good.
  
  Sound- PHENOMINAL. Thats it.
  
  Value- Get it. You cant really rent it. You need to buy it. and for only 40 bucks just go grab 
 it. Its worth to have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drum9876
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata when you first hear the title you'll think this definetly is not your type of game. 
 However I'm a gor ridden player yet I found a fun yet challengeing gameplay from viva. Due to it's 
 younger appeal due to it's use of PINATA which if your like my immedatly think of a childish game 
 however if you dismiss this game it's totaly a mistake on your part the simplistic yet cool theme 
 with addictive colors and enviroments will hook you from the start. It's human nature to want to 
 be incharge and create (allso to kill any thing that threatens our existence) this game puts you 
 in the driving seat. With catchey names colors and animals this game will give you a ton of fun. 
 At first I was hesitent becasue of the overall apperance of its packageing but after I got I found 
 it an excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading player reviews on this sight. It seemed to bring something different 
 to the table. If you can get past that voice in your head hey Im a man and I might lose some man 
 points. Truth be told this games has a lot depth a child wouldnt be able to get very far in this 
 game. They would still enjoy because of its cuteness I dont think they get even a quarter through 
 without adult help. I guess that why game comes with two player feature so one can help another 
 with their garden. Some might disagree but this makes the Sims look like crap because it doesnt 
 have a lot of unneccesary things to do. I wouldnt really categorize it as being in the same catergory 
 as the Sims. Its in a league of its own . Tilt is way through the roof. Its a highly addictive 
 game and which can take hours upon hours of your time but it saves quite frequently without slowing 
 down a bit so you stop at anytime. Not that you would want to. Rare has been known to make great 
 games that all ages will enjoy its funny because I think adults might enjoy it even more that a 
 kid. The basic you start off with a garden small garden not to small but small considering their 
 over 60 pinatas plus you will try to keep at least two of each. FIrst thing you have to transform 
 some wasteland dirt and junk into rich and liveable soil and grass. The controls are perfect it 
 takes a short period of time change it to the way you want it. Once you get it to living conditions 
 a pinata will appear and come to check out your garden. This is how game work first meet the requirement 
 for the pinata to visit , then have meet the requirements to make it resident while its visiting. 
 Then you need two of the same pinata to romance (have babies and each pinata romances differently 
 trust me kids can watch they unique and sometimes funny dance together) which need requirements 
 to be met which usaually require you to build that pinatas specific house type which look great 
 and youll never get tired of wanting to know how your next resident house is going to look ( graphics 
 10 out of 10) plus 1 or more other things . The harder it do all these thing usually means that 
 it worth more and more rare. ( You get to sell pinatas for money to build you garden empire) That 
 why its important to always keep two so you can make more. Some pinatas you also need to get other 
 pinatas for example a fly pinata (which you can name everyone of your pinatas or leave defaut name 
 the game gives you which is usually pretty cool) is part of the requirements need to make a frog 
 type pinata a resident it has to eat one. I dont how they did it but they make you care about almost 
 all your pinatas luckily the fly was the one pinata I did really care for as far as it getting 
 eaten as long I had extra for my garden. They game has so much depth that It will have adults stomped 
 for a while trying to get that next high level pinata in your garden. Yes pinatas have level by 
 the type of pinata and rareness of the pinata. You level as the garden owner as you get more pinatas 
 to visit , become a resident, romance, and build more to your garden you gain experience and level 
 up. Which give you better tools, more shops, more pinata visits from pinatas that like an experienced 
 gardener, more services such as having someone do all the watering for your plants or keep certain 
 pest away, and more land. Speaking of pest their are several a fox, poisonous slug, vampire bat, 
 and so on they prey on your plants and your pinatas it up to you to keep them away by hitting with 
 shovel and using other tactics, (you need a upgraded shovel to get rid of the snail or have a strong 
 pinata attack it) . You can also make these pets a resident I havent yet when I get to the point 
 where they are the only one I need to complete my 100% residence of all pinatas all probably trap 
 them in a fence to keep them away from the other pinatas. Also some of the pinatas or natural enemies 
 so might be a good idea to keep them seperate to. You can also customize your pinatas appearances 
 there hundreds of items and customizations in the game that everyone garden it gonna look different. 
 You can trade pinatas online if your have trouble getting one a rare one. It so much more to the 
 game you actually have to play it. This defiantly in the Top 5 of best games of xbox 360 and arguably 
 the third best just under Oblivion and Gears of War with the price tag of only $49.99. And depending 
 on what looking for in a game it can be tie or your favorite. If you like anything I've said you 
 owe to yourself to aleast rent this but probably just waste your money when you actually go to 
 the store and buy it. . Almost for got the game comes with 5 xbox arcade games demos, Sonic the 
 Hedgehog 360, Lego Star Wars II, and an episode of Viva Pinatas which actually if you watch it 
 and pay attention can teach you that you can transform some pinatas to something more rare by feeding 
 certian things ( In game secrets ) . And last the game have a whooping 50 requirements youll play 
 this game for over 60 hour maybe even a hundred or more to do everything. If you have any question 
 you can send me message? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game, which I pegged as a children's game, has proven to be not only deep, but tons of fun. 
 Its very simple to pick up and play, but deep enough that it never seems to be oversimplified or 
 dumbed down . You begin the game as a new pinata grower, and are tasked with returning a garden 
 to its former glory. During that journey, you will meet other peculiar residents of Pinata Island. 
 Some run shops, some are medics, some help you with chores, and some beg for money. The supporting 
 cast is very diverse, and all designed superbly.
  The Pinatas are the stars though. They are bright, colorful, and full of life. Enticing them to 
 visit your garden and then staying there is a blast. Getting them to romance is a challenge, and 
 seeing them get eaten by predator pinatas is heartbreaking. You can even name and dress up the 
 pinatas if you so choose. The game is as easy or as deep as you choose to make it, which makes 
 it amazing for people of all ages!
  Many gamers have labeled this a Kiddy Game, but when you play it, you cannot help but be charmed 
 by its characters. If you have the means, and like life sims such as Animal Crossing, or even The 
 Sims; or if you are looking for a quality game that anyone in the family could enjoy, Viva Pinata 
 won't disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  AT first I thought that this was going to be one of those little stupid games. But apparently its 
 not. Viva Pinata is a quirky game that is siomewhat actually fun. It feels alot like animal crossing 
 for the gamecube but just way better. The gameplay is plain solid. Really the gameplay is just 
 moving things and building your pinata garden. So there really aint much of gameplay. The graphics 
 somewhat looks pretty good. Not perfect but they are pretty nice. The sound is superb. Everything 
 just sounds nice. It doesnt actually sound lifeless. There isnt tons and tons of replay value but 
 it will most likely keep you buisy for weeks if not possibly months depending how much you like 
 the game. The game does feature online. Pretty much in online you show other players your pinatas 
 and you can see theres. In online, there isnt a whole lot of gamemodes so it isnt all that great 
 online. Basically what you do in the game is obviously take care of a bunch of pinatas. It might 
 sound kind of stupid but its surprisingly fun and addictive. You make a garden and raise tons of 
 different pinatas. There is a mini game where your pinata can fight one another but it get od quick. 
 So pretty much Viva Pinata is a solid game that is very fun and should definetly be checked out. 
 Its a plain fun game and many people should enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyTriumph
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata has really opened my eyes, coming from a guy who gave Gears of War a low score, and 
 wasn't all that shocked by Oblivion after about 60+ hours I just gotta say... this game has REALLY 
 opened my eyes.
  
  I LOVE The Sims, I liked Harvest Moon, now grab the BEST elements out of those two games, add more 
 color, and make it 30 times prettier and 10 times more addicing!
  
  THAT is Viva Pinata.
  
  Now, don't get me wrong, the title does look like it's for 8 year olds, but it'sNOT, This game 
 features the most creative artwork I've seen in a while, it's like this;
  
  Imagine a world where instead of pinatas being made in factories, you must lure them, raise them, 
 breed them... and sell them! =P
  
  Sounds pretty cool, eh? Well add cooky NPC's, nice voice overs, a ton of building abilities and 
 OVER 50 different kinds of pinatas.
  
  From squirrels, to horses, to bumble bees, if it's an animal, it's in here, ontop of that, you're 
 able to customize your pinata buddies.
  
  My breakdown;
  
  Visuals: Great textures, great lighting, great splashes, it's awe-inspiring.
  
  Sounds: The 
 happy-go-lucky sounds do get tedious, but the upbeat pausen and menu screen sorta fixed that, LOL. 
 The voice-overs are good too, same with the actual writing!
  
  Worth $50: Of course!, beyond a doubt.
  
  Time: The game does good with the rewards, it seems 
 fair, and you'll get a good 60-100 hours of out this, IF you set some personal goals: IE: Get every 
 pinata in the same garden.
  
  Gameplay and controls: There's something in it for everyone, from adults to toddlers to teens, 
 there's something to enjoy, the the easy-to-learn controls makes it even easier to jump into the 
 fun.
  
  My ONLY complaint with this game is that the mini games are far to simple, though I understand 
 why.
  
  9.7 for you Viva, my highest rating yet, good job Rare!
  
  Spread the word guys! It's a GOOD game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Who would have known that a game about attracting animals that are actually pinatas could be so 
 awesome. The game puts you in control of a small little garden where you have to bring in the pinatas 
 and make your own money any way you can. The game has some great gameplay and that is where it 
 shines, you get to create an awesome garden and trust me when I say it is a lot more fun than it 
 sounds. You start off playing with a basic shovel, water can, and grass. You have to create a garden 
 and attract as many different pinatas as you can that range from bees to elephant pinatas. Each 
 pinata has an intro video that will most likely bring a smile to your face. Another great aspect 
 of the game is that well it is really pretty with awesome looking pinatas and such a variety of 
 color used in the game, it is a sight to behold. All in all the game is great and it is the first 
 game Rare has made right on the 360, yes even Perfect Dark Zero was suprisingly dull. Rare has 
 a bright future ahead with the sequel to Banjo Kazzoie which was and awesome Nintendo 64 games 
 for those not in the know. Here's hoping to Rare being Pixar of videogames again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STiRacer01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  You start off with nothing, only a hard dirt patch. They hook you up with a couple tool and in 
 about an hour your can have about 6 pinatas hangin around your landscaped property. This games 
 brings something new to the table that not many other developers have thought of yet. And that 
 is real time simulation. There is day and night, and certain things happen in daytime, and certain 
 at night. At first, you see the contents of this game and think, wow, this must be for little kids.. 
 but then... as you get more involved with whats happening. You realize that this game is actually 
 very addictive. You want to wait to see what happens next, to see which new pinata will come and 
 see you. The melodramatic music draws you in, and holds you... This game really is a genre all 
 its own. The amount of time that you actually have to spend with it, justifies the 60 bucks it 
 takes to own it. My vote: buy it, you'll like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunzmann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Never in a million years did i think i would play a game in which you are forced to build a garden 
 and raise pinata. But here i am hours on end building my garden and raising my pinata. I cannot 
 stop myself from playing this game. Attracting new pinata to your garden is great but what i love 
 about this game is that you can literally spend hours just designing your garden and then once 
 your done with that you can raise pinata and sell them or keep them.
  
  The one aspect of this game that dissapoints me is the online capability. Sure you can pack up 
 a box full of money and pinata, which is great by the way and how you can send a message along 
 with it. This turns out to be grewat fun. But i was hoping that you could visit other players gardens 
 and see what they have done. Other than that Viva Pinata is a great game and i recommend it to 
 all ages. The audio is superb, the controls are easy and the game is just downright fun to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with you, when I first saw that this game was in development I never once thought 
 about buying it, but after seeing some videos from the Xbox Live Marketplace, it really peaked 
 my interest. Once I bought the game I still wasn't sure how much fun I would have with it, but 
 I must say, that after about 4 hours of total gameplay I am hooked. The graphics are as good as 
 they possibly can be for an imaginary island filled with living pinatas, and the backdrop of the 
 island looks really nice. The variety of colors really had me in awe (not to mention my dog who 
 watched the screen as I played) . The basic gameplay is fun because you really have to pay attention 
 to what is happening in your area and basically take care of everything and everyone around you. 
 The cutscenes that occur during the game can be very funny and neat to watch more than once. I 
 haven't made it very far into the game so I can't really comment on anything above my level 7 gardener 
 experience, but from what I've seen so far, the best is yet to come....
  
  
  .... and I can't wait!
  
  This game is enjoyable for people of all ages, despite what some of 
 the close-minded people on this site or others may say. Try it out for yourself and enjoy the world 
 of Viva Pinata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrrock009
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is plain and simple fun. I went to go rent it to see how it was and ended up buying it 
 the next day because I knew there was way to much fun to be had in a rental. I loved how this game 
 was set up it had a sort of sims feel to it but really it was all of its own. I loved how the pinata's 
 have their own feelings and what they want to do. If a pinata is upset he rarely listens to you. 
 There are soo many pinatas as well its hard to keep track of them sometimes it just get chaotic. 
 On that note this defenetly is not just a kids game. I don't have kids but I know for sure that 
 a child would have some problems with the amount of micro management that goes on in the game. 
 I myself have trouble finding pinatas that need things at times. I loved everything about this 
 game every single one of the pinatas are adoreable and make you not want to hurt them at all. I 
 loved nameing them things it was fun to come up with fun names for them. I named my snail Gary 
 of course because looks like Spongebob's pet snail. I was honestly waiting for him the meow. My 
 favorite name was one my friend came up with for his chewnicorn, he named it Chewnicornicova. Theres 
 just never enging fun to be had with this game. I don't refet getting this game in any way. This 
 was one of the best purchases of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Now when you at a game like this, your probably thinking - Little kids. Thats where your wrong. 
 Yes the game is designed so that little kids can enjoy it, but it also is designed for people who 
 just want to take a break from other games (like GoW) .
  
  The game is all about making a garden of pinatas. While this may seem simple, it acctually is quite 
 hard as you get farther into the game.
  
  Pros
  -New and Different
  -Great control layout
  -Gets more difficult as you learn more and get better at the game yourself
 
  -Humourous
  -Fun
  
  Cons
  - Should be more xbox live support
  
  I can only hope for lots of Downlodable content like new species. This game is plain out FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is amazing. I mean its a difficult and tedious game covered in flashly and colorful 
 visuals. Well, u start out with a plain busted up, trash ridden garden with nothing but a busted 
 up shovel. Then u get right to work with fixing it up and making ur garden a beautiful place to 
 attract many different creatures. The gameplay controls are very easy to pick up and the game teaches 
 u the basics and some advanced ways of playing the game. The actual gameplay is kinda easy ion 
 the beginning but as time goes on and more and more pinatas begin to visit and become resident 
 of ur garden, things start to get a little frustrating. They start fighting, being eaten, and also 
 busted open with cady spilling from their lifeless paper bodies. But life goes on. You have to 
 romance (make babies) with ur pinatas so that evn if u lose some u know u have more on the way. 
 And u have to be aware of enemies and where to put certain pinatas so that no conflicts arise. 
 Now on to the graphics. The graphics are very colorful, smooth and vibrant. Nothing bad about them. 
 I havent even seen any glitches or anything. The grass moves with the wind. As does the water. 
 SOund. Its good. there isnt much to be heard but the pinatas all have very unique crys and other 
 types of sounds that all sound very good. This game is a very good buy for those who r just tired 
 of shoot em up games and just want to sit down to a game that will be good on the eyes and fun 
 to play for hours and hours with no crys of pain and blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinaman18
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game i have ever palyed Gears of war doesnt have anything on this game no 
 games can even come close to touching this game not re4 not dead rising nothing this game is THE 
 game to get this x-mas but i DO NOT recomend this to children this game is NOT for kids at all 
 i would never get this game for my little cousines this game owns all!!! but i dont think i can 
 finish it i have a weak stomach i just cant do it oh and THE ROMANCE DANCE... =S it's just soo 
 graphic i cant look sometimes
  But This game deserves a 20 out of 10 I wish i could give it that... i wish.... but this game i 
 dont even know what els to say i guess that's all i wanted to tell everyone if you have a strong 
 stomach and you think you can handle the romance dance... get this game but if not i dont think 
 its a good idea but it is a perfect game overall just perfect it's stealthy like mgs it has the 
 action like gow the story of ff and the sound of gt it has everything in the game and the online.. 
 i mean wow it's like CS all over agian... amazing.. so bottom line is Get This Game... Go Big Or 
 Go Home =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata is filled with fun from the moment you start your garden you really see how 
 customizable you can make your environment.
  
  Game play: Very good, you are alerted when sours (pi&ntilde; atas that ruin your landscape and 
 can make your pi&ntilde; atas sick) drop sour candy. You can direct resident pi&ntilde; atas to eat 
 other pi&ntilde; atas for romance which is great because you dont want all of your smaller pi&ntilde; atas 
 being eaten against your will. But the only problem I had was the amount of pi&ntilde; atas you 
 can actually have in your garden. The amount of pi&ntilde; atas you can have is very limited; forcing 
 youre to create different gardens focused around different things (water, grass, trees, etc) 
 Rare is aware of this though so for every garden you have you have the same amount of space of 
 your biggest garden and the shovel and water can upgrades remain the same. In Viva Pi&ntilde; ata 
 it is also very interesting and fun to evolve certain pi&ntilde; atas or to create color variants, 
 doing this along with romancing new breeds and getting new resident pi&ntilde; atas will help you 
 gain levels which get you better upgrades. While creating your garden you really see how customizable 
 it can be. Sound: Very relaxing, although it does spike up at times for no apparent reason.
  
  Visuals: Amazing, the reflection of the pi&ntilde; atas off the ponds is magnificent, the colors 
 are extraordinary and everything has a lot of life.
  
  Value and Replay Level: Very high 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lady_Valentina
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a wonderful surprise, and a wonderful comeback from Rare's Banjo-Kazooie team, after 
 the charming yet shallow Grabbed by the Ghoulies.
  
  Being Rare's first simulation game, I had my standards high, as Rare always excels in perfecting 
 or nearly perfecting foreign genres. I can happily report that they have met and exceeded my standards, 
 creating one of the best games in Rare history, outclassing many of their devoutly followed classics 
 . Gameplay: Viva Pinata has a simple premise: to attract and collect all sorts of pinata. While 
 it may sound fairly simple (and it is in the beginning) , attracting and having pinata as residents 
 gets fairly and sometimes frustratingly (good) complex. Pinatas are very demanding creatures, or 
 at least, most of them are. In order for them to even appear, certain things must be done to your 
 garden, and the creatures and plants in it. For example, the Hippo pinata demands that you have 
 at least 40% water in your garden, before it even reveals itself. If you happen to like nice grassy 
 pastures, you will find this to be quite a pain, and will refuse to comply. But in the end, you 
 always do. Attracting, collecting, and breeding pianta begins to act like an addictive drug, and 
 soon you will find yourself playing till the early hours of dawn. You simply can't bring yourself 
 to stop, so you'll find yourself holding in your pee until the elusive Roario (yes, they are all 
 named in a punny way) eats your Doenuts and Zumbugs, fulfilling it's resident requirements. Money, 
 or Chocolate coins, is fairly difficult to come by when you begin, but you quickly develop your 
 own strategies to earning it, and soon, money will no longer be a problem. You evolve as the game 
 evolves, so nothing ever feels overwhelming in any way. Unless, you want it to be. Which is another 
 area Pinata excells in, as there is no set goal, the only goal you have to follow, is your own! 
 If you'd like to build an ant farm, then so be it! You will not be weighed down by objectives (even 
 though they are present) , as you are free to dismiss them. Despite the fact that the gameplay is 
 almost perfectly executed, it does have a few flaws. For example, your garden has a limit of things. 
 And by things, I mean everything. Every single object, no matter how small, or how big, occupies 
 1% of your garden, so you will sometimes find yourself with a message of crowding , even though 
 it doesn't seem like it. This is fairly annoying in the later levels, when you try to attract different 
 species at once, but you will probably not encounter it early on. The limit works as both a negative 
 and a positive, though, adding an extra layer of complexity to it, emphasizing the balance of your 
 ecosystem.
  
  The area of the game that requires the most work, however, is the romancing mini-game. After meeting 
 a species' romancing requirements, you are thrown into a maze minigame. At first, you will not 
 mind this, but soon you will find that repeating certain mazes again and again grows tedious, and 
 you can't help but think that the aspect of the game is uninspired. As a whole, though, Viva Pinata 
 features fantastic and creative gameplay, with only a few areas bringing it down.
  
  9/10
  +: Fresh and inventive, complex, addicting, unique
  -: Maze mini-games, garden limit
 
  
  Graphics: Viva Pinata, whether you play on standard or high definition, is simply breath-taking. 
 The environment is the most beautiful looking environment you've seen yet, and each object and 
 character is detailed to an overpowering extent.
  The pinata effect is stunning, to say the least, and is impressionable in the same fashion as Donkey 
 Kong Country's were.
  
  Classic Rare, through and through, with animations resembling something you'd find in a Pixar film. 
 (Something to be very proud of)
  
  It should be noted that there are extremely minor frame rate hitches when the game autosaves, but 
 they are forgivable, as they really are minor and don't detract from the experience in any way.
 
  
  10/10
  +: Everything, except...
  -: Frame rate hitch, while still just a very minor hitch, it is nevertheless a negative.
  
 
  Sound: One of the best parts when first playing a new Rare game is listening to the soundtrack, 
 and this one does not fail to disappoint. Grant Kirkhope of Banjo-Kazooie and Perfect Dark fame 
 returns, with soothing, playful, and sometimes tear-deserving compositions. The soundtrack features 
 everything from classical music music, to country (Banjo-style) , and definitely deserves a spot 
 in your collection. That is, if a soundtrack is ever released. The voices in the game, are overall 
 good, with only a few characters having ridiculously high pitched and annoying ones, thanks to 
 4kids. But, all in all, 4kids has done an impressive job with the voices, especially after the 
 fame they have acquired from their anime butchering and the Viva Pinata show itself. Thankfully, 
 the voice actors from the cartoon do not make an appearance in the game, except for the intro. 
 10/10
  +: Grant Kirkhope, Beautiful, Funny, Depressing
  -: Leafos, The Mail-Box Girl, Seedos
  
  Value: Highly addicting, I suggest, if you'd like your 
 life taken away, to buy this game.
  
  10/10
  
  Ignoring this game is shameful! Polished to the core, this is the 360's real killer app, in every 
 sense of the word. One of the only games on the 360 to rival the polish given to Twilight Princess.
 
  
  9.6/10
  
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cryptic_Writing
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  The Xbox will never be short of first person shooters, sports games, and other staples but when 
 I heard about this game my urge to buy it was based on two things, it sounded like something that 
 would be unique on the Xbox and it good good reviews to boot I was a little apprehensive about 
 the audience the game was marketed too, but then again I still play Pokemon and this game rewarded 
 me like Pokemon. It's filled with hours and hours of addicting game play The XBox will never be 
 short of first person shooters, sports games, and other staples but when I heard about this game 
 my urge to buy it was based on two things, it sounded like something that would be unique on the 
 XBox and it had good reviews to boot I was a little apprehensive about the audience the game was 
 marketed too, but then again I still play Pokemon and this game rewarded me like Pokemon. It's 
 filled with hours and hours of addicting game play. In one way it appealed to the same compulsive 
 side of my personality, where I want to se each and every pinata but without the tiresome repetitive 
 battles. Instead, Viva Pinata introduces new pinatas by how you shape the plot of land that it 
 given to you, which is far more engaging. You balance your pinatas needs with your need for money 
 when planting vegetables, shaping the land, building structures, and even selling unneeded pinata. 
 My only complaint is the sound. The sound effects of unplanted seeds bouncing can become quite 
 annoying as well as some of the cute sounds the pinata make. The game is unfortunately void of 
 any real music, which is weird since theyre billed as party animals. The backgrounds are beautiful, 
 the pinata are highly animated, and the visuals are overall beautiful. Overall, if youre looking 
 for something a little different thatll keep you entertained for a long time then Viva Pinata 
 is a game you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimepirate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  At first, I had absolutely no interest in this game. I have been reading the reviews and visiting 
 the message boards and have been surprised at how people like this game. I have yet to see a negative 
 thing about this game. I picked it up and was surprised myself.
  
  The game has so much detail and color. It acts a strategy game where you manage a garden to attract 
 pinatas. The different things you do will attract different pinatas. It is a cross between the 
 Sims and Animal Crossing, but better. With the graphics produced by the 360 along with a HDTV (which 
 is a must to play this game) , it is surely a sleeper hit. I would recomend this game to anyone 
 who needs a break from Gears of War or any action game. This game will surely keep you busy for 
 hours. I dub this game the prescription drug of the 360 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nofearkid009
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  So I was at Gamestop and my sisters birthday was coming up and she really wanted a game to play 
 on my 360 so I decided to buy her Viva Pi&ntilde; ata. She started out and was enjoying this game 
 but then it got a little complicated so I sat down and helped her a little bit and had alot of 
 fun with it. Now I'm really addicted to it and can't put it down when I fire it up.
  
  The Gameplay is nothing too new but is still really fun and provides some interesting ways to obtain 
 many various pi&ntilde; atas. For example:
  Do I try to hit the egg at the exact time to get a rare pi&ntilde; ata or do I it hatch so as not 
 to break it.
  Or do I let a Newtgat into my garden but then get rid of my Likatoads so there are no conflicts 
 among my pi&ntilde; atas.
  
  Such are the decisions of Viva Pi&ntilde; ata.
  
  The graphics on this game were actually quite colorful and bright on an HD screen. The music is 
 quite enjoyable because it constantly changes to the appropriate mood of your garden.
  
  There are really no real ways to cheat in this game and get infinite money. This makes it fun, 
 because then you don't have people over running others on Xbox Live.
  
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata overall recieves a....
  9.6 out of 10
  
  It is really marketed to younger 
 kids but could really turn off older persons because of its childish concepts and packaging. This 
 is why the value is at a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antox15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I am just going to start going through every category stating strengths and weaknesses. Gameplay. 
 Kid oriented strategy games do not come around that often and when they do they suck. Having a 
 well crafted tycoon-like game were you farm pinatas sounds stupid, but the asspects of continuing 
 your garden are fun, almosts like a sim game. Graphics. The visuals in this game are very, very 
 good. Having each little paper strip rendered on every pinata and the landscape that you have created 
 then including the fights between to different pinata all on the same screen without any slow odwn 
 is great. The pinatas look original and colorful (like animals in a Rare game would) , but at the 
 same time they just simplistic enough to know what animal they represent. Sound. Tedious purs and 
 voices of the pinatas is a bother, but it feels nessecery for a kids game, some decent music could 
 have been put in, but it is fine the way it is. Value. Many pinatas abound in an openended garden 
 you can customize to your hearts content. 62 different pinatas which you can also customize. Xbox 
 Live will offer such things as accessory packs, and rumors of pinata packs. Some of my guesses 
 are in theme: Myth Pack (there are all ready dragon and unicorn pinatas, why not some other creatures) , 
 Sea Pack (Seals, Fish, Dolphins, Eels) . Tilt. This game is the **** it is so much fun for a kids 
 game. I am now making a horse ranch, Ponies, Unicorns, Horses, and some different assortments of 
 bugs. All in All this game is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbelli
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is the best game ever because the animals are really cool and funny. It has really 
 good graphics. I like to plant seeds. It's also cool to go into stores and buy stuff for my animals. 
 I like the Romance Dance too. --- Chistopher, my seven-year-old son
  
  From the Dad's perspective, I really feel like this is a great game for both kids and adults. It's 
 even somewhat educational because it helps teach kids how to care for things and plan ahead. It's 
 also a lot of fun and can be challenging if you really get into it deeper (than most kids would) . 
 Highly recommended. Hopefully, the Xbox 360 gets more games like this that the entire family can 
 enjoy (and I can still get the Gears of War out of me when the kids are asleep) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I like thi game. I am sadly not very good at it though. I would have liked the garden space to 
 get a bit larger than it did, but my pigs keep getting stuck on the hedges... so I hit them with 
 a shovel. now they are dead. Frogs make lots of trouble, be sure to hit them with your shovel many 
 many times. I guess I'm breading some kind of no holds bared fighting pinatas because they will 
 not stop fighting each other. Watch out because pinatas have sex too. this is bad for children. 
 if I had a child I would smack him in the face. But the graphics are good, very colorful. it's 
 simple to learn but actually much harder to play. children will be turned off by this. then again 
 I am horrible bad at sim games. do not be fooled, this game has a challange under it's cute exterior. 
 though some people are not talking about the problems. the AI is bad on some of the animals. it 
 can be hard to tell them what to do, but you can hit them with your shovel so it balances out. 
 plus some animals seem to get stuck on objects often enough, mainly fences and hedges. I was forced 
 to hit many pinatas, this made me feel bad. but until they learn I must inforce my garden like 
 the red baron swooping down from above raining shovel related death, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janpieterzun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  7 messages pop up all of them the same subject though from different players each. What the f*** 
 are you playing? , I ignore them. As time goes on a few more messages pop up from people on my 
 on-line friends list. They all go unanswered, I have more important things to take care of. I've 
 been trying to set my garden up the right way to convince a fudgehog to stay and become a permanent 
 resident. Not that the task is difficult but different pinata keep trespassing some wanted some 
 unwanted and they keep distracting me from my task. A fight breaks out in the section of the garden 
 that i've been breeding a specific pinata for money. One of them is injured doc comes in and patches 
 the poor little critter up, but its expensive. Am annoyed at the lost profitability and the damage 
 done to my product . I should do a better job of separating these breed of pinata from that breed 
 they don't get along since one is the food of the other. Finally a message pops up for a private 
 chat request, this happens to be from a real life friend, he gets more pull than the xblive people 
 so i take it. Dude what the F*** are you playing? We want to get in a few matches of gears of war 
 then some multi-player call of duty 3 on War mode . Nah, no thanks I respond. I could hear my friends 
 face contort in shock at my response as i break chat to focus on the game, we all know how talking 
 in private chat can distract on xboxlive. I get another prompt from the same friend, i accept again. 
 Dude I'm trying to play this dont make me block you i threaten. Is it that good He replies. Go 
 buy it i answer. What is the appeal of this game? It looks so colorful and so kid friendly but 
 underneath that coat of paint is a addictive brilliant game that touch on the principles of morality 
 and ethics itself. Think this game as a business simulator, it can be called many things. The premise 
 is simple you get a garden depending on how you maintain and build this garden it attracts different 
 breeds of creatures pinata . As you come across pinata you can name them personalize them. There 
 are alot of pinate varying in breed from cutesy to predatory looking ones, but maintaining the 
 garden and breeding pinata cost money. As you add more bells and whistles and get more trinkets 
 to attract bigger more exotic pinata the cost start adding up. Sure you can plant and sell vegetables, 
 but that doesn't make alot. As you breed pinata you can get some coins but still thats never enough. 
 You see bigger more expensive items you want. You take a look a Mr. Huggles (daughter named it) your 
 first pinata (the one that made said daughter giggle when it first appeared on screen) and you 
 realize it has value, it can be sold. You named it, it was your first but you want x item to attract 
 y creature what do you do? A few hours down the line the garden is turned into a deathcamp as pinata 
 die to feed other pinatas so they can be bred and sold for profit. Then my wife walks in the room 
 looking at me with squinted eyes whispering your a monster .
  
  The game is simply wonderful and thought provoking. Where do your ethics stand? What are you willing 
 to do for economical gain? Where do things like compassion, and morality factor in your book? What 
 will those notions mean if they get in your way? That is viva pinata, a delicously deceptive game. 
 I don't really believe in ratings the only thing i can recommend is that you buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok... i know the game looks like a game that your little sister would play because its so colorful 
 and full of little pinata things, but if you play this game, you find that its fun and its VERY 
 very addicting. I'm 17 and i love games where u kill people and chop heads off and stuff, but i 
 play this game.. ill admit i dont tell anybody i play this but this game is fun.. Ok so basicaly 
 the game is like this.. you start off with a broken down yard with tires and other junk it it.. and 
 you have to fix it up, as u fix.. you will see that pinatas start to inhabit your garden . Certain 
 pinatas like certain things. when you meet those requirements, the pinata will coem to stay at 
 your garden. Pinatas can get happy and sad so you can build them houses for them to live in. However 
 not all pinatas get along and u will see that if u play it. That can get rather annoying at times 
 because you waist your time trying to get a pinata happy then a stupid pinata comes and eats it. 
 There is some sort of action in the game.. you can beat up pinatas with a shovel.. even though your 
 not supposed to but you can.. pinatas can fight eachother but the shoot little stupid missles at 
 eachother instead.. i guess thats to limit the violence for little kids or something.. anyway the 
 graphics for this game are impressive considering your looking at colorful pinatas but the enviorments 
 you create look amzing. The sound is great to. This game is open ended so you dont have to worry 
 about beating it then the game is over. You will also find no matter how far you get, you will 
 ALWAYS have something to do guarenteed. This game is great despite the happy look to it. I care 
 about what people think and i try to be cool and stuff like that so if i can play this game, you 
 can to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_player
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  at first the soft music and colourful graphics scream childrens game, but once you get into the 
 game play you soon realize that its probably to complex to fully be enjoyed by any child. the wonderful 
 art style will keep your garden looking fresh and new. the only thing i didnt like about the music 
 was that sometimes it wasnt loud enough to drown out the dvd drive, but it really kept a relaxing 
 feel to the game even when your in a panic to keep your garden working.
  
  the gameplay starts out kinda slow but once different stores, meters, items and elements come into 
 play youll find yourself in some confusion as to what seed to buy or who eats who. the pinata system 
 works by rewarding your good gardening by more and more pinatas being interested in your garden. 
 once there interested they will hang out around your garden, if you complete two or three tasks 
 that will keep them happy they will stay in your garden and they turn colourful to show you that 
 they belong in the garden. this system becomes a lot more complicated when you start having food 
 chains and multiple mating houses. trying to keep one of your favourite pinatas from getting eaten 
 while also trying to get two others to mate can get very hectic and thats where the charm of this 
 game lays, in the idea that you can control the garden but the pinatas control what happens in 
 it.
  
  the graphics are a nice release from the uber realistic graphics on almost every other 360 game, 
 and sometimes thats exactly what you need between blood ridden battles of halo 2 and ghost recon. 
 the cutesy graphics may be the one thing that is stopping many people from picking up this game 
 but sometimes it is fun to watch someone walk into the room and have a face of utmost confusion 
 when the see you watering a turnip so a mousemallow will stay in your garden. on short the graphics 
 give a very relaxing sense to the game and set the whole tone for your garden.
  
  the music in the game is nothing spectacular but it is some nice calm music to listen to, and it 
 bodes well with the graphics. the sound in the cutscenes could use a little more work, as there 
 was often lack of or it didnt quite fit. the sound is nothing amaziing but it can contribute the 
 the relaxing feeling of the game.
  
  overall this game is in my opinion a sleeper hit and really shouldnt be missed by any fans of title 
 such as animal crossing and harvest moon. it lets a lot of customization that really lets youfeel 
 like its your garden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plentygame
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me, Wow! I recommend this game for any age. The gameplay is more interactive 
 and hectic. This game is like a garden sim gone crazy. Try it, you will like it! Viva Pi&ntilde; ata 
 is definitely a fun game, though it does have some clear faults. The biggest disappointment comes 
 with the limited amount of things you can do through Xbox Live. Granted, this game is intended 
 for a younger audience and certain safeguards need to be put in. Yet the number of things you can 
 do through Xbox Live is extremely limited. Leaderboards are in the game, though they're tucked 
 away several layers deep in the journal. You can compare any of your own pi&ntilde; atas with your 
 friends' pi&ntilde; atas to see who has the most valuable pi&ntilde; ata of that type. You can also 
 check to see who has the highest garden and pi&ntilde; ata value of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korepino
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Played the game feels sorta like Harvest Moon on Crack Microsoft Version. Nothing Against it but 
 Dude it's like trippy with the colors and the weird animal names for them. i do find a good laugh 
 at the names, come now, how can you not laugh at the name fudgehog that looks like he's the hunch 
 back of notre dame weasel. but if you like being creative and feel the need to be god like in the 
 game you'll definitly like this game. It gets addicting trying to collect every pinata and setting 
 things to your tastes in your general farm land. Hell it was a really easy way to get Achievement 
 points off that game. Sorta easy but it is suited for every age group. Get the game if your up 
 to the challenge to raising the best pinata's on Pinata island! Oh and be sure to watch your warnings 
 when they tell your pinata is sick or you'll soon find a broken pinata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2887
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  ok, so viva pinata. when i first heard about it i was probably like every other gamer thinking 
 what the hell?, pinatas, garden, 360 que? but to my amazement this game is actually really fun 
 and addicting. in some cases i wonder why its rated E lol. i mean u can take a shovel kill the 
 pinatas, the pinatas kill eachother and such its like pinata massacre lol, but i love it. anyway 
 the gameplay is pretty simple, innovative and fun. You pretty much start off with a small garden 
 which attracts certain pinatas eventually the pinatas will want to be residents of your garden 
 so then u build homes for them. u also can by accesories for your garden such as flowers and fences 
 and stuff like that. so your pinatas also begin to MATE (what the hell) they create baby pinatas 
 by dancing. so you can multiply your pinata species population to eventually be close to chinas. 
 the game itself if very addicting and very fun and i recomend it for anyone. go play it now HUDSON 
 THE PINATA commands you to lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryHawk87
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata looks awfully creative, and it might put my Gears of War on the shelf for a 
 couple months. The main reason I want this game is simply because it has never been done. Gears 
 of War has new things put in to a normal third person shooter, CoD 3 is CoD, Splinter Cell 4 is 
 like the last with a new story, etc. Viva pinata is 100% unique, and the graphics are so bright 
 and colorful it's hard not to look at. The visuals are beautiful, the gameplay is unique, sound 
 is nice and bright, and you get the full value of the game when the game always leaves you wanting 
 more pinatas or a bigger garden.
  
  I stamp this game: MUST BUY FOR THE XBOX 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata has been running circles in my head since picking it up. I bought Gears of War the 
 day before, and as much as it blew me away it's seen the inside of my 360 just once since I started 
 up my first Pinata garden. Playing isn't just addictive for OCD collectors and tinkerers thanks 
 to it's excellent game design. Rare delivers on a chunk of Spore's promise, threw in some Sims 
 and Animal Crossing goodness, created an inviting look for all ages but left plenty of subversive 
 and darkly funny undertones.
  
  Making elaborate gardens from scratch, luring, taming, breeding, and sacrificing the Pinatas, exploring 
 and experimenting with the ecosystem and earning a substantial income is only the surface of what 
 makes this game great. It's children cheering when you're notified that a Pinata is about to be 
 eaten. It's Seedos examining your gardening skills as he tosses you free seeds. Booting up at nighttime 
 to be greeted with a chorus of expressive snores and whimpers as your zoo rests. The awe inspiring 
 overhead view during a nasty rainstorm. The way your night watcher deals with sour Pinatas. The 
 anguish of losing your precious herd to disease and death, and the joy of finally getting that 
 Cinnamonkey to change from black and white and become one of your own.
  
  People may be concerned Viva Pinata is made for kids. The marketing people did a bad job handling 
 the title to be sure, and the packaging is downright embarrassing. Yes it's adorable and the tutorial 
 seem geared towards young'uns, but this game is just as much for fully grown men and women as it 
 is for children. Perfect for families too. The K-6 crowd would probably have a rough time with 
 Viva alone anyway, it gets complex and rather stressful at times. The game looks brilliant, it's 
 innovative and fun, sound effects are inspired and the orchestral score is stirring. There's nothing 
 else like it on the 360 or any other platform for that matter.
  
  Of course there's some problems like the tricky targeting system, underdeveloped online options, 
 the rare stuck pinata, hiccups during autosaves and the lack of space to see everything offered 
 in a single garden. It's nothing game breaking though - after a week under its spell I'm convinced 
 Viva Pinata would earn a place in the heart of most anyone that loves well crafted games. Now if 
 you'll excuse me I've got to get back to it right now. I've just bred my first Horstachio and there's 
 a particularly nasty Macaracoon that needs to be dealt with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrrrusty
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  A wonderful game that my wife rarely lets me have a turn. Very cute very addictive and very fun. 
 The graphics are superb, and most of the text is voice acted, and voice acted well. If this is 
 Americas answer to animal crossing, then we are off to a good start. The game is much like animal 
 crossing, but with much higher production budget. If there is anything that I don't like, it would 
 be that you play from a god prospective, instead of a character like in most games (animal crossing) . 
 But still I like this game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is so different from any other game. You start out with a junked garden. You clean it 
 up. And pinata animals come to live. It may sound gay But believe me its awesome!!! There are over 
 60 different species. You make them mate. They eat each other. And they even get in fights. And 
 after a while a lot of evil pinatas come to steal kill and destroy your garden. There is suppose 
 a way to turn them into good pinatas but i havent figured it out yet. There is tons of different 
 things to do and pinatas to attract. Its like the circle of life in your own hands with beauitful 
 eye candy before you. I gave this game such a high score because it is really superb. If you dont 
 believe me go pick it up. Its good to put down the blood ,guts , gore and cursing of Gears of War 
 and pick up the peaceful Viva Pinata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anitnaj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I just spent several hours trying to make my son's garden better, while my copy of Gears of War 
 sat unused. My kid loves it, I love it and I do not have to feel guilty letting my 7 year old mess 
 with the 360. My wife, who hates video games, loves Viva Pinata. If you knew her, you would know- 
 this game is great!!! The charaters that walk around are really odd and funny. Anyways, I need 
 to go plant some more sunflowers, so I can afford Disco Doe's house for my deer. I built a home 
 for the squirrls tonight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game at a glance looks like a joke. I almost past it up, but with the regular price tag of 
 50 dollars ( rather than the harsh price of 60 bucks!) , it seemed worth a try. I heard this game 
 was suppose to be different and thats why my curiosity got me. This game is very colorful and the 
 graphics show up nice in a pinata style. For some reason it is very addicting. The game plays kinda 
 like a sim with tons of stuff to do and unlock. It also has a certain strategy about it. This game 
 is for all ages, but i think some younger people may struggle with some of the better secrets and 
 animals. Overall the game is a great new experience. My girlfriend and I played together over the 
 past 4 days about 20-25 hours. Yeah, thats right, she stuck with me through all 20 hours. A game 
 has never done that for us before. It was a good time. I highly recommend this to all casual gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert_Dillon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Rare's attempt at light hearted gaming paid off well. The game is all about customizing a garden 
 in an effort to attract and keep happy tons of pinata species. Essenstially, the core of the game 
 is likely to sound excrutiatingly boring. However, the ease of game play, level of detail, and 
 lively pinata personalities makes the game very addictive. Unlike similar games (Animal Crossing 
 and such) , Viva Pinata doesn't leave you repeating like a scratched record with little to do after 
 the first few hours of game play. The garden is yours to mold and the pinatas are yours to direct. 
 If nothing else, the game is beautiful to behold. The graphics are stunning, right up there with 
 in theatre animations like Shrek. Also, the musical score is on par with nature's best sound effects 
 and a brilliantly conducted orchestra. I swear I could sleep and work peacefully to it's music. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade233
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I thought RARE had gone completely insane. First they put out 
 an average Perfect Dark and then they decieded to follow up that piece of mediocrity with a stupid 
 kids game. Since then after reading about this game I actually became convinced this was a must 
 buy. After reading two good reviews I decided to buy it.
  
  This game is a blast. It starts out with a very kiddy packaging and presentation which had mr second 
 guessing the purchase. But within about 10-20 minutes I was lost in this game. I ended up playing 
 about 3-4hrs the first sitting and Viva Pinata definately has that just one more turn feel. While 
 there are not turns I continually told myself just one more thing I need to do and 30minutes later 
 I was still hard at work.
  
  This game may be a little complex for children but it does have simple controls which may make 
 it quite easy (I didnt try these out) . The game is pretty relaxing at first and very fun. That 
 is until oyu start having a large number of pinatas at a time. But you learn and eventually it 
 becomes easier. I had to give up on my first garden and start over... but I kept my same level and 
 money earned. In half the time my second garden had surpassed my first. This is a very cool game 
 and something that is a nice game to play in between sessions of GOW. If you have an open mind 
 and like sim games this is a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRKOXx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Aside from being a game about Pinatas, Viva Pinata is a fun experience that keeps you playing for 
 a long, long time. I admit, for weeks I had bugged my friend for wanting to buy it, but for some 
 reason, I decided to myself, and all in all am very happy with my purchase. Its easy to play, addicting, 
 and is full of (dare I say it?) CUTE little Pinatas (especially Whirlms and Mousemallows) to play 
 with and take care of. Mixing elements from Harvest Moon and what seems to be Pokemon, this is 
 a great game for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This game is great! It's so refreshing to have a non-violent, non-FPS game available to play on 
 the Xbox 360. I love the visual style in this game, the characters, everything! The gameplay style 
 is innovative and completely different from anything I've seen before, and the game is actually 
 fairly challenging to play. The requirements for each species of Pinata to move in and then breed 
 become increasingly difficult the higher up the foodchain you go. There are certain things about 
 the game that are irritating, like trying to keep certain pinata species' from fighting with one 
 another, but it definately doesn't take away from how much I love this game. I'm just so glad to 
 have something different on the 360 for a change, and this game is a great way to start a new trend 
 of non-violent, universally fun, and non-age-restricted games. I certainly would hope that other 
 game developers would take a cue from Rare and try to create something this player-friendly, and 
 equally fun, nomatter what age you are. Kudo's to Rare on this one! I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Ill admit, I was a bit thrown off when I heard Rares next game was going to be based off of a 
 childrens show about Pi&ntilde; atas, but when I found out that it was basically a hybrid of The 
 Sims and Harvest Moon, my interest in it sparked. In the months prior to the games release I saw 
 it from being a relatively simple game to one maybe too complex for the aimed audience.
  
  Gameplay: If anyone has played a Harvest Moon game, youll be right at home at the beginning of 
 this game. You have a crappy garden with a bunch of crap in it, and its up to you to clear it 
 all out. As you progress you will get your first pi&ntilde; ata, and will think hey, this isnt 
 so hard to attract pi&ntilde; atas. But later you will come to find that those thoughts of simplicity 
 are thrown out the window. Rare has managed to make this game extremely deep and time consuming. 
 Once you get going and have a few pi&ntilde; atas in the garden, things get hectic. Youre given 
 the tasks of maintaining the garden, attracting pi&ntilde; atas, getting them to become residents, 
 building homes, making babies, breaking up fights, and the list goes on and on. I honestly couldnt 
 see how a kid who likes the show and buys the game for that reason could keep up with that. But 
 the fact that the game is pretty busy isnt a bad thing. It keeps you with things to do all the 
 time and gives you goals to reach. This game is really about managing your priorities. Theres 
 a lot to do and a lot to accomplish. Any veteran of The Sims or Harvest Moon will be right at home 
 with this.
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics: By far one of the most colorful releases for the 360 yet. The environments, while not 
 particularly stunning, have a very unique feel to them. I am particularly fond of the pi&ntilde; atas 
 paper-mache texture; it looks very true to life. Rare always tends to make great looking, colorful 
 games, and they dont disappoint here.
  
  8/10
  
  Sound: Most of the text from helpers are voice acted, and if youre lazy like me, this comes in 
 handy. I know it was VOd for kids who dont read well, but who cares? All the pi&ntilde; atas have 
 their own noises and the garden is filled with other noises too. It has a soundtrack much like 
 Banjo Kazooie, very cartoony, and it fits very well.
  
  8/10
  
  Value: Like I said, anyone who is a fan of The Sims and Harvest Moon will love this game. Its 
 guaranteed to keep you occupied for hours upon hours. Whether you play it for hours on end, or 
 just as a break from curb stomping people in Gears of War, Viva Pi&ntilde; ata will satisfy anyone 
 looking for a way to relax during games, or a great sandbox game.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Well from the cover art and the title you wouldnt think this would be a game for adults but dont 
 let the exterior fool fool you. Its whats inside that is truely amazing. This game will have you 
 playing for hours on end. Just when you think you can shut this game off something wonderful happens 
 and it keeps you playing for another 3hrs. The graphics are pretty nice looking for this type of 
 game too. The game starts off kind of slow but after about 1 or 2 hours the game really starts 
 to take off. The game is really good at teaching the controls and what to do in the first hour 
 and before you know it your a pro gardener. This game is a must for all 360 owners. I bought 3 
 games this week: Gears of War, Call of Duty 3, and Viva Pinata. I play Viva Pinata more than any 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildbucingBill
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Bought this game early yesterday and have about 7 to 8 hours in. The game is, contrary to the preview 
 on gamespot , not hard to manage. The game is colorful and the graphics are sharp. I like the fact 
 that my daughter, wife and myself (hardcore gamer) , can actually enjoy the 360 together as a family. 
 I own sports, fighting, and fps games. This is a different experience. It reminds me of a much 
 better animal crossing/harvest moon type game. Just a quick little side note.. When I picked up 
 this game at eb games, the guys behind the counter were kind of smirking about the game. I want 
 to be the chewnicorn , remarks and laughing. Guys, just becuase a game isnt Gears of War (which 
 I also bought) , doesnt mean a man can't enjoy a game with his family. A game is just that. A GAME. 
 It is fun. Try it for the 49.99.. It will be well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsarmy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Its a game for all ages, and it works well as a casual escape from all other 360 titles. Very engadging, 
 deep, and colorful. I was suprised to see how long the game played, not finished but didnt expect 
 to play this long throught the game so far. I do not ussually play these types of games, but i 
 bought it with Gears of War and i like it as an escape after i get a head ache from playing the 
 craziness that is GOW. In all Viva Pinata is a plesant suprise, i hope to see some more depth in 
 online play with future updates! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I'd say that rare is definetley back! The game is fun to play, there's definetley a lot to do, 
 so don't worry about not finding anything to do in this game. The only small part is the chocolate 
 coins. It's hard to get a lot, so that's probably the trickiest part. It might be a little bit 
 difficult for younger audiences, because there are so many things you have to remember, which young 
 ones might have a hard time with. But, in short, the game is really fun, and that you shouldn't 
 be thrown back by it's cute kid style, it's has enough complicated parts for older audiences to 
 enjoy. In short, buy this game! You won't regret it because it's so much fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby911
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  A very fun game that gives you what you want: Something easy to understand and pickup but very 
 deep in gameplay and mechanics. I love this game and im 19 years old so you really dont need to 
 be a kid to like it alot, I play tons of gears of war and also viva. The graphics and creatures 
 are amazing and I enjoy every minute of my garden which is full of little creatures and just right 
 to my taste. Also you can specilize in different types of creatures, I personally have a lot of 
 water creatures and not as many land based which fits me.
  
  Reminds me alot of animal crossing which is another amazeing game.
  
  GO BUY VIVA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPlow4525
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so contrary to popular belief, this game is not just for little kids (the review just before 
 me does not help stress this point) . If you like The Sims, Sim City, or really any kind of environment 
 building/customizing game, you will enjoy this. The graphics are very stylish and is obviously 
 what Rare excels in. There is a lot of subtle humor for both kids and adults alike. Ok, so the 
 style of the game is all dandy, but how does it play? Great! The controls feel very comfortable, 
 using the left stick to move around the world, the right stick to adjust the camera pitch, the 
 triggers zoom in and out, and the A, B, X, and Y buttons are all context specific. You start the 
 game with a helpful tutorial that gives you a rundown of the game and how to attract Pinatas and 
 are given a shovel to start your gardening. After you get some soil tilled, you'll get your first 
 Pinata, and the game becomes a blur of fun from there as more and more Pinatas start inhabiting 
 your garden. I have been playing for about two or three hours and I can say that the only dull 
 moment in the game thus far was a fight scene between two Pinatas that went a little too long. 
 I could see this game giving hours upon hours of entertainment as you strive to perfect your garden. 
 Overall, the game is FUN, the graphics vivid and sharp, the sound is very fitting, and gameplay 
 can be extended for as long as you really want. As a side note to this review, I'm going to admit 
 that I am a 19 year old guy, and I am very much enjoying this game. If you have liked Rare's game 
 in the past, and are worried about the kidish factor of Viva Pinata, go rent it and try it out, 
 but I really don't think you can be disappointed by this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
