-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WALL-E
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/walle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Inviting presentation.
 Well-constructed cutscenes.
 Flying sections are fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is too simple.
 Shooting sections seem out of place.
 Worthless multiplayer.
 Unlockables aren't exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.4, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 146 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Heavy Iron Studios
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wall-E is overflowing with charm, but the simple gameplay makes the experience fall flat. 

  The main reason Pixar movies are so revered is that they are able to appeal to both adults and 
 children at the same time. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the games based on these 
 movies. Wall-E follows in the path of many cartoon adaptations before it -- taking the wholesome 
 aesthetic and crafting a trivial game around it while ignoring a large part of the film's audience 
 in the process. The mechanics in Wall-E are accessible enough that children eager to spend more 
 time with the lovable robot will find an inviting world, but the end result is too short and predictable 
 to provide value for any platforming veterans.          The cutscenes add some life to these electric 
 beings.      

  The story in Wall-E is about friendship and flowers. Like in the movie, you start off as a lone 
 robot on a dirty planet, left to clean up the trash of thoughtless generations after the humans 
 bolted for cleaner pastures. The first level is quiet and desolate. It's not often that platformers 
 present a world without any enemies in sight, but the early parts of Wall-E exist to highlight 
 his severe loneliness -- and that weight comes across quite powerfully. Wall-E eventually meets up 
 with a flying robot named Eve and gets to experience space travel firsthand. The cutscenes are 
 well done, telling most of the tale through gestures and robot groans that give a lot of personality 
 to the mechanical beings. Though the cinematics were not taken directly from the film, they are 
 still carefully crafted to express the subtleties of Wall-E and Eve's wide range of emotions. The 
 environments are inviting and eye-pleasing, though they are sometimes too sparse, especially in 
 the space station levels.  

  The quiet energy of the first few levels doesn't lead to action packed gameplay, but it still provides 
 a few thrills. Your time on Earth is spent navigating through elaborate obstacle courses. As Wall-E, 
 you can jump and make tiny cubes of trash that you can hurl at targets. There is a variety of different 
 garbage types -- heavy, magnetic, and explosive -- but the puzzle solving is extremely light. The key 
 is always next to the locked door, so navigating this filthy world is very straightforward. The 
 platforming elements are a little more complex, forcing you to climb walls vertically and even 
 upside down with your magnetic bottom, but the paths are always linear so any sort of directional 
 acumen is left by the wayside.  

  The Eve sections follow the accessible path displayed in the Wall-E portions, but they spice up 
 the action a bit. Eve is able to fly around the environment at will, which turns out to be surprisingly 
 fun. There are two types of flying sections: open air and tunnel races. In the open air, you have 
 to search for plant life and other collectables hidden on the surface. The freedom of flight works 
 well here because the controls are so responsive. It's easy to fly through pipes and under bridges, 
 but the lack of imagination in these objectives is disappointing. The levels are ultrastreamlined 
 so it removes any challenge from the scavenger hunts and the space is too confined to make racing 
 interesting for long. It's a shame the developers couldn't have expanded on this section because 
 the act of flight is really well done.  

  The shooting sections make up the final gameplay type, which occur late in the game. Once in the 
 spaceship, you have to fight your way through a small army of robots. The hectic pace and destructive 
 violence seems out of place here compared to the rest of the game. You can pull the camera in over 
 your shoulder and mow down robots with quick aiming, or you can let the game auto-target anyone 
 who walks in front of you. The lock-on is too responsive, making quick work of your enemies before 
 you have time to worry about your health dropping. The sheer number of foes you'll have to face 
 here make these sections too long and repetitive. When the simple joy of platforming and flying 
 is replaced by nonstop shooting, the game loses much of its charm.  

           Flying around as Eve is freeing.      

  There are a number of movie related unlockables, 
 but the rewards aren't compelling enough to demand a second play-through. The multiplayer mode 
 is only good for a quick taste before it loses its appeal. There is just something unsettling about 
 taking part in a deathmatch with four happy Wall-Es wheeling around with laser guns. The main adventure 
 can be finished in less than 10 hours, and after you play through the story once, there just isn't 
 much reason to go back again.  

  The presentation is the only part of Wall-E that separates it from the glut of other platformers 
 out there. The different gameplay mechanics offered by Eve and Wall-E provide some variety in this 
 adventure, but the ideas are never fully fleshed out. This is still a fun game for anyone anxious 
 to spend more time with the garbage-making robot, but there isn't enough depth or replay value 
 to raise this above similar movie-licensed offerings.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  There are certain people who will dismiss this game without looking at it twice.
  But for those that take the time, they will find it easy to pick up and play.
  
  Although Wall-E 
 does suffer from the usual movie tie-in problems of repetition and a short single player campaign, 
 it redeems itself with detailed levels and graphics and also some great level ideas (Eve's Space 
 levels are especially soothing and trippy) .
  
  You do follow a very similar pattern of: collect item, fix machine, make cube, throw it at enemy. 
 And I would be lieing if I said this doesn't get very old, very quickly. But some of the early 
 levels have a great puzzle feel about them. For anyone that remembers the childrens game ScrewBallScramble 
 you'll have a good idea of what I'm talking about.
  
  It may not be for everyone but if you've ever played any other childrens movie tie-ins (Bee Movie, 
 Open Season, The Spiderwick Chronicles) then you will soon realise that this is the best of the 
 bunch by a long shot and has alot more to offer adults than any of the rest.
  
  Not amazing but a great break for inbetween those heavier games in your collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Most Games based on Films, lets face it, Suck. This one was of a different breed. A Perfect adaptaion 
 of the Pixar film and just as fun to play. The Story is exactly the same as the plot of the film 
 with extended, not modified scenes. Wall-E rolls around solving puzzles and Reapairing Machines 
 and Collecting Key Cards to enter the next section. I found collecting the Walle Logo Tokens to 
 be a fun touch for extended gameplay. The best thing about the game is the combat, I am a FPS Rambo 
 style player, but this game still manages to be satifying with nothing but thrown trash cubes for 
 ammo. EVE has a gun of course. I first played the game through the Xbox Live Demo and immediatly 
 wanted to buy it and finish it. I recommand it to any Young One or Fun Loving Adults. as for other 
 gamers like mem, its a totaly different story. I may like it but i can say with certainty that 
 most of you wont. Its Simple, Its Easy, Its Fun. Thats it. No Challanges here besides puzzles. 
 Pro Gamers, Stay Away, Fun Loving Simple Game Lovers Rejoice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I really loved the movie so renting this game was a no-brainer. I passed it in about 4-5 hours 
 with very little difficulty. There were a couple of parts in the game that were a bit frustrating 
 to get passed, but overall it was pretty easy.
  
  There are special items that unlock multi-player levels and the achievements are all reasonable 
 - not too difficult but not too easy to get. 
  
  I did not get to play with anyone the multi-player games so I have nothing to say about that feature 
 in the game. 
  
  The controls work well and the graphics are good but nothing to get happy about. 
  
  The cut 
 scenes between levels, and within parts in levels, were a nice part of the game - they made we 
 more excited to get the DVD as soon as it is released. 
  
  If you have kids that loved the movie they will enjoy this game, just know you will have to help 
 them to pass a couple parts. My recommendation is that you wait until it is on the bargain bin 
 somewhere (I got Meet the Robinsons for $8 at ToysRUs recently) then it will be worth every penny. 
 But don't buy it for more than $30.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockislife321
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  First off anyone playing this game should have the forethought that it was made completely and 
 utterly for children.
  That being said one's expectations can not be too high especially after seeing the plethora of 
 mediocre movie-based games that have been coming out of late.
  This game is no different than any other. The only difference is in the heart warming story that 
 only pixar could provide.
  I advice anyone with a heart to play it just for the story and see what you feel.
  It's well 
 worth a rental but not much else.
  I would tell you to buy it for your child or perhaps kid brother.
  Maybe it'll help expand their 
 minds WHO KNOW!?
  Just play it brah.
  And see the movie while you're at it.
  It's wicked good.
  So anyway I do have a question though.
  why would ANYONE in their right 
 mind shell out 50$ for this when they could be putting that money towards metal gear solid 4?
 
  I mean honestly all money ever spent on this game is instantly wasted... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This written review is for Wall-E, a game based off the same movie made by Pixar. Now, everyone 
 is skeptical when these movie games come out. I gave this one a chance since it was made by THQ, 
 probably one of the better developers that sometimes works on movie games. The review will be split 
 into categories for easier digestion, beginning with the first segment, Pros/Cons.
  
  Pros
  -Captures same feeling as the movie.
  -Easy to play, kid friendly.
  -Multiplayer options.
 
  -References to other Pixar movies.
  
  Cons
  -A few bugs/glitches can catch you off guard.
  -Short game with little replayability.
  
  
 ----------------
  [Gameplay]
  ----------------
  This game is definitely based moreso on simple puzzles and platforming then straight-up action. 
 At first Wall-E is disorienting to control, but once you get the handle of him it's pretty easy. 
 You can move around, jump, pick up cubes and throw them, as well as shoot when assisted by EVE 
 (the other robot counterpart) . The puzzles are never overbearing and are simple yet enjoyable, 
 while the platforming sometimes suffers from Wall-E's odd dimension and how his jumping is animated. 
 When you do have to shoot enemies you just pull on the right trigger to do so. Back to the puzzles... 
 you will accomplish these by using a variety of different trash that you compact into cubes to 
 pass obstacles. For instance, if you need to charge up a pylon you compact a charged cube and hold 
 it while standing near the pylon. Other cubes consist of "heavy" (weighing down objects) , "magnetic" 
 (drawing up metal platforms or pushing away metallic objects) , and even plain trash ones that fly 
 farther.
  
  Occasionally on 2 of the 9 levels you will get to play as EVE where you basically fly around and 
 do directives (small objectives within the mission) . She controls easy, although the inverted controls 
 for up/down might have some people struggling for a few minutes. Besides her directive objectives, 
 EVE also has speedy missions through tunnels where a clock keeps you flying as fast as you can 
 through small corridors, avoiding closing doors and hitting checkpoints.
  
  Other than all of that, you'll have your usual movie collectibles. The nice touch here is, there's 
 one collectible on each level that is a Toy Story figure. The collectibles are easy to spot and 
 provide a small bit of replayability, a nice change from games where you have to do an extraordinary 
 amount of things to get one collectible.
  
  ------------------------
  [Graphics/Sound]
  ------------------------
  The graphics are decent enough for a game such as this. The models 
 work, and there isn't any popping textures. Most of the environments are somewhat recycled and 
 bland but there's enough detail to make it look nice. The sound can sometimes get annoying, but 
 it uses some of the same music as the movie. Other than that, a couple sound bites are re-used 
 way too often in a short amount of time (such as announcements when you're in one of the spaceships) .
 
  
  ---------
  [Value]
  ---------
  Pricing in at $50 for the next-gen consoles and I believe $40 for the last-gen, this game isn't 
 AS pricey as other movie games. For that price, you'll get 9 levels, and a secret unlockable level, 
 that lasts about 5 hours give or take. Now, this is coming from someone who is almost 19, so if 
 a kid is playing this you'll have a lot more replayability and it will probably take twice as long 
 I assume.
  
  ---------------------
  [Achievements]
  ---------------------
  A majority of the achievements are easy, and this game is a must-rent for hardcore junkies. The 
 only ones that may give you trouble are completing levels without dieing. You won't need a list 
 for these easy-to-find collectibles, and the game is much more fun than all those other ones. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
