-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wanted: Weapons of Fate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/wanted/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bending bullets around corners is cool.
 Slow-motion sequences look great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Enemies are predictable and lack variety.
 Inconsistent frame rate.
 Cutscenes look awful.
 Playing as unlockable bosses adds nothing to the game.
 Takes less than six hours to beat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 25, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 225 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: GRIN
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This movie-inspired shooter is fun for a while, but the action becomes repetitive long before you 
 reach the end of the six-hour story. 

  Set shortly after the events of last year's  Wanted  movie, Weapons of Fate is a stylish third-person 
 shooter in which you play predominantly as movie protagonist Wesley Gibson. Armed with skills inherited 
 from your also-playable super-assassin father, you spend much of the game gunning down goons while 
 effortlessly moving between positions of cover, bending bullets around corners, and slowing down 
 time so dramatically that you can shoot enemies' bullets out of the air. This is as fun as it sounds, 
 but the action becomes repetitive after a couple of hours, and after five or six you'll have avenged 
 your mother's murder, beaten the game, and have little reason to ever pick it up again.        

  Suppressing and subsequently flanking enemies is another key to success, particularly in the levels 
 prior to when you learn how to bend bullets. When you fire blindly from behind an object in the 
 direction of an enemy, you invariably force that enemy to take cover, which affords you an opportunity 
 (clearly indicated by an unnecessary glow around the edge of your screen) to move to a different 
 position unseen. It's satisfying to outmaneuver enemies in this way, especially when you can clearly 
 see them still firing on your previous position, but it also feels a little too easy and mechanical 
 at times, given that almost every enemy will fall for the exact same trick.  

  That's because many of the enemies in Weapons of Fate exhibit similar and ultimately very predictable 
 behavior. Enemies who look the same also behave the same, so you quickly learn which guys are going 
 to pop in and out of cover, which have the ability to dodge bullets  Matrix -style, and which are 
 crazy enough to charge at you and initiate a button-mashing melee minigame. Enemies also habitually 
 hide out close to exploding barrels or, when aboard a doomed passenger plane in one of the more 
 memorable levels, explosive fire extinguishers. Occasionally you'll encounter snipers whose laser 
 sights you have to avoid while moving in close enough to kill them, and there are a handful of 
 undemanding bosses to take down, but though the scenery changes, the action, sadly, does not.  
 

           If there are no bright red barrels or bright red fire extinguishers in sight, perhaps 
 you can find a bright red gas canister.      

  What variety there is comes courtesy of turret, sniper, and slow-motion sequences, but there aren't 
 many and they're not always a lot of fun. The problem with turret and sniper sequences is that, 
 by default, you spend all of your time in cover and can't see much of what's going on around you. 
 Consequently, when you pop up to take your shots, you're not entirely sure what's waiting at the 
 dangerous end of your crosshair. Oddly, though you're required to clear an area of enemies in these 
 sequences, there's never any real sense of urgency, so you can regenerate health by ducking back 
 into cover as often as you like. Slow-motion sequences look impressive; they're over-the-top enough 
 that playing them at regular speed would be impossible. Typically, when the action slows down to 
 a crawl, you have to shoot down bullets that are headed your way as well as take down the enemies 
 who fired them. The problem is that, looking past the flashy visuals, all you're doing is moving 
 a crosshair around the screen to target a number of barely moving objects before a timer runs out. 
 Any challenge in these sequences comes not from needing fast reflexes but from struggling to locate 
 enemies in the often dimly lit locales.  

  Even the most satisfying kills in Weapons of Fate -- bending bullets and being treated to slow-motion 
 close-ups of them spiraling through the air -- are rarely challenging. Killing just one enemy the 
 old-fashioned way earns you enough adrenaline (which is also the resource for slowing time) to 
 use the bullet-bending skill, and at that point you can even lock on to enemies who are completely 
 hidden. Then, while locked on, you simply use the analog stick to find a curved trajectory that 
 will reach your intended target without hitting anything else en route. This can be tricky if your 
 enemy is moving around a lot, but the enemies you use this skill to eliminate tend to be those 
 who stubbornly stay in cover.  

  Additionally, you might need to use bullet curving if, for some reason, your aiming reticle disappears 
 completely -- a bug that we experienced toward the end of the game, but which was corrected after 
 we resorted to using a bullet-bending shot to kill an enemy directly in front of us. You won't 
 necessarily encounter that same bug or any other when you play through the game, but technically 
 Weapons of Fate is a bit of a mess regardless. Visuals are uniformly rough around the edges (more 
 so on the Xbox 360 than on the PS3) , dead bodies occasionally writhe around on the ground, the 
 frame rate is inconsistent, and the load times are just long and frequent enough to be irritating. 
 Cutscenes recorded in-engine look noticeably worse than actual gameplay because they're compressed 
 to the point that, at times, they look like mosaics. Those same cutscenes also detract from the 
 unlockable option to play through the game as bosses that you've defeated; regardless of who you 
 play as, you always appear as Wesley in the cutscenes. This is sadly fitting, though, because regardless 
 of who you play as, you always use the exact same moves and weapons as Wesley -- a missed opportunity 
 for sure.  

           Shooting bullets out of the air is effortless during slow-motion sequences.      

 
  Playable bosses don't add much to the replay value, but if you're a completionist, you might at 
 least have some fun tracking down unlockable pieces of concept art and comic-book covers that are 
 hidden around every level. Finding one triggers a sound effect that all but mutes the more useful 
 sound effects in the world (a nearby explosion, for example) and, unfortunately, that's indicative 
 of how lackluster the sound design is throughout. Wesley singing softly to himself during a sniper 
 sequence muffles the otherwise loud noise of gunfire, the voice acting is unremarkable, and the 
 soundtrack is heavy-handed in the way that it rises and falls to let you know when the action is 
 about to heat up or has come to an end. There's no chance of you feeling any suspense as you progress 
 through an area after a gunfight, unsure of whether or not you got everyone, because the second 
 you kill the last enemy, the music dramatically changes.  

  Wanted: Weapons of Fate isn't just a short game; it's an easy one. Checkpoints are scattered liberally 
 throughout each of the linear levels, but given the prevalence of cover and the predictability 
 of enemies, you'll rarely need to use them. Even the unlikely event of running out of ammo doesn't 
 pose a big problem because, if you can get close enough to an enemy to melee him, just a single 
 button press is enough to kill. There's undoubtedly some fun to be had in Wanted: Weapons of Fate, 
 but there are so many superior shooters giving you more bang for your buck out there that it's 
 tough to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  When the WANTED comic was published, it encompassed a wonderfully graphic story about a mundane 
 loser becoming the world's most feared assassin, mostly due to entangled family business. The wonky 
 premise was even more engaging thanks to the amazing artwork that mimicked a Caucasian rap star, 
 humorous superhero motifs, and gritty street life. For any freak that demands more blood and f-bombs 
 from their comics, this series was gold! You can only imagine how excited I was for such content 
 making its way to theaters. Unfortunately, the movie played out in a world firmly grounded in realism. 
 The main hero retained his dorky facade, but the wild characters that populated the assassin underworld 
 carried cool names with overly normal looks  which was painfully boring to see on the big screen 
  so why not make a videogame based on such follies.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Any gamer familiar with third-person shooters, WANTED: Weapons of Fate, will be extremely easy to 
 jump into. The controls are your basic batch of aim, shoot, reload, interact, and melee attack. 
 Trickle in some generic strategy, and you got the cover mechanic; hiding behind obstacles in the 
 environment upright or crouching down, all the while blind-firing your weapon works nicely as a 
 diversion allowing for some nasty flank maneuvers. This is not a mandatory tactic for success, 
 even on the higher difficulty settings. Yet, the ability to move faster as you smoothly scurry 
 through cover does provide a small rush worth enjoying as you close in on unsuspecting targets. 
 
  Most of the game encourages tight quarter gunfights at medium range, and brutal up close melee 
 kills (which are repetitive, but none the less very satisfying) , which is common in these types 
 of games. The one major area where WoF boldly stands out is the bullet-curving mechanic. Playing 
 as Wesley the entire game (the simple nobody turned ruthless assassin) , you seem to be the only 
 character that possesses this wicked talent in the WANTED world. Quickly targeting an enemy hidden 
 behind cover, you can fire off a single shot that follows the bullet to its soon-to-be unhappy 
 destination. No worries though, as delightful as it is to watch a curving bullet peg some random 
 goon who thought they were safe, the sequence mostly occurs for the last man standing. 
  
  Following the events of the movie rather than the comic, WoF tugs you along for 9 brief chapters, 
 uncovering secrets about your unwarranted birth within a society of murderous zealots. Most of 
 this takes place in flashback form, but it's somewhat excusable since you get a chance to wreak 
 havoc as the father who birthed the assassin prodigy. Both characters play identical, but in due 
 time you gain access to some modified pistols that work as dual-wielding machine guns. When curving 
 bullets with these bad boys, you can produce a small explosion that can easily kill numerous enemies 
 with a well-placed shot. To perform the bullet curving technique continuously, you need adrenaline, 
 which is easily acquired from mowing down the opposition. Building up more adrenaline also grants 
 another ability that is very similar to what Matrix did for bullet-time; as you dash around objects 
 of cover, you can launch a stylish slow-motion maneuver that gives you enough time to pick off 
 a few targets and return to normal speed safely behind cover. Mastering such basic controls is 
 pivotal in finding any sort of pleasure in WoF, and that's even more painfully obvious as you battle 
 hordes of the same 6 generic bad guys from start to finish. Dispatching some enemies requires a 
 bit of patience rather than skill, but next to the handful of pathetic bosses, you'll never really 
 be stuck in one area too long.
  
  VISUALS
  Expecting any game that serves up loads of bloodshed to offer robust variety is like asking for 
 nutritional value from your local fast food spot  it just doesn't work that way. With WoF, this 
 apparent reality is much more bad than it is good. Besides the extremely linear environments, you 
 move from one shooting gallery to the next, never really feeling apart of a real breathing world. 
 The cover mechanic is undoubtedly a nice perk to the overall game; but as you traverse city rooftops, 
 multi-leveled churches, underground burial sites, small towns, and various interiors, everything 
 seems abandoned and scattered as if some tornado came through and arranged objects for cover-frenzy 
 combat.
  What really wore my patience thin is the lack of fashionably competent bad guys, who apparently 
 all dress from the same closet. I understand how that sounds petty and superficial, but I can't 
 even begin to express the mind-numbing repetition that follows with killing waves of hooded, faceless, 
 bland colored goons. From a distance, you can barely distinguish the difference, and the death 
 animations are suitable. Up close, you notice how these hired hands seem better dressed for a pirate 
 raid rather than an intense gunfight  which is just plain ridiculous.
  The only characters that really stand out are the leading men  Wesley and his father  who are 
 modeled and animated well enough for cut scenes and in-game action. Dawning the sleek all-black 
 assassin suit from the comics is pretty cool too; since the eyes leave glowing trails, you feel 
 like a proper death dealer ripping up guys in close combat and skulking through environments. A 
 few of the bosses wiggle into the spot light through out the story, and share an equal amount of 
 detail as the main heroes. Unfortunately, they spend just as much time behind cover as you do.
 
  
  AUDIO
  Surprisingly enough, the voice work in WoF actually adds to the limited experience in a positive 
 way. You can't instantly skip cut scenes, so when you listen in on the story and hear the colorful 
 exchanges between characters, it's actually pretty good. Most of the cast from the movie seems 
 to be intact vocally, or at the very least very similar in tone and pitch. The somber emotion you 
 hear from Wesley as he narrates his flashbacks is spot on, but it really clashes with his "action" 
 voice that seems corny and way too forced. 
  As for the mountains of faceless bad guys wearing T-shirts with bull's eyes line up, they are mostly 
 French. This could easily be summarized with the story taking place in some part of Europe a majority 
 of the game; but in all due respect, I think the developers dislike croissant lovers with a passion. 
 Music and gunfire effects also suffer a notch in simplicity. Since you can only carry 2 weapons 
 (a large handgun and a pair of silenced machine gun pistols) , the sounds are pretty standard. Bad 
 guys share in the normalcy, offering numerous generic grunts and gunfire sounds that never really 
 pack a lot of punch. The only effect that really grabs you by the ear is when you curve bullets, 
 which doesn't sound as crisp as the movie version, but it makes using the skill well worth it every 
 time.
  
  EXTRAS
  Games like WoF are what I like to consider, "reliable rentals". Something you can gain from these 
 sub-par adventures is not measured in the same manner as high caliber must-buy games. This is a 
 good thing in most cases, because the value and experience (no matter how brief) always has a decent 
 way of balancing out. One breeze through the story in a few hours on any difficulty can rake in 
 about 300 gamer points alone, about 300 more on the Killer difficulty. Padding that score with 
 explosive/bullet curve kills, melee attacks, hidden bonus content, and eliminating bosses under 
 special conditions is a nice perk; but the lack of creativity in providing worthwhile side objectives 
 is sorely missed. Used as "extra" content, you can play as 12 different characters, but the variation 
 is mostly cosmetic and has no affect on cut-scenes or audio. Which blows juuust a little bit once 
 you realize they all move and animate identical to Wesley and carry the same 2 weapons the story 
 offers.
  If you're not bored with the game by now, feel free to tackle some extra modes like Close Combat 
 Mode (50 GP) ; which plays just the same as the regular game, except you have to melee attack a 
 certain number of baddies before moving onto the next area. Head Shot Mode (50 GP) is similar, 
 but instead you must splatter a certain number of faceless domes. And there is Time Attack Mode 
 (50 GP) , which basically pits you against 10 other completion times posted by people who worked 
 on the game.
  
  OVERALL
  When I first read the WANTED comic, I felt immense joy in experiencing a well crafted, adult oriented, 
 anti-hero story. The adaptation of a big budget movie made sense, but I had my doubts, and those 
 feelings were cemented with Angelina Jolie's starring role. To rattle on and on about being a "hardcore" 
 fan and feeling terribly disappointed would be expected, but its only right to state the obvious 
  WoF could have been a LOT worse!
  As a fairly decent movie-based game, the presentation is solid in many areas, especially in the 
 voice work department. Sadly, many areas of great gaming appeal seem to be nonexistent as longevity, 
 purpose, variety, and polish damn near miss their targets. Like most games based on other works 
 of entertainment, you can't help but wonder, "Just how difficult is it to execute with all the 
 needed material already present?" Maybe it's become trendy to ignore source material  at the very 
 least, WoF offers a decent distraction for the weekend, but don't expect much more after that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodnathan
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2009 1:04 am PT
Review:  wanted weponds of fate is a great game it just needs a bit of more work on the graphics and the 
 things you can do after you beaten the game the gameplay is amazing you get to cure buttlets, slow 
 down time and get to do some very good close combat work the story of the game is avarege it is 
 easy to follow bacilly you have to revnge your mothers death by killing the guy that killed your 
 mother the boss fights in the game are easy as the music in the game was good not to bad the voice 
 acting was is not bad it took me about 6 hours to complete the game on normal there are heaps of 
 charaters from the movie in the game if you in to the movie and the comics it is a much buy if 
 you in to graphics and stuff to do after the game its not for u the gameplay was the main reason 
 i brought the game and the movie and comics so i give it a 7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3fan18
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Never before have I played such a imaginative game. Wanted: Weapons of Fate was a shocking display 
 of imagination and hard work. The campaign was short, but sweet. The game had excellent graphics, 
 decent audio and excellent gameplay. the last time i played such a good game i was playing "Assassin's 
 Creed". Wanted: Weapons of Fate had excellent gun, close quarters and acrobatic action that left 
 you utterly breathless from start to end. It is true that it is short, but i believe in quality, 
 not quantity. The negative side is that it has exaggerated blood, toilet-mouth language, and crude, 
 bitter themes. Player discretion is advised.
  
  But for those who love action. And blood. And, er, truck driver language, this game is for you. But 
 for teens (who have parent permission of course) that are a little more mature and can take to 
 hear adult themes without committing the classic "Monkey-see -monkey -do" should pick this up as 
 well.
  
  -Valkyrie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  Weapons of Fate was a fun game for about 5 hours or so, really short. I think it was okay to be 
 so short because any longer and whatever they added would really felt like filler. Wesley in this 
 continuation of the story reeeeealy is cocky during the cut-scenes and almost became annoying. 
 Weird since in the movie he was more a sympathetic character, now he is just a wisecracking killer. 
 
  
  Anyway the special attack of curved bullets was fun for awhile but got boring near the end, kinda 
 wished they had more weapons then the pistols and machine pistols with a sniper/machine turret 
 scene here and there. Don't think this would be great game at full price but $20 in the bargin 
 bin and I might pick it up to run thru the other levels in the different modes like head shot and 
 close up. 
  
  If anything playing the game makes me want to pick up some of the comics the movie and game was 
 based off of.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  Decent game but lack of variety
  
  Again my first post, don't make it too harsh. I just finished the game on the PC with a wireless 
 360 controller. The game took me no longer than 6 hours, so its fairly short. However, action packed 
 through out the whole way. I always thought Gears of War provides the best cover system, but this 
 proved I was wrong. The cover system in this game worked so beautifully, that the "A" button on 
 the controller might be the button that you pressed the most time through out the whole game. Anyhow, 
 the plot went straight, but many scenes are unnecessary. To me the highlight of the game were the 
 curving bullets, by the same concept of the movie, this game provides the same zoom in slow mo 
 effect which made me enjoyed all the instant slow mo kill I shot. Wesley provides quite a different 
 personality in the game, it seems that he's the only one living in the modern world, and everything 
 else is like back at the start of 1900s. A few lines made me laugh, but some jokes were quite lame. 
 The bad part was other than the curving bullets and the slow time effect there was nothing that 
 brought up my attention anymore. And it also gets boring after a while. Probably the creators got 
 tired, and just scribbled the second part of the game. Overall this game deserves 7.5 and hopes 
 the 2nd would improve.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  I've played this game on both PC and Xbox 360 and there is no difference between the two.
  Game suffers from bad controls that sometimes makes you crazy but if you can overlook the fact 
 that your aim is slow regardless of the setting you're good to go.
  The storyline is not that bad at all, and there is a lot of cut scenes that are (thank the makers) 
 skipable. The boss fights are easy to the point that it makes you wonder is this the right difficulty 
 setting and if the controls worked my opinion is that you can't die in the game. But the controls 
 are that slow that you have to die. There are a lot of neat tricks you can do in the game as curving 
 bullets and slowing time and it's rather cheep it'll cost you a few adrenalline points that you 
 rack up as you kill your foes jumping from cover to cover. The cover system is the best part in 
 the game. 
  Overall Wanted is fun and there are interesting perks once you finnish other than unlockin' killer 
 mode...
  If you wan't to have fun one afternoon rent it and play you'll finish it in no time 
  enjoy... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Victor122982
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Exactly, after watching the game review by gamespot decided to write my own review for those that 
 really know about games. Ok, Im assuming that everybody that bought or are about to buy/rent the 
 game have seen the movie ... well movie was just full of slick gun shooting and jumps/tricks and 
 all the hollywood stunts well thats what the game gives, exactly what was in the movie... slick 
 shooting, slowing down the time and does as you please ... kill some bad guys in different ways 
 and of course a bad plot/story. The story in the game is basically the same as the movie with few 
 different tweaks there and there. The movie did well of course it was because of the special effects 
 NOT the plot/story. 
  Now the complaints about the way they made the character to move and switch from cover to cover, 
 I thought it was pretty nice, most of the game shooting battles occur in small areas/rooms so you 
 dont need to be running around a small hall or room and just shoot like crazy, the cover system 
 realy comes in handy in small areas. Slowing down the time system is also nice, easy yes but its 
 fun I quite enjoyed it. There are few bugs but mostly unoticeable... There are bosses if I could 
 call them that are at the end of each level, they kinda suck because I believe they made them way 
 to easy and without much support from their people, you kill 2 or 3 bad guys and then the boss 
 is on his own. Plot of course is bad, but you cant expect anything better because the movie lacked 
 plot as well. You are an assassin of an elite group and kill some bad guys and revenge your moms 
 death in the movie was actually your dads death but still the same cheesy plot.
  
  I gave it 8/10 - Nice action game, cant ask for more than that. Gameplay was easy and hard at times. 
 Graphics werent the best but very impressive for a game thats based on a movie.
  Decide for yourself, it really depends on what you like ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda101280
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:11 am PT
Review:  Okay, while I don't disagree with any of the "Bad" points gamespot listed for their review, I do 
 think the game deserves slightly higher than a 6, 7 or 7.5 I think is a bit more fair. My main 
 complaint with the game is how short it is, for 59.99 in today's economy, I kinda expect more than 
 5 hours of gameplay from a title.
  
  It's true the enemy AI becomes very bland as you play through, all enemies of the same type act/react 
 exactly the same, you know exactly what to do to take out any given enemy type pretty early on 
 and that never differs. But all that stuff aside, the game is highly fun, I mean the curving bullets 
 for me just never got old. Though I have to admit this game was more fun to play on the medium 
 difficulty than it was on the harder setting simply b/c the bullet curving is the fun part of the 
 game. On 'The Killer' difficulty setting the soft target locking for the bullet curving mechanic 
 becomes a bit more "sensitive" to manage, making it slightly more frustrating. It's much more intuitive 
 on the medium difficulty setting so it's much easier to get quick and accurate bullet curving shots 
 off w/o breaking stride.
  
  Again, this is really a thorough review I simply thought gamespot was slightly over critical. Like 
 I said I don't disagree with their points, that's all true but the game is still just very fun 
 to play in my opinion, I just wish it would have been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  first off i liked the movie so i thought this game would have a good multiplayer or something, 
 the game is single player only.... no co-op or anything.. this game is a decent rent, but i was 
 so bored throughout the whole game that i only recommend the game to wanted fans and people looking 
 for an average shoot em up game that takes little skill and is really repetitive... the language 
 in the game contains tooo much profanity... profanity is fine, but in this game they say s word 
 pants, and the f word constantly for no reason whatsoever, making the game cheesy, the story is 
 based on the movie, but with bosses and you play as the main characters dad.... the game is really 
 boring, is unplayable to some, and has little replay value... the weapons are decent... a gun and 
 a machine gun, no grenades or anything.... the enemy ai is alright... but the game suffers from 
 not exciting me, it was like playing dark sector, with the bourne conspiracy and the matrix thrown 
 in... just a bland game and forgettable to me at least... rental for some, buy it for 20 dollars 
 maybe.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  If you are fan of the movie, and not the comic, then this game is for you. But that doesn't mean 
 to rush out and buy it, because the game is only around 5 hours. On top of that, the gameplay just 
 isn't that original. You have a cover system, quick time events, and levels that keep you going 
 on just one path. Yes, the bullet bending is neat, but one unique feature can't be your only reason 
 for making a game. The story is a sequel to the movie, and while decent, it is just a filler so 
 you can shoot some more thugs. Graphically, its horrible, with lo-res tuxtures and bad animations. 
 You could pass this game as a late PS2 or Xbox game, no lie. Sound is no better, because the guns, 
 main part of the game, sound flat. It is cool to see James McAvoy reprise his role as Wesley, but 
 like the rest of the actors, he doesn't seem to care about the emotions he puts into the character. 
 Overall, Wanted isn't terrible, it's just not that original, and doesn't give you much incentive 
 to play through it again. This is a rental if you are a fan of Wanted and action games, however, 
 those looking for the next big game might want to hold off on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bj586
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing wanted weapons of fate for about 5 hours so far and I've found it to be a fun 
 3rd person shooter. However it certainly isn't perfect. The curving bullets is about the only unique 
 feature this shooter brings to the table, the other gameplay mechanics are all derivative of other 
 3rd person shooters and I've seen them all before. the slowing of time in this game reminds me 
 forcefully of stranglehold, the cover and shooting are extremely similar to gears of war. all this 
 aside (I mean c'mon how many new features can a 3rd person shooter offer that haven't already been 
 done a hundred times?) The gameplay is fast paced and intense. the gun fights (especially the rail 
 shooting sequences) are awesome. the boss fights are definitely not the best i've seen but they 
 are at least an enjoyable distraction from the somewhat monotonous endless gun play. the story 
 won't be enough (alone) to keep you coming back as it is rather linear. overall it is a solid shooter 
 with a lot of fun moments, but shooting the same enemies over and over again can get rather dull 
 as the game progresses and it doesn't really bring too much to the table in the way of new and 
 innovative gameplay. I'd rent it first.
  all in all 7/10 
  
  -Bryan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IFLBerlin
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Up front: Game is inconsistent but still enjoyable.
  
  Total score: 6 out of 10
  Gameplay: 6 out of 10
  Graphics: 6 out of 10
  Replay Value: 7 out of 10
  
  In this continuation 
 of the Hollywood-Molestation of one of comics' greatest ever miniseries, you play as both Wesley 
 Gibson and his father Cross, both in the employ of a Fraternity of Killers that "kill one to save 
 a thousand". Which "one" that is, is determined by a Loom of Fate, which gives kill-orders in binary 
 code. Yes, it is as ridiculous as it sounds. Probably worse. But the story here isn't really the 
 important part. Suffice to say that you will play background flashbacks as Wesley's father Cross, 
 as well as continue the story from the (I'm refraining from an evaluation here) film as Wesley. 
 In your first play-through, you'll also play through some minor tutorial levels every time you 
 progress in the game and unlock a new ability. (Thankfully, these tutorials do not appear again 
 in a second play-through) .
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is, you guessed it, inconsistent. Which will be the catch-phrase for this game: INCONSISTENT. 
 It's a pretty standard 3rd-person shooter with cover system, a bloody close-combat "system" (run 
 up to someone, press a button: dead) and a few quirks and perks, one of them being Wesley's and 
 Cross' special abilities. Special abilities can give you an edge in combat, but using them costs 
 adrenaline points, which you can fill up by killing enemies. As soon as you get access to the first 
 special ability (bullet curving) you'll also get your first adrenaline point to fill up. As you 
 progress through the game you will get more abilities as well as more adrenaline points to use.
 
  Bullet curving is fun. No doubt about it. Once you get the ability and grow accustomed to the 
 controls, you'll look to bend as many bullets as you can. Bullet curving does cost you one adrenaline 
 point, but for each enemy you kill, you get one back. Meaning if you use one AP to kill, it fills 
 right back up. Which is actually pretty nice.
  The second ability, "Enhanced Quick Movements", is a bullet-time like option in which you can move 
 from cover to cover with time slowing down and your fire rate going up. It's fun to use, but I 
 rarely found myself in a situation where I would use this instead of bullet curving, especially 
 since it costs two adrenaline points and doesn't last long (which all changes once you apply some 
 cheats, but more on that later) . 
  Later in the game you'll get access to Cross' double Uzis, which come with their own abilities: 
 bullet curving will now cost two APs but create a shrapnel explosion that kills several enemies.
 
  
  The second main feature is the cover system ("Main" because you'll be spending 90% of the game 
 in or moving to cover) .
  The cover system works up to a point, that point being you wanting to move differently as the pre-scripted 
 "Quick Cover"-paths allow you to do. For those not familiar with the demo, WWOF employs a Gears 
 of War like cover system with a few enhancements, namely the ability to move to a different cover 
 nearby, whether it's left, right or in front of you. If a "move to cover" path is displayed you 
 do a nifty move to cover the distance without exposing yourself too much. Once in cover, you can 
 peek out, aim and shoot or blind fire. Blind fire can be used to suppress enemies, which gives 
 you a speed boost when moving in cover and from cover to cover to help with flanking maneuvers 
 (which you will be forced to do when your enemies have a riot shield to hide behind) . This so called 
 "Cover-Chain" mode is useful to quickly cover some distance and better position, but is offset 
 by the tantalizing slow movement of the character behind cover. So while you may jump from one 
 cover to the next in a fraction of a second, moving in cover just takes way too much time and leaving 
 the cover breaks the "Cover-Chain". As I said, the cover works fine until you don't want to go 
 where the arrow is pointing. Sometimes you can't move through a door unless you leave your cover 
 and just walk through it. Also, you have to face the cover you want to move to, which is very annoying 
 when you find yourself taking fire from behind. If there are several covers in range, it's sometimes 
 hard to really go where you want to go, but it works well enough most of the time.
  One thing that really annoyed me, however, was when the wacky camera angle when popping out of 
 cover stops you from shooting at an enemy you should be able to shoot at. Even though your guns 
 are clear of the obstruction, your cross-hairs are blocked by it and you do not register hits, 
 even if your bullets actually go past said obstruction and should hit the target. There are several 
 of these instances, which in my opinion is just pretty much inexcusable. The only really new thing 
 about the cover, was the fact, that when you're in cover and close enough to an enemy (say, you're 
 on one side of a box, he's on the other) , you can do a melee kill around the cover. Which is nice, 
 bloody fun.
  
  Sprinkled throughout the game are also some turret-scenes, some sniping and the Assassin-Time events, 
 which are pre-scripted scenes in which you don't move but only shoot at enemies and/or their bullets. 
 I am assuming that it was bullets I was shooting at, but it really wasn't clear. The events are 
 a nice little change of pace, but generally you'll be wishing for them to be over or that you could've 
 played through the settings yourself normally (one of the parts seen in the demo I was having the 
 most hopes for, the vertical airliner, is such an event, and it cheated me out of climbing from 
 aisle to aisle like I so much wanted to) . On the Hard difficulty these tend to be some of the most 
 frantic and exciting parts of the game, if only because you have to do start over if you make a 
 single mistake.
  
  All the while, in between chapters, you'll learn some of the story in cut-scenes, which are sometimes 
 pre-rendered, but mostly in the in-game shabby graphics. Some of them might also seem a little 
 disjointed, as if part of it was missing - which might be due to the annoying order of cut-scenes 
 and constant loading screens; but as I said, this game is not about the story.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics, well, they are... inconsistent. Depending on the lighting in the 
 level, graphics vary from good to "WTF, did my HD just go off or something?!". Pixelated lines, 
 rough textures, even some artefacting can be seen, along with minor frame rate problems. Some of 
 the pre-rendered cut scenes look actually pretty good, but what you've seen in the demo is pretty 
 much what you get. Which I think is pretty embarrassing, considering what can be done with the 
 360.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Once you've finished the game on the normal difficulty, the hard difficulty will be unlocked, so 
 you can do it again. Which you could, since it really doesn't take that long, even if you do not 
 retain your weapons, APs or skills. Also, the game gives you some more skins to play with, but 
 unfortunately these do not alter game play in any way, except for those strange moments were you 
 change back to the main characters in every cut-scene. There are also some minor collectibles to 
 be found which unlock concept art, comic book covers and so on. But honestly, why bother? Why? 
 Here's why : There are 13 8-digit binary codes hidden in the game and on the Wanted DVD which give 
 you access to tweaks like "unlimited adrenaline" (01101101 if I remember correctly, which is the 
 binary code for the letter "m" - the codes are case sensitive, "M" has a different code - and also 
 appears on the collectible poster of "Arana") , "Super Weapons", "Invulnerability", new Player skins 
 etc. Activated, these give the game a whole new level of fun. With unlimited special abilities 
 and really cool weapons, you can actually feel like the super-assassin you're cracked up to be 
 right from the start. I found myself enjoying the game the most, playing with unlimited AP and 
 the Super Weapons in the Hard difficulty with the cinematic mode (every time you kill an enemy 
 with bullet curving you get a nice little cutscene, not just every once in a while) on. However, 
 activating the in-game gameplay enhancements deactivates the achievements and stops you from picking 
 up in-game collectibles. 
  Point of interest here, if you activate one of these enhancements just once your current game from 
 this point on is spoiled - meaning no achievements any more, no matter if you deactivate the cheat 
 or load a checkpoint from before you activated it. The only way out is to start a completely new 
 game. So if you want your achievements, do not activate any cheats until you're done with the game.
 
  
  (Cheats: All 13 binary codes are 8-digit codes that form Letters from the Roman Alphabet. The Letters 
 that activate the codes are: C , D , L , O , T , W , a , e , g , m , o , r , t - So, if you want 
 them, you just have to look them up ;) )
  
  Total Score: 6 out of 10 -- why?
  
  The judgment on the full game will be as differing as the opinions on the demo have been, but in 
 the end, here's what I think counts:
  The game is a decent shooter, but lacks consistency. Controls can be buggy, sometimes even frustrating, 
 but if you don't expect too much, you'll have fun, especially when you get the hang of your special 
 abilities. The Real Fun starts when you unlock some of the "gameplay enhancements".
  The game suffers from substandard graphics and presentation. The intro and the main menu are, graphically 
 speaking, the highlights.
  The game is too easy. Normal difficulty wasn't difficult at all, with the "Assassin Time"-Events 
 the most challenging. Hard difficulty seems to be the way for a decent challenge, but the ATEs 
 can be frustrating.
  The game is too short. It's nine chapters, about 20-45 min each, which brings it to a full length 
 of about 4, maybe five hours.
  
  For everyone even mildly intrigued I recommend playing the demo. If you like that and you're not 
 above using a little "Gameplay Enhancement" you'll enjoy the full game for quite some time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
