-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer: Battle March
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/warhammerbattlemarch/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Authentic depiction of the Warhammer universe and units.
 No-muss, no-fuss campaigns that focus entirely on the battlefield.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor control scheme makes it hard to guide units in the thick of battle.
 Few people are playing online, which negates the great build-an-army feature.
 Campaigns are linear and lacking in depth.
 Choppy sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.7, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Sep 2, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This real-time strategy game's convoluted controls make it hard to play, much less enjoy. 

  How are the controls? That question always leads the way in any review of a real-time strategy 
 game on a console system, given that guiding hundreds of units around battlefields with a gamepad 
 can be about as pleasant as herding cats. And, unfortunately, the answer in regard to Warhammer: 
 Battle March is: Not so good. This Xbox 360 take on the 2006 RTS Warhammer: Mark of Chaos is a 
 straight rehash of the original PC game with gamepad controls tacked on -- bad gamepad controls. 
 This system doesn't even come close due to convoluted button combos and an unforgiving fast pace. 
 Although the game mirrors its PC predecessor in bringing to life the armies of Games Workshop's 
 tabletop miniatures phenomenon, too much gamepad fussing gets in the way of scrapping it up with 
 the Empire, Orcs, and forces of Chaos.  

           Storm the castle! Battle March features lots of intense battlefield action, including 
 a fair number of Helm's Deep-style moments.      

  It's a shame that the controls are so unwieldy, because the core game is a solid, if simplified, 
 translation of the Warhammer universe and its rules for tabletop warfare. As with the miniatures 
 tabletop games, the focus of Battle March is, of course, battling. Three campaigns tell the story 
 of an invasion from the North, and you can of course play all three factions involved in that conflict: 
 the evil Hordes of Chaos invaders, the defending troops of the Empire, and the Greenskin tribes 
 of the orcs and goblins (a new campaign just added to the PC's Mark of Chaos in the Battle March 
 expansion) . Each side features units drawn solely from the tabletop game, from the companies of 
 grunts that serve as shock troops to heroes that lead your armies. They aren't all depicted entirely 
 accurately, although the attention to detail is thorough and deep enough that you won't notice 
 unless you have a rulebook open on your desk while playing.  

  However, the campaigns lack depth. Missions are strung along linear paths wherein you guide your 
 army on a straight line of battles, only stopping in at encampments every so often to purchase 
 reinforcements, heal injured units, get troops blessed at a temple, and buy gear such as magic 
 swords and morale-raising banners for your heroes and soldiers. There aren't any serious tactical 
 concerns to be addressed, and all you really need to do is focus on shoring up troop numbers and 
 buying the odd accoutrement that can turn the tide of a battle. Stories aren't really developed 
 in the campaigns, either, which makes the overarching tale of a massive invasion and insidious 
 plots involving every race in the Warhammer world seem awfully limp. Aside from the opening cinematic 
 of an Empire company of troops being ambushed by Chaos warriors -- a spectacular clip that also kicked 
 off the PC game back in 2006 and remains impressive today -- the missions are all introduced with 
 bland text scrolls. Objectives generally break down to easy-to-understand tasks such as "take that 
 hill," "defend that town," "besiege that castle," "duel that enemy hero," and "set up that artillery," 
 so you don't need wordy cutscenes getting between you and the action. But the storytelling is so 
 scaled-back that these text intros wreck any sense of dramatic tension and make the game seem like 
 a cookie-cutter RTS when you're not actually in the field slaughtering your foes.  

  When you get right down to it, Warhammer: Battle March is a game that's all about the battlefield. 
 And that's exactly where this 360 game begins to seriously lose its appeal, due to the poorly implemented 
 gamepad control scheme. Quite simply, it's just too convoluted. Basic command and movement orders 
 are pretty much straightforward, as is the rock-paper-scissors formula that predictably dictates 
 that spearman fare well against mounted foes, and mages should stay at the back of the formation. 
 Conversely, many of the actions you need to employ to win battles are not so simple. Grouping units, 
 aligning troop columns to face a particular direction, picking a hero, and activating an item all 
 involve complicated combo button presses using the triggers and bumpers. Considering that battles 
 are very hurried, it's all too easy to forget what to do in the heat of the moment and lose a company 
 of units or even a hero.  

           Maneuvering multiple columns of troops is where Battle March gets into trouble, due to 
 the convoluted control scheme and the speedy battles.      

  Perhaps the pace should have been slowed down in this console adaptation to better match the gamepad's 
 capabilities. Or maybe the control system should have been simplified. At any rate, what's here 
 doesn't entirely work. It stumbles along fine for basic maneuvers and attacks, but falls apart 
 when things get heated and you need to look after more than a half-dozen or so regiments. You can't 
 even get into a routine and grow accustomed to the demands of the gamepad because every mission 
 has its share of slow moments that will lull you to sleep. By the time things rev up, you're often 
 taken by surprise and need to spend a few moments getting back up to speed... and by the time that 
 you do, you're toast.  

  Shifting from the PC to the 360 has also cost the game another one of its big attractions. The 
 ability to custom-craft armies and throw them into battle online was a highlight of Mark of Chaos 
 and the Battle March expansion on the PC, but these features are almost worthless here because 
 few people are playing the game via Xbox Live. It seems that most of the hardcore Mark of Chaos 
 players have stuck with the PC, which isn't all that surprising given that the PC remains the preferred 
 platform for RTS gaming. You can still build armies and take on the computer in solo skirmishes, 
 though this seems tame in comparison to fighting other human players. The AI is rather predictable, 
 too, and it generally plays every map in the same fashion. Consequently, skirmish play gets old 
 pretty fast.  

  Visuals and sound come with their share of troubles, though the look of the game is generally superb. 
 Miniatures are fully detailed and as colorful as if they were tabletop figures customized by a 
 master painter. If you're a Games Workshop aficionado, you can't help but get revved up by seeing 
 these troops moving, hacking, and slashing for "real." Battlefields are somewhat black and bleak, 
 to the point that it can be hard to make out terrain features. Nevertheless, you can't critique 
 the backdrops too much because they are perfectly in line with the grim Old World setting of the 
 Warhammer universe. Audio is more problematic. Only the soaring score by acclaimed game composer 
 Jeremy Soule is without issues. Atmospheric sound effects and voice samples drop in and out constantly 
 during battles, which is incredibly annoying when you're trying to concentrate on slaughtering 
 a pack of holier-than-thou Empire goons. It seems to occur in every mission; it's the kind of severe 
 problem that normally accompanies only extremely choppy visual frame rates, but in this case the 
 game flows along fine graphically.  

  If you're jonesing for some Games Workshop miniatures action, stick with the PC edition of Warhammer: 
 Mark of Chaos and the Battle March expansion. Precise controls and a superior selection of online 
 opponents make it a much better option than this Xbox 360 port.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MACEAC08
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  I had hoped this game would be a shiny new update of similar games that I had enjoyed on the old 
 PS One a few years ago (Shadow of the Horned Rat & Dark Omen) . Sadly, this was not to be. Though 
 the game looks pretty nice, the mechanics are a bit overly complex and, at the same time, clunky. 
 It's very easy to lose units on th battlefield as you try and cope with what should be fairly basic 
 combat controls for other units (often with disastrous results for the individual regiments) .
 
  
  I've also found that the options provided for individual unit upgrades don't seem to have a very 
 great effect on how those units perform in combat (even when they are experienced, undiluted veterans 
 of several battles) . After upgrading my "core" regiments' (the units of swordsmen, handgunners, 
 and halberdiers that you either start the game with or acquire very shortly thereafter) armor, 
 weapons, etc, they actually seemed to fight WORSE.
  
  My overall impression is that "Battle March" has overcomplicated the systems that worked 10 years 
 ago on the previous games without really adding anything that makes up for the hassle. The older 
 games, "Shadow..." & "Dark Omen" had a decent learning curve to them, and some of the battles required 
 several replays with different regiments, different deployment strategies, etc... but that was what 
 made those games appealing to me. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  Warhammer: Battle March is a pretty cool game and definately worth a rent but there are a couple 
 of flaws that keep it from being worth owning.
  
  First of all this game is an RTS only without the base building and resource gathering. You choose 
 your regiments and units to take into battle at the beginning and then you have to accomplish your 
 goals using what you took. The controls are ANYTHING but convoluted (except for the feeble minded 
 GS reviewer) . They are easy to use and you will have no trouble organizing and dispatching your 
 armies. 
  
  You get to form your army out of Hero's, Regiments of various troops, and Seige Weapons. After 
 each battle you will have to heal your regiments back up to full strength, buy equipment for hero's 
 and regiments, and or buy/sell regiements and war machines. Money will be hard to come by at the 
 beginning and if you fight sloppy and make your regiments take lots of damage. More powerful and 
 better quipped regiements cost alot of gold to heal back up to full strength so you have to do 
 the whole quality vs quantity thing.
  
  Hero's have all kinds of special powers. As they level up you get points to spend on skills that 
 improve different aspects of your hero. General Combat, Dueling, and Command are the three catagories 
 in which you will have skills. If you choose to and or sometimes when you dont two hero's will 
 duel to the death at which point you can use special duel skills to try and gain the upper hand. 
 There is also a kind of rock, paper, scissor thing you can do but I didnt duel to much so I dont 
 know how effective it is, i tried using it but i didnt see any big difference. General Combat skills 
 just help your individual hero when he is beating on people outside of duels. Command skills are 
 great because they usually effect your hero but also the regiment you attach them to. So if you 
 have a hero who is good at archery and long range combat you should attach them to an archer regiement 
 but if you have close combat skills or something then you should hook up with soldiers. Your hero's 
 sometimes have offensive skills and magic available to use. Using skills that you have to activate 
 requires magic and also inflicts a cooldown timer on that skill so you cant just use it repeatedly. 
 Most of your skills can be leveled up 5 times with each new level improving how they work slightly.
 
  
  In most battles you will only lose if you get any of your hero's killed. You get to choose from 
 the humans, the orcs, or chaos forces in battle march. I played the orcs and at certain points 
 you get to switch and play dark elves. I assume the other storylines do similar things.
  
  Organizing your units and fighting is the best part of the game. You can zoom the camera way into 
 the action and see the fighting up close which isnt that exciting but its better than your normal 
 RTS view of the action. However the game does have a couple of things wrong with it that I really 
 didnt like and will keep me from playing it to death.
  
  First of all there is no damn way to save the game when you want to ANYWHERE!!!!!!. It makes an 
 autosave after each battle and thats IT!. You can't save the game after you goto camp and spend 
 your money on healing/buying troops and getting equipment, You can't save on the battlefield after 
 you have organized your troops and set their AI, You cant save on the battlefield after you had 
 a super clean fight and before the next battle on that map. There is just a total lack of save 
 features. 
  
  The second problem is very common on 360 games. Tiny ---------text. You cant read crap on the game.
 
  
  The third and biggest problem of all that I have with this game is the storylines. Each battle 
 isnt just a random skirmish between forces. They have scenarios and very specific goals. Some of 
 them are tedious and mind numbing and easily screwed up making you have to start over which means 
 you have to form up your regiments again and set the AI. I hate it. Its especially bad when you 
 start switching between forces. Usually the secondary race you get to play as has all the really 
 stupid special scenarios. It just bogs down the game and takes all the fun out of it. You end up 
 feeling like all you are doing is placing troops where the game developers want you to place them 
 and do the things THEY want you to do. All you are doing is clicking damn buttons to see the battle 
 unfold how somebody else wants it to. You have absolutely zero input and its like you are a freaking 
 robot.
  
  I will make my own ------------- decisions when i play a video game thank you very much!!!! I dont 
 know how many of the missions are like that but it was more than I was willing to play. Thats why 
 I wouldnt recommend the game.
  
  If I could influence the developers I would get them to DITCH storylines or atleast preset storylines. 
 Thats the ancient way of doing things. When you make a game about one military force taking on 
 another or many others then you basically need to make it matter to the player. You need to make 
 the fights about controlling territory. You can still have cutscenes to tell story or show off 
 inner workings of that army based on whether you gain or lose territory. You can still have special 
 scenarios by having tactical options each turn. Like you randomly get an Ambush Tactic card. When 
 you use that card and you get attacked that turn instead of it being a normal defense scenario 
 it means you get the drop on the enemy and you ambush them and you play out an ambush type scenario. 
 Games like Dynasty Warriors and Star Wars Battlefront are how games like this should be done.
 
  
  Everytime you play your game it would be a different experience and it would be worth every penny. 
 Now when the hell do we get the 40k and Epic universe versions???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotaflint33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Given the score I gave this game obviously I disagree with the reviewers a lot. I find this game 
 to be fairly good and well done. While it is not Dawn of War it is quite good on its own merits. 
 Though note that I do play Warhammer Fantasy Battle and Warhammer 40,000 so there is a bit of a 
 bias to the source material and the fluff so the number of the score might be a tad skewed. 
  
  Graphics:
  Overall Pretty good. The areas seem to be fairly well fleshed out and a lot of 
 the units and buildings seem to look pretty good. As stated in almost every review for this game 
 the backgrounds seem a little bland to begin with. Other then a lack of fleshed out ground and 
 backgrounds I find the graphics to be quite pleasing and to be doing better then anything it would 
 be doing on my computer. I haven't seen any major graphic flaws and the units look really good 
 close up. My only major complaint is the unit banners that sit above each unit have a status bar 
 that sometimes is a tad difficult to read on the fly for me. 
  
  Sound:
  Ahh my favorite complaint for any game of this type. Also why I normally enjoy these games on my 
 laptop and that is I turn off the sound and have a TV movie or CD playing in the background instead. 
 I don't usually like RTS games sound effects. I don't mind the music that plays in the background 
 and all that lovely background noise its the main effects that tend to drive me insane. I hate 
 it when the units acknowledge that you have done anything with witty phrases or sound bites. Usually 
 they yell something different from a bank of 3 or so per action and these get old quick. This is 
 partly just me but hearing that unit of swordsmen yell for sigmar every time they run at a new 
 unit of gobbos gets annoying fast.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is the real meat of any game and why we look to reviews. This is where I feel that a lot of 
 professional reviewers went wrong. I don't see a lot of problems with the controls they are very 
 responsive and fairly intuitive once you've spent a little time getting used to them. This game 
 does have a large learning curve with the controls but that is why the game has a tutorial. If 
 you play through all three a few times each and if needed write some of the trickier ones down 
 you shouldn't have much of a problem. I know these commands seem inane at first (hold the trigger 
 use the joystick and a button) but after you get used to them they are insanely flexible when trying 
 to maneuver multiple units into position for multiple charges. You also have to remember that they 
 were jamming a mouse, two mouse buttons, a flywheel and a full keyboard into a controller. Although 
 a lot of others have used a lot less of complexity this does work just requires practice. I will 
 admit a map with some of the combos on the back of the manual but I have a memo pad for other games 
 and this will work all the same. As stated its easy with some practice just run the tutorials a 
 few times.
  
  The other thing is this is a simulation of simulated warefare. You are able to do all the moves 
 you can do with the table top game just at less cost. This does provide all the strategy you could 
 want especially considering you can't throw units as a sacrifice as you can't build units mid battle. 
 The battles are cool to watch seeing two units clash but they don't hit each other that well. Fun 
 to watch but its more effective to watch the health bars on the unit banners as you can watch more 
 stuff going on.
  
  Overall:
  If you like Warhammer FB and enjoy RTS games this is for you. If you are just an RTS fan I would 
 reccomend it just give it time for the controls. The license is very well executed with all the 
 units looking like they look on the table top and acting how you expect them to. If you like these 
 things pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  OPENING NOTES
  
  A few years back i was a Warhammer player of both 40k and Fantasy and iv always loved the Dawn 
 of War series for sticking to its roots of being a fast and furious squad based strategy rather 
 than thousands of regiments clashing like in Fantasy. Luckily This also sticks to its roots for 
 some pretty mixed opinions. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically WH: BM is rather nice. When compared to games like Mass Effect or even Halo, it does 
 look dated however. But when compared to other games of its genre you could say it was quite the 
 looker in terms of character detail and animation quality, which is top notch. My main quarrel 
 with the graphics has to be the environments, whilst storming castles or forts is fun and looks 
 nice, every other environment looks rather bland and washed out. The good news is, because of this 
 they have added some nice effects and explosions and some seriously awesome beasts like the Daemon 
 Prince who looks awesome to say the least. Furthermore the lack of slow down is amazing. I have 
 done a 4 way skirmish and it slowed down slightly once all 4 armies had clashed with hundreds of 
 troops engaged in combat, magic flying everywhere and literally thousands of arrows flying in from 
 everywhere as well as siege artillery such as Cannons or Bolt Throwers. Its moments like these 
 that you feel glad that they didn't make the environments look great because they can have all 
 this carnage going on at once without a game changing hitch. 
  
  SOUND
  
  Ill start by mentioning the voice acting. Its good, if generic but fits in with the war torn world 
 of Warhammer with humans with posh British accents or ULTRA DEEP VOICES*capitals were for emphasis* 
 to chaos with the grunts, snorts and magically twisted voices of the champions. In general, its 
 good to here such generic voices in this game... because it works for once. Music is also good, 
 if forgettable... put it this way, im listening to the game playing in the background and i cant 
 remember any of it... despite it repeating at least 3 times during the writing of the review. One 
 issue with the sound is the occasional voice glitch that makes them repeat there words, which is 
 OK with Skaven... who do it naturally but when a Priest of Sigmar does it... it just sounds weird. 
 Admittedly it only happened 5 times so far. 
  
  CONTROLS
  
  The make or break of a RTS... and i have to say, after hours of gameplay and contemplation 
 
  
  .......... they actually work really well. At first they may seem awkward or confusing but after 
 you do the tutorials and the first few missions you will be commanding your archers and spearmen 
 to engage some regiments whilst your knights are going around the flank and getting a flank attack 
 whilst they are distracted making your loses smaller and making them have a REALLY bad day. If 
 your worried about the controls... don't be, they are great. Ignore Gamespot, they obviously haven't 
 spent the time or the effort to actually learn how to play the game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY (Single Player)
  
  In WH: BM you can take part in 3 campaigns that let you control 
 a variety of armies, troops and monsters in your conquest against the empire/chaos/everything that 
 moves. Each campaign lasts about 5-6 hours and contains about 9 side quests each. The story is 
 generic, but is acceptable enough to fight through a few times because the controls work well enough 
 to make you WANT to play more. On top of this you have a variety of missions ranging from escort 
 this to there, siege warfare, get your skimpy white/green/slightly rat like ass over there and 
 save that dude from total annihilation, command an army to destroy there army or command a band 
 of heroes to take out a vampire lord or something... as well as set duels between heroes for certain 
 side missions. Whilst the aim is generally the same, the slight differences make each mission feel 
 fresh and new which encouraged me on. 
  
  Further more each race is unique and fun to use. Whilst the empire lacks in hitting power, armor 
 and skill they make up for it with numbers, siege weapons and highly disciplined regiments, on 
 the other side of the coin you have Chaos who have smaller numbers in general they make up for 
 it in Skill, armor, strength, magic and daemons. You can also Build Your Own Army for Multi player 
 or Skirmish which allows your to pick any race in the game and build an army within a certain points 
 cost using any number of units as well as paint and customize there armor. These small additions 
 make it great, and any warhammer fan will relish in the prospect of being able to make a virtual 
 army that represents there own in full 3d. 
  
  GAMEPLAY (Online)
  
  So i built an army and took it online. My first match (which took a while to find because of the 
 small community) was against a 15000 Dark Elf Army. I used my High Elves to see how i would fare. 
 I totally thrashed the guy with my superior tactical skill, however i lost because he started to 
 exploit some of the more annoying spells such as invisibility which makes the unit the caster is 
 in invisible and unattackable... however they can still attack you. I had killed his entire army 
 except 1 squad of crossbow men and had an entire army left. He killed all of them in the next 15 
 mins or so by abusing that spell. That was my first and only online match. I may go back online 
 later... but if they don't fix that im gonna be pretty pee'd off. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  A fun game that has great rewards for using high end tactics and with a good control scheme makes 
 this a must buy for anyone who likes the genre.
  
  8.5 
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS
  
  Anyone who has this game, send me a message over Xbox Live and ask me to add them to my friends 
 list. We can have some online battles and whatnot this way without some noob using exploits. 
 
  
  Gamertag: Azeebo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedie9372
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  when i first picked this game up and started the tutorial i thought i was going to hate it but 
 this game grew on me instantly as soon as i mastered what i had to do. This game is not like your 
 command and conquer sort of game its is very different to that type, but is very tactical in how 
 you set up your army. My brother used to work for gamesworkshop and he says this game is exactly 
 like how the board game works out. buy this game!!!! the game also appears to be very long too. 
 cant understand why this only got 5.5!!! whoever reviewed it must of had their eyes shut because 
 the game is quality without doubt. mediocre u r joking me. fantastic is a much better word that 
 i would use to describe this game. money well spent for once!!! fed up with games coming out with 
 great reviews and then they turn out to be crap, but wont mention what ones. this game is the opposite 
 to what the review says. but i guess u just have to love this type of game to know what i am meaning 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  So what is Warhammer battle march?
  
  It is a strategy fantasy war-game set in the Warhammer universe. It plays like Total War (Rome) 
 but without the mouse controls, management parts, and you get Goblins charging at you instead of 
 Greeks.
  
  As with all consol versions of this type of game, it has a lot to fit onto one control pad. This 
 game is no different. However, the game is fun to play and if you like Warhammer or even the idea 
 of Orcs, Elves, etc fighting each other then it is worth learning the (not as bad as they have 
 been saying) controls.
  
  The graphics are better than Total War Rome and you can zoom right into the action or give yourself 
 a birds eye view with a easy motion. The frame rate seems solid even when there is a lot going 
 on.
  
  I read the manual (not the best of help) , I played the Tutorials (made things a little clearer) , 
 and then started to play the Human campaign missions (great fun) . The learning curve is just right. 
 It slowly introduces you into how the game can and should be played. After about four missions 
 I felt much better with the controls. I then started the campaign again. I am now have a feel for 
 the game and can move my army around relatively well. The only thing I don't like is the inability 
 to swap inventory items with your heroes. I do however like how you can upgrade your army.
  
  The campaign is very varied, One moment you are taking a tower with an army behind you, the 
 next you are on a mission only using your heroes.
  
  At the time of writing this review I had not played online. However, I like the idea of building 
 my own custom army (using Warhammer rules) , painting it, and then engaging in two way/four way 
 battles.
  
  I am glad that this game has come to the Xbox 360 and look forward to many hours worth of challenging 
 battles.
  
  A game to enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwb0711
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Alright, where to start. First off let me say that I have played every strategy game on the xbox 
 360 to date, except supreme commander ( since it sucked too bad) .
  Ok, the controls are complicated, but not impossible, you really need to play through the tutorial 
 to be effective. The graphics are not bad, character models look good, and spell effects, but the 
 terrain does look a little... washed out. Does the prettiness and all the effects create lag or 
 chopiness like the disasters of SUpreme Commander, and Universe at War?
  The first thing i did (after the tutorial) was play a skirmish game, maxing out every army with 
 units, there was no slowdown till all 4 armies met, when the battle first started, there was a 
 small ammount of slowdown. But believe me when i say its not that bad. I expereinced the same thing 
 in C & C 3. Its not Universe at War unplayability slowdown. After a few units died, everything 
 was fine, I was actually impressed with the ammount of men all on the screen at once.
  SIngle player has great voice acting, yet it is very, very hard. First two missions are a cake 
 walk, then all of a sudden, your the underdog. Those looking for a challenege will find it here. 
 The meat of this game is multiplayer though. As xbox live is quite nice for this. You have the 
 regular mode, skirmish, where you buy your armies before hand, or reinforcement battle, where you 
 fight for points on the map to call in more troops, or this sort of cap the flag mode (which i 
 have not played) . Laso there is this global territory war going on. Each faction holds territory 
 on the map, and if your faction wins enough matches playing on a territory, that territory belongs 
 to your faction. Sort of putting meaning into your matches and replayability.
  All in all, this was my second choice to grab after spore. And since spore got mediocre reviews, 
 and i couldnt seem to find any on this game, i decided to risk it. And im very glad. I was not 
 burned purchasing this game. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan300
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This was a game I was very excited for, being a fan of the Warhammer tabletop game. I finally got 
 a hold of this game today since only 1 in the 5 stores I checked carried it, and I was pleased 
 with the game but was also somewhat let down. 
  
  Whats positive is that this game stays true to the Warhammer series. All of the units that warhammer 
 fans know and love are here and animated to perfectly match their plastic counterparts, which gives 
 a fan like me great enjoyment. The game also features cutscenes that are flatout gorgeous and will 
 leave any fan of warhammer drooling on the controller. The game also lets you create your own custom 
 army for online/offline play, and the results are very satisfying. You can create an army entirely 
 of artillery if you want, or opt to go for fully-upgraded foot soldiers instead. Also like the 
 tabletop game, you can create your own color scheme for your army as well as your own banner, give 
 your army a name, and upgrade your heroes and units with advanced armor, spells, banners and more. 
 The gameplay is quite similar to Rome total war, but it has a greater depth of strategy than that 
 game due to the upgrades, spells, and unit special effects. 
  
  Unfortunately, some issues with the game may turn away non-warhammer fans. The graphical style 
 of the game is well done, but the majority of the environments are VERY dark and dull looking. 
 Good animation doesn't help too much if you spend the game looking at a lot of dark brown and green 
 environments. There is also a lack of online players at the moment. Granted, you only need one 
 other person online to play, but you might end up fighting the same person multiple times until 
 the game picks up sales. Finally, the singleplayer mode is a little dull. Technically it works, 
 and it'll get you used to the actual strategy and the advanced controls, but it isnt a ton of fun 
 to play through.
  
  Ultimately, if you're a fan of warhammer or rome total war, you'll likely love this game. Its very 
 enjoyable, its got some deep strategy, and its got enough variety to last with strategy game fans 
 for a while. However, if you're buying this game and don't have online, you may want to rent it 
 before you buy it, since the singleplayer probably won't last you too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dendrosteve
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  A fun game that grows on you with time. The combat is enjoyable. It's similar to the Total War 
 series on PC with only the combat portions included. If you like that series and want to see fantasy 
 creatures dueling it out then this is a good game for you. I haven't played any other console based 
 RTS games so I can't compare this to any others. 
  
  The biggest negative for the game are its complex controls. After a while I've gotten used to many 
 of them, but some of this simplest commands still baffle me. The tutorial is a must, but most of 
 the commands you figure out by trial and error and the manual is worthless. It's almost like a 
 mystery game because you have to solve the riddle of how to execute commands as well as what each 
 unit is good far as there is very little in the way of explanation. I don't have a high-def t. v. 
 so that might explain why the game play graphics are a little dull. Altogether its a decent game, 
 but you're going to have to dedicate several hours to it before you can confidently execute many 
 of the commands. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
