-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warriors Orochi
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/musouorochi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A total of 77 playable warriors from both Warriors franchises.
 All-new storylines mean you won't have to play the Yellow Turban Rebellion for the billionth time.
 Team-up mechanic is at least a nice idea.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is as boring as ever.
 Bland presentation.
 Irritating voice acting.
 Little content beyond the story mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 386 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Koei's apologists will find Warriors Orochi to be an affable bit of fan service, but everyone else 
 should just stay far away. 

  Koei's Warriors games are essentially critic-proof at this point. You are either in love with the 
 games' utter unwillingness to evolve, or you aren't. Perhaps nowhere is this more the case than 
 with Warriors Orochi. A mash-up of the Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors franchises into a 
 single product, this is pure, unadulterated fan service for the squadron of hardcore fans that 
 both brands have amassed over the years. We can sit here and tell you that this is yet another 
 mediocre beat-'em-up that rehashes the same haggard-looking graphics, the same tired mission objectives, 
 and the same "so old it should be in a museum for crummy combat systems" combat system, but we 
 probably don't even have to do that. A single look at a screenshot for this game is probably all 
 you need to decide one way or the other. If you like this sort of thing, this is the sort of thing 
 you'll like, and vice versa.  

           On the scale of exciting crossover fights, Warriors Orochi ranks somewhere just below 
 Lawrence Taylor wrestling Bam Bam Bigelow, and just above the Gobots fighting the Rock Lords.  
     

  If you're one of the few out there who's never encountered one of these games in any form, here's 
 the lowdown. Dynasty Warriors takes a bunch of ancient warriors from Chinese history, dolls them 
 up in severely colorful costumes, gives them gigantic novelty weapons, and then has them fight 
 each other in addition to scads and scads of mouth-breathing grunt soldiers over the course of 
 a bunch of beat-'em-up levels that kinda, sorta mimic historical battles, but not really. Samurai 
 Warriors is the same thing, except that it swaps out ancient China for Japan's sengoku period. 
 The premise for Warriors Orochi is that an evil  named Orochi, 
 has ripped a hole in the fabric of time and space and kidnapped all of the Dynasty and Samurai 
 Warriors. OK, we'll bite, why exactly would someone do this? Well, because he's bored and wants 
 to "test his strength" against the world's mightiest warriors. Hey, why not, right? If you're so 
 powerful that you can rip open time itself, what else would you do for kicks?  

  Let's face it: Koei and developer Omega Force have never been great fiction writers, and though 
 the old Dynasty and Samurai games were all steeped in the same historical scenarios over and over 
 again, at least this is something different. Certainly, longtime fans of these games will take 
 some delight in some of the scenarios that have been built out. For what it's worth, the game doesn't 
 take its premise remotely seriously, and instead is content to try to create any fan's dream match-ups 
 and fights -- provided that there is such a thing. Seeing Nobunaga Oda jokingly get mistaken for 
 Cao Cao, or watching Zhao Yun team up with Yukimura Sanada is probably enough to send some fans 
 into hysterics. There seems to be a lot of that stuff on offer.  

  There are four different main story campaigns in Warriors Orochi, three of which involve the Wu, 
 Wei, and Shu factions from Dynasty Warriors, and one of which is an all-purpose Samurai Warriors 
 group. The storylines are obviously different from faction to faction, though the missions and 
 combat are just as repetitive and dull as they've ever been. Like in every other Warriors game 
 of the last decade, you drop into battle against hordes of the stupidest soldiers on the planet, 
 fight off a few boss and sub-boss officers, and move on to the next stage. All you need to do is 
 mash on the two main attack buttons while periodically tossing in a special attack, and you're 
 pretty much good to go. The game tries to dress things up a bit by having you escort certain officers 
 to safety, capture specific points on a map, or make alliances with other officers, but none of 
 this really does much to quell the sensation of monotony.  

  To be fair, there are a couple of small differences to the gameplay in Orochi. For one, the game 
 has something of a team-based mechanic where you can play as three different warriors within the 
 same battle. Unfortunately, you get only one warrior at a time, and you simply switch between them 
 on the fly. As you play through each stage, you'll unlock more warriors that you can swap into 
 your group. There are 77 in all, so at least fans will be kept busy. The other change is to the 
 prebattle setup. After each battle, you'll have likely collected a few different weapons on the 
 battlefield, each with different bonuses and attacks attached to them. Now you can actually merge 
 two of these weapons into one superweapon, if you so desire. You just hop into the menu, pick two 
 weapons, and merge them. It's as simple as that. The tangible differences between the weapons aren't 
 ever that great, but hey, at least the option is there.  

  Outside of the story campaigns, there's really not much to Orochi. There's a free mode in which 
 you can pick any three warriors and take on a battle outside of the story, as well as a few gallery 
 unlockables, but that's basically it. You can play through the story cooperatively if you find 
 a willing friend, but the game really isn't much more interesting in multiplayer than it is in 
 single-player.  

  Graphically, Warriors Orochi maintains the same level of quality of the last few games that hit 
 both the PlayStation 2 and Xbox 360. The game is very clearly built off the old PS2 engine, and 
 then ported upward to the 360. As a result, the 360 game looks more like an original Xbox game 
 than anything else. Sure, it's a great deal more colorful than its PS2 counterpart, and there's 
 more visual flair with the special attacks and whatnot, but otherwise, this is a rather ugly game. 
 Both versions' primary character models are at least detailed, but the battle environments are 
 plain to the point of drab. Likewise, even though this game has a totally different storyline, 
 it's still recycling the same battlefields from previous games.  

           There are 77 warriors that you can use to fight the same five enemy types over and over 
 and over      

  At least all the dialogue is new, though it's not exactly well written, and the voice acting is 
 predictably horrific. Furthermore, there's no Japanese language track, so you're stuck with the 
 overenthusiastic and underenthusiastic English actors. Also, the thumping techno soundtrack and 
 the hyperrepetitive shrieks of the warriors on the battlefield are enough to give someone a seizure. 

  If all that's been said previously isn't enough to dissuade you from taking Warriors Orochi for 
 a spin, this probably means you're one of the dedicated faithful who would play anything with the 
 word "Warriors" on the box. In that case, this game is clearly designed for you, and by all means 
 you should take it for a spin. For the rest of humanity, Warriors Orochi can safely be ignored. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Now im all for hack and slash games to a certain degree. I'm an avid devil may cry and ninja gaiden 
 fan. 3rd person button mash ups like that are an awesome stress killer and they leave you thinking. 
 Wow i did an awesome combo like that? damn i rock.
  
  Warriors orochi on the other hand in my opinion does not hit that mark, and if your like me and 
 this is your first warriors game as soon as you put the disc in you are going to be lost. After 
 staring at the screen for a few minuets thinking where the hell am i and what do i do? I finally 
 managed to navigate myself into a game. I observed the cut scenes and i was still pretty confused. 
 all i got was some demon guy stole some armies of samurai and put them against each other. Right 
 so with that bland story line out of the way i was in the game. At this point i was expecting some 
 good combo and hack and slash action. There was a considerable amount of hack but to me the controls 
 felt a little un-responsive. And the enemy AI might as well have been staring up at the sky saying 
 look at the pretty little starts because they pretty much just stood there while i chopped them 
 with the same combo over and over again which i found might repetitive.
  
  But warriors orochi has one shinning light. And thats the amount of unlock ables and characters. 
 That i thought was pretty cool but having that with the repetitive game play and bad voice acting 
 (don't get me started on the voice acting) it just doesn't boost up the game to the potential it 
 really has. Give me some awesome gaming programming skills and the bare bones of this game and 
 you would get a dmc hack and slash war game that will leave me salivating and probably some other 
 people.
  
  If your a warriors fan. Go get the game ignore what ive said, its combining all the samurai and 
 dynasty warriors character all in one game. your gonna have a field day. If your new to the series 
 like me. I would probably leave this game well alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonicsoul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Well let me be one of may to say that this game was great. It is likely most warriors games, hack 
 and bash at your opponents and try to take out the commanding officer. The only difference in this 
 game is that both China and Japan come together to defeat the great Orochi (snake) . Orochi is a 
 demon looking to take control over both eras and has people who would normally be on teams against 
 each other in a quest for power. You will meet all your favorites from the warriors game series 
 and build your characters with the best stats and weapons. Some levels tend to be long and the 
 game can be vey repeative but you learn to get pass all that and truly enjoy the game. This is 
 one of the few xbxo360 games where you can get the full 1000 gamerscore with ease. Be sure to rent 
 this game first to see if its something for you. That it is the end of my review hope you like 
 and be sure to give your feedback on the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  You would think that a mix of Samurai Warriors and Dynasty Warriors would be a really cool game, 
 especially if you liked either franchise, and are looking for a bit of a change. Well, on the good 
 side of things, the framerate is way better then past attempts at "very fast paced action," but 
 it's still not as fast as it could, no, should be. If your a fan of past excursions, you'll recognize 
 alot of characters, and if your a real good fan, you'll remember Goemen, a character removed from 
 the Samurai Warriors 2 roster. If your new to thw Warriors games, though, this game will blow your 
 mind with 77 characters, all with different weapons, or weapon variations. 
  
  But, with that said, it may also be confusing. Good luck knowing who to kill when it says, "Kill 
 Cao Cao" and you have no idea who to kill. The mini map may be your only hope, and most likely 
 your target is swarmed by other officers.
  
  The story isn't great, but it's better then some other titles in the Warrior franchises. The gameplay 
 you better enjoy, because that's pretty much the whole game. Button mash through one swarm, go 
 to the next. There's alot of characters, but you most likely will pick a favorite and stick with 
 that boy or girl through almost all the game. This is the same game as past titles, but this one 
 has more characters and a twist. 
  
  However, you'll end up seeing the same movie clips alot, as they just patch them up with different 
 stories. Like say Cao Cao is running away from the Wu army in the clip. Your in Wei, which is Cao 
 Cao's force, then you finish and play Wu's story. Wu will have the same clip, except you'll be 
 hunting Cao Cao instead of fleeing with him. The game isn't very long, and you may very easily 
 get bored with it. If it's cheap at a store, go for it. But, try renting first, to see if it suits 
 you, and your likes and dislikes, especially if your new to the series. Most of the problems of 
 past games haven't been fixed, but they are better. Try for yourself.
  
  Overall: 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Story/Gamplay: 6.5/10
  - Typical Dynasty and samurai warriors game. The story wasn't even worth listening to, very boring 
 and just typical "family wu this, family xu that". Pretty repetitive combat that never really changes. 
 Tons of different players to use out of every realm. I found the interface and menus very annoying 
 because I would find a new weapon and it would never show up for me to use. 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7.5/10
  - Other than setting or scenery, the maps were all very similar 
 but still worked well with the game. Game was pretty addicting, even with the very repetitive combat 
 and gameplay. Bosses all seemed way to easy, even on some of the harder settings. Game isn't even 
 worth playing on the easy mode, more than 75% of the enemies don't even attack you.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7.5/10
  - Graphics were pretty decent but theres so much better out there. 
 Nothing to even really talk about graphics and physics wise, they were all good but nothing special. 
 
  
  Sound: 5/10
  - Most of the voices were plain pathetic and even if the stories are read to you, they are still 
 not interesting. Gameplay sound was alright. 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7/10
  - No performance or bugs I could find. However I did find that even after finding or gaining new 
 weapons, they never showed up as available to use, this was VERY annoying.
  
  Replay value: 8/10
  - Being story is so weak but combat was so addictive. I could come back and 
 play this quite a lot in the future back and forth.
  
  Value/Originality: 7/10
  - Stays very true and similar to the other games in its series. Game isn't all worth too much, 
 nothing special at all came from this game and really seemed typical in my book. It seems that 
 most of the Dynasty and Samurai games I've played all seem to be the same.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Remembered? 
 Yes but only as a series. Held on a pedestal? Definitely not.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Dynasty and Samurai Warriors fans and any gamer who 
 loves hack-and-slash games.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Typical from the Dynasty/Samurai series. Nothing different from its typical repetitive 
 but addictive gameplay and combat. Their games really do need something new other than small graphics 
 differences every release. One major plus is that this game was released for the PC which is unusual 
 for this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alilari
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  It's another 'warriors' game. But in this one they have joined samurai warriors along with dynasty 
 warriors. That turned out to be good. The three-way-switch system is also fun to use, rather than 
 sticking to the only character you use. You can combo and have fun with all three.
  
  Finally Koei managed to work out the horse whistle. In all the older versions of 'warriors' the 
 horse had no use at all. In this version, you are able to whistle to your horse and make him come 
 to you. The horse can also jump which makes horse riding more fun and strong to use.
  
  You have 77 characters to use. ( A lot ) Still game play can get quite boring after you have played 
 a lot. Character unlocking is VERY irritating. Koei should put down a list of how to unlock a character 
 in the game itself. Lu Bu is hard to unlock as many people say different stuff on how to unlock 
 him.
  
  Overall it's quite a fun game with co-op game play and some character change in the game. So just 
 some plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_frek1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played Dynasty Warriors before, then you'll know what's in store inside the box. 
 Sadly, most people have already grown tired of the DW formula, but I personally haven't (this is 
 my second DW game) . If you have at least the decency to look past the "yet another DW game" thing, 
 you might actually enjoy it. If you haven't played a DW or SW game before, they're basically about 
 choosing one warrior, and going about in a pretty big battle zone and taking people out in the 
 hundreds, and soon the commanding Officers, and finally the opponent's Generals. It's all loosely 
 based on historical events, except for this title, it's fiction.
  
  First of all, Koei basically mashed together Samurai Warriors and Dynasty Warriors, put in a few 
 (2 or so) new characters, and made a new story. That sounds great, not playing the same thing again, 
 and the story is decent, but the cut scenes are horrible. You're tortured with just completely 
 lame voice acting. There are a few who have just great voice overs, but then the rest of the cast 
 have really stupid actors. It WILL make you wish that Koei put in a Japanese voice option, or had 
 at least kept the VA from DW5. 
  
  I didn't really care about the voice actors much myself though. Then you've successfully ignored 
 all the game's crap! There's a new Three Person system that allows you to switch between three 
 chosen warriors simultaneously, and those that aren't out recover in Musou and Health, until you 
 just hit Right of Left trigger, and in less then a second, they're out fighting. With the DW + 
 SW thing, there's almost 80 characters to choose from, and any of them can be put into a 3 man 
 team, so you could just make a team that works pretty well together. Each person is also categorized 
 in Technique, Speed, Power, which is pretty stupid. Power basically means the Person's special 
 attack rapes, but wastes a big chunk of musou. Technique is basically average everything. Speed 
 can double jump and doesn't waste any Musou doing special attacks. IMHO, these don't really matter 
 once you reach Lv99, but Speed characters do help a bit in terms of speed running.
  
  Finally the game. The stories are split between 4 factions (Wei, Wu, Shu, Samurai) and not by warriors, 
 like DW4. The warriors aren't faction specific though, you will use Samurai characters in the Shu 
 story, Shu guys in the Wu, and so on. The story is decent, thats about it. The game has some pretty 
 great replay value. Now there's a maximum of 99 levels per warrior, which can be achieved pretty 
 fast, 4 different weapon levels for each person, and one unique item, but if you even consider 
 getting all of those for each character, you're insane.
  
  While playing the game, you might notice that starting off in Normal is pretty psychotic. I started 
 out in the Shu story, and with everyone Lv1, it was pretty horrible. I found out pretty fast that 
 Musou attacks are garbage (Which they are in WO) and the new "Special Attack" is A LOT better (Right 
 Bumper) and uses less Musou (What the hell?) . Immediately, the commanding Officers will take a 
 while to kill. Then the Generals are complete crap. It took me about 5 minutes to take one out 
 because I was doing so little damage, and probably not using Special Attacks. Once you get to higher 
 stages, the Officers start doing A LOT of damage, especially the Generals. If you get caught in 
 one combo, you lose GG. Same goes for Hard and Chaos. In Chaos, hell, you can be Lv99 and get killed 
 by a mere soldier doing a combo on you, so consider to hit them while not being hit.
  
  Overall, if you like DW, you'll probably love this as well, some do hate it though. If you're new, 
 then this game is a gamble. Try DW5 first (the regular one, not Empires, not Xtreme Legends) . It's 
 worth the money to me though, I loved the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Von-Dozier
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Is there a reason Koei keeps making these games? Do they really sell? Is there a market for clone 
 after clone after clone after clone of an engine, name, and story? The Dynasty Warriors formula 
 was new and exciting, with Dynasty Warriors 2, a launch game for the PS2. 8 years later, it's not 
 so new and exciting. 
  
  This is a very simple review. If you've played one Dynasty Warriors game in your life, you have 
 essentially played this game. And the next DW/Samurai Warriors game. And the next one after that. 
 And after that.
  
  Although as much as I'm slagging it, there is indeed a cheap fun to these kinda games. Yes, it's 
 8 years dated, but there is an extremely satisfying feeling in getting yourself engrossed into 
 a huge field of enemies, and unleashing a devastating power surge of violence as the foes go flying 
 in all directions. THAT is always worth a rent. But it also won't give you hours of play time. 
 More like a half hour, also seeing as this game is extremely small on extra features and any kind 
 of replay value.
  
  But basically, just as every DW/SW game has been since DW3, this is a desperate rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Koei's Warriors Orochi is a combination of the Dynasty Warrior and Samurai Warriors franchise. 
 While the game may seem like a fresh idea, it is left with the same characters you will find in 
 both games and the same repetitive gameplay you would come to expect from both games.
  
  There are four different campaigns: Shu, Wu, Wei and a campaign revolving around the Samurai Warriors 
 portion. The storylines are all vary, depending on the faction you chose, but the same structure 
 is used for each faction so the missions are very similar. While Omega Force - the developer - 
 has tried add variety to missions such as escorting officers to safety, or infiltrating an enemy 
 camp, it does little to squelch the monotonous feeling after you are on your last campaign.
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from the other Warrior games. The AI is about as useless 
 as a rotten sack of potatoes and your allies do very little but distract you from your main objective. 
 You can easily pace through the game using on the two attack buttons and using your special Musou 
 attack. A noticeable change in the gameplay is the introduction of the ability to switch your officer 
 to another one in-game. This is achieved through selecting three officers to take into battle in 
 the prebattle menu then in the battle you can switch the officer with the press of the button. 
 While it adds some variety, it does little to save the game's dire gameplay.
  
  In terms of extra content, Warriors Orochi has very little. There is a free mode which allows you 
 to pick a warrior and fight a chosen battle, as well as some extra features such as a gallery, 
 but it remains at that. You can play the story in co-op but it's not more interesting than playing 
 it in single player.
  
  You would expect the emergence of Samurai Warriors in the game that there would be more officers, 
 but there are only 77 in the game. Despite this, it should keep fans of the franchises busy, and 
 for anyone trying to get the easy achievements in the game.
  
  The area which perhaps sets Warriors Orochi apart from the other games are the new customisable 
 weapons feature. This allows you to gather weapons in battles then merge them to improve your weapon 
 further. You can also add add-ons to your weapons to give it fire damage, for example. It isn't 
 much of a revolutionary feature but is a welcome addition to the game and allows you to create 
 some beastly weapons.
  
  In terms of graphics, Warriors Orochi's are very poor. They are of the same quality of past Warriors 
 games like Dynasty Warriors: Empires. To say the graphics are of next-generation standard would 
 be a blatant lie. The character models of the singular warriors are identical, and on screen they 
 can become just a choppy mess. The named officers are slightly better and give an aura of individuality 
 thanks to their colourful and unique design. Other than that, the game is more like a recycled 
 Xbox game.
  
  The sound quality of the game is also unbelievably bad. The script is poorly written and phrases 
 in the game are completely over-used. The voice acting is also abysmal. You would have thought 
 in a game set in medieval China that it would feature some of the Chinese language, however, the 
 Officers have accents similar to those who live in Sussex. Not only that, but the irritating cries 
 of warriors on the battlefield and the 1970s electro soundtrack is enough for you just to mute 
 the game - you might even get some enjoyment out of it that way.
  
  Warriors Orochi is proof that Koei is really just milking the franchise, and perhaps it is time 
 to cut the Warrior franchise and focus on something new. If you are one of the fans of all the 
 other Warriors games, then give it a try, but if not your money is better spent on something more 
 worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the better titles in the Warriors Universe, and features a very unique concept. 
 It answers an age old question of what would happen if the Three Kingdoms Era of China and the 
 Warring States Era of Japan ever collided. 
  
  Over all the game is fairly well executed, especally seeing your favorite Dynasty and samurai warriors 
 characters together in one game, and the idea of playing three characters at the same time instead 
 of one, and being able to switch between them helps add to the games appeal. However despite it's 
 great graphics, it's concept is not executed to it's full potential. 
  
  The concept alone, a crossover between Dynasty and Samurai Warriors, screams to be an action-adventure 
 style RPG, not a beat-um-up type game, and instead of four non connected campaigns, there should 
 have been one single story campaign, featuring a core cast of characters from both Dynasty and 
 Samurai Warriors. These two missed opertunities have proven to be Orochi's weak point.
  
  But other then that the game is extremely well executed, and is well worth buying especally if 
 you're a die hard fan of either Dynasty Warriors, Kessen, Samurai warriors or Bladestorm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of Dynasty Warriors and I liked playing Dynasty Warriors and the expansion packs like 
 Extreme Legends and Empires. When I heard about the release of Warriors Orochi I think "Yeah this 
 looks really cool since I never played Samuri Warriors before and I can play my 3 favourite characters 
 in one game" so I decided to trade in some games including Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires for the 360. 
 When I played on it, wasn't too bad but when I completed it within a week I thought "yeah this 
 is really, really disappointing".
  
  It was far too easy for me than the other Dynasty Warriors sequals, even on Chaos mode. After I 
 had unlocked everything I decided that I can't play the game anymore and hopefully trade it in 
 future for a better game like Dynasty Warriors 6 (fortunatly that didn't put me off on getting 
 that game) .
  
  Why I don't like Warriors Orochi is because of the Lifespan, Gameplay (The 3 character system is 
 really cool but it made choas mode look and feel like childs play) , the sound was worse (Lu Bu 
 sounds really constipated) and the music didn't go with the game itself. The best features of Dynasty 
 Warriors isn't on this game either (Edit mode, Versus and Challenge) . 
  
  The co-op mode is rather annoying as well because your friend isn't allowed to play their own character 
 (you have to choose a character that you both can agree on) and during gameplay the map for the 
 second player doesn't work because when player two is distant from player 1 they won't know where 
 they are going because their indicator becomes hidden.
  
  On the otherhand, if your obsessed with gamerscore points and if your a bigger fan of Dynasty Warriors/ 
 Samuri Warriors than me then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  First off I'm gonna say that I'm a big fan of the hack and slash genre and Dynasty Warriors is 
 my favorite, but this one just doesn't cut it. I thought this game was gonna be really friggin' 
 awesome because they are combining Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors and plus some more new 
 characters to make like 80 characters or more. The game's story-telling elements are pretty basic 
 but not in a good way. The level designs are also kind of bland and unlively. The characters are 
 pretty good-looking and have some diverse move sets and such but just isn't the best. The game's 
 rpg-like elements do add some newness to it but that just isn't enough. The voice-acting isn't 
 the but I think its pretty decent. The game should have had more diversifying level designs and 
 character models for the countless enemies you face at a time. Overall the game is kinda good but 
 should have been a lot better with more thought and love into it instead of just piling things 
 into it and hope that it sells. This game is definitely a big disappointment from Koei. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  From that review title you could already assume my feelings towards this game, but of course like 
 all reviews it's a little more complicated than that. I'm actually reviewing from a non-fan perspective, 
 it's true. I've never played a single Samurai Warriors game and only two Dynasty Warriors titles 
 that weren't even mine, so we on Earth did I buy this game? Well in short I wanted a hack n' slash 
 and this only cost me 10 (roughly $15-20) . I read and watched the reviews and the main con was 
 the repetition and similarity in comparison to the other games in the two series, then I found 
 out that at first the original game formula was actually satisfying enough so having not played 
 the previous games I had nothing to compare it to. However, I bet you're now asking why should 
 we listen knowing that those most likely reading this review HAVE played those previous games? 
 Probably because I've seen enough to tell the difference and you'll know more what I mean as I 
 go on
  
  STORY
  Well on the paranormal take on history we have the predictable case of the "MAGIC SHIELD! MAGIC 
 SHIELD!" defence. What I mean is it doesn't make sense but it has "magic" tied into the plot so 
 you can't complain oh but we can still! In short this snake demon known as Orochi (sometimes pronounced 
 as "Orchi" by others) has merged the two eras from two parts of the world, The Three Kingdoms or 
 China and The Warring States of Japan together. If you know your history then that's not only miles 
 apart geographical but also roughly nearly 2000 years apart! Why? It's never explained, I'm guessing 
 for sh*ts and giggles Of course some might say he wanted to test his strength against these two 
 'great powers" but if he wanted to do that then he might as well of done is taken the Ancient Rome 
 and modern British Empire since those two have gone down in history as great powers of their time. 
 But of course the real reason behind it is Koei's poor excuse (IE their "MAGIC SHIELD!") to merge 
 their 2 franchises together. In any case, you play through four stories, the three Chinese Dynasties 
 of Wu, Wei and Shu and the one of the Samurai Warriors. Each follows roughly the same format, you 
 work for Orochi who has assumed power over all (we know this is a 30 second cinematic which is 
 the same for each and not very helpful) but then make a U-turn and rebel, finally ending up with 
 a victory, not to mention a "la-de-da" happy ending. But despite each battle carrying the banner 
 of each 'faction", you'll spend most of the time playing with a little bit of Wu, Wei, Shu and/or 
 SW and what I do know about both series is no one gets along yet in this case everyone is quick 
 to give a hug to the next person. Granted there are some who still have their own rivalries in 
 tact but most of the time, we're all on the same boat even if we weren't in let's say Dynasty Warriors 
 3. I know its non-canon but you would've hoped there were more references to the previous games? 
 Throughout each story, the plot will be explained via before and after and in-between dialogue 
 sessions played over the top of pictures and subtitles, not a cinematic. I barely grasped much 
 of the plot, mainly due to the oh so terrible voice acting which I will get on to later. Each has 
 their own set of characters that all follow some sort of clich path of love or hate or love hate. 
 I'll give you two examples to highlight my point, without spoilers. First off, in the Wu story, 
 the family is divided greatly with some in the rebellion while others siding with Orochi. This 
 is an old formula that wears thin and you'll even predict what happens in the end heck, you might 
 have already done so by reading that last line. Another is in the Wei story with a one called Xu 
 Huang (sounding like Zow-young) and Ishida Mitsunari (Itshiba-Sheema) who have a bad case of the 
 "odd couple syndrome" at first but make up towards the end and due to the depiction of Ishida and 
 certain dialogue, I ended up making the stretch that it had homoerotic undertones Regardless the 
 plot is just plain terrible but of course does it affect the game much? For me, no and most likely 
 for you, no either and that's of course down to the obvious fact this game is all about gameplay 
 and stress relief.
  
  SOUND
  Oh this should be good! I rubbed my hands together before typing that! And with good cause! In 
 short its cr*p but in longer terms its good and here's why. In regards to the voice acting I can't 
 stress this enough, no matter what you think of it there's the common opinion that is "sucks". 
 No seriously, there's a reason I found the plot so thin and confusing I only heard 1/3 of it! 
 Voice acting ranges from posh man sighing in relief after a huge dump, a hyper teenage girl who 
 just took a bucket load of crack, racist impersonation of the Chinese, a gay Nazi and the most 
 used one; Stephan Hawking meets Braveheart. The majority of the time to avoid the embarrassment 
 of acting out the above is just reading the script, just that and no acting for better or worse, 
 or better yet to quote the most frequent catch phrase in the game  "there's nothing else for it!" 
 But there is a beauty part to it; the voices are so bad you'll want to listen to them for comic 
 relief. Think of the reason why English dubbed Godzilla movies; Monkey and the Water Margin were 
 popular in the West in the first place? They're heavy in camp value and this game has got enough 
 for 20 seasons of Monkey! The music on the other hand is, to sum up plainly "meh". Sometimes its 
 good with the fast paced techno Chinese rhythm that fits with the over the top moves being performed, 
 and sometimes it doesn't make sense, almost like coming from a German Sadomasochistic nightclub 
 but for a kid's pop disco how do I know or can explain that is just a guess, so no need to pray 
 for my soul! Most of the time however you won't notice but you will when its gone so its good to 
 leave it going and going in a continues loop just to liven up the moments when you're not in the 
 thick of it, slugging it out with the minions. As for the voices, you could turn them off if you 
 find it that annoying (which you'll most likely do if someone is watching) but you would rather 
 hear the next phase of battle than read it when you're going head to head with the general and 
 his horde.
  
  GRAPHICS
  While not as a treat to talk about like the Story and Sound, the graphics in their own way aren't 
 360 material. If you've played the likes of Gears of War or BioShock, you'd know what the console 
 is capable of. However that isn't to say there are bad. I mean this being also a PS2 title, others 
 which have came out on the current generation like Dynasty Warriors: Gundam have rather bland environments 
 or just rock, sand and/or metal. At least here you get the odd tree and house and of course the 
 fact you've got so many characters on screen at once goes to show that you can't really complain. 
 The massive roster of 70+ is a great feat, considering that all of them are diverse and unique 
 in their own way I wish I could say the same about our foe. Every battle you'll end up fighting 
 the same 5-10 different foes and none of them move particular well. The 70 on the other hand are 
 a giant mix of plates, fabrics and silks, no seriously; they are dressed ever so extravagantly. 
 Their dress might be the usual samurai armour or monk's outfit but even then they are well beyond 
 the realms of ACTUAL history. It's like if one will have a cloak then in Warriors Orochi they'll 
 have an even bigger cloak that lights up in combat You'll even think to yourself that many aren't 
 really dressed appropriately for warfare but then again these are the people who live by the notion 
 of "The Art of War", and thin this case its to the extreme. With your own cast, each moves rather 
 nicely with twists and turns and overall flow in their movement and combat. It's no Assassin's 
 Creed but it still looks nice. The horse animation is not well done either however and it's all 
 the more comical if you get a particularly large/heavy built character riding it. It's like a donkey 
 carrying a sumo wrestler yet somehow the donkey is "super" enough to move casually. There's no 
 blood and the bodies soon disappear after their death (or more liberal put KO) so what are its 
 redeeming qualities?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This, that's what! It does seem to look and play like every other game but then again does it have 
 all those characters to mix and match? Each story has 8 missions and another 8 extra levels, so 
 that's 64 all together and each of them give you the opportunity to unlock more characters. The 
 bonus levels require a certain objective to be complete like do so and so in this much time or 
 save this character before whatever. They're doable but in some cases they can be a real challenge. 
 All in all, that's a lot of gaming ahead of you. For a boost however you could always upgrade. 
 Since you can choose 3 characters and switch between them at anytime (a neat little feature might 
 I add) you can level them up and upgrade their weapons and abilities. Despite what some reviewers 
 might tell you, this feature does really turn the tide of battle, especially when you face Orochi 
 himself while preventing another character from being killed by him or his minions. It's in depth 
 and amounts to all of the many characters you can choose from and gives you a chance to sculpt 
 you style better with 3 classes; strength, speed and technique. But regardless of which fighting 
 style you'll choose, it doesn't require much, if any thought what so ever. Every, and I mean EVERY 
 game follows the same strategy, press X countless times until you get the victory sign on screen. 
 Ok, maybe there's a little more to it sometimes you'll need to kill or save a certain someone 
 or ride to a gate or bridge in a time limit or just try and quell the amount of enemy held bases 
 to make less of their overall troop mass. But again, it all comes down to the X button, and occasionally 
 the odd Y or RB to pull off something sweet if you've got a "full bar" of the usual mana, power, 
 spirity do-da or something along those lines. Sounds dull right? Well it can get that way sometimes, 
 and the only thing stalling the coming repetition is the change in landscape, and when I say landscape 
 I mean colour, which is not varied enough for you to not notice the rather bland layout. But that 
 being said, can you really complain when there are that many characters on screen? That's the whole 
 point of the game, the franchise and the genre. More of the same but lots of it. Lots more foes 
 to fall by your blade and many more generals to slug it out with. Granted they're piss easy when 
 you encounter them, but at least there's more emphasis on combat like erm y-you might have to 
 tap any button to win when your weapons are locked with your foe's er, yeah that! Alright, it 
 does still sound boring but this form is a clear-cut example of "love it or hate it" kind of game. 
 Its mostly directed at fans of Dynasty Warriors and/or Samurai Warriors BUT I never fell into either 
 of those so it might be a good start for those who want to. The plot in non-canon but you still 
 get all those characters to admire or laugh at (mostly laugh) . Basically, if you know anything 
 about the "hack and slash" genre, you know whether his is appeal to you or not, simple as that.
 
  
  Oh and there's co-op but if you read what was mentioned in the SOUND paragraph then you'll most 
 likely not want to play this when someone is in the room, let alone with you. If they can stomach 
 it then by all means give it a shot, but do remember it's a long one regardless
  
  OVERALL
  Overall? Well its not the best thing you'll play but then again it doesn't try to be 
 nor anything else for that matter. If you're a Koei fan then by all means go nuts. For everyone 
 else it's also rather simple, do you like that genre of games? Do you want something to have a 
 bash at when pissed off or drunk? Or like me a change of pace from the more "artistic" form of 
 video/computer games? Seriously, I know that people read reviews to know whether a game is good 
 or not, but in this case it really is all on you. Most likely you'll find it somewhat fun but then 
 quickly get bored, in that case don't bother with a purchase. Otherwise take on board what I've 
 said still, games don't have to be good to be fun if that makes any sense (no for most) . If liking 
 Warriors Orochi is wrong then I don't want to be right or less conventionally: SCREW YOU! I'M 
 STILL PLAYING IT!
  
  Pros:
  - Lots of characters to choose from
  - Upgrade system does work
  - Long and over the top fights
  - Cheesy fun
  
  Cons:
  - 
 Sometimes to cheesy
  - WILL get repetitive
  - Erg that story
  - AND THAT VOICE ACTING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  GOOD- 77 Different Playable Characters / New Story / Tag Teams Make More of a stratagy game
  
  BAD- Graphics is same as the PS2 verison / Tag team does'nt make it any more exciting / same 
 old battling
  
  Dynasty and Samurai warriors come together for the first time to defeat the the evil Orochi Warriors, 
 demons from the other world that covers China, You'd think these 2 games mixed into one would be 
 an awesome game and better than the others, but there better separated, thought the new story is 
 a great part about the game as the old ones were all the same, but if you ask me, its better sticking 
 with Dynasty warriors as thats the best series, the graphics are no different from the PS2 version 
 so paying &pound;10 extra is not worth it inless your very keen on getting the GamerPoints, other 
 than that get the PS2 version or not at all.
  Gameplay still plays the same as you battle hundreds of on-screen foes as you hack n slash them 
 too death. it can be quite fun but stick to the old ones lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scribs89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Listen, Koei is just making mindless games now to rack up the money.. Me giving this game a 6.5 
 is me being nice. IT completely takes all the levels from the previous DW5 and SW2 games. Its the 
 exact same game with a completely moronic storyline. Anyone giving this game a rating over 9 is 
 just dumb, and most likely they know nothing about the actual history of the Romance of the Three 
 Kingdoms. Even Samurai Warriors games shouldn't have been made because its just a name change of 
 the characters and a few different level designs and... ooo a new game which is the exact same 
 play style of DW but a way for koei to make money. They should stick to the originals and make 
 DW6 good, and it better be. The only reason this game is Fair is because it is the DW engine of 
 play. It is fun to kill and fight like the other DW warrior games after I havent for over a year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is not original, It's like the others Koei game I play.
  
  In this game we have the story mode with the Wu, Wei, Shu and new story of SW. All story are a little 
 bit simmilar, It's always the same final mission and always the same number of mission in each story.
 
  
  They have a lot of characters (79) , that's the high strenght of the game. You can make a team of 
 3 characters and characters have differents base status like Power, Technik and Speed, but they're 
 not really a big difference between those 3 Base stat .You can fuse weapon to make them more strong 
 and you can train characters with money you've got after mission. All characters have a special 
 abillity. Ex: Ranmaru mori make a stongh wave of energy, Yue Ying do a thunder ball, etc...
  
  The game is not very hard and not very long. This is a ordinarry game for average players. Don't 
 buy this game or try it before. This game really disapoint me --. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I believe this is the sixth Dynasty warriors game (Excluding the expansions to the others) and 
 has it changed at all from the others? of course not! That doesnt mean its bad though.
  
  There are 4 story modes to play through, each with about 14 levels each, so its not as long as 
 the other games (in which there were about 25 characters with 7 levels in each musou) , but at least 
 every battle ive played so far is different.
  
  The best aditions have to be the RB special attack that makes battles so much cooler, and the fact 
 that you can have 3 characters. the only downside to multiple charactes is that they heal when 
 switched out, and therfore on lower difficulties you are never thretened and on higher ones you 
 can do no damage. I understand the reason this game got an official 5.0 , but thats for mainstream. 
 i think for fans this game deserves something around an 8.5 .
  
  (Id advise not getting this game with the intentions of getting something new, if you want that 
 then wait for bladestorm, but if you like the old hacknslash then get it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3KingOfKings
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I really don't see why Gamespot has undermined Warriors Orochi. They've reviewed this game as if 
 it's it's pathetic. However, this game is an excellent development to it's pre predecessors, first 
 of all there are much more combo's for the Dynasty Warriors characters and also mixing the story 
 with both games is a brilliant idea. The 3 man team is genius because now you don't need a body 
 guard to help you, or to run away when your health is low, because all you have to do is just swap 
 characters. This also means that you can choose your favourite character instead of one. Personally 
 I think this game deserves atleast an 8. Also don't be put off by the Gamespot rating, trust the 
 players we're experienced.
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  P. S This game really is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primalwanderer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Warriors orochi is a brilliant game especially if u are a dynasty warriors or samurai warriors 
 fan and if u have say only played dynasty warriors it is a gd way to get into samurai warriors 
 and vice versa. This game is alot of fun to play and will last quite long if you do all the gaiden 
 stages and unlock everybodys ultimate item and 4th weapon and if you level them up. This game is 
 brilliant on single player or coop however on coop when you have a big battle it will slow down 
 the graphics are also slightly worse. the graphics on a whole aint very good they tend to be bland 
 and look more like a ps2 game which funnily enough it also is. There are very few movies to keep 
 the storyline going however the storyline is stil quite good especially for wu and shu. overall 
 i think any dynasty warriors fan should get it as you will certainly love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaquisMurph
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Well warriors orochi is a really good game, you get to use 3 characters at one time now, pretty 
 much the same as DW with the missions they are a lot of enemy officers and things to do plus there 
 is this weapon fusion which is pretty cool and also they still block a lot in this game but there 
 is a lot of things you can do to your weapon to help with that plus you have a lot of characters 
 to chose from once you unlock all of them. story line is well new yet is repeats it self so that 
 is the same. But if you are a fan of this 2 games your going to love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Warriors Orochi is a crossover game between dynasty warriors and samurai warriors. It's about a 
 evil sorcerer lord called Orochi who tries to destroy all the three kingdom and as well as the 
 samurai's. Orochi Warriors is defiantly worth to get, you will easily get addictive to it in no 
 time. Good: Playing 3 Tag team instead of playing just one character at a level. New weapon fusion 
 seems to be more interesting than expected. Gameplay is just plain fun and addictive. Combining 
 both warrior games gives more experience and what we wanted.
  
  Bad: Cutting out a lot of gameplay will bring down fans easily. No challenge, versus, edit mode 
 to back us up. When playing 2 players, players cannot have different characters. No online, players 
 would wish to have something to play online perhaps an online co-op mode or something fairly interesting. 
 Warriors Orochi deserves a fair score and it is a great game to play however cutting out aspects 
 and replacing them will not keep us company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_sabre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  warriors orochi is absolutely amazing it has every thing from both of other titles (dynasty warriors, 
 samurai warriors) i think that the thr three man team is great especialy if your against someone 
 like Lu Bu (dynasty warriors) or Tadadasku Honda (samurai warriors) . on the samurai warriors game 
 only some people could call horses to their position but on orochi anyone can call a horse by simply 
 tapping the select button, olso there is weapon fusion which is when e. g. yukimura sanada has a 
 normal spear with a base attack of 9 and a special ability which gives him +2 attack then if you 
 were to get his lv 2 weapon with a basic attack of 18 you fuse the special ablitty from you other 
 weapon (+2 attack) in to thew new one.
  
  my rating for this game is
  
  9.5-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Warriors Orochi is one of the best of the series, however, this statement is argumentative. If 
 you liked the series Koei has produced than this is the game for you. The battle system is the 
 same as well as the concept of the game, but the newly added features makes this game worth while. 
 There is a new teaming system in which you get to pick three other players to fight with, instead 
 of going through each character one by one. There is also a pre battle screen that allows the player 
 to upgrade and customize the weaponry and teams. This is what makes the game worth playing. The 
 story and concept of the game is identical to the other dynasty and samurai games but like i said, 
 if you enjoyed playing the other games then this is worth while. There are some newly additional 
 characters and once unlocked creates a huge variety to use. The game does have its mishaps, such 
 as when playing two players, the second player plays as the same exact team as you are and i was 
 hoping that Koei would create this game allowing each player to pick and level up their own players, 
 but not in this case. Another downfall is that there is no variety to the fighting... not like there 
 is in any of the other games, but this game seems different. All in all though i would have to 
 say that this game is worth buying as well as playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Keltic-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  New Concept , Old Content. This game is not what I was expecting it to be. The graphics needed 
 to better for a next generation game also the storyline was short and very basic (4 Storyline's 
 Shu, Wei, Wu, and Samuari) . All storylines had 3 main movie clips to there story. It didn't matter 
 what officer you used to finish the game it ends only four ways depending on the storyline. Mostly 
 all the maps have been recycled from other Dynasty and Samurai games. The roster in the game is 
 huge, 77 playable warriors too bad there aren't 77 unique endings to the game. Leveling up and 
 getting the 4th weapon is always fun for me. but if your not a Dynasty/Samuari warriors fan I would 
 recommend renting the game before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FluffyMcBubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Many People have been complaining about the Warriors series for a long time, saying it is repetitive 
 and boring. If you are one of those people, your game has come at last. The Game is totally revamped. 
 Instead of one person, you know have three! Allowing Musou chains and a unique team. Also now characters 
 all have a Category, Technique, Power, and Speed. Technique characters have the most strategic 
 moves, Power characters have strong attacks and speed characters can double jump. So the gameplay 
 is good, but what about the graphics? There beautifully made, the landscapes are nice, the building 
 look good, the characters are well designed and it all around looks good. The voiceovers are good 
 too, and they finally say Cao Cao's name right. The learning curve is not that steep, but once 
 you get good you can change the difficulty and it will get tough. All Around Warriors Orochi is 
 a good game and enjoyment.
  
  Rent or Buy: Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Warriors Orochi is a great game. Basically it combines Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors into 
 a plot line of fighting the Snake God/Demon Orochi. You get to play 3 warriors at a time by basically 
 tag teaming every battle which a cool twist in the series. It is also very smart considering there 
 are 77 playable warriors, and this is a easy way to play them without having to select each one 
 by one. The Controls are basically the same (except of course for the toggle between warriors) except 
 for the camera control. For some unknown reason the joystick that controls said camera, is inverted. 
 There did not seem to be a option for changing this to regular control. At first, this seemed like 
 this might be a pain that would take away from the game, but the gameplay itself, and the interesting 
 plot, make it worth getting used to. All in all, Warriors Orochi is a refreshing take on a franchise 
 that was getting a little repetitive to say the least. A must play for any fan of the Hack and 
 Slash game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
