-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warriors Orochi 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/warriorsorochi2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can share the boredom with a friend .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Painfully repetitive action.
 Idiotic AI in both enemies and allies.
 Horrible voice acting.
 Bland visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warriors Orochi 2 elevates hack-and-slash action to amazing levels of repetitive boredom. 

  Since the release of Dynasty Warriors 2 in 2000, Koei has churned out a remarkable number of 
 games in its Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors series of hack-and-slash action games. Yet over 
 the years, for all these sequels, the gameplay has hardly evolved at all. A year ago, Warriors 
 Orochi brought these two series together, but aside from its unusual crossover concept, it did 
 nothing to differentiate itself from its predecessors. Now, Warriors Orochi 2 is here, and it continues 
 the trend of delivering all the excruciatingly repetitive gameplay, as well as lack of innovation, 
 for which the series has become known.  

  In Warriors Orochi, the titular serpent king decides to merge third-century China with 16th-century 
 Japan, conveniently uniting characters from the Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors games. The 
 brave heroes ultimately put aside their cultural and temporal differences to thwart Orochi's plans 
 to conquer this strange new world. But it's not long before violence and unrest again befall the 
 land. There are a total of five stories to select from in Orochi 2's Story mode: one for each of 
 the three kingdoms of China, one for the Samurai Warriors of Japan, and one about Orochi along 
 with his followers, which serves as a prequel to the first game. Each story is equally awful. The 
 use of static character portraits is lame while the dialogue is clumsy and full of awkward anachronisms 
 like "Breaking news!" The voice acting is also appalling. The narrator sounds like he's reading 
 the news on NPR, and the broad characterizations of the warriors, who sound like pompous aristocrats, 
 dumb oafs, or valley girls, don't endear the characters to you one bit. On the contrary, just spending 
 time in their company is unpleasant.  

           Beware this army of evil brain-dead clones!      

  The action takes place on large 
 battlefields. You choose three characters to take into battle, and you can switch among them at 
 any time. The concept of fighting in the midst of a raging battle as armies clash around you sounds 
 ripe with potential, but Warriors Orochi 2 utterly fails to deliver on it. Rather than viciously 
 attacking each other, enemy soldiers seem to be trained to run up to you and wait calmly for you 
 to kill them, giving you the occasional gentle poke with their spears or swords to nudge you on. 
 In addition to being identically stupid, all the soldiers in any given unit look the same, which 
 may have been forgivable at one time, but now makes the series look as dated as it feels.  

  As you hack your way through your enemies, there's no sense of impact or resistance. Your weapon 
 seems to just go right through them. You'll lay waste to several-hundred enemy soldiers in a typical 
 battle, just by pressing the attack button over and over again. This is about as dull as hack-and-slack 
 action gets. To be fair, you have a modest variety of attacks you can employ, and there are three 
 basic types of heroes, each with his own unique abilities. There's also a new type of attack -- the 
 triple attack -- in which all three members of your team attack the enemy at once. But in practice, 
 this variety doesn't matter much. The enemy soldiers go down very easily, regardless of how you 
 choose to dispatch them, and using the occasional special attack doesn't make it any more interesting. 

  A bigger threat than the enemy is the ineptitude of your own allies. Each scenario has conditions 
 for victory and for defeat. Victory generally comes when you kill certain enemy captains, while 
 defeat is typically the result of losing a captain on your side. Throughout each battle, you'll 
 constantly be updated on events taking place all over the battlefield, and if you see that a crucial 
 captain of yours is being attacked, you'll want to rush to his aid immediately because captains 
 can't hold their own against the enemy for very long. Having to babysit your allies only makes 
 the action that much more tiresome.  

  You earn experience during each battle, which makes your characters stronger. In between battles 
 you can fuse your acquired weapons together into more powerful ones, as well as equip your characters 
 with a range of special abilities, such as stronger defense or a gradually refilling life gauge. 
 But all this growth and development is hard to get invested in when the action it serves is so 
 tedious. At least leveling up means you can cut through your foes faster, and anything that makes 
 the game go by faster is a good thing.  

  In addition to the game's Story mode, there's a Free mode, in which you can play any unlocked scenario 
 with any character. There's also a Dream mode, which features a number of scenarios that fall outside 
 of the main storylines. Those with a deep knowledge of the history and lore of the characters may 
 get a kick out of seeing Yoshimoto Imagawa, Xing Cai, and Ginchiyo Tachibana fight alongside each 
 other, but for most of us, there's nothing that sets these levels apart from those you encounter 
 during the Story mode.  

  Playing the game cooperatively with a friend makes it a bit more bearable only because then you 
 have someone to commiserate with about how boring it is, though the split-screen makes the already 
 cruddy graphics even less impressive. There are also a few competitive modes available, including 
 Tag Team and Elimination modes. These play out like a typical fighting game, and because your human 
 opponent is invariably more intelligent than what the game throws at you, they're some of the more 
 interesting offerings here. But they don't come close to offering the depth and intensity of most 
 dedicated fighting games, so even this won't hold your interest for long. There's also a game mode 
 called Tower, in which the object is to knock more brain-dead enemies off of a tower rooftop than 
 your opponent, and one called Steeplechase. This last mode, a race on horseback, has items you 
 can pick up and use much like in a typical cart racer. However, you're limited to just one uninspired 
 track, and the horses control so loosely that just getting them to go where you want is a challenge. 
 There's no online support for these or any of the game's modes, but considering how poor they all 
 are, that's really no big loss.  

           At least in the game's competitive modes, your opponent has a brain.      

  The graphics 
 are very disappointing. Aside from being considerably sharper than the PS2 version, the 360 version 
 doesn't look significantly better. In both versions, the environments are bland and lacking in 
 detail. The visual glitches, such as fences popping into and out of existence, are also commonplace. 
 The sound is even more dreadful than the visuals. The voice acting is heinous, the sounds of battle 
 are lifeless, the music is forgettable, and you'll hear characters constantly repeat the same few 
 obnoxious phrases.  

  At least the first Warriors Orochi game had the novelty of the crossover concept, which was a clever 
 bit of fan service. By now, that novelty has worn off. With each subsequent iteration of the Warriors 
 series, the gameplay feels increasingly tired. Warriors Orochi 2 has a whopping 92 playable characters, 
 which is 13 more warriors than in the last game, but just tossing more characters into the mix 
 does nothing to correct the fundamental problems with the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mik_fitz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  this game isn't likely to change your mind. There's a lot of value for money here, though, if you 
 like levelling characters and if you do this game is probably for you. There's a total of 90 playable 
 characters, all of which you can cap to level 99 and also upgradable weapons. While it is possible 
 to kill most enemies using only the 'square' button, on the higher difficulties most of the time 
 this will just get you killed. There are some combos, variations of 'triangle' and 'square', and 
 some special attacks with the b and rb buttons - while these might seem limited combos, with 90 
 characters to choose from, who cares!
  
  The plot is what you'd probably expect from a Dynasty Warriors/Samauri Warriors game, but if you 
 switch your mind off and let it all go over your head it's OK. Being able to upgrade your weapons 
 presents a surprising hook to the game as you can customise your weapons in many different ways, 
 finding yourself experimenting to see what happens. Also, if you're a fan of the series it is very 
 satisfying to be able to team together with anyone you like from the range of 90 characters. Unlike 
 the other Dynasty Warrior games, you won't be able to level up three characters and be able to 
 go to the hardest difficulty and complete the game right away. 
  
  There is a mode in the game called 'dream mode' which is very good but some of the criteria for 
 unlocking some of the 'dream' levels is fairly ridiculous! Also, the achievements on the game are 
 fairly soul destroying. There's no online play but you can go co-operative with a friend. There 
 is also a 'fighting' mode which allows you to fight three-on-three in a small arena. This may appeal 
 to some, but strikes me as being a bit pointless because it is not fleshed out and play is just 
 like the normal game (just set in an arena) . The graphics in the game are much better then the 
 other dynasty warriors games - whilst you might not be able to tell the difference right away, 
 they have made the game look prettier - though still looking like it might belong to Dynasty Warriors 
 five. Whilst having made an awful lot of Dynasty/Samuari Warrior games, as always there aren't 
 many innovations, but there's enough new features for those who like the series. And with that, 
 I'll bring the review to a close and I'll say that if you didn't like the other Dynasty warrior 
 games stay far away from this one - but if you're a fan or someone who is willing to try something 
 new this gamer might be for you. My Rating: 8.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexeus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Look, I know these games suck ok? So what.
  
  Mindless Hack and Slash games are all the same. You run into some guys, you kill guys, you move 
 on. Koei has been making pretty much the same 2 games (dynasty, Samurai) for years. Really they 
 should radically alter the formula but meh...
  
  Warriors Orochi 2 offers up EVERY character from those two series of games. Your bound to find 
 at least a few characters you can stand to look at for a few hours while you run through the story 
 modes to unlock everyone else.
  
  Im not even really gonna bother with graphics and sound. It looks and sounds like a Dynasty games.
 
  
  But the game really works by letting you change your party. Looking at Lu BU for 30 mins while 
 you finish a lvl sucks but being able to use 2 other characters is awesome. The skill system, while 
 a lil messy, works pretty well also. It more or less forces you to use different characters to 
 upgrade skills. While that might sound liek a hassle, its actually quite easy. You can learn all 
 of a characters skills in like 10 mins. But in using them you might discover you like using someone 
 a lot.
  
  The games actually kinda easy. Playing through the story mode the first time through on CHAOS might 
 be a bit much, but after you unlock a few key characters (Sun Wukong) the games pretty easy.
  
  Honestly Id like to see some new IP. Ive played every Warriors game and Im ready for some new 
 faces. But if your a fan of the series Warriors Orochi 2 is definitely the cream of the crop.
 
  
  PS It was nice of Koei to represent Sun Wukong int he game as SUN WUKONG and not Son Goku. He's 
 without a doubt the best character in the game as well he should be :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDhampir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Lots of characters, addictive, simple button mashing fun.
  The Bad: Admittedly it is repetative and won't appeal to anyone unfamiliar with the series.
  
 
  I say simple button mashing fun because that's what this game boils down to, and personally I think 
 it's great. There is too much pressure to produce games that have easy-to-grasp yet complex control 
 systems and Koei is right to keep it's controls simple and familiar. The graphics are a touch off 
 but they always have been in the Warriors series so again there is familiarity for fans. The soundtrack 
 is lifted from previous games and is a rather nostalgic touch.
  
  There is much content to unlock in the form of extra stages, high power weapons and gallery art 
 that doubles as your main menu background. The action is solid and the fun to be had co-op or single 
 player is satisfyingly old-school. This series is a relic of a game that was given a breath of 
 fresh air for Dynasty Warriors 6 and a nice return the classic format in the two Orochi games. 
 I think that if you like the series then the game continue to deliver. The reviews i've read say 
 that the series fails to try a new method or engine and as such it is not a prime example of a 
 game.
  
  The main sticking point for reviewers is the repetativeness of the game. Well I ask What game is 
 not repetative? The answer is none. The reason is simply this: In shooters you go from point A 
 to point B and kill all enemies en route, Racing games is pick a car and roar around a set number 
 of tracks, RPG's fail here too on relying on the retrieve such item or kill specified enemy. The 
 point is even if you never repeat the same task twice in a game if you ever play it again: repetition.
 
  
  My final point is simple: If you are a fan you should buy this game, if not then don't as you probably 
 will not be swayed by the premise or story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedRose
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  its not the best game in the world and yes its been doen before but at the end of the day, its 
 been made for the truly faithful fans of koei and their warriors series. its not half as bad as 
 gamespot makes it out to be, its a fun easy game to compete against ur friends. its new characters 
 add an interesting concept and new fighting styles along with the return of two classics from dynasty 
 warriors 3. overall its a game worth getting if you like the series and don't mind a little repetitiveness, 
 then again alot of games are repetitive.
  
  Whilst the treasures and dreams seem impossible to unlock it is possible. there are different scenes 
 for each story depending on who you have in your team. And its nice to see orochi have his own 
 story on how he took out the forces and made them surrender. Admittedly some of the voices could 
 do with being better, considering kanetsugu naoe seems to have developed an english accent, but 
 i'm happy to see kenshin has gained a deeper voice also. 
  
  Its not the first game of its type, and its certainly not the best but it does captivate you if 
 you know the series and what they are like. The third costumes and fourth weapon getting is a fun 
 experience. I'm pleased to note that Tadakatsu Honda's fourth weapon, Tonbo - Giri is extremely 
 evil looking and massive as usual. Alot of the fourth weapons are extremely detailed and cool looking. 
 Also the scenery has changed and even some new maps added, make it fun to play and explore, whilst 
 also keeping it slightly challenging. especially Wu Zhang Plains and Hasedo. Those stages on Chaos 
 will surely be a true challenge. 
  
  Its not a matter of whether you want think its a good game, its whether you want it for your collection, 
 assuming you of course own any of the other warriors games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to start off this review with a very interesting video game fact for you. Koei's first 
 Dynasty Warriors game was released back on the Playstation in 1997. It was also a one on one beat-em-up 
 with graphics that were similar to the first Tekken. It wasn't till 2000 that Koei released Dynasty 
 Warriors 2 on the Playstation 2, that it became the style of game we know. Playing as one soldier 
 taking on a massive army, you go around slashing and smashing your way through simplistic minions.
 
  
  Since then there haave been countless releases and ports for the franchise. Did you know that if 
 you include every game (not including ports) in the franchise - Samurai Warriors, Dynasty Warriors: 
 Gundam and Warriors Orochi - there are over 20 games released at this point in time. I tell you 
 one thing, that's bloody crazy, 20 games that are pretty much identical when it comes to the core 
 gameplay. But you know what the craziest thing about it is? They all still sell, and Koei knows 
 this because otherwise they wouldn't keep creating the damn games.
  
  It's amazing really that Koei can get cash with minimal effort, just by adding new characters, 
 settings and stages, they can sell the game off to the fans. But that's not what I'm here to talk 
 about. I'm here to give a verdict on the new game in the Warriors series, Warriors Orochi 2.
  
  If you aren't too sure what the Warriors Orochi series then this will help you. Essentially 
 it's a merger of both Dynasty Warriors and the Samurai Warriors series. The first game had a simple 
 story about the Serpent King, Orochi, who wanted to bring the greatest warriors together. To do 
 this he created a new world and brought all the warriors to it. He wanted to test exactly how good 
 they were. He's a bit of a power freak you see. However his confidence was thrown back in his face 
 when he was finally defeated at the end of the first game.
  
  Now you think after that they would all be living happily ever after well no they aren't. The 
 people that were under the rule of Orochi decided to go make their own armies and now they are 
 all at it again, war can be a funny thing. They are five stories, one for each major faction of 
 the game, Wu, Shu, Wei, Samurai and Orochi. They all tell the story of the war in the new world 
 apart from the Orochi storyline, which unlike the others is a prequel to the first Orochi game. 
 I really can't say much about the story because there really isn't much to it, it's bland and you 
 can see Koei haven't really tried had to give the game a solid tale.
  
  You really wouldn't be able to tell if you walked into a room and someone asked you if the guy 
 was playing Warriors Orochi 1 or 2, unless the player was using one of the new characters. Serious 
 this game really isn't all that different from the first one at all. You still run onto the battlefield, 
 slashing and dicing opponents that have the I. Q of a stale carrot. The gameplay is bang on identical 
 apart from a new move they put in called the Triple attack. Triple attack happens when you have 
 all three characters in the red zone for health. Having them on full Musou bar as well is needed. 
 If this is the situation you find yourself in then pressing both LT and RT will enable the triple 
 attack. The other two characters you have selected for your tag team squad will come in and assist 
 you in a Musou attack.
  
  There is more to look at if you speak of the game's content. While the game looks like a copy clone, 
 they are new modes to select. The biggest new one is Dream Mode. This takes a selected group of 
 three soldiers from the Dynasty and Samurai universe and sets up a special scenario. Versus mode 
 from Dynasty Warriors 4 makes a return, which has some special rules built into it, for example 
 survival mode, which doesn't need explaining. In reality you won't be touching any of these apart 
 from Dream Mode.
  
  Warriors Orochi 2 comes with twenty new stages and 92 characters. That's a huge character roaster 
 and 13 more than the original's 79. There's no doubt now that everyone's favourite character is 
 now featured in the game. It will take some time to maximize the level of all the characters, which 
 most of you probably won't be arsed to do unless you are an uber hardcore Warrior fan.
  
  I'm finding it hard sitting here to think of any more positives for the game. If there was a graph 
 to show how my review was going, then basically we've just taken the game up a notch from the bottom, 
 the bottom being rehash. Now it's basically just going to fall back down onto the line.
  
  So what's making it move back down there? Well the whole package pretty much smells of rehash. 
 The game graphically looks identical to the first one. It also looks like the Playstation 2 version 
 of Warriors Orochi 2, which has been up scaled to look cleaner and crisper, but is let down by 
 the god awful popup and fogging. Surely the power of the 360 really should be able to handle the 
 disappearing of the fogging and increased enemies put on the screen, obviously not because when 
 you play the game in co-operative, there's this god awful slowdown that keeps coming into play 
 when you get on to a screen full of killer Chinese men. Koei has acknowledged this and are saying 
 they will be a patch soon for it.
  
  While playing through you also notice that there is a hell of a lot of voice clips being reused. 
 I don't mind a game reusing samples from before, but Warriors Orochi 2 takes the biscuit with this, 
 you will most likely hear some guy or girl say something every 3-4 minutes that was said in the 
 first game, it really is rehash central.
  
  I could really go on and on at how it's just the same thing over and over again, but then it will 
 probably be like the last review of one of the other games in the franchise. It's about time Koei 
 decided to do something with the formula. They could at least stick in online play for 2 or more 
 players. I really hope they do something like that as I could see more players really making it 
 become less of an adventure of repetition. If it wasn't done so much before then it would be understandable, 
 but the amount of times they have churn the core gameplay out is mad and it really affects the 
 final verdict. Koei have had plenty of carnations of the game to improve on it.
  
  Fans won't even bother listening to the review, and other people who aren't fans are probably already 
 put off it. If you've never played one and are somewhat interested then you are best of buying 
 Dynasty Warriors 6 instead because Warriors Orochi 2 just doesn't get past private rank anymore 
 in this world of dynasty wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan1842
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Warrior Orochi is back with a sequel that has been released in September 24, 2008. Of course this 
 is probably the best game that Koei has made that crosses Samurai Warriors and Dynasty Warriors 
 into one game.
  
  The plot is simple. Da Ji is back and badder then ever as she tries to resurrect the evil Serpent 
 King Orochi. You can either choose Shu, Wei, Wu, Or Samurai storyline and play its story. They 
 also included an Orochi Storyline that tell the story about Orochi's conquest in Warrior Orochi 
 1. Needless to say, majority of the people wanted to play Orochi's storyline. Each storyline last 
 about 2-3 hours and the gameplay should be familiar if you have played the series before. But if 
 your new, get ready for a long adventure. 
  
  Each storyline you start off with around 6-8 characters. As the game progress, you'll unlock more 
 characters. There are around 92 characters overall in the entire game. Some are back and bigger 
 then ever as they return from previous series. You'll find each character has a unique move set 
 and they are categorized into 3 categories. They are divided into Speed, Power, and Technique. 
 The most important feature in the game is that your able to choose 3 characters to play and are 
 allowed to switch between them anytime. 
  
  As for the storyline, you are on a quest to stop the resurrection of the evil Orochi and you are 
 to form an army to stop him. The storyline tells an intriguing story and it get your attention. 
 There are cut scenes between each level and I must say, they were pretty awesome. But I must warn 
 you, you will face big Lag issues. Even with the patch, I still faced lag issues. You think Koei 
 would be able to fix this problem.
  
  You cannot have a Warriors game without the famous Free Mode, you are allowed to play any map you 
 have beaten already in campaign. Versus Mode has improved a lot... and I mean A LOOOOOT. Koei has 
 included horse races and other fun modes. Of course I can't forget the biggest feature of the game, 
 the 3-man tag team Fight. This is probably the biggest thing I have seen in the game. If you know 
 what Tekken is, surely enough the mode is like that but with bugs. There is also a dream mode. 
 If you remember from the first Warrior Orochi, they had Gaiden levels or X-stages. Well... WO2 Dream 
 mode is the same thing. You need to meet some requirements before unlocking them and once you beat 
 all 27 stages, you get an awesome prize. 
  
  Surely enough, this game hasn't change much from the previous game. Same soundtrack, interfaces, 
 character selection screen, and many more. Koei Could have made much more improvements but I guess 
 they didn't. If you were to buy this game, I rent it first and then buy it if you like it. You 
 won't miss it much unless your a hardcore Koei fan. Anyway I give this game a 7/10. More improvements 
 could have been made but this will do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrac_Warrior
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that I have played Dynasty warriors 4 empires/ Dynasty warriors 5 and Dynasty 
 warriors 5 Empires before playing this game. I haven't played Dynasty warriors 6 or any of the 
 Samurai warriors games. Secondly might I say that the gameplay isn't nowhere as repetive and boring 
 as gamespot says, it's very fun and enjoyable as ever to kill hundreds of enemies, go through the 
 story mode and level up every chracter.
  
  Warriors orochi 2 brings in a tag team system of play where you can have a team of 3 characters 
 and, switch between them at any time and cunningly use them to perform combos and connected musou 
 attacks, this aspect makes the gameplay even more fun then before however I find it very strange 
 in how if one of your characters die then it's instant defeat, in fighting games that works and 
 makes sense but here it doesn't, Losing one character should not mean defeat, it should only mean 
 the battle becomes harder.
  
  Now maybe it's just me but is the voice acting the best yet? yes it still has it low moments and 
 poorly delivered lines however it generally works well, some lines are also really funny in a good 
 way. Maybe it's just me also but my fellow allies need more babysitting then ever! your only facing 
 a few troop Cao Hong so I shouldn't have to help you! 'Cao hong has been defeated' bugger..
  
  The Battle of Guan Du on Wei was particulary bad for this, I babysitted everyone I could and 
 still the plan failed. I do think also the enemy block alot more then ever.. too much I reckon and 
 that you cannot stop attacks of some powered up officers using the X button is just very cheap. 
 Survival mode takes the general battles of DW4 and the tag team element and mixes them together. 
 It works rather well with good AI and online leaderboards. My record is 14 wins, number 1 on 360 
 has 108, I have a long long way to go.
  
  The best feature of the game in my opinion is the weapon fusion which allows you to merge one weapon 
 with another and swap skills and add attack and slots. This customization aspect is particulary 
 gripping and so it adding ablities and unlocking treasure to unlock power-ups to add to your weapons. 
 It fits in very nicely and adds more to the simple levelling up and costume unlocking of other 
 DW Games, Shouldn't there be more costumes though? at least theres loads of characters, 94 is a 
 fearsome number.
  
  Like other Koei games it's very challenging. I play on normal and a few officers like Sun Wukong 
 and Hitori (is it Hitori?) are very very hard to defeat. One small note, why is a pre-teenage looking 
 and sounding girl harder to defeat then the serpent king Orochi X.. who I'm now going to refer to 
 as Baby Orochi.
  
  Warriors Orochi 2 is a good game but I get the feeling that Koei are missing out a number of things 
 that would truely make Warriors Orochi 2 and perhaps future DW/SW games brilliant. Dynasty warriors 
 6 improved the graphics and from what I saw they looked good but could be better, In warriors Orochi 
 2 it's back to DW5 level for some reason and that means bland and blocky texures, poor character 
 detail and Dull environments, To quote Ben Crosshaw 'That's what we in the gaming industry call 
 a Dick Move'
  
  Also the game is crying out for online co-op or online 3v3 battles. It might only be a minor add-on 
 but for casual and hardcore fans alike that would be an amazing thing to have. In my view a few 
 new unlockable combos as you level up would add a little, A battle creator where you choose the 
 battlefield, what officers fight on what side, the commanders and troop sides would add more hours 
 to the lifespan of the game. Some games in the series have character creation, some don't. Why 
 not a fairly in-depth one for all games and also why does empire mode have to be a stand-alone 
 game, it should be an unlockable in this and DW6!
  
  A very minor thing about Warriors orochi 2 the character viewer and preview model in missing, it's 
 a very minor annoyance as I can no long preview my model to know which is which. A more greater 
 annoyance is the slowdown which has been fixed and there is less now then what there was however 
 it's still there and Koei really need to release another patch to fully remove it
  
  In conclusion Warriors Orochi 2 is by no means a bad game, infact it's rather good however Koei 
 and Omega force need to make improvements to fully make future games better. They can afford to 
 leave the gameplay fairly untouched and the renbu system in DW6 has angered a large number of fans 
 from my understand but no-brainer things like better graphics, empire mode, character creation 
 and online features need to be the standard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choicemaker
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is really fun. believe it or not gamespot. i dont honestly see how this deserves a 4 
 when koei made there best game. lots of content. lots of things to do. lots of fun charecters. 
 the new weopon customization. this has it all. and apparently its a 4.... im very dissapointed 
 and so are my brother and sister and a whole lot of my friends. it seems the only time you put 
 up a good rating is for FPS games. seriously, and i will make a chart and evaluate to prove it. 
 next time make a review with someone who respects koei's hard work and someone who at least explored 
 all of this games content. i always had a theory that you wuld rate games after a few minutes of 
 playing it. and im starting to believe it. i almost conqured the game and i have to say its much 
 more than a 4 and i know how to review a game.. preferebly better than u guys can. GO KOEI!!!!!!!!! 
 cmon guys next time give it a chance.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  okay i believe we all know wats gonna happen here, crappy story plus boring gameplay plus repetitiveness 
 plus bad voice acting plus bad bad graphics equals KOEI's warrior series. Now Warriors Orochi 2 
 is just the same old thing and NOTHING IS DIFfERENT THAN THE LAST 5 or so games. Now some people 
 say gameplay over graphics and i agree with that, i just dont agree that it applies to this game 
 or Dynasty warriors 5 or Samurai warriors 2 or Dynasty warriors 6 either (refer to my Dynasty warriors 
 6 review and be enlightened) . Dynasty warriors 3 and 4 ill admit were pretty nice and i never played 
 DW2 because i play DW3 and that was good enuff for me since i was addicted to that game. But when 
 number DW5 hit, it was going downhill. 
  I think Warriors Orochi is a game for people who really has nothing better to do for a good year 
 perhaps? Seriously who has time to level up 90 something characters heck who has time to even play 
 through all 90 characters more than 3 times or even twice? Seriously if they made a Warriors Orochi 
 Tactics or even a Warriors Orochi Empires or a Warriors Orochi Kessen (which would be totally kick 
 A**) then it might have been better maybe even great. I know KOEI knows how to do the strategy 
 genre but some reason it seems to have disappeared from their games. if u played dynasty tactics 
 or kessen then u know how addictive those games were and they had much better stories, sounds and 
 impact (except for kessen 2 the story was WTH but hey it was a pretty cool game) and those who 
 play the empires series of warrior games no how addictive they were even though the gameplay was 
 bland but hey at least ur not running errands for some cowardly weak officer who cant even keep 
 his own a** from getting chopped up in the first 5 minutes of battle but hey whats a game without 
 some unreliable allies (a decent game)
  unfortunately for the Orochi series (god i hope this is the last warriors orochi) they wont get 
 the added junk known as xtreme legends or the good Empires addon which in itself is a good game 
 and u dont need the original its a stand alone extension (WOOHOO!!!!) but too bad for Orochi. 
 
  
  Warriors Orochi 2 gets a very bad score. SHame one you KOEI i thought u were better than this I 
 hope u learn a thing or 2... or maybe a thousand from TECMO (god i hope it isnt vice versa, i dont 
 want a sucky ninja gaiden warrior) .
  
  Empires ALL THE WAY and screw CULT GAMERS u prevent KOEI from evolving. YOU GUYS MADE THEM A WEAK 
 COMPANY!!! STOP GIVING THEY'RE GAMES GOOD SCORES WHEN U NO THEY'RE BAD, YOU CAN'T JUSTIFY THEIR 
 SUCKINESS WITH YOUR LAME REASONS IT JUST MAKES KOEI LOOK EVEN WORSE WHEN YOU HAVE TO DEFEND THEIR 
 GAMES WITH LAME REASONS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - More playable characters than the first Warriors Orochi
  - The official boxshot is better
  - All of the games ever released get a little repetitive and 
 this isn't the most repetitive ever
  - More of the same
  
  Negative
  - A heavy dose of repetition
  - Disappointing graphics
  - AI is horrible
  - Voice acting 
 isn't good
  - More of the same
  
  Warriors Orochi 2 is a big letdown. Though the game features more characters than the original, 
 the series seems to have taken a giant step backwards. Koei should really change this button mashing 
 formula because it's an antique by today's standards. 
  
  You should expect to know the story of this Orochi. Like the first game. You can now play with 
 more characters than before, including some from Samurai Warriors Xtreme Legends 2. I know many 
 people wouldn't actually care about this but the front boxshot of the game looks better than the 
 first. Story are almost as they where in Warriors Orochi and not very interesting.
  
  Like Orochi 1 you can choose 3 characters and go to battle and hack-and-slash your way through 
 100s of brainless enemies. Ok, that just sucks the fun. AI is very bad, both enemy and AI. The 
 level of repetition is awful. The combat is button mashing, just like it was more than 7 years 
 ago. Enemies are so dumb that not even when you pass near them or stop in front of them. They just 
 stare at you as if they were sent in the battlefield with armor and weapons to die. 
  
  You will be very upset with the game visuals. While the first game didn't look very good on the 
 PS2 because of the 'fog of war', even by the 360 standards, this game looks unimpressive in every 
 way. Have all of the problems in the original + more. Environments still lack detail. 
  
  Music is merely better. Voice acting on the other hand is dreadful, way too repetitive. Music in 
 battle is ok, but not good. There is also a 2 player mode and it's better than the whole experience. 
 Though there are tons better 1 on 1 versus fighting games. 
  
  If you played the original Orochi, you could say that you played Warriors Orochi 2. There is almost 
 nothing new, a step backwards in the formula, which belongs to the early Dynasty Warriors. This 
 is an obvious sign that Koei and Omega Force must try something new rather than mindless button 
 mashing to bring new fans. More than 90 characters still don't save Warriors Orochi 2 from becoming 
 boring very quickly. This game only appeals to big fans of Dynasty Warriors / Samurai Warriors 
 or Warriors Orochi, but anyone else Warriors Orochi 2 is a big disappointment, you won't find anything 
 in any aspect of the game, no matter where or how hard you look. We must attend the arrival of 
 Dynasty Warriors Gundam 2, and by the level of it, it's yet another mindless button mashing game. 
 
  
  
  Graphics = 3
  Nothing special. On neither platform, look bad. Environments look worse and the character design 
 is bad as well
  
  Sound = 4
  Music is merely ok, the voice acting is too repetitive and need some more work.
  
  Presentation 
 = 5.5
  It's almost like the original, only a step backwards. Production values are horrible. Load times 
 seem good. The world is practically useless and fairly poorly designed.
  
  Gameplay = 3 / 6
  I wrote 2 because; I personally don't mind button mashing. But some find it 
 horrible and this has to change. Koei should try something new. Warriors Orochi 2 is heavily repetitive, 
 AI is horrendously awful, almost non-existent. There are 90 playable character and some good items 
 and weapons. But it's way too repetitive. 
  
  Camera = 6
  The camera is good. 
  
  Story = 3.5
  There is a dream mode but overall the stories are all disappointing. Nothing actually 
 special and a step backwards in every aspect. 
  
  Multiplayer = 4
  The new versus mode is a slightly good addition, but add almost nothing because it's nothing special.
 
  
  Overall = 5.9 
  Disappointing. The first game looked better on the PS2 than this. Everything is almost the same 
 as before only some small changes but that doesn't make the game worth it, only a rental for those 
 who enjoyed the original Warriors Orochi. No one else should be interested in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menzuit
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Great game. A couple of quirks here and ther but nothing to really complain about.
  
  KOEI: Gameplay over graphics... The best gaming motto ever!!!
  
  I think people just down this 
 game because its not a hyped up title. And then again I guess a lot of people are very picky critics. 
 But all and all, this game is really good. A lot of replay value. A lot of lvl ups and so on.
 
  
  For all the people out there that don't understand why KOEI keeps these types of games coming. 
 Well heres the answer... Its because of people like CULT GAMERS. People that honestly know how to 
 appreciate GAMEPLAY. And that don't worry about the fact if it looks like DC or PS1 drawbacks.
 
  
  Me personally, I would play a game with stick people in it running in circles. I mean if you make 
 it fun and exciting some how, with a couple of effects. Then I will play it, with out a second 
 thought. Simplicity people... Simplicity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tainshy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  If you like dynasty warriors or samurai warriors you'll love this. So everybody says that every 
 game in the series is the same but who cares new features get added each time. Another thing about 
 this game is that you can play it for 20 minutes while your waiting to do something or go somewhere 
 and its alot of fun, in fact the games designed for that, the levels take from 2-3minutes if you 
 rush through or you can take the whole hour available and slash, shoot or crush every enemy that 
 is stupid enough to charge you after seeing hundreds of his buddies get slaughtered.
  
  For some reason games these days have to have a awe-inspiring story or mind blowing graphics to 
 get an average review from the pros, but any gamer outhere buys games to have a bit of fun and 
 anybody who says they wont enjoy demolishing a whole army single handed is a liar. When you have 
 93 different characters with there own unique weapons, combos and styles you can really become 
 addicted to mastering everyone. The game can be challenging if you dive into the higher difficulties 
 with only a moderately levelled character, trust me lvl 30 will get you nowhere on chaos difficulty.
 
  
  The game is relatively cheap for xbox 360 standards because its not much improved from the ps2 
 version if at all but there are alot of worse games out there for much more money.
  
  The only real drawback to this game is on the latter levels of the game where there is a slowdown 
 effect, think matrix bullet time apart from its not meant to happen, but thankfully Koei have planned 
 to release a patch to fix this within a month. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
