-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WarTech: Senko no Ronde
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/senkonoronde/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting gameplay concepts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely overpriced.
 lack of online competition.
 subtitled story impossible to read while playing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 165 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Grev Ltd.
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
WarTech: Senko no Ronde is an over-priced arcade port with some neat ideas that don't translate 
 into satisfying gameplay. 

  WarTech: Senko no Ronde attempts to straddle the line between a shooter and a fighting game. You 
 have a top-down view of the action and fire off a lot of big shots, as if it was some sort of scrolling 
 shooter, but you're actually shooting at another similarly armed opponent. You're also given life 
 meters and super attacks, as if it was a fighting game. The idea is an interesting one, but it 
 doesn't come together in a very appealing way. To add insult to injury, Ubisoft is trying to charge 
 full price for what is, essentially, a shallow arcade port that would be more at home as a downloadable 
 Xbox Live Arcade release.  

          It's part fighting game, part shooter, all lackluster!     

  There are multiple characters 
 to choose from in Senko no Ronde, each with his or her own set of attacks, as well as basic moves. 
 These include barriers that shield you or a dash move, and they are shared among all characters. 
 Your attacks vary but usually break down into a normal fire and some sort of special attack, such 
 as homing lasers. If you get up close to your opponent, you can attempt to get a melee attack in, 
 which can be powerful. There are plenty of counters to deal with all the incoming enemy fire you'll 
 be seeing as well, such as a barrier move or your barrage technique, which can hurt enemies if 
 you're successful. But for most characters, these moves are also handy for swatting away enemy 
 shots. When all else fails, you can unleash a B. O. S. S. attack, which changes your ship into a huge 
 monstrosity with super attacks, almost as if it was the boss of a more traditional shooter. Learning 
 how and when to use each attack is key to success because most attacks come with reload times that 
 leave you open for attack if you're careless.  

  There are multiple modes to play, including a story mode, which follows after fighting games in 
 that there isn't much of a story. You can also go through the story mode in score-attack mode, 
 which has you playing for a high score. One-on-one versus matches can be played locally or via 
 Xbox Live, though it seems like the only players playing online are expert-level Japanese players 
 who will break you off something rough if you aren't up to the challenge. Senko no Ronde was originally 
 an arcade game in Japan and was released in Japan for the 360 last year, so the Japanese players 
 have had plenty of time to practice. Though very few people seem to be playing it online, overall, 
 as it can be tough to find an opponent.  

  WarTech: Senko no Ronde sounds neat on paper, but in practice, it isn't much fun. Scooting around 
 the arena and popping off shots at your opponent doesn't take much skill, which is usually enough 
 to beat the computer-controlled opponents. The characters are fairly small, though when it zooms 
 in to show a melee attack, you're given an underwhelming look at how plain the different floating 
 robot suits look. The sound is similarly flat, with plenty of basic laser and explosion noises. 
 The characters talk back and forth throughout the battle, which is kind of neat, but it's all in 
 Japanese. Because you'll be too busy fighting to bother reading the subtitles, this makes the whole 
 story mode sort of useless.  

  Above all, the biggest problem facing WarTech: Senko no Ronde is its price. If this were some kind 
 of 800 point Xbox Live Arcade download, or even a $20 retail game, this would be a reasonable though 
 modest game that you might enjoy. But at its current asking price of $59.99, Senko no Ronde is 
 a rip-off, plain and simple.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  This game had some promise, which is why I didn't give it a lower rating. It is set in a robot 
 mecha world, and I love anime, so that was a plus. However, the controls are too baffling to pick 
 up. You'll fidget around and find that you can fire maybe one weapon. This isn't the best way to 
 set up a game. I like games where the player can feel competent from the get-go. The only device 
 I was able to use was a sort of sideways yo-yo that slings out and chops through the line of enemies 
 closest to it. It was a little like throwing stars, but nothing else really happened. Then a Star 
 Wars-like robot comes out of nowhere and steps on you. What is that all about? The screen is too 
 dense and too busy at the same time. I wish this had been better designed. If you're looking for 
 mecha games, pass this one by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  WarTech Senko no Ronde is a 2D shoot em up, that has elements of strategy and melee fighting.
  
  The characters are in flying robot suits, when they battle and are far apart, the game turns 
 into 2D shoot em up, when you're close the combat turns into melee fighting, and you have to be tactical 
 in when/if you activate B. O. S. S mode.
  
  For weapons you have a main weapon that can fire rapidly and has unlimited ammmo, a more powerful 
 secondry weapon (such as missles that take a few seconds to charge up) and B. O. S. S mode is when your 
 robot suit transforms into a giant machine (temporarily) and fills most of the screen up with weapon 
 fire and unless your opponent has good maneuvering skills they will take a lot of damage.
  
  B. O. S. S mode takes a while to charge up, the sooner you use it means the sooner you can use 
 it again, but when you use B. O. S. S mode you're an easy target to because you've transformed into 
 a giant machine. B. O. S. S mode is best for turning the tide when you're losing badly or for a quick 
 kill, but if you're winning easily and activate B. O. S. S mode and your opponent is able to maneuver 
 past the massive onslaught of weaponfire, you will most likely take a lot of damage because your 
 suit being a giant machine will be an easy target and it can swing the battle against you!
  
  You need to be very good at dodging all the time, you also have shields but they take a while 
 to charge up so you need to save them for the right time.
  
  The robot suits all have their strengths and weaknesses in terms of main weapon and secondry weapon 
 fire power and firing rate, agility and even for the type of onslaught they do while in B. O. S. S 
 mode (even though it's easy to fill the screen up with weapon fire while in B. O. S. S mode the patterns 
 of your weapon fire come out differently.
  
  Each character has their own story and rivals and for more intensity sometimes they talk to eachother 
 during battle (you will see dialogue when they talk to eachother) And they have different boss battes. 
 
  
  There is some difficult or punishing boss fights against a huge battleship (starship) and against 
 highly advanced spacecraft. You cannot use B. O. S. S mode against the bosses.
  
  Some flaws in the gameplay are some of the bosses are very difficult and some robot suits have 
 unfair advantages over others.
  
  The environments consist of futuristic city with tall futuristic sky scrappers and structures, high 
 in the sky, in the darkness of space or in colorful regions of space. The futuristic city makes you 
 feel like you are in Tokyo 200 years in the future and the colorful regions of space are quite 
 beautiful.
  
  The character illustrations are colorful or beautiful. The male characters have a very metrosexual 
 look to them (to suit the feeling of a futuristic world) and characters can look sophisticated and 
 female characters can look cute/pretty and voluptous (anime style)
  
  The story mode ending illustations for one of the characters is simply breath taking with the hazy 
 rainfall effects and film noir atmosphere.
  
  The music has great techno sound and the female Japanese voices are really cute.
  
  If you 
 want something original that plays well, check out this game, you can get it for budget price now 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinra01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  G. Rev, a well known Japanese company responsible for acclaimed shoot 'em ups, or "shmups" such 
 as Radiant Silvergun, Border Down, or the joint production with Treasure to create the masterpiece, 
 Ikaruga. Another arcade game was made, and it mixed the aspects of a traditional shmup with head 
 to head combat. The game spawned popularity all over arcades in Japan, and G. Rev took a step further 
 to produce a port for the Xbox 360, which featured dramatic graphical enhancements from it's Naomi/Dreamcast 
 counterpart, more gameplay features, and Xbox live content. So Japan's had the game for quite some 
 time now, why not bring it to the U. S. like the others?
  
  UbiSoft then takes the job of publishing the game stateside, with translations for the game's manual, 
 menu and character dialogue, but no English voiceovers. But that's no big deal with anime loving 
 fans, right? 
  
  So let's have a general synopsis of the game. The story starts out with Earth entering a state 
 of catastrophe, and humans and forced to leave their home planet to colonize elsewhere with advanced 
 futuristic technology. Not too clich, but a typical scenario in any mech anime. So after humans 
 are all settled and such, we take a jump to SD 1484, where teenagers are responsible for the day 
 by day job of keeping their part of the universe in order.
  
  That's where story mode comes in, and each character has his or her scenario in interacting with 
 other characters in combat. You choose a character, and select their machines called "Rounders" 
 that are used in combat. Each Rounder has different attack patterns, from main cannon fire to homing 
 missiles, and many techniques a player must perform to fill up the screen with glorious bullets. 
 There is reloading between shots, and your special moves are limited by a charge gauge under your 
 armor gauge. Sure beating your opponent would be a cakewalk, however, there's a twist. Like traditional 
 shoot'em ups; the end of each level your ship has to fight a colossal boss that fires insane amounts 
 of artillery that you would have to dodge. Here, if you beaten up real bad, or just looking to 
 give your opponent a run for his money, you can initiate a special phase known as B. O. S. S., short 
 for Booster of Over-Armed Shell System. Basically this allows your rounder to take shape of a large 
 shmup type boss, and unleash waves of attacks on your enemy using different button commands for 
 a limited amount of time. However, you won't be invincible, and parts of your B. O. S. S. can be destroyed 
 in the shoot'em up type fashion, if your opponent is good enough. BOSS can be used twice in each 
 match, and restore your Rounder's armor if it is still intact when the timer. If you run out of 
 armor completely, your Rounder enters a state called Vanish, where one hit could be the final hit 
 to end the match. Here, you have an opportunity to enter Final BOSS mode, where you can activate 
 your BOSS for a longer amount of time, and be able to use a Final special attack that your opponent 
 most likely can't avoid, and would allow you to make a grand comeback. Downside is, when the Final 
 BOSS ends, you're still in Vanish mode, and can be beaten. In worse cases, your Final BOSS can 
 be destroyed completely, and would create a dramatic explosion in slow-motion, like when a boss 
 is defeated in games like Border Down or most notably Ikaruga.
  
  Each character has his or her Rounder's advantages and disadvantages during battle, including their 
 BOSS forms. The real challenge is finding out what character can do this or that, and how your 
 strategies will work out in other game modes, especially Xbox Live. If you join in someone's match, 
 it's most likely that without experience in multiplayer, a Japanese player might definitely give 
 you a real rude awakening in more ways than one.
  
  Now for my personal statements about this game. The graphics are futuristic and colorful, and the 
 animation in game play is incredibly slick. Character design and development is great in this game, 
 and Rounders you choose have different color variations, including a flashy and fabulous costume 
 that your character wears. Anime fans would love it. Sound effects vary from the classic "Pew-Pew" 
 laser effect, to the crashing and crunching of metal through damage inflicted upon your enemies. 
 The soundtrack for this game is phenomenal, and has an awesome and upbeat techno feel to fuel the 
 energy in the futuristic atmosphere. Heck, I even got the soundtrack on my MP3 player, and any 
 of the tracks are sure to keep me goin'. 
  
  Gameplay wise, the controls for this game take a long while to actually get a hang of. There are 
 different input commands that you can make to perform different firing patterns, same goes for 
 BOSS. It isn't easy, and will take time to fully understand what Rounder type you're controlling, 
 and what it's capable of. Japanese dialogue takes place during fights in story mode, which contributes 
 to the story development, but is difficult to read English subtitles during fights. You would eventually 
 reach a stage of frustration through mistakes made in the game that cost you a match, or have a 
 hard time actually pulling off a technique. There are many inaccuracies in the manual made by UbiSoft, 
 with several command errors that make it hard to actually do most of these moves. 
  
  On the good side, this game's a great challenge, especially over Live. It also features extra content 
 such as artwork, a glossary with the game's terminology, and other bonus content. Many game review 
 sites gave this game an obscenely low score, and threw it away before actually getting to know 
 most of the concepts, or the game just didn't live up to their expectations. The game is aimed 
 toward people that are fans of the shoot'em up genre, and arcade junkies who would love to get 
 their hands on a game produced by a well known Japanese company. Overall, if you like lots of bullets, 
 anime, and into some serious techno, then definitely grab this game. Recently this game's price 
 has dropped to beyond affordable in numerous retail stores. So if you get this game and certainly 
 want to get good at it, put some practice in it, learn from arcade gurus, and play online with 
 Japanese players. Even if you do lose, you learn from it, and be able to pull off cool techniques 
 that'll fill up the screen with a practical light show that create the wonderous bullet hell that 
 companies such as G. Rev have presented us with over the years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  WARTECH: Senko no Ronde, is a fun purchase. If you can nab this for $10-15 by all means pick it 
 up and get online so we can fight damnit. Even the single player is worth it at that price, as 
 well as the asthetic application of having a weird game no one played attached to your Gamer Tag. 
 If it costs anything more than that avoid it like the plague. WarTech is a nice little distraction 
 with some really good ideas but it's not a complete title. There's less meat on this game's bones 
 than even I have. It's no where near a polished product that Ubisoft should have been charging 
 $50 for. I'm sure Ubi knew this so the only thing I can think of is that Microsoft said "we're 
 going for a high-end brand, you can't come out with a $39.99 title from the get go!" or something. 
 However I did enjoy the vs play going against my friends. Just like any other fighting game i guess. 
 But all I gotta say is keep those weird imports coming Ubisoft! Enchanted Arms was pretty lame, 
 but maybe one day you'll hit the jackpot that was Earth Defense Force 2017. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennshin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  
  If you enjoy fighting games for their high level competition (human opponents) and mastery aspects 
 (ie learning new moves and how best to unleash them on opponents) this game is for you. (Street 
 Fighter, Soul Calibur, etc.)
  If you enjoy narrowly dodging a ton of on-screen artillery and then getting withing range to destroy 
 all those that tried to destroy you, this game is for you. (Ikaruga, Life Force, etc.)
  
  If you are a button masher and always getting your ass handed to you in fighting games, this may 
 not be the game for you. If you have big-ol meaty fingers that just can't finesse twitch side scrolling 
 shooters, you may want to look elsewhere. 
  
  If ,however, you are a fan of both of these types of games, you owe it to yourself to check this 
 game out. This game combines the hectic dodging of projectiles with the intense competition of 
 fighting a human opponent. 
  
  As in all fighting games the attacks simply range from slow powerful attacks to fast but less damaging 
 ones. But since this is a shooter, attacks also have specific spread patterns and homing properties 
 that add an extra layer tof complexity that simply intensifies the battles between equally skilled 
 opponents. 
  
  As a fan of shooters, I especially enjoy the Vanish mode. When you have depleted your life meter, 
 your character essentially becomes a single flashing point. Manically dodging the myriad glowing 
 lasers is made that much more possible. This great power, is balanced by the fact that you can 
 only take 1 more hit, so it's a welcome last ditch effort for the vanquished that does not unfairly 
 take away the properly earned advantage of the winner (I'm looking at you blue turtle shells in 
 mario kart) .
  
  Slight Disclaimer which applies to all fighting games, get yourself some friends with some decent 
 skills for the true gameplay experience. Womping on nubs is fun, no question, but it's no way to 
 generate interest for the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Hmm barely anybody owns this game, so I wanted to be original and check it out. I will start by 
 saying this. If the game was still full priced my score would probably be about a 4. However, it's 
 about $10.00 now, so I have to say its not bad for its price. Well first thing I gotta say is that 
 its quite original. If you think its Tekken with robots you'd be wrong. Think a shoot 'em up with 
 fighting game aspects. The game has 2 main modes. Story Mode, and Score Attack. Story mode consists 
 of 6 fights and a special stage. 6/8 of the characters face a giant ship. However 2 have to fight 
 an extremely hard squid like boss. Which leads me to my complaint. This game will frustrate on 
 the easiest difficulty. You need fast reflexis, good strategies, and some serious skills. The game 
 totally feels japanese, mechs, anime characters, unique fighting, etc. Good luck findingan american 
 friend to play with. So, advice for online. Wait til late at night and you'll get to play some 
 Japanese people online. There will be lag, but its occasionally fun. But about the fighting. The 
 game has a unique system. You use X for your main attack, Y for your sub attack, and B for a special 
 move. You can either fight close range (which feels totally tacked on) and long range, which is 
 the real fun. Shooting at your opponents is great fun, while close range is basically get up close, 
 get a quick shot and fly back. Well the game can be fun at times, but overall its totally a mediocre, 
 repetitive, fighting game. A rare few will fall in love, others will find it average, and others 
 will hate it. But if you want to try it out, I reccomend you buy it due to the fact that renting 
 it is only about $4 cheaper. 
  
  Gameplay- 6/10
  Its unique, but frustating and only fun long range.
  
  Graphics- 3/10
  I've seen better looking 
 games back in 03.
  
  Sound- 8/10
  Good voiceovers.. from what I can tell, and good techno music.
  
  Replay Value- 5/10
  You 
 won't be playing it long.
  
  Achievement Difficulty- Fairly Easy
  You can obtain an easy 500 or so, the rest is sort of a challenge unless you're totally addicted.
 
  
  Pros: Unique gameplay, Fun long range gameplay, good voiceovers
  
  Cons- Frustrating Difficulty, Close range combat seems a bit tacked on, only 8 characters, terrible 
 graphics.
  
  Real Score: 6/10
  Gamespot Score: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  This is a cool game, ESPECIALLY for the 9 dollar price tag!
  
  What is wrong with this game I ask?
  
  Better yet what is wrong with the reviewer?
  
  The 
 graphics are great, the concept is wonderful
  
  what do you get when you combine great graphics and a wonderful game concept+++=
  
  A GOOD 
 GAME. No it aint the best no, it aint halo (I hate halo)
  
  but its a good game in its own right, the attacks the old nintendo dogging of bullets and so forth. 
 There is no way in my right mind that I could say this game is lackluster. IT IS WHAT IT IS.
  
  A Japanese mixed genre fighter and a cool one to boot. The graphics on on screen play is hot 
 even overwhelming at times. I guess most kids that play games want things to be simple and not 
 make you use your eyesight to decipher the ENTIRE screen much like Sylpheed. I hear a lot of complaining 
 for things people cant seem to get over like oh there is to much clutter in on the screen or, I 
 cant read the sub titles while fighting 
  
  So one please call the Waammmbulance!
  
  Learn Japanese or learn how to focus your eyes on the entire screen
  
  At any rate.. good game 
 I would advise anyone with a spare 10 bucks that likes GAMES to pick this one up because a game 
 it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  A little bit Virtual-On a little bit Psychic Force 2012.. strange, fun, frustrating, unlike anything 
 else on the 360. At first you dont really know if this game is going to be a mech fighting game 
 or a 2D shooter... but after a few matches online or offline it is easy to tell you have a very 
 unique, challenging, and fun game on your hands... the colors are bright.. the screen is chaotic... 
 and you soon realize you will not get far by simply mashing buttons on the controller....
  
  overall this game gets straight to the point.. very little story... some suprisingly good artwork... 
 and similiar controls for all of the mechs make it easy to jump into.. though the different weapons 
 make the game plenty deep enough to really be challenging online.
  
  If you are a fan of anything on the dreamcast.. or a fan of shooters check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BottlerocketAPD
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  WarTech: Senko no Ronde brings a breath of fresh air to both the 2D fighting and shooter generes. 
 It plays very much like a 2-D version of Virtu-On or if you haven't played that it's R-Type meets 
 Streetfighter. You take control of your mecha and battle in traditional 2D shooter style against 
 another opponent. Each mech has a B. O. S. S mode (not original but appropriately named) that enhances 
 you mecha to play like a 2D shooter boss. The graphics are beautiful and the Special effects are 
 great, and the game is very easy to pick up and play from the get go. People who normally don't 
 play fighting games but love shooters should give this a try. While it is very easy to pick up 
 and play for someone who is a beginner to video games, it has a lot of depth for the hardcore gamers 
 as well. People familiar with the 2D shooters will be able to associate moves to techniques that 
 they have used to play those types of games, while players familiar with the 2D fighting games 
 will come to recognize the combos they can use to set people up. It took me a while to learn a 
 few of the more advanced combos but they are there and they have some awsome effects, don't let 
 the surface of the game fool you, my entire group of friends were floored by some of the cool combo 
 moves you could do.
  
  The game followed an art style and it shows, it looks good. Wether your a fan of the style or not 
 it was very nicely executed. All in all it is a great game that you won't be disappointed in if 
 you give it the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegacis
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, when I first popped this game in I wasn't sure how to take it. Everything seemed 
 so hectic at first it was hard for me to know whether or not I liked it. Nonetheless, I continued 
 to play the game and gathered a pretty good understanding of how it works.
  
  I've owned this game for two days now and I can honestly say that I absolutely love it. In a sense, 
 this game reminds me a lot of Virtua On, except in this game you're playing from an aerial view 
 as opposed to the typical third-person perspective found in many mech fighters. This perspective 
 plus the B. O. S. S. mode gives players the sense that they're playing something similar to a manic 
 shooter. In actuality it's not a manic shooter at all. It's a very deep versus game that possesses 
 a simple arcade control layout that almost anyone can pick up.
  
  I have only a few problems with this game and I'll state them here. The first problem I had was 
 with the graphics. At first glance with the exception of the backgrounds, this game looks like 
 it's running on some old arcade board used to produce Dreamcast games. The mech models look like 
 they have no texture mapping on them at all. And even some of the effects (explosions, smoke) look 
 a little out-dated. I honestly feel that the developers could have put some more time into making 
 the game look polished. Second of my complaints is the close-combat fighting. As with the graphics, 
 I think the developers could have put a little more into making the close-combat look &amp; feel 
 a bit more intense. The last of my complaints is the story presentation. I feel that they could 
 have given us either some good anime or animated CG for the endings and whatnot. Instead, you're 
 only given a small handful of still drawings and text at each character's ending.
  
  Altogether I feel these are things the developer can improve upon with further iterations of this 
 franchise. I already know the American consumer base will probably walk right pass this title and 
 that's quite alright. The leader boards clearly show that this game is well-accepted by the Japanese 
 (which is no surprise considering the game is a port of its Japanese arcade counterpart) . Hopefully 
 this will be enough for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aubirdforce
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  G-Rev is known especially for their outstanding game Under Defeat . They do a lot of arcade stuff. 
 And then along came Senko no Ronde Rev. X . Originally made for the Naomi arcade board, you'd guess 
 that they'd make a Dreamcast conversion, but instead, they canceled the DC version and released 
 it for XBOX360.
  
  First things first: A lot of people would expect it, but this is not a classic shooter. It is a 
 versus fighting game. Two players (or vs. CPU) each choose a robot and battle each other. You can 
 choose out of 8 characters which all have very different robots. Then it goes straight to the battlefield. 
 In single player story mode, you always battle one of the other characters first, and a personal 
 mega-boss after stage 6. You have a basic shot or missile, dash with a special attack and you may 
 also use melee when you are near enough. The battle system is totally blunt. Shoot, miss, get hit, 
 block etc. pretty much like you'd expect from a versus beat'em up game. However, there's a LOT 
 of stuff on the screen that you have to evade. It's really hard to explain, you have to see it 
 to have the same thought that I had the first time: What the heck is this? 
  
  I really don't understand why this is a full price game. It's short, graphics are outdated dreamcast 
 style, and it totally feels like a ripoff arcade. So putting it into XBLA for 800 points would 
 have been very fitting. But full price? You've gotta be kidding me. I've added this game to my 
 list of pointless stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai_Ozu
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  A port of a Naomi arcade game from Japan originally to be released on Dreamcast turned out to be 
 a really interesting game that mixes old school shooting with fighting. The thing that makes this 
 game cool is the characters, most of them look like girls but you will soon find out that only 
 3 of them are girls out of the 7.
  
  First off, G. rev built a new graphics engine for the release of the game on the Xbox 360. There 
 are some nice graphical touches like the smoke and the skylines. The developers really know how 
 to use color and after you beat the story mode with 1 of the characters youll be treated to some 
 beautiful art filling out the characters storyline. I cant stress this enough on how beautiful 
 some of the endings are. If you have a Japanese 360 you need to find a copy of this game, defiantly 
 worth playing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
