-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Winning Eleven: Pro Evolution Soccer 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/winningeleven10/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic footballing action.
 Clean presentation.
 Enjoyable multiplayer game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor editing options.
 Master League mode unchanged.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,188 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCET
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Feb 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Konami's seminal football game finally makes its way to the Xbox 360, but it doesn't fulfil many 
 next-generation ambitions. 

  Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer series has usually managed to outdo EA's FIFA series in the eyes 
 of European critics, even if it rarely manages to generate the same level of sales. When Winning 
 Eleven: Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 (or Pro Evolution Soccer 6 in Europe) was announced for the Xbox 
 360, it seemed gamers could finally look forward to a game that combined superb playability with 
 more impressive visuals and a compelling online offering.  

  We're pleased to report that the newest Pro Evolution Soccer continues the series' tradition of 
 playing a great game of football. From the moment you kick off, either against a friend or the 
 computer, Pro Evolution Soccer delivers a fantastic representation of the sport. Realistic body 
 shapes, player momentum, and ball physics combine to provide the greatest result yet. Just like 
 in real football, you have to work at creating build-up play and set pieces, but in return you'll 
 get a deep level of satisfaction when you score a truly remarkable goal.  

          The game's visuals have received some Xbox 360 attention.     

  Konami has made this 
 year's game tighter than ever before. For example, players need to be facing their intended targets 
 to attain any sort of passing accuracy, and the game usually favours the defending player in one-on-one 
 situations. Consequently, Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 is a slower game than its predecessor and favours 
 quick-passing play as opposed to selfish, solo runs. On the other hand, fouls are awarded much 
 less frequently this time around, which prevents the stop-start routine that marred PES5. Although 
 it takes a while to adjust to these changes, the new version of Pro Evolution Soccer is the best 
 yet in terms of action, and it will reward dedicated players with a good degree of depth.  

  However, as a next-generation title, Pro Evolution on the Xbox 360 doesn't work quite as hard 
 as it could. The lack of licensed team data has always been an issue for the series, but this version 
 has even less functionality than last year's PlayStation 2 game. The German league has mysteriously 
 disappeared, and while there are still a reasonable number of licensed teams, only four are represented 
 from the entire British Isles. That's fine if you're a fan of Rangers, Celtic, Arsenal, or Manchester 
 United, but everyone else will have to make do with a fictional team name that is based loosely 
 on the real club's location. Spurs fans must put up with North East London, Reading fans with Berkshire 
 Blues, and so on.  

  Even worse, Konami has now decided to omit the editing features that were available in previous 
 Pro Evolution Soccer games. These options have been comprehensive in the past in order to make 
 up for the lack of official licences in the game. In fact, while the full roster of team and player 
 changes can still be made in the PlayStation 2 version of the game, in the Xbox 360 game you can 
 only make alterations to players' names and statistics. Appearances, kits, and even fake team names 
 can't be changed, which is something of a step backwards, although the proportion of accurate player 
 names overall is higher this time around, and transfers are accurate to the end of the August 2006 
 transfer window. What's more, there's no option to save goal replays either, so the days of saving 
 your most glorious strikes to show off to your mates are gone.  

  Also, the unlockable items that PES points previously allowed you to buy are gone, although national 
 teams of classic players can be obtained by winning some of the cup competitions available. All 
 of the usual national tournaments return in exactly the same format as before. The Asian Cup, which 
 includes just five teams, provides a short-term challenge, and for something more comprehensive, 
 you can play the European competition or set up your own club or national team tournaments if you 
 so desire, playing as any team in the game.  

  The focus of the single-player game has always been the master league, and thankfully, it returns 
 in this year's game. Because this is a long-term challenge in which you take a team of low-quality 
 fictional players to the top, you'll need to win matches and accumulate in-game currency to buy 
 decent players on the way. This year's version of the master league is exactly the same as in previous 
 years, with one or two changes in presentation. For example, it's now possible to choose whether 
 or not players age or improve. By switching this last option off, you can re-create the experience 
 from past Pro Evo games and gradually build up a team of today's superstars, as opposed to a raft 
 of regenerated youngsters with the exact same names as famous players now.  

          Licensed players look great, but there aren't enough of them.     

  Either way, there's 
 nothing in this career mode that shows any particular ambition, and Konami has been content to 
 simply serve up what we've seen in previous versions of the game. Therefore, if you've spent weeks 
 working your way out of fake-player obscurity and into the world-class arena previously, you can 
 now contemplate doing exactly the same thing over again, in exactly the same way.  

  As you'd expect from a game that is making its Xbox 360 debut, the biggest improvement to Pro Evolution 
 Soccer is in the visuals. The high-definition overhaul means that you can really appreciate the 
 player details, particularly in the way they move. The interaction between players and the ball 
 has been key to Pro Evolution Soccer's success, and it's never looked as clear as on the Xbox 360. 
 While it's not yet in the same league as the 2006 FIFA World Cup game in terms of detail and authenticity, 
 there's still enough to please the eye. Player likenesses are reasonable enough so that you can 
 tell who the players are for the most part, although the licensed players certainly seem to have 
 had more attention paid to them. There are still entire club and national teams that feature players 
 with incorrect names, and a few of them have hair colour or facial characteristics that will no 
 doubt baffle some football fans.  

  Peter Brackley and Sir Trevor Brooking make a return in the commentary box, and while there seems 
 to be less repetition in their remarks, there's nothing noticeably new in the stock phrases either. 
 It's always been one of the Pro Evo series' weaknesses. Although they won't have you switching 
 off the commentary after playing for a few days, it's nothing to write home about.  

  There has been a fair amount of anticipation about the online multiplayer capabilities of Pro Evolution 
 Soccer 2007, as with many other Xbox 360 games. While playing against the computer is certainly 
 compelling, competing against real people is far more exciting, and players can battle over an 
 online leaderboard. Each person's Xbox Live profile will build up an online database, which keeps 
 track of a variety of statistics, including your performance over time and even your favoured choice 
 of team.  

  The online mode will sort you into several leagues, depending on your ranking. And you will move 
 up and down based on how many times you win, lose, or draw. If you want to play practise matches 
 or against friends, then you can play in unranked games. But the real challenge comes in playing 
 online ranked matches that will contribute to your leaderboard position. The real disappointment 
 is that you can't set up online tournaments with friends. So while the online multiplayer mode 
 is incredibly fun and addictive, it's a decidedly last-generation experience.  

          Body shapes and player movement make the game feel realistic.     

  The performance 
 of online play is fairly stable, although there are some issues that blight a game, which depend 
 on quick reactions. Shots, crosses, free kicks, and corners are much trickier online because of 
 a lag between the button press and the onscreen power bar. This means that you'll often hold the 
 button down for longer than you need. And when the action is completed, you end up with way more 
 power than you'd want. After a few games, you'll work out how to compensate, but it's still off-putting. 

  Achievements in the game are straightforward to win by playing through the preset tournaments and 
 the master league competitions. It may sound as if a lot of time is required, but it's possible 
 to unlock most achievements by setting the game to the easy mode and on the shortest match length 
 to romp through them. Much harder to achieve are the online badges, which require you to play 100 
 online games and win 100 matches.  

  Overall, while the most important part of the game -- the football -- is of the usual high standard, 
 there's a general lack of ambition in other areas of the game. But there's no doubt that for the 
 foreseeable future this game will continue to play some of the greatest matches around, and the 
 challenge to be one of the best players online will live on for a long time to come.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (96 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I know that it has been more than a year but since I am a soccer fan and I was updating my profile 
 I could not notice that this game need it my review. First, let me say that i been playing the 
 winning eleven series since I had the ps1 an 2 so imagine my surprise the first time I played this 
 game. 
  
  For some reason Konami makes this soccer game appealing for everyone the only downside is the rooster 
 which in some cases are not original, so you are not going to find original players, lets say like 
 in my country team (Ecuador) which it suck. And what i like about this game is the feeling an the 
 control that needless to say is perfect for me, maybe for the reason above that i have been playing 
 since the PS existence, but thats just me. 
  
  The graphics are nice I mean they look real and not like dolls like FiFA, but each game has its 
 own merits but WE is better for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  pro evo 6 is great wen it comes to game play however theres too much lag online too tackle and 
 its way too simple
  
  
  END
  
  
  fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd 
 sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd 
 fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd 
 f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh 
 dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf 
 sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs 
 fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s 
 df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf 
 hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds 
 sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds 
 fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs 
 f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd sfd sfd fhsdjfh dsfhjshf hhfj f 
 ff d sdsf sd f s df ds f sf fs f fs fs sfd fs fs fs sf fs fds fds fsd sfd sf sf sf sfd fds sfd 
 sfd sfd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lenarius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Winning Eleven 9 was an amazing soccer game. It's still the most realistic soccer video game I've 
 ever played. Unfortunately, Pro Evolution Winning Eleven 2007 takes a few steps in the wrong direction. 
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are actually pretty good. They're clear and coloful. Player faces still don't 
 look much like the real thing, but in-game the players look and move pretty realistically. 
  
  Gameplay: Here's where the game has it's greatest strengths and weaknesses. The core gameplay 
 is still a more realistic than even Fifa 08, in that players simply don't have perfect control 
 of the ball, whether they're dribbling, shooting, passing. . . this is true in Fifa, but to a greater 
 extrent in Pro evo. My biggest gripe with this game, which actually drove me to the point of returning 
 Pro Evo. and buying Fifa 08, is the tackling system. If you played Fifa 07 you know what I mean. 
 It is SOOO hard to steal the ball from an offensive player. If the offensive player gets any momentum 
 the defense just get bumped aside like they're not even there. It may seem minor, but defense should 
 be the easiest aspect of soccer, not the hardest, and a broken tackling system really ruined this 
 game for me. 
  Another annoying occurence was my forwards getting shoved to the ground right as they shoot the 
 ball. No call, and their shot gets completely messed up. I wouldn't mind this happening every now 
 and then, but when it's every other run I can't stand it. 
  
  Sound: You can only get so exciting sound-wise with a soccer game, but this game's pretty bland. 
 The announcers are very generic and extremely repetitive. The crowd sounds average. 
  
  I seriously tried to like this game. But a soccer game with a broken tackling system really is 
 no fun. I picked up Fifa 08 and though it's not as realistic it's a lot more fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  It truly does, and if you don't believe me look at FIFA 08s new control layout. Look familiar?
 
  Winning 11 get the controls right and for the most part it plays pretty smooth with some framerate 
 dips here and there when play gets fast on the pitch. I was pretty impressed with the menu layout 
 and the options. But this was my first Winning 11 series game, so I can't really attest to it being 
 somewhat stripped down for the first next gen version.
  The play feels pretty authentic and character animations are similar enough to tell who the person 
 is, but in the celebration scenes they are pretty generic copies. The game still looks pretty good 
 during normal gameplay. It doesn't push the envelope, but i was very surprised when I played the 
 demo of the next football release coming to the system that it looked just as good during gameplay. 
 It also feels like you are on a regulation sized playing field in this game. Which should be standard 
 but it isn't sometimes the case.
  Sound is pretty basic and could use some work because it was very basic and there isn't much for 
 your surround system to do except make some crowd noise. You'll hear some stadium chants, which 
 was authentic, it is all pretty basic, but passable.
  The on-line usually holds up pretty well and it has a decent community. If you can stand everyone 
 using the same 3 or 4 teams, then you'll be in for some competitive matches.
  Overall it is the best next gen football sim yet, but there's still alot of progress that can be 
 made from player animations to online leagues in-game (not through 3rd party website) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fayezation
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Ok, let's settle this once and for all. The winning eleven series (or Pro Soccer Evo, or whatever 
 you wanna call it) has always been the epitome of soccer simulation. You want arcady -a. k. a. gungho 
 american fun- track down a copy of Fifa Soccer. For the real thing, look no further. To describe 
 the glory of this game would take ages. So let's talk about what i DON'T like: The graphics. They're 
 dated, and not a fair representation of next-gen capabilities.
  The menu system is not as accessible to new-comers as veterans of the series. However, this is 
 not because of ill-design, but because of the endless customization options.
  The sound is fine. Chants are audible, the announcer is not so bad either. We haven't had to turn 
 him off yet.
  Now the good part: Customization, strategy, options, depth, realism, controls. ALL PERFECT. Any 
 time one of the boys complains about how 'the controller is acting weird' or 'i swear i pressed 
 pass not shoot', we just give him the dirty look. We all know better. This is a highly responsive, 
 meticulously crafted software app. Another HUGE positive is the incredible amount of fun this game 
 is when played with a group. Every game is different, all the boys have their strategies, and as 
 of yet, there's no clear-cut champion of the couch wars! All in all, this is a wonderful game that 
 could use a shot of visual aid. Still, the best soccer game out there by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  I can not believe it.
  I was so looking forward to playing this game. When I quickly unpacked it and shoved it in my 360 
 I was moderatly impressed, nice easy menu screen, gameplay still great although a little sluggish, 
 no edit mode- oh well not too bothered about that, graphics functional at best, online mode - great 
 but wheres the 2 vs 2 gone?
  
  All in all a bit of a dissapointment but the gameplay still shined, 8/10
  
  THEN I played the 
 PS2 version. OMG! What a difference. Hell of a lot more options, Edit mode and the great PS2 pad 
 which beats 360 on this game hands down.
  But, and this is a big but, most importantly the gameplay - Absolutely superb! Not sluggish at 
 all, fast and slick with brilliant animation and smooth as a babys arse. Graphics still functional 
 but in all honesty not far off the 360 version. This is how PES should play. Miss the online a 
 little (PS2 owners dont generaly have easy access to online) but a much better game. Superb PS2 
 version 9/10
  
  Hindsight 360 version 5/10 - Very poor. PES in name only. Saved by featureless online play
  
 
  Pease just get the PS2 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  IF you are looking for a game that allows you to play like the pros and do things that they can 
 in real life this game is for you. Unlike FIFA 07, Winning Eleven is more down to earth and players 
 are more on an actual skill level. Cristiano Ronaldo isnt unstopable on the run as he is in FIFA 
 and Ronaldinho is actually good and he doesnt lose the ball so easily as he does in FIFA.
  
  The realism in this game is unmatched and it makes the gaming experience more enjoyable for 
 soccer fans. FIFA is more fun to watch but Winning Eleven is a heck of alot more like life and 
 allows for a better gaming experience and the better display of the actual talent pro soccer players 
 have rather than FIFAs over exaggerations on certain player skills and abilities.
  
  Winning Eleven is a more life like and gives gamers a better sense of playing a real soccer game.
 
  
  :::PROS::: realism of the player's skills and abilities is fantastic
  :::CONS::: graphics dont look next-gen at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzyJeff12
Rating: 1.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Fifa games have always been the best route to play futbol on any console and when i rented Winning 
 Eleven Pro Evolution, I was sadly proved right. This game is terrible in too many ways to count. 
 First, the team selection is very poor. Second, they cannot even get the jerseys right for some 
 of the international teams. I was surprised they had Peru on the game and since im half Peruvian, 
 I tried them out. The jerseys were totally off! I could look for the jerseys on the Internet for 
 god sakes. They should have actually put time and effort in this game. For most of you readers, 
 these reasons might seem stupid but one of the real problems in the game is that it is way too 
 easy to score. Whats a game without a challenge. The only thing that was better here than on Fifa 
 07 was the movement. Otherwise, this game blows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfxarts
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  The Winning Eleven series is the best soccer game ever. All the other soccer games pale in comparison 
 to the innovative gameplay and franchise/club development. The ball really feels like it's a part 
 of the environment instead of the player. The Champion League mode allows for some exciting times. 
 The game forces you to start with the default winning eleven roster. You have to budget points 
 that you earn for wins and championships to trade or sign new stars or players that you think have 
 potential. The Graphics are slightly improved. The announcing is solid. You can even change the 
 language of the announcers. I love listening to all the different languages. Of course there is 
 value because the soccer club seems to last forever. Even when your team is perfect you will still 
 be met with challenges and records to break. However, if you are a fan of the series you know that 
 these features are really nothing new. Nothing is evolved at all. The only changes are that the 
 AI is slightly different, you are no longer able to create your own uniforms and logos, and you 
 can't develop your players through training as much. I really miss changing the uniforms every 
 year. I would add patches and logos when I won championships and things like that. Seems meaningless, 
 but it's the little things that created such a great game on the Xbox. I'm really tired of these 
 games LOOSING FEATURES as they graduate to better graphics on next gen systems. There is really 
 no excuse for it.. because graphics should be developed to compliment gameplay. You should never 
 sacrafice gameplay for better graphics in my opinion. The funny thing is that graphics haven't 
 even improved that much really. To the developers: Let us customize our uniforms again! Make the 
 franchise mode even deeper. We need more off the field drama. Training should matter, but make 
 it fun LIKE BEFORE! I don't miss the dribbling drills, but some of the passing and shooting drills 
 really made me and my players much better. I miss my old Xbox copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dougie_W
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Why Konami . Why?!?!? Why take a successful, carved in rock football sim and totally rip out everything 
 that makes the game great. Sure you get better graphics this time but what is that compared to 
 the poor poor gameplay. Where is the AI for your team, why do they stand around inactive as you 
 burst forward on the attack, why do the controls feel really bogged down and not as responsive 
 as previous versions. Im not even going to start with the edit options that added so much variety 
 to the game being missing. I loved the PES series but this has dented my confidence in the title 
 and Im not sure if I would trust the next PES instalment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Anyone with any remote passion for football is sure to get a kick out Pro Evo 6. There are dozens 
 of leagues and cups to kick ass on, plenty of teams and players to buy and improve your team with, 
 (although they're not fully licensed) . The gameplay is very addictive and the graphics ae spot 
 on, very colourful and great character designs.
  
  There is 4 player versuses mode to play with your friends (if you have any?!) and of course, Xbox 
 Live which is also extremely addictive despite the occasionally connection bugs and glitches which 
 won't interfere too much.
  
  Fans of the Pro Evo series will enjoy its new transformation to next gen on the 360, it will be 
 interesting to see in the near future what Fifa can do to counter is exellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lecurintia
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  The game are very realistic, the edit mode is very very very very poor. And , I was Furios, because 
 some fantastics players just desapers.
  If is to do a game, Do it!!!! Make it's perfect!!!!!
  And why they don't do write the championships?
 
  why whe don't have a Brasileiro? Libertadores? a Word Club Cup?
  Ok... ok.....
  I just want it, when I have it....... my score for this game will be 1.000!
  blabla blabla blabla 
 blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla 
 blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla blabla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABSOLUTMATEO
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Konami should stop resting on their laurels. This is best playing soccer game and they 
 know it. In fact, this is the best playing sports game. Animations are so lifelike and teams behave 
 like real life teams. FIFA does not touch this game in the gameplay department.
  
  Graphics: Looks pretty great actually. Very clean graphics with some nice lighting and stadiums. 
 Players look excellent for the most part and celebrate nicely. Note: Looks nasty on a standar definition 
 tv.
  
  Sound: Commentary is solid as usual, but crowd gets more excited when a shot hits the post than 
 when it goes in the net. Strange. Oh and menu music is as annoying as ever.
  
  Value: Even less teams than before, and you can't edit nearly as much. You can't even change team 
 names, just player names it is a shame. Edit mode used to be one of the best parts of Winning Eleven. 
 You can't even save replays in this version!!!!! Master League still provides a great, lenghty 
 franchise mode. I find it to be one of the best, and still very fun. Tilt: I'm very mad at you 
 Konami. Gameplay translates perfectly to the 360, and looks even more realistic in HD next gen... but 
 how could you take away editing and replay features. You get an 8 for still being the most fun 
 sports game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vansking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  El Juego sigue la misma linea de todos los winin, la movilidad y jugabilidad es excelente, las 
 opciones de edicion es lo unico malo del juego , son muy pocas ah y la opcion de guardar los goles 
 ya no la tiene eso tambien es malo, pero el juego es muy bueno, es el mejor de la serie y eso hay 
 que agregarle q ahora esta en formato widescreen, hay que comprarlo si o si. El juego en linea 
 tambien es muy divertido, sobre todo para jugar con un amigo que no puede venir a la casa o aquellos 
 compa&ntilde; eros que viven lejos, simplemente genial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeevans57
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  At first, you wonder how you're going to score. But as the days, weeks and inevitably months role 
 by you no longer play this game, you live it. Simply put its the best football game on the market, 
 and the next in the series should fully deliver where this falls short. Graphically Ive seen better 
 looking PS2 games, but its tolerable considering the gameplay. A few minor issues aside, this game 
 is a must own for football loving 360 owners the world over.
  One issue is the inability to save replays to your harddrive/memory stick. The previous, last gen 
 pro evo had this feature, to leave it out is a crime. I'd love to be able to save goal replays 
 and send them to my friends, lets hope they think of this. Stadiums. Not enough.
  Sound. Recycled commentary, inaccurate and precisely enough to make you press mute.
  AI. Suspect 
 at times. Like when you switch to a central defender, run towards a the player on the ball and 
 so does your teams other central defender (happens a few times) . Leaves a big hole in the defence, 
 and big holes aren't good.
  Skills. Needs more special tricks.
  Adriano. Too powerful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicky_prajeztya
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Hai... Sorri my english very bad, because i canot speak english well.
  
  I'am a indonesian gamers ad i often see new game from this site.
  
  This a great game, but this 
 make me booooring.... because the update from gamespot not work, (file number 7 is corrupted) . and 
 for anyone who have or know other site posting mods for we : pes 2007 send me the addrs... send 
 to nick_dhee@yahoo. co. id ..... i play this game for spend my time ,i hope i found the update soon. i 
 like this game very much, i like this game because the gameplay is realistic ad un and thanks for 
 all.... he he he............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The good: Only superb cups and clever football experience than FIFA
  
  The bad: Worse achivments on the console, more achivements needs to be added, graphics are ugly 
 doll players how on erath on england leauge i am suppose to know the teams and it has gone lack?.
 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay looked way better than FIFA and still you can get better difficulty skills 
 that a locked difficulty.
  
  Graphics: Nothing i can say but the players look ugly of the design.
  
  Sound: Just only the 
 best features of sounds of commetators than FIFA's commetators and more crowed has some fan music 
 that FIFA does not add, if no fan songs are been played during the start of the match then how 
 does it affect in reality?
  
  Value: No comment
  
  Tilt: I believe it is fair but i think graphics is not very good in the game because this was not 
 what i call good graphics of the players at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeno6696
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Though in my opinion it outclasses EA's FIFA series in gameplay, (Sorry, can't stand arcade-style 
 in something that is supposed to be a sim.) the game disappoints and frustrates me beyond belief. 
 Graphics and animation are all great, but to see why it earns my ire you just need to head to difficulty.
 
  
  Pop it in amateur to get the controls down. Don't expect a challenge, the computer is pretty much 
 a pushover; within 10 games or so you should be able to score 5-6 goals a game. Up the difficulty 
 by ONE, however, and you are suddenly in a position where you have to fight non-stop, just to get 
 the ball.
  
  If you tackle: foul.
  
  It's not as nazi-like as previous incarnations, but the computer definitely plays favorites -- with 
 itself.
  
  The fact that the german leagues were taken out even make life more frustrating, especially if 
 you're teutonic like I am.
  
  So, I'll keep playing my PS2 WE9, because this one they screwed. Too hard on normal, too easy on 
 amateur... I'd be very afraid to try a harder difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roy071
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Pro Evo has been preferred over fifa for years now, but the competition has been close. Even I 
 had to admit Fifa 06 on the PS2 and XBOX was fantastic. i found that even more enjoyable than Pro 
 5. But when Pro 6 came out, Fifa 06 was just forgot about. The only thing lacking Pro 6 is the 
 editing funcction. On earlier Pro Evos, you could create an entire team without playing through 
 master league, you could also create players for any team. This really let the recent Pro Evo down, 
 but the gameplay and the great mulitplay makes up for it big time.
  
  All in all Pro Evo 6 is brilliant, and beats the hell out of Fifa 07 in my opinion, on any console. 
 One of the reason people preferred Fifa over Pro Evo is because of the reality of the players, 
 on Fifa 07, the players look terrible, even Pro has made the players look better. No reason why 
 this isn't in you collection, that's why Pro 6 has 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shummie123
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Pro Evo has once again outdone FIFA, mainly down to its great game play. Pro Evo provides a realistic 
 style of play, with passing and keeping the ball the most effective way of playing. The single 
 player options can provide hours of game play and the replayability level is huge. There are many 
 cups to compete in and two are completely customizable, allowing you to play against as many teams 
 as you want and in whatever style. There are also many leagues to participate in and Master League 
 gives you the ultimate goal of creating and leading your own team to the top.
  
  Pro Evo has more licensed names from teams and players than ever before but you still to put up 
 with the majority of English changed names, such as East London. This barely makes a difference 
 to the enjoyment of the game.
  
  The achievements also add an extra enjoyment to the game as they encourage you to participate in 
 each cup and league in the game, and trying to win these adds to longevity of the game. However 
 their are areas in which this game can still improve. The off the ball movement can be somewhat 
 indifferent, watching your full back watch you struggle rather than making that overlapping run 
 is very frustrating. The intelligence of your strikers is also questionable, frequently being caught 
 miles off side, meaning you need to be quick in spotting the through balls.
  
  The goalkeeping can be considered a continental style or 'for the camera's'. This doesn't seem 
 to be a big problem, but its gets annoying watching your 'keeper dive around when the ball is coming 
 straight to him. The graphics are nothing to shout about, the standard from what you expect from 
 a Pro Evo game. Online and single console multiplayer is where this games comes to live, especially 
 with the students. The single console multiplayer offers up to four player game play, 2on2, 3on1, 
 4onCPU are all options. You can also pick a team each and participate in a world cup, meaning up 
 to 32 players can take part. This results in the game becoming a great way to entertain you and 
 your friends for a cheap night in. Online also provides more fun, testing your skills against others. 
 Lag never seems to be a problem, unless your mum decides that she is going to pull out the cable 
 because she needs to hover.
  
  One of the big misses from the game is the added extras, especially the PES shop. In the PS2 Version 
 you can buy new celebrations, play in double spend or purchase legendary players. The internation 
 challenge mode is also missing. This isn't a problem if you didn't know about it, but when you 
 watch your friend unlocking Freddie Adu on his PS2it makes you feel like your missing out.
  
  Overall, this is still a great game but shouldn't be considered 'next gen'. Its provides hours 
 of fun and has a huge replayability value. It would bring friends together for a good time when 
 you throw a world cup night. It could have been better and expect the next version to be great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_mcafee
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 14, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  The game play is just about right. On the lower difficulty settings the game is pretty easy to 
 pick up, but it is very difficult to master the harder levels. When you can take advantage of a 
 break in the defense and knock one in the net, or bring in a cross for a beautiful finish you will 
 know joy. The Master League is still the best way to play; taking your team from the bottom of 
 the ranks to become a champion is very immersive.
  Online play is so-so. About half the time the game was too laggy to play very well, and other times 
 it was fine. It would even change during the same game. At least you have the option, which the 
 PS2 version does not have.
  The visuals have improved over other versions of the game, and do look pretty good. Not great, 
 but good. EA does win in this department.
  The lack of licensing for teams, stadium, and players is pretty sad. It has improved from WE9, 
 and it would not be a big deal at all if you could edit the info yourself. That's right, in the 
 360 version you can edit are player names, but that is it. You can change anything you want in 
 the other versions, but the 360 customers get the shaft. Seriously, If you have more options on 
 an inferior system then you do on a top of the line system (while the game costs more to boot) 
 you have failed your fan base as a developer. Failed. I understand the implications of people editing 
 non-licensed teams and taking them online, but give me a break. If Konami would release a patch 
 over xbox live to re-insert these options, the game's score would jump considerably.
  Before I bought this game for the 360 I would never have advised this, as EA is the devil and Konami 
 has always had the better game: play both PES 07 and EA's FIFA 07 before you make your decision. 
 The game play of PES 07 is the clear winner, but Konami's spit on my face is a bit infuriating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubsbr
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Great game, with terrific graphics and terrific gameplay. It's the kind of game you will never 
 forget inside your drawer together with the other lame games. The only thing that made me upset 
 was that most of the player names and team names and league names were not correct. Master league 
 mode with the WE PES 2007 team isn't that fun. The great part of the ML is buying players from 
 other teams and selling players ,either to get money or because they're really bad. You'll have 
 a blast playing this game. I guaranty. For both soccer fans and people who enjoy an addictive game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardis_tennis
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  when i bought pro evo over fifa, i was thinking that i had made a huge mistake. however this remains 
 untrue after i played it. Awsome gameplay which makes it so addictive to play and the skies your 
 limit! i think that if you dont know which, out of fifa and pro evo 6, to buy. BUY PRO EVO! The 
 graphics are also good however not really noticable when you are about to score the winnig goal 
 which will win you the konami cup. I would have to say that the only downfall of this addictive 
 game is that the names of the not so important teams are not correct as we know them today! This 
 shouldn't stop you really its just a little downfall in the whole game. I would temp you to play 
 as the international teams because they are just the best especially with lennon on the right wing 
 for england! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknferno12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Winning Eleven: 2007 is a great game even if your a casual fan of the sport. This version is more 
 of a slow paced game which you'll have to pass the ball around, find an open man, cross it in, 
 now it is much harder to go down the field breaking everyone one on one even if your Ronaldinho. 
 Theres a few bad thing for one refs do seem to call more fouls on you even if the cpu does something 
 worse. Your A. I teammates are very passive they never seem to want to attack the player with the 
 ball and have no urgency to get the ball back in the last few minutes of the game when your losing. 
 There is no create a player, for the already existing players you can only edit players stats and 
 names but when you change the name it shows the default name on the jersey. The graphics are good 
 but you would expect more from a next gen system. The commentary is the same but no harm there 
 since it was always great. Overall if you like Soccer, Futbol, Football or played previous WE games 
 you'll like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedric169
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 3, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  this is the first winning eleven game i played i was a huge fifa series fan but i was up for giving 
 a try for this game... well i really like above all the realistic footballing action in this game, 
 master league is fun and multiplayer is also gr8...
  
  But I didn't like the graphics it seems a little dated... the menu is just awful too plain and 
 simple, i thought that there was not too many teams too choose, the editing options is also plain 
 simple and poor... Good Achievements
  
  Above all if u looking to play a good football game with excellent realistic football action u 
 should buy this one...
  
  Cedric169...:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozitt
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  OK to start with, I never really got into football (or soccer as the foreigners call it) . But this 
 game has changed that, I really love it. So easy to pick up and play to begin with - but took me 
 a while to master the advance moves etc. It also didn't help that I had to quickly learn the rules! 
 lol - that didn't take too long though.
  The graphics could have been better and the commentary really needs to be added to, there is only 
 so many times you can hear them say the same thing, but as I understand it - its that way in all 
 football games.
  Anyway def worth the play, if just to see if you like it. I personally prefer it to Fifa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shexcel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of Winning Elevens, the 2007 entry into the series may seem little changed at first 
 glance from its predecessors. The game looks pretty much the same (except for the introduction 
 of HD-quality graphics, which does have a small but noticeable impact) , sounds similar, and plays 
 the usual great game. However, once you delve further into the surface, you realize this iteration 
 is more than meets the eye.
  
  The gameplay, of course, is up to par with what we have come to expect with the Winning Eleven 
 franchise. The game maintains the superb element of control over individual players and the one-on-one 
 aspect which makes the game so fun. In this version, however, there is an added emphasis on teamwork 
 and passing becomes all the more important. Finding open space for a player to have time to react 
 adds more realism to this game than before. Also, you will notice that collision detection is improved 
 and you will no longer see arms going through legs. Players' strength comes into play more because 
 of this as a defensive player pushes a striker out of the way of a free ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockfletch3000
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I've been buying, playing and loving the Pro Evo series since number 3, so when it was announced 
 for the 360 I was sure it was going to be great ......... right?......... Wrong!
  
  The thing is, at first I thought it was going to be ok once i got used to it, no where near as 
 good as number 5, but could be a good game. The graphics are improved, obviously, but I can't help 
 thinking that the first Xbox could produce these visuals at a push?.... The stadium sounds are 
 great, but the commentary is exactaly the same (what a cop out) .... The sponsorship situation is 
 prety much the same, still dissapointing, but the extra international sponsored kits dampened this 
 annoyance a little...
  
  To be honest I can't think of anything else possitive to comment on because there are soooooooo 
 many negatives!!.... You'll realise this once you start to get into Pro Evo 6, and you'll see just 
 how bad a job Konami have done with this version, compared to the predecessors.... So here we go....
 
  
  (It's worth pointing out at this point that for people that HAVEN'T played a Pro Evo Soccer game 
 then i think that you'll find this version quite GOOD........, but for long time fans of the series 
 and people who know what Pro Evo games are like and HOW good it HAS BEEN.......... then I'm afraid 
 it's a totally different ball game. So really I'm just giving my opinion as an experiencd Pro Evo 
 Player) .
  
  Firstly, Konami have made the game slower, I think TOO slow. It doesn't seem to be as exciting 
 anymore due to this toned down 'elderly' pase!
  
  Secondly, I felt that the passing efficiency has become really dissapointing when it matters most. 
 For example, if you are not facing exactly in the direction you want to pass, then you just kick 
 the ball 'away'.... The overall accuracy of the game is poor. Through balls have a mind of their 
 own! You can have a team mate runnig along five meters away from your player, and when you press 
 'through pass' in his direction the computer decides to send the ball to a team mate on the other 
 side of the pich!!! What's going on?? It drives you mad especialy when it gets intercepted.
  
  General 'AI' (artificial intelligence) is pretty bad too. Your defenders make no attempt to 
 get into a decent position when the computer makes its attack, which is strange because the COMPUTER 
 oponents defenders are perfectly positioned when you make YOUR attack.... For example, if the computer 
 kicks a high ball down the wing on its attack, your defenders are near the middle of the pitch, 
 completely unprepared! However if you try the same type of attack down a wing, the computer is 
 always there... This means you have to get all technical and man mark the wingers, etc... Not very 
 user freindly. And your attackers hardly ever make any runs....
  
  The most shocking element of this version however, (on the 360 only by the way) , is that there 
 are NO CREATE PLAYER, CREATE KITS, CHANGE STADIUM, TEAM, AND LEAGUE NAMES, PES SHOP, EDIT APPEARENCE 
 and an INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE that is available of the PS2 is NOT included!!!...... What the ffff....? 
 Konami have left all these features out! This could've added loads of extra lastability, but you 
 get nothing other than Exhibition, Cup, Master League and League. The PSP version has more options 
 and modes than this!!
  
  And I can't leave out the diabolicle shooting tweak that Konami have stupidly messed around with 
 either, it's a joke! Konami have somehow, and for some unknown reason made the shooting on this 
 version really difficult........ If you hold down shoot for a fraction too long, rather than just 
 put it embarressingly over the bar, you player will proceed to make an attempt at kicking the ball 
 out of the stadium! It's that bad! Also, if one of your players is lined up for a shot, but is 
 under some pressure by a defender, he'll mess the shot up so badly you'll think he was trying to 
 score a rugby conversion!- I don't understand this?? When do players kick a ball that high if they're 
 under pressure when a shot is on in real life? AND I only TAPPED the button!!! AAAGGGHHHH!!!
  
  This game is poor... I LOVE the Pro Evo series, but not this mess. I get the feeling that Konami 
 rushed it because it really doesn't feel complete with so many features missing and so many silly 
 faults. The two player head to head is still kind of fun because you're both in the same boat with 
 all the stupid adjustements the programmers have made, but head to head online is pretty laggy, 
 and can take ages to find a match... After all this moaning about how much I'm dissapointed with 
 it, I'll still play it because it's the 360's only choice.... Fifa is even more agrivating to play, 
 although at least EA managed to make it look great and get the licensing... My advise is to wait 
 for the next one, or find a cheap second hand copy. I am so surprised that Konami have made such 
 a monumental error in 'fiddeling' around with a game that already worked. A graphically revamped, 
 re-commentated version of number 5 with some cool new options and modes would have beeen just right.... 
 But I'm afraid not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilzy_ccfc
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately all the good work konami have done to make the Pro Evo Soccer series great seems 
 to have been lost in this Xbox 360 version. Sure enough the great gameplay is still there and playing 
 against your mates is as addictive as ever, but it falls poorly short of what the supposedly 'less 
 powerful' PS2 version has to offer. Editing is completely absent, leaving you playing West London 
 Blue or some pathetic name, which itself doesnt ruin the game, but it leaves you with hardly anything 
 to do but constantly play the Konami cup or something. Although the graphics arn't bad they cant 
 exactly class as next-gen seeing as they are done just as well on the PS2. Overall this game is 
 worth playing but dont expect a revolution like you'd expect from the 360. However its still 100% 
 better than Fifa 07 and any other Fifa for that matter because those games are abysmal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mon_bus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The Winning Eleven/Pro Evolution Soccer franchise kept kicking the Fifa franchise right on the 
 nuts year after year in terms of gameplay. Now that WE/PES has gone next-gen, one would expect 
 more from this game, but alas it feels like a step backwards.
  
  Thats not to say that the game is not fun; it is. The gameplay is still solid as ever, with its 
 easy to learn, hard to master philosophy. The matches are thrilling, and each goal scored gives 
 you a very satisfying feeling, especially now that the gameplay has been tweaked to favor defenders, 
 thus rewarding a more passing/teamwork based strategy. Thats right; the days of picking up Ronaldinho 
 and running from one side of the pitch to the other are long gone. Slick passing and tactical thought 
 are needed, and this is a great enhancement to the game.
  
  However, the gameplay can be frustratingly buggy at times. If I had a cent every time player a 
 would pass the ball to player c instead of player b, when I clearly intended for player b 
 to receive it, Id be in a mansion in Mexico enjoying the ocean view. Granted, this used to happen 
 in previous editions, and it may be impossible to completely flush this out, but it happens a lot 
 more often in this edition.
  
  The gameplay really shines during multiplayer matches, as this new advantage towards defenders 
 makes the matches even more intense, and scoring a goal while watching your opponent curse and 
 throw the controller away much more satisfying. The Xbox Live does suffer from lag issues though, 
 and with a game that requires precise controls, lag can really put you at a disadvantage. Id advise 
 you to stick to offline matches.
  
  As far as the single player modes go, the usual gameplay modes are there, the Master League is 
 addictive as usual, with many Leagues and Cups scattered throughout. However, the Training mode 
 does not feature the mini-games that where available in previous editions, which is a nuisance 
 considering more practice is required to pull of some of the fancy dribbling moves. Also, German 
 League fans may be disappointed as the Bundesliga has been mysteriously pulled out. Not to worry 
 though, as the teams still appear for other modes, disguised in the weird names WE/PES manages 
 to come up with for unlicensed teams such as Liverpool and Chelsea.
  
  The licensing problem was easily fixed by previous editions by featuring a complex Team Customizing 
 mode, making you able to virtually change every detail about a team. However, this has also bean 
 left out of the Xbox 360 version, and the cusumisation mode has been dumbed down to the point where 
 it became useless.
  
  The graphics do look sharper in this game, but they are by no means next-gen. While the animations 
 are smooth and realistic, its clear that the developers have not put match thought into improving 
 the graphics. At times there is some slowdown, especially when a lot of players are crammed in 
 one area of the pitch, but its nothing gamebreaking.
  
  The sound is horrid. Lackluster cheers and repetitive commentating will get on your nerves. What 
 is infuriating is when you give away the ball by giving a pass to the opposing team, only to here 
 the commentator commending you in his most sincere tone for the great ball you just sent through. 
 Or when the commentator suddenly screams in excitement in moments when there is nothing interesting 
 happening on the pitch.
  
  If you own any of the previous WE/PES editions, whether on the Xbox or on the PS2, then skip this 
 version completely, as it is definitely not worth the 60 bucks you will have to shell out. However, 
 if you are a football, or as our American friends call it soccer fan and you havent played any 
 WE/PES game previously, then you owe it to yourself to give this game a try. This is especially 
 true if you have a group of friends that share your interest, as multiplayer games are one of the 
 most fun times you will have on your Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  For those who season after season have been following the Winning Eleven/Pro Evolution Soccer series 
 -like me- this might be quite an interesting experience that worths to be tried. The gameplay part 
 is completely new and challenging. We all used to take the ball with our star player and start 
 our way from one side of the field to the other, not giving any pass, running like hell and dribling 
 to avoid the defenders and, in the end, we got our prize for the effort adding a marvelous goal 
 to our collection. This time, it ain't gonna be that easy; now you have to use more players if 
 you want to get a goal and this makes the experience much more rewarding. Two thumbs up to the 
 gameplay. This time the game is slower and there are no unstoppable players but, of course, a first 
 class crack will allways be very helpful.
  The referee plays a more important role since he and his staff really indicates who has the possession 
 of the ball after a foul or when the ball leaves the field; this might seem a simple change, but 
 this little details gives a much nicer eviroment to the game.
  It is clear to me that the intention of the developers was to give us a more realistic gameplay 
 experience, but we can't just ignore that this Winning Eleven looks quite familiar with the FIFA 
 series... familiar, but better.
  Another cool change is that now is not that usual to see a player with low form (blue or gray arrows) , 
 then you can really have a starting 11 squad. This was pretty annoying in the previous versions 
 because you couldn't have stability, making the use of your default starting 11 a rare event.
 
  
  Not much to say about the graphics. They are well suited for a last gen console and that's it. 
 Nor spectacular, nor disappointing.
  
  I liked the sound effects. It feels more like a live game in a real stadium and the spectators 
 are there to support the home team with cheers and to put some pressure to the visiting team with 
 boooos!. However, I was expecting some commentators add ons (there are a few, but only a few) , 
 but I must admit that this time the commentators are more accurate. Adding some fans canticles 
 instead of taking them away wouldn't harm anybody, though. The sound effects might deserve a 9, 
 but i'll take away 1 point because most of them are almost the same we've been hearing in the previous 
 versions and I'll take away 1 more point because they took away the fans canticles, leaving it 
 as a 7. The new stuff stops right there. We have to deal with the same Master League we had on 
 the previous versions, with small differences. For example, the experience points gained in a game 
 are a little bit more realistic; now you can get a 17 yo player for your team and it is going to 
 take a while to make him a shooting star (this was already implemented in the previous version, 
 but this time seems more fitted to the way it is in the real life) . In a few words: the Master 
 League remains almost the same, but this is not necessarily a bad thing. Why change something that 
 already works fine? The Master League format, specially the transfermarket system, is the most 
 enjoyable part of the game.
  But, of course, not everything is happiness and somebody will have to explain why they considerely 
 reduced the editing options and why in the world they took away the possibility of save our best 
 goals!
  
  Winning Eleven: Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 leaves a lot of stuff almost as we knew it on the previous 
 versions, but gives us a new gameplay with last gen graphics, and that's a good excuse to dive 
 again into the management of your own soccer franchise.
  
  Enjoy it and see you on Xbox Live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpgatas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics and controls are seemless, a very enjoyable game! One thing that I love about soccer 
 games is that there isn't a choppy presentation, and this game definitely excels in making sure 
 that there is a seemless transition from passes and kicks. Also, the character models are gorgeous 
 on this system as opposed to other platforms.
  
  Definitely a great game experience! The learning curve for the game is typically less than an hour 
 for the basic controls, but to become more adept to the controls and learn some of the advanced 
 controls you might have to participate in some matches to get the feel for the controls.
  
  Good game, through and through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  As someone who lives in Canada where football isn't a hugely watched sport, I find it difficult 
 to catch EPL matches on the television. Of course, my main sporting passion is ice hockey and the 
 NHL, but my other interest is football and I am slowly starting to branch out into football themed 
 videogames.
  
  With that out of the way, I do think that PES 2007 (PES 6 in Europe and Japan) , does football right. 
 Gameplay is solid, challenging, and loads of fun! There is nothing like getting a strong cross 
 into the box and heading that past the keeper! Fun stuff! PES 2007 also has many leagues you can 
 compete in. Barclay's English Premier League (EPL) , Serie A, and many others including tournaments 
 involving play between nations. Unfortunately for me, Canada is ranked somewhere in the middle 
 in the football world, about 70th or so, and a Canadian team is absent! I sure would've liked to 
 see Tomaz Radzinski in a Canadian uniform. Oh well, life goes on.
  
  This game does have it own set of problems though. Online modes are lacking and the graphics are 
 definitely a rushed job. The game goes up to 1080p, but the character models and the overall engine 
 is a PS2 engine. You can really see this is a PS2 port. Overall though, solid gameplay and a solid 
 game. I just wish Konami would've given the 360 version a more graphical prowess as well as making 
 online a more enjoyable experience.
  
  Gameplay
  Time tested gameplay, great button layouts, fun and engaging even for novice footballers! Graphics
 
  Basically a PS2 port. Has some ugly textures and character models. Animations look good though.
 
  
  Sound
  The rush of the crowd, the commentating are all done well. Game supports Dolby, so if you have 
 a 5.1 setup, all the more for you to enjoy.
  
  Value
  With several leagues to beat, achievements, and some aspects of online will keep you busy for a 
 decent amount of time.
  
  Tilt
  An 8. Even though this game doesn't really have next-generation graphics, or great online, I still 
 recommend this game to any football fan. PES 2007 easily beats FIFA 07 with its solid gameplay 
 that doesn't frustrate you. Although FIFA 07 is prettier, it doesn't do football like PES 2007. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acer_Uk05
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  PES6 picks off where number 5 left. The gameplay has (thankfully) been left largely untouched. 
 Previous compariosn with its main competitor (FIFA) are lot more difficult. I think FiFa has definatly 
 made ground this year. They have gradually made their gameplay more pro evo like and kept all the 
 particular licences etc. alongside the superior graphic. Here, pro eve lacks, only certain players 
 look real, and the career mode just isnt as fun with the different team names. In terms of gameplay, 
 its still pro eve, the ball moves realistically.. player speeds and attributes seem to be spot 
 on. I did find certain galactico type players who are well known to have inflated stats. Cover 
 boy Adriano for example is frinkin incredible at mid range shots (which is only kind of true) . 
 Though it does make the teams a bit more unique, the disparity between certain players seems unrealistic. 
 Other than that Pro Eve is still best for multiplayer action, but for everything else (and I never 
 thought i'd say this) Fifa 07 is a more complete experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0ben24
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The best game in the pro evo series same great gameplay. The only complaint that i have is the 
 graphics are not the good enough to be next gen. The only category that fifa 07 beats pro evo in 
 are graphics and real stadiums, kits e. t. c. Its a must buy game for anyone who is a fan of pro evo 
 or football games. Great for playing with your mates on xbox live or just have lots of friends 
 round your house and play. My favourite part of the game is probaly the search by future potential 
 category in the negotiation part because its really fun buying an unknown player for a small amount 
 of money and turning them into a great player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Mix_1969
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  This is my first football video game for a long time. And I have to say I'm impressed. Okay, so 
 some people might want more licensed teams, more stadiums, editable rosters and the like. But get 
 to the core, the gameplay... It's terrific. It really feels like football. They way your playersmove 
 off the ball. The way the momentum of players or ball affects what you can get away with. You can 
 play a tight passing game, keeping possesion with short balls along the ground, or you can switch 
 to lobbing high balls at your centre-forwards head, and the team responds accordingly, without 
 you having to go into menus, alter their playing style or attacking stance. Of course, you CAN 
 go into menus and adjust the heck out of every nuance of your tactics. It's up to you.
  Best soccer I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencrawford1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  better advancements in game play and graphics but not at rate i would like. i would agree that 
 this is the best in the series due to steady but slow progress.
  the game offers a lot of diverse yet constricted game modes and options. Great online play makes 
 up for disadvantages to this game.
  
  Gamer score points are an easy job. if that is what you like in a game.
  
  Konami has to improve 
 this game by :
  - Getting more licenses
  - Expanding the editing mode
  - Appeal to a bigger market
  
  Overall a great football game, better than Fifa in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krow_316
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  i believe that one of the greatest game of all time has been Pro evolution soccer, and last game 
 was just great, you just could fulfill all your dreams in the field, having your team, you could 
 create the uniforms, you could trade your favorite players to your team and beat everyone, even 
 you can create yourself and be part of the game, but this new edition, is a complete shock, no 
 edition mode, its kind of sad that they make such a transition, cause i was really exited when 
 this sequel was going out, but its just dissapointment.
  
  ive never been a fifa soccer fan, but with this huge blow, what can you do to play real soccer, 
 maybe go to the park, but im not pleased that a game like this one, in a next-gen console, thats 
 something to think about.
  
  or maybe its just the exclusive games worthy enough of really be enjoyable?... you have the last 
 call... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevenus
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is such a let down. It is half the game that Pro Evo 5 was! It's slow, there are less 
 options, the AI is worse, the shooting system is terrible, the sound annoying and the graphics 
 LESS impressive than on other consoles! I would have rather waited a few more months for a complete 
 version of the game than this half-hearted attempt! Talk about taking a step backwards. Konami 
 have disappeared a good few miles back down the road!!! Stick with Pro Evo 5 my friends. There 
 is no true brillany football game on the 360 at the moment, and if this is a sign of things to 
 come there will not be one for a long time.
  
  Pro Evo 6 is WEAK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samf42
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I rented it because the gameplay was supposed to be better than FIFA. It definitely is. The only 
 thing that would make it better would be if Konami stepped up to the plate and made their graphics 
 as good as FIFA's. I can say, just like other reviews, I have never seen the same goal twice. Ever. 
 The animations are awesome and are definitely better than FIFA's. They are anything but blocky 
 (like in FIFA) . The commentating is quite good, as well. They do repeat things from time to time, 
 but they are always accurate. I definitely suggest this game to anyone and everyone who was ever 
 a fan of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  The first thing I thought when I heard this game was coming was, It will be the same game but with 
 some little improvements, and that's it . Well, I think I was wrong, there are some improvements, 
 but the game is not the same. The edit mode , PES shop, stadiums, licenses, are missing, and really, 
 that doesn't give you a good impression of the game.
  
  Still, once you get over all these forgotten things, you'll start loving the game, once again the 
 game play is amazing and the physics are much better than the old ones.
  
  I think if you have a XBOX360, and no PS2 at home, get this game, so you can play it on line and 
 enjoy the multi player option, that is not that good, but makes you happy for a while. But if you 
 have a PS2, get it for the PS2, you'll get the best soccer game ever, and just wait for the next 
 year's game to see if all these options are integrated to the game again.
  
  You give it a try, and forget all the hype and licenses FIFA brings to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudig
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Intro:
  
  So we are at the point where Winning Eleven really needs is better graphics and more licensed teams 
 with of course some tweaking with the gameplay. Well, unfortunately nothing really has changed 
 with this new added version of the series. What we got was basically upgraded graphics, lesser 
 teams, and new actual edit mode! What are they thinking? There are no Bundesliga teams, except 
 Bayern Munich which is fully licensed, and some of the teams that had licenses in previous games 
 do not anymore. What's even worse is that you cannot go to edit mode and rename the team and maybe 
 even try to create your own better version of the kits and emblem. Though there is an edit mode, 
 but all you can do in that is edit people's names and some attributes. This is a downgraded version 
 of the awesome series. So for the first time for a long time, Konami has actually let the gameplay 
 do the talking and let the gameplay silence the annoyed fans. In this Winning Eleven... it is all 
 about the gameplay because nothing has been added and a lot has been removed.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well to take away from some of the negativity of this review, lets start with 
 the gameplay. The gameplay is as solid as ever, except that your team's AI is usually dumb while 
 the CPU's AI is very smart and is a lot more smarter than the previous versions. So don't expect 
 to come in and start winning every game. There is virtually no tweaks with the gameplay, but Winning 
 Eleven fans will notice some. One thing that is good is, you no longer have to worry about touching 
 your opponent too hard without causing a foul. Now you can run into them and usually nothing happens 
 but makes them run slower with the ball. This is a lot tougher though because you will have to 
 think whether it's the right time to tackle or to put pressure on them and if you choose pressure, 
 sometimes they will just easily get away. If you tackle in the wrong time, you might cause a foul. 
 Putting pressure on them doesn't mean you will get the ball easily in this game like the previous 
 ones. You can hold A and B to make your selected player and one of your AI teammate to put pressure 
 on the person with the ball. Double teaming. That is an easier way of getting the ball, but it 
 still can cause a foul. Simple tiny tweaks like that really. Other then that the gameplay is still 
 a little broken. The passing is still broken. It's even worse actually in this game. There will 
 be lots of times where you accidently pass it to the wrong person. You would think wow I didn't 
 even aim or know that guy was there. So then you will lose the ball like that a lot. Overall though, 
 it is the same old Winning Eleven, that lets you think you have accomplished a lot when you score 
 a goal. It is just more pass oriented, but the passing is more broken.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics aren't a big deal for Winning Eleven. They never have been. So fans won't mind at 
 all. Of course it has improved but not by much. The animations are still great and realistic. One 
 thing you won't like is how they have really messed up on player's faces in this game. The previous 
 games, they looked acceptable, but in Winning Eleven 2007 most people's faces are way off and look 
 nothing like the actual player. Lukas Podolski's face is completely different, and Schweiny's face 
 was a lot better in Winning Eleven 9 than in this. Also, there are no more matches played in the 
 snow. The rain is not very noticeable. They got rid of the ball bouncing in the wet grass visual, 
 which I thought gave a sense that it is raining and the field is wet... too bad you won't be able 
 to tell in this one. The rain is just way too transparent to notice. And not enough of it falls 
 down.
  
  Sound:
  
  This is where it gets disappointing... big time. It is next-gen, and they decide to use the exact 
 same commentator voices and they say the exact same thing. The pause menu sound is the same. When 
 you play on the field the sounds are the same. Except now the croud is so loud you can't even hear 
 anything else. Basically everything is the same here, except the new menu song. That's it, you 
 can see they made no effort what-so-ever on the sound because they thought it would be acceptable. 
 It's just awful and disappointing. You will feel like you're playing the same exact game.
  
  Game Modes:
  
  There are the usual game modes in this game which I do not wish to explain 
 about except Master League. With Master League every thing is exactly the same. Except now you 
 will actually get offers from clubs who want your players. So now you can fee like you are having 
 a hard time keeping your players. It is much more fun that way, so now you won't have to worry 
 about off loading them without getting a single offer. That's pretty much it. The Xbox Live portion 
 is the same, except now you cannot go against other players in Europe. They did add something that 
 keeps track of your previous matches, win/loss streak/percentage, and ranking. That's it really.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  So, with all that said. What are you actually paying for? The same exact thing except a dumbed 
 down version. You are not getting a whole new game, you are not getting anything new really. You 
 are just getting a game with no Bundesliga teams, poor facial details, no improvements to gameplay 
 and well... no anything! Yes, that's right. You are not getting anything new. Although, it is still 
 a great Winning Eleven game and for people who haven't played one before then this would be a good 
 start. Though for the people who have... just pass this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblaster20
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  completamente un desperdicio de juego, el juego en si esta mas o menos pero como siempre en este 
 mundo competitivo lo que se hace es compararlos con los mejores y en mi opinion, yo me quedo con 
 FIFA 07. No se si la palabra basura es lo suficientemente grande para describirlo, la verdad siento 
 como si estubiera jugandolo en la ps2 y la modalidad de juego es algo buena pero en comparacion 
 con otros titulos, para mi este juego no le llega a los talones de los grandes titulos que se encuentran 
 en la cima hoy en dia, los cuales son pocos y contados con los dedos de las manos, pero asi es 
 no? sacan un mal juego y esperemos que el proximo anio los creadores de WEPES vean un poco mas 
 la competencia y logren sacar partida de el, sinceramente me decepciono y eso que yo como de la 
 pasion del futbol, para mis hermanos latinos y para mis amigos americanos les deseo un cordial 
 saludo, no compren este titulo, mas bien rentelo se ahorraran dinero y decepciones :) ... BYE!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mefornowon
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  The graphic are not good and the gameplay sucks it is like you're playing a game from the 1950 
 or so don&acute; t buy  . .... . .. .. . .. . . .. . . . . 
 . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 - - --- -___________________________ ________________________ _____ _______ ______________ _____________ 
 _______________ _________________________ ________________ _________ . ..... .. . . . . .. . . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam_B453
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I have been a football fan all my life and I have always enjoyed the Pro Evolution series for its 
 fantastic gameplay and its griping action. After playing the previous 3 games I was expecting something 
 top quality from Konami as the brand entered the world of the next Gen. When I bought my XBOX360 
 i immediatly played this game, and quickly jumped into a game. I was quite dissapointed to see 
 what i found. The graphics were no were comparible to that of FIFA, but i expected this as I believed 
 Pro was all about the gameplay. As i got through a few games the bugs started to appear in this 
 game. First of all, some of the rules are not forced properly or effeciantly in this game. You 
 can tackle from behind actually get the ball and still be sent off in the process for being last 
 man. Also, the offside rule has sometimes called offside despite being level with the defender 
 (this may be Konami trying to be more realistic i dont know) . Another thing that really annoyed 
 me also was the almost constant overeaction of the referee. This was something that bothered me 
 in Pro Evo 5 and has stuck the exact same way for this new version. The ref will branish a yellow 
 card for fouls that wouldnt hurt a four year old child. The slightist nudge will set the ref off 
 and i think that to make this game more fluent and higher quality they need to change this. After 
 playing for a while I decided to go check out some of the other features that this game had to 
 offer and was again dissapointed. Firstly editing has pretty much been removed from the game. Only 
 editing players is an option which really angered me as I like to update my rosters and team kits. 
 Also PES points has been removed from this version, which wasnt a fundemental part of the game, 
 but gave a sort of gamerscore feel. If you look past these annoying traits though you will see 
 that Pro Evolution is still a very nice game of football. You can swiftly move through the menus 
 and be in game online or offline in seconds. Also, Pro Evo has managed to keep a lot of the licences 
 of the teams in the previous game and gained a few more to the collection. The Spanish, Italian, 
 Dutch leagues are there in full with some licenced teams from countries such as Scotland and Brazil 
 thrown in also. The German league has pretty much gone though with only Bayern Munich the only 
 German team available with full licence, and still the English league has benn given only two teams 
 that are licenced. But still the teams are pretty accurate with players and statistics, with only 
 a few of the odd over rated or under rated player. Still all the leagues and cups are available 
 to the player to allow a lot of different aspects and a long time of gameplay. The online mode 
 for the game has adopted the same traits as Pro Evo 5 did, and does hold up fairly well but lag 
 can sometimes be a problem. The Achievment points for this game have been set up quite nicely with 
 you actually having to earn them instead of doing a meaningless task like in some games. All in 
 all though I think this is a good solid game of football. I think that fans of the series will 
 be content with this newest version but I think we deserve a better game from this series as we 
 know it is capable of acheiving this. If you are new to the Pro Evo series I would suggest renting 
 it before you buy it as I think that you may want to see what you are getting into before you jump 
 on it. Gameplay: - 6 Graphics: - 6/7
  Sound: - 7
  Value: - 8
  Reviewer's Tilt: - 8
  
  My Rating: - 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWolford32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for gameplay and some say it is slow but i can easily score two or three goals 
 online in a 5 minute game. This is the best gameplay in the series and blows fifa away in that 
 respect. online is decent with little lag but some games do lag and i dislike that you cannot turn 
 down challenges and stuff like that that are little things but add up to a pain in the ass. i think 
 it is worth the money because the gameplay is great and in reality that is all that matters. The 
 only problem is that you cannot edit team names and player names and such like before but i can 
 deal with london f c for chelsea as i hate them and they aren't worth buying a license for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milsvaard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I've recently purchased Winning Eleven 2007 for the Xbox360, having purchased every game in the 
 series since it came out on the PS2 and I new what to expect from this game. I'll break it down 
 for ya'll.
  
  Presentation: The weakest element in the series, The game lacks of team license in many areas, 
 only 2 teams in the Premiership are licensed (Arsenal, Manchester United) , the Serie A and The 
 Dutch league are licensed but the rest of the clubs seem to be missing accurate team names and 
 in most cases, players names too. When it comes to the national squads most teams have their correct 
 player's names but their correct uniforms are missing. The second most critical problem is that 
 the Edit options are pretty much gone this time around, the only option available is the Edit player 
 option and that's only limited to editing player names and certain attributes, you can't edit the 
 appearance of the players, or the team names, team uniforms, stadiums, etc... It's pretty disappointing 
 for this game and almost gives the feeling that it was rushed.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have been mildly improved for this version of the series, the players are 
 now rendered in higher polygons and the crowds on the stadiums are all 3d, though they sport low 
 resolution textures to improve performance no doubt. Sound: It's what you expect from a football 
 game, sound of the ball being kicked around, the crowd cheering, nothing special, the music is 
 as always terrible and the commentary is a joke.
  
  Gameplay: My friends, every problem that I've written about in this review is somewhat forgotten 
 when you start playing the game, I was completely immersed in the action and you come to realize 
 that presentation, visuals and audio really don't matter. I've played both the PS2 version and 
 the Xbox360 version and there are enough subtle differences to conclude that the 360s version is 
 a little better. There are certain player animations that only seem to be present in the next-gen 
 version of the game, the ball physics seem to have been improved over its current gen counterpart 
 and the action is just right in terms of pacing. It's a very difficult game to play if you are 
 new to the series and veterans will certainly find it challenging although manageable. The defense 
 is tough this time around, they seem to cover space better and almost feels like they are man-marking 
 every player on your team, feels almost like they are using the catenaccio strategy or something.
 
  
  Online: The game experience online is decent, it suffers from the problems of previous versions 
 of the game, such as lag but it's still a very enjoyable experience.
  
  Overall: I'm a little disappointed by the fact that pretty much the entire editing options in the 
 game are missing, but this game is all about gameplay, and should be only game you should own to 
 give you your next-gen football fix. As always, this series is the best and most realistic football 
 simulation that has ever created and this version is certainly worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklarmer
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say that is the worst football game i have ever played. I've never played a pro 
 evo game, and never will again. Now Im gonna have to pay &pound;40 to get fifa 07.
  Not having real team names is one thing, but when the graphics on players and stadiums is also 
 sub-par it kinda makes it hard to enjoy in any way.
  Dont even get me started on game play! All players seem completely retarded and never run down 
 the wing to receive a pass, they just stand there and shooting appears to be completely random. 
 I might play it more until I get fifa 07 but I can guarantee I wont enjoy it any more. Thanks 
 Konami... and John Terry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c18lts
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Only thing I can say is this game is just plain bull, you must love to lose and tie like a hundred 
 times in this game. The kicking is just trash, like I can be right infront of the goal tap the 
 shoot button, and it will just fly over the goal. Like in my season I was struggling to score like 
 two goals I was using my favorite team AC Milan, but Inter Milan scored 5 goals every game and 
 went undefeated.
  People who play this game must enjoy losing and like to tie, because this game is just so slow 
 you want score in like two to three games sometimes. All I can say is I regret buying this game 
 I just wasted my money on this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulForrest
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Back before pro evolution soccer 6 was available to buy konami released 2 draw dropping screenshots 
 of John Terry and Adriano looking remarkably lifelike. Unfortunatelly what we have been (mis) treated 
 to is nothing of the same.
  
  As a long running fan of the series I would have liked nothing more than to be bowled over by the 
 next gen release of this usually solid sports sim but lazy development and a step in the wrong 
 direction in terms of gameplay have ruined the fun for me like someone walking into your house 
 on christmas day and kicking your nan in the teeth.
  
  So whats new this year in the world of Pro Evo? Amazingly very little... Infact konami have been 
 cheeky enough as to actually remove most of the options that have helped make the series such a 
 big seller in the past such as the editing options which are now limited to merely changing your 
 players stats. No such fun as putting a lifelike version of yourself in to your favourite club 
 and taking him to football glory (and if your anything like me, make him more of a greedy player 
 than Michelle McManus at a pizza buffet.) Also missing is the PES points system which in previous 
 versions allowed you to buy such things as classic teams, players new stadiums and so forth.
  
  Gameplay wise Pro Evo 6 plays alot like Pro Evo 5 a very well thought out game of footy where 
 build up play is key all though it isnt entirely similar. Players now have the ability to make 
 poor runs and dismal through balls and the general pace of the game has slowed down severely. Every 
 skill in this game seems to have been upped in difficulty opting for a more realistic but as a 
 result far less fun to pick up and play game of football. Now playing with my less skilled friends 
 is alot shorter affair game session wise as they quickly lose interest from their frustration at 
 not being able to create great looking moves and goals like they used to be able to.
  
  Graphics wise this 1st next gen offering is well.... mediocre at best. Its hard to really tell 
 what has changed, but the consistant theme of less is more seems to have been applied. For example 
 all players now have their shirts cleanly tucked into their shorts like you all did on your 1st 
 day of school, taking away from the individualism that we have grown to love about past pro evos. 
 All players stand in the same pose when taking corners and it almost looks like its Worsul Gummage 
 whipping in those set piece deliveries. For some reason there are only 8 available stadiums, what 
 shocked me most about this is not one of these venues is English!? Do Konami not know we are the 
 proud home of football? Inside the stadiums look quite nice with one of the new changes being 3d 
 fans which look great in the most part but fans in the upper tear of the larger terraces appear 
 asif they have a terrible case of gingiritis as they all seem to be sat 10 seats apart from each 
 other ruining the big game atmosphere when visable. On the pitch things dont improve any more with 
 PES6 looking nothing more than a slightly higher resolution port of PES5 on the xbox. Sounds dissapointing 
 dosnt it?
  
  To sum up this could still be the best footy sim available to buy untill later 2007 on next gen 
 consoles but konami are going to have to up the pace if they are to keep their fickle fan base 
 as more and more are moving onto Fifa which seems to be going in the right direction each time 
 its released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomismocl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Xbox 360 bring us the scent of soccer and this game is Winning Eleven 2007. If you like to watch 
 soccer games or play in the real life, in this game you will feel this kind of realism in the field, 
 each game is played differently, each goal can be scored in so many ways. Each play can be the 
 best one of your life.
  
  The game has many options you can play many tournaments like the euro cup, american cup, asian 
 cup, or create your own tournament. Play the spanish League or the Italian league and of course 
 there is the Master League. There are so many options and when you get tired of that you can go 
 and play some games online.
  
  The graphics just do their job, no more no less; the lack of the editor takes away a lot of points 
 of the game. If you are looking for a soccer game in the Xbox 360, this is your option, forget 
 about FIFA 07 and its predictable gameplay, WEPES 2007 is The Game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asilvar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Finally there is a game on the Xbox 360 that really represents the scent of soccer and this game 
 is Winning Eleven 2007. If you watch soccer games or play in the real life, in this game you will 
 feel this kind of realism in the field, each game is played differently, each goal can be scored 
 in so many ways.
  
  The game has many options you can play many tournaments like the euro cup, american cup, asian 
 cup, or create your own tournament. Play the spanish League or the Italian league and of course 
 there is the Master League. There are so many options and when you get tired of that you can go 
 and play some games online.
  
  The graphics just do their job, no more no less; the lack of the editor takes away a lot of points 
 of the game. If you are looking for a soccer game in the Xbox 360, this is your option, forget 
 about FIFA 07 and its predictable gameplay, WEPES 2007 is The Game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper21
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the Winning Eleven series' first encounter on the Xbox 360, and, unfortunately, it's a 
 fairly poor one. First off the gameplay. Passing is top-notch, and crossing has seen a very noticable 
 improvement. Through passes are many times too long and well overshot, sometimes a quarter of the 
 field in front of the player. Shooting was one of the best parts of WE9. Unfortunately, Konami 
 has decided to revamp the system, making the meter extremely sensative and decreasing the accuracy 
 of the shot severly. The result is some of the worst shooting in any soccer game. It's impossible 
 to score from even inside the box. Either the defender will steal the ball before I could shoot, 
 or the shot will go well wide, even though I was facing and was very near the goal. The misses 
 I made were shocking, and yes, my players did miss an open net sometimes. It doesn't seem to matter 
 how far I filled the meter, either. I would fill it a tenth of the way, and the shot will go well 
 over. I can't believe that they changed this aspect, and turned it from good to ridiculous. The 
 defensive play is still very poor. The one good thing is that there are far less fouls, and the 
 referees card your opponents more. However, the play is still horribly imbalanced. In one-on-one 
 confrontations, the CPU is always favored. It doesn't matter whether you are on offense or defense, 
 the CPU will always manuvere and tackle better and more effeciently than you can. This is the one 
 place where FIFA 07 easily trounces WE10. In FIFA, I always had confidence in my defense. When 
 my opponent tackled me, I knew I could get the ball back, because, defense-wise, it was an even 
 playing field. Sometimes in WE10, I would literally outnumber my opponents 4 to 1 and the attacker 
 will still get past me. The only way I got the ball back was from interceptions. I could not keep 
 the ball after a tackle, as the opponent would usually just steal the ball back with ease. The 
 AI is also very poor. They will leave players wide open, and will hardly manmark. While my opponents 
 could tackle and steal with ease, I could almost never steal from my opponents. Formation settings 
 have become less as well. Line defense, zone pressure, and covering are all taken away, and the 
 defensive play suffers more because of that. Challenge training, which I absolutely loved in the 
 previous installment, is now completely gone. The ability to create teams and players is absent, 
 as well as the ability to make transfers via the edit screen. In fact, you can only edit players. 
 You can't edit teams, cup and league names, or stadiums. There are only eight stadiums. WE9 had 
 thirty-four. The WE shop is also gone, and while most of the features it normally has to purchase 
 are automatically unlocked, it gives you less of a feeling of accomplishment and less to do after 
 you have completed the major leagues and cups. Graphically, the game isn't very attractive. It 
 certaintly isn't up to the caliber of the majority of 360 games. Some players look ugly close up, 
 and there tends to be lag after you schedule a substitution. In conclusion, Winning Eleven 2007 
 has terrible defensive play and shooting, and an exodus of features as well as mediocre graphics 
 makes the first installment on the 360 one to be skipped. 3 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BENZINO4677
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Winning eleven Pro evolution 2007 for the 360 is a big disappoint . First off let me start by asking 
 the developers where's the rest of my next-gen game ? The game play that the series is known for 
 is still in tact but there's such a complete lack of features that it might as well be published 
 by EA. 1. The game still pays tight but real soccer doesn't move this sluggishly nor does the PS2 
 version ( disappointing ) .
  
  2. Looks wise the game is okay . Think high-def PS2 .
  
  3. The sound department is decent but not great. The commentary is fine.
  
  4. Complete lack 
 of features in the Xbox 360 version that are in the PS2 .
  
  5. Bottom line if you like playing previous Winning eleven games you'll like playing this one but 
 if you need your features such as editing, saving replays, or even checking stats at half time 
 then your out of luck because they're missing or gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I&acute; m a WE veteran. I have played it from WE 6 on PS2, and I&acute; ve played it on 3 platforms: 
 PS2, XBOX, and now 360. So, I think i have something to say about WE: PES 2007.
  As usual, at the beginning the game feels different from others version. This is slower, the slowest 
 WE ever. AI is very aggressive, and the position of the body when a player is going to shot is 
 now VERY important. It is a tough WE to master. Dribbling is easier than WE 9. Forget the sprint 
 button: you must now to pass the ball, team play. You need at least, read this clearly, 50-100 
 matches to master the changes, to forget the old WEs, and to say, damn it, they did it again . 
 Yes, WE: 2007 is a great game.
  Graphics have an improvement on 360, best resolution, but it is still current-gen. But graphics 
 are nice. The movements of the players are awesome. This year you have less teams, no edit options, 
 just 8 stadiums, but who cares, still is a great game. WHY?.... gameplay my friend, WE has the 
 best sport machine ever made. Every goal is different, every match is different, and after 5 years 
 playing the series, you still can say: wow, i have never seen this before .
  If you prefer the single player experience go with the PS2 version. Graphics are good, the gameplay 
 feels faster, PS2 controls are better with WE series, and you have the old Edit mode. But... if 
 you like online challenges, you love your HDTV, and you are and achievement neurotic, take the 
 360 version. Online this game is awesome. With a good conn. you will have no lag. Far better than 
 PS2 online. I played FIFA 07 this year. It has probably better graphics (but not sweet graphics, 
 too plastic, big pitch-small players, no color) , but FIFA 07 is boring. Online is a mediocre experience. 
 You can not control your team as you control it in WE 2007.
  Do you like soccer, or arcadey sports video games?... Do you like pop music?... go with FIFA 07. 
 You will enjoy it.
  but Do you like futbol?... Do you like the best still video game sport simulator?.. Do you watch 
 european futbol on Sunday?... Do you like to suffer to score a goal?... Have you patience?... Do 
 you want to scream on desperation or on glory playing online?... Do you want to train hard?... 
 Do you know Cantona?... Do you want to be a heroe?... Are you strong enough to be humiliated online?... 
 so you will love WE: PES 2007. 8 stadiums, you can not save replays, but who cares?. This is still 
 WE. An ancient brotherhood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  I can still remember the first time I played Winning Eleven 8. Wow what a game! In my opinion, 
 it crushed FIFA. Sure FIFA had better graphics and the license., but the game play and extras where 
 all Winning Eleven. Enter the Xbox 360 version. Again, the graphics award goes to FIFA07 and the 
 game play awards goes to Winning Eleven. However the gap is closing and it seems that the gap is 
 closing because Konami put out a shell of the game they produced in previous releases. Rushed is 
 the word that comes to mind. There is no skills training and no goal saving. The Masters league 
 is unchanged. The biggest fault is the editing feature, it does not exist. So you can't rename 
 the teams or alter the kits. Please give us an update Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leifsillenger
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  the power meter on shot attempts is too sensitive. You really have to barely tap the shot button 
 to keep the ball from flying off of your players' foot into the upper seats. this is especially 
 frustrating when you get a excellent opportunity beyond the net-minder in the box and the player 
 sends it in the stands. The sound seems to be recycled from last years game.
  the speed boost should have been put on the rt button but that can be changed manually. these are 
 all minor problems in my opinon and do not hurt the overal fun of the game. I look forward to playing 
 online when I get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massote1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  If you are a soccer fan, get FIFA 2007 or wait for the new UEFA FIFA that is coming by the end 
 of March.
  I hope the next Winning Eleven will be totaly different than this one. The game play is ridiculous; 
 The player tun as robots. It is very unreal. The FIFA 2006 is better than it.
  The graphics... It is hard to talk about it. Look like 2001 soccer games.
  It is hard to play 
 it more than 1 hour, because you get so angry due how bad it was done.
  I was expecting a great game. However, waste my money and got very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 6 on the Xbox 360 should have been amazing. Instead it is merely pretty good. 
 There are fundamental issues that really prevent it from being the game that it should have been.
 
  For a start, the number of options on the 360 version are minimal. Literally, there are souble 
 the options on the PS2 version. The edit mode in particular suffers, with the option to create 
 new players being removed entirely. This is a major disappointment, as it prevents players from 
 updating their game with new players. Also, edit team has entirely disappeared, so the team names, 
 such as Berkshire Blues for Reading, are permanent. This is not exactly a major issue, but it does 
 still grate.
  Even the Master League has suffered, with the option to create your own team, with your own kits 
 has been removed. If anything I was hoping for the edit features to be even more impressive on 
 the 360, such as a stadium editor where you could choose the seating colours and bilboards for 
 your home stadium. Alas, this was not to be.
  The next issue I have I have only noticed recently. Slowdown from throw ins in the corners of the 
 pitches is criminal. This is a next gen game, and quite frankly I think any slowdown in any game 
 is a disgrace. There is no longer an excuse for slowdown of any kind.
  These above issues do not damage the game overly, as the core dynamics of Pro Evo, which I have 
 loved for years, still remain. The game itself is a fantastic iteration of the beautiful game. 
 I just hope that with next years instalment in the long-running franchise that a little more ambition 
 is shown on behalf of the developers, to make Pro Evo 7 the game that number 6 should have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fawaz_roma
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Arabian Opinion .
  
  i start play this game yesterday , spend with my friend 3 hours discovering every thing in this 
 game and we all agree its worth it ,
  
  this game missing a lot , such as ( save the Replay !!!! ) so there are no moment in memory ( recorded 
 ) , and the master league there are no custom changes and its exactly ( M League = collect points 
 to buy players ) so this is disappointed , there are no choice in custom menu &gt;&gt;&gt; Some 
 thing weired about this edition in the Details &gt;&gt; !!
  
  as long for all thats bad points u will see a great gameplay &gt;&gt; so much fun in the Xlive 
 and the graphic are good also with alot of new strategies of playing , you will play as a couch 
 first then as player ..
  
  I Definitely recommend this game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  So Pro evolution Soccer is finally on a next-gen platform, but does it do enough to make it worth 
 buying over the cheaper current-gen version?
  
  Gameplay: The same perfect and ultra realistic gameplay that we've come to expect is still here. 
 Everything is so smooth and silky that it just feels so good to play. Shooting could do with a 
 bit of work perhaps but other than that the gameplay is faultless.
  
  Graphics: Not a huge step up from the PS2 and Xbox versions but that's not nesacarraly a bad thing. 
 The animations are still sublime and the player likenesses are surprisingly better than FIFA 07's 
 horrible clay monsters on the 360. The game does look better in HD-it's crisper overall. Unfortunately, 
 the presentation is a bit lacking and the licenses are still a bit rubbish.
  
  Sound: Much improved. The crowd is a whole lot better and actually show some emotion! The commentary 
 is still a bit rubbish and the menu music is so cheesy!
  
  Value: Master League will dominate and will take forever to get bored of despite being unchanged. 
 There are also exhibition modes, tournaments and others. Online mode is there but there's a bit 
 of a lag problem and there is no edit mode! What was Konami thinking?!
  
  Overall this is a superb football game. There really isn't much to choose between FIFA and PES 
 on the next-gen platforms. However, if Konami step up for next season by upgrading the dated graphics, 
 poo commentary, fix the online and bring back the edit mode then EA will have to pull out all the 
 stops to keep up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemocystem
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I share a lot of the same opinions on the overall outlook of this game as most. However, that being 
 said, this is still the best available football game on the market by a long shot. Much like the 
 heated debate of years past, when every year brought us the likes of EA's rehashed madden monster 
 and Sega's 2k series and the same with EA's NBA Live vs. Sega's NBA 2k you have a clash of two 
 giants for the top spot of a much beloved sport. The case is still the same when discussing differences 
 between the two where one side promotes the extra options, better graphics &amp; more licensed 
 characters and teams than the other. While the other pins its hat on more realistic gameplay, forcing 
 one to consider more utilization of tactics and execution instead of finding glitches or holes 
 in the A. I. and exploiting coding weaknesses.
  
  That's where the similarities end though as the masses are in much larger favor for the realistic 
 gameplay struggles one would experience watching a Premiereship match as opposed to the arcade-like 
 pick up and play offering provided by EA. I played through a few games of Master League with a 
 few teams to get a feel of the differences displayed between teams and their style of play and 
 was quite frankly blown away. When playing with Man-U I was able to control the pitch to Ronaldo's 
 side and bring defenders en masse to try to remove the ball from his person and then play the switch, 
 or cross to Rooney for great heading chances or back-play to the center of the 20 yard box. On 
 the contrary, when playing with Real Madrid, using the bigger strikers and wingers you were able 
 to control clock and clog the center and make more power moves towards the box and ultimately work 
 for a power shot or a corner which enables the much bigger strikers a clear chance at a header 
 from the box. When switching play formations you really must pay attention to your players' strengths 
 and weaknesses else be too lopsided to one side of the pitch and allow huge counter chances to 
 the opposite side. You also can't even begin to think about misplacing players for better attacking 
 or scoring prowess like in another game of mention. An example is with Real Madrid. I tried placing 
 Ronaldo in with Van Nistelrooy, thinking maybe I can have two monster forwards in to make the smaller 
 defense really pay. Although that was not condusive to the formation nor did it allow for the much 
 faster defensemen that constantly denied long through passes or dribbling exhibitions by coming 
 in droves with quick precision. My main complaints are, of course, the lack of licensing for the 
 most un-licensed/licensed video game of all-time. However, when you take into account the lack 
 of editing options it becomes almost infuriating. se la vie though, as that's the biggest complaint 
 and it really holds no bearing on the gameplay itself. The other complaint I have, and it's really 
 a small one, is that the power meter on shot attempts is waaaay too sensitive. You really have 
 to juuuust barely tap the shot button to keep the ball from kareening off of your players' foot 
 into the upper eschelon seats. this is especially frustrating when you get a classic opportunity 
 beyond the net-minder in the 6 yard box and the striker... yes, I said STRIKER sends it ricocheting 
 off of the top of the crossbar, arrrgh!!!
  
  The learning curve, especially for newbies like myself, is a little high but nothing a football 
 fan won't enjoy trying to overcome. In fact, this is my most challenging experience since Ninja 
 Gaiden Black and it's a very welcome one at that. You certainly feel the achievement of scoring 
 a goal and appreciate it even more when you score multiple times in a game. I can't wait to finish 
 honing my skills a little more and start playing online against some live competition. Finally, 
 this is truly a great football or soccer game, as we call it in the states, that excells at the 
 most important aspect of any video game... gameplay, and that's what counts my friends. I find it 
 exteremely immersive and find that due to the exceptional difference experienced from team to team 
 it will truly last a long time in my 360 disc-drive. Ultimately, there's nothing more fun or exciting 
 than playing with 3 exceptional strikers in the famous Dutch 4-3-3 formation... that's where I lost 
 it. Playing as Amsterdam Ajax or PSV Eindhoven really got my blood boiling. See you online... GO 
 DUTCH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c2k1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Players will also be able to enjoy the Beautiful Game in more ways than ever before with new play 
 modes. International Challenge mode lets players compete through four continents of opposition 
 to become a champion, while Random Selection Match lets gamers take the field with a group of players 
 selected at random from a predetermined league or geographic area. The popular Master League mode 
 returns with more options, allowing players to take complete control of their favorite team and 
 control its destiny for an extended period of time.
  the worlds best rated soccer video game franchise, Winning Eleven: Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 expands 
 upon the series unmatched realism with faster gameplay, more responsive control and improved artificial 
 intelligence. Players will now make intelligent runs without the ball, identifying opportunities 
 and pointing to where they would like the ball to be delivered. Similarly, the game is now more 
 physical, with defenders jockeying for position and strikers working to turn their opponent as 
 they receive the ball. The games shooting system has also been refined, letting players take more 
 snap shots, while volleys have been updated for more player control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latinmaster842
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  i was a fifa fan until yesterday the this game rocks fifa  
 forget fiffa who
  who
  who
  fifa who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
  who
 
  wo
  who
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  11
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  11
  1
  1
  1
 
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  1
  
  sdd
  e
  fde
  fre
  frfgrg
  rg
  rg
  r
  gr
  g
  r
  r
  gr
  g
  rfg
  r
  gtr
  yr
  t
  rt
  rgtrhgg
  hrh
  rth
  t
 
  hthththt
  ht
  hth
  t
  hth
  th
  th
  th
  th
  th
  th
  tht
  hththt
  ht
  hththt
  ht
  ht
  ht
  hfsdf
  asdf
  f
  a
  f
  adfd
  af
  dafad
  f
  dafadfnmkadnfjmdakfgdshgfbvfv
 
  
  fvbfsvjsfbvbashfjdskldsvc
  
  skjcbhjsdbvfdjnvlkfvv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuisRonaldo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  In its next-gen debut, Winning Eleven Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 is more than a mouthful to say 
 -- it's an impressive soccer game. Still, it's disappointing that Konami continues to rest on its 
 laurels in the graphics, sound and presentation areas of the game, although the gameplay remains 
 fluid and fantastic. Sadly, the edit option is inexplicably absent, and you'll just have to make 
 do with Manchester Blue and the London Football Club. We would like to see significant improvement 
 from Konami in the seasons to come, but as it stands, Winning Eleven is still a winner. Enjoy it.
 
  
  Im disappointed in Winning Eleven Pro Evo 2007.
  
  I also love and cant stop playing Winning Eleven Pro Evo 2007. A catch-22, I know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Pro Ev is back for yet another season. For years now, whilst not having a monopoly on the football 
 genre, it has lead ahead of FIFA with its sheer likeness to the game. This year is no different. 
 FIFA maintains its stronghold on the technical front, boasting superior graphics, license etc... However, 
 as always, Pro Ev has a much closer likeness to the game of football.
  
  The game has been substantially slowed down. Everything in the game: shooting, passing, crossing, 
 running, all of it has been tweaked so that it takes a longer time to do. At first it feels a bit 
 awkward, not quite right, but it's not long until you realise that it makes the whole game feel 
 so much more natural than ever before.
  
  When you're running with the ball, you can no longer take snap movements through 180 degree turns, 
 the game is no longer about getting the ball to your best player, then using him to sprint through 
 the opponent's entire team. It's become so much more of a patient game, and whilst this might not 
 appeal to all players, it definitely makes for a far more accurate portrayal of the beautiful game. 
 The ball also flows far more smoothly between players, and when you make slight tweaks to the control 
 setup (which is fully customisable) it feels perfectly good on the 360 controller. All in all, 
 as far as likeness to real football goes, this is without the best and most true football simulation 
 to date, and coupled with the pretty impressive animations and satisfactory graphics, it certainly 
 looks the part.... But then there's the rest.
  
  Pro Ev 6 is perhaps one of the best examples of developer laziness there is. Some of the gaps Konami 
 have left in this game are so niggly it's unbelievable. The edit mode is severely impared, you 
 can't save replays, the Pro Evolution Soccer Shop is absent, and the Master League mode is unchanged.
 
  
  There are many other gaps, many complain of slow down at set-pieces, and whilst I'm lucky not to 
 experience this, there is major, major slowdown whenever someone signs into Xbox Live. I mean, 
 it's ridiculous that Konami would allow for absolutely ridiculous little niggles like this: and 
 Xbox 360 owner, along with all the other issues, will feel severely unfairly treated.
  
  There is also nothing next gen about the game. FIFA has amped up graphics and ball physics... Pro 
 Ev is yet another instalment.
  
  This is the best Pro Ev yet; but inherent flaws and absolute laziness from the Dev team at Konami 
 seriously impare it's ability to be special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvandingo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Actual in game is just as good a previous incarnations, in fact game has been tweaked that little 
 bit to make sure you have more enjoyment and realism (eg. now able to take quick free-kicks) . The 
 game is let down by a sense of being cheated by the lack of Stats post match, an editing suit which 
 were used in previous games to make up for the lack of license and graphics which while are better 
 than the xbox version still dont seem next-gen . The biggest let down for me was the lack of 2 
 player co-op on Live! i enjoyed nothing more than a 2 vs 2 match online and like all my major grumbles 
 this was a feature available on the previous version on xbox, i understand they all are on the 
 ps2 version of this game too!.
  So all in all a great game let down by the feeling of it being rushed out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrynSheen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  I WAS a diehard PES fan, confidently beguiling the FIFA fan as a sheep, a creature of habit... 
 Get Pro Evo 5 mate, it is the best football game ever is what i would say, and that is STILL true 
 to this day. Now then... a general summary so you don't think i am being biased:
  
  Good - Some visuals (crowd animation, pitch, stadium and a few players) are vastly improved.
 
  The variety of motion capture for passing, tackling and shooting have gone up a notch and crossing 
 is fantastic.
  They have gained the license for Manchester United as well as Benfica and some greek teams like 
 Olimpiakos. However they did lose the rights of Chelsea who were in Pro Evo 5 so they basically 
 didn't gain any ground there.
  
  Bad - Editing is abysmal, the only thing you can edit are player stats. That means you can no longer 
 go and change the team names from London FC to Chelsea for example. I never minded that Pro Evo 
 didn't spend much time on licenses in order to get the gameplay right because I could always rectify 
 the silly names myself but that is now impossible... great (sarcasm) .
  You CANNOT transfer players!! I mean come on, you've been able to do that on every football game 
 since about 1995 when players were deemed worthy of having a name.
  There is a smaller database than in previous games, they took out the entire German league! They've 
 got some decent players you know, but it's irrellevant of course since you can't even transfer 
 the guys anyway.
  They took out PES points and thus the PES shop! I personally liked this because it allowed you 
 to gain points by playing matches, winning leagues and cups etc. which you could in turn use to 
 unlock features, teams and players. Classic Brazil and such things as the 6 Star difficulty setting 
 gave the game more longevity along with the comprehensive editing system that was in previous editions.
 
  The music is terrible to be frank.
  
  I might just have to try FIFA 07... or maybe keep updating Pro Evo 5?
  
  A final thought- The 
 intro movie is about 5 minutes long, and is destinctly unimpressive. So it seems they perhaps spent 
 a lot of time and money on this pointlessness (that most people will only watch once) rather than 
 including fundamental features in the game... good decision? I think not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  OK....... this game sucks it really does. I have since bought it on PC and it rocks. No i don't 
 completely understand why the xbox version is screwed up in just about every way. Word is that 
 Sony put pressure on Konami to release a duffer, not sure I beleive it but............. would explain 
 the really rubbish game. Shots go spooning over the goal for no good reason, the graphics are a 
 hash. A few higher res textures doesn't make this game pretty. Just avoid this, get it on PC is 
 my advice so you can have it high resolution still and you will have an edit mode and replay saving 
 ability. Oh and also you can download a good patch with official kits and names, you win in every 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  As the world's most popular sport, football is a major player in the sports genre, with Pro Evolution 
 Soccer (Winning Eleven in the US) at the forefront. Throughout the years, it has consistently offered 
 the closest experience to the beautiful game in your own living room. The latest installment is 
 Konami's first foray into football on next-generation consoles, and as expected, the game play 
 is spot on. However, what lets PES6 down is the amount of features that have been dropped compared 
 to the previous version.
  
  There are four main single-player modes that will be familiar to any veteran: match, league, cup 
 and master league. Match mode allows you to jump into a game against the computer or with three 
 friends. After selecting your team you will be thrust into the match. It is a piece of cake to 
 set up a friendly, and you can be playing within minutes of switching on your Xbox. League mode 
 allows you to play a full season from one of five leagues. You can select from either the Italian 
 Serie A, French Ligue 1, Spanish La Liga, Dutch Eredivise or the English Premiership (known as 
 the England League thanks to licensing issues) . The cup mode allows you to play in a variety of 
 different league or knock-out tournaments. Master league, a staple of the PES series, remains mostly 
 unchanged from its predecessor. You start off with a group of players as talented as a pub team, 
 and build your side up into a world footballing power.
  
  The main modes of play remain largely unchanged from PES5, but there are some definite downsides, 
 in which the most notable is the alarming restriction of the edit mode. Whereas PES5 let you change 
 just about everything from the kits to the player models, you're now limited to just modifying 
 player stats. Updating the team sheets with real-life transfers was a great part of PES5, but that 
 is now impossible. Another heart-breaking exclusion is the ability to save goal replays. Scoring 
 a 40-yard screamer or a delicate lob against one of your mates is priceless, and so was the ability 
 to showcase it for all eternity in the form of a saved replay. PES6 has been robbed of this glorious 
 feature, and there doesn't appear to be any good reason for it.
  
  Although the loss of some features is hard to take, the game play of PES6 truly is its saving grace. 
 Throughout the series, the core of the game has remained largely untouched for the most part. Each 
 game has seen a steady but significant improvement, and PES6 is a perfect example of this. Some 
 people criticized the previous version for being too sluggish and defense-orientated. The sequel 
 has addressed these issues and maintained the best bits from the fifth game. The controls are easy 
 to learn, yet difficult to master in that there are plenty of advanced techniques. Playing passes, 
 shooting the ball and dribbling are all easy to learn. However there are plenty of advanced moves, 
 such as one-two passes, controlled shots and shoulder-drop feints, that aid you in your overall 
 game. You could play this game for months and still be discovering new moves.
  
  In terms of strategy and formation, you have the utmost control over how your team plays. You can 
 set the mentality of individual players, who should man mark the danger man, the direction in which 
 your players should make attacking runs, and so much more. Passing and keeping hold of the ball 
 is so important. Moves like the side step made it possible to go on long runs with a single player. 
 Thanks to the new side step and the change in dribbling physics, this is near impossible, just 
 like the real thing. Passing and possession are paramount to take advantage, even if you are playing 
 as a team as skilled as Brazil.
  
  Two of the more impressive new features are the new advantage system and quick free kicks. You 
 are no longer given an advantage symbol when you are fouled, which is a closer representation of 
 the sport. Additionally, in certain situations, you can take quick free kicks by tapping both triggers 
 after you are fouled. This will result in the player quickly making a pass while the opposition 
 team are off-guard. The artificial intelligence has been turned up a notch too, and it will take 
 more practice to survive on the hardest difficulty level.
  
  The Xbox Live support is generally decent. You can play one-on-one against an opponent in two different 
 ways; ranked or player matches. Ranked matches will effect your rating on the leaderboards , whereas 
 player matches are just for fun. You can also invite a friend to play, but only in player matches. 
 A series of worldwide leaderboards ranks the top players on a scale of overall, monthly and weekly 
 ranks. In addition to this, every player has an individual stats profile. It details your win-draw-loss 
 record, current/longest winning streak and the teams used in your last five matches. The game also 
 archives the results of your last twenty matches, twice the amount that PES5 did. The game play 
 generally converts quite well from offline to online, with little lag (depending on Internet connections) . 
 There is one problem with the online game play; there is a small time delay between pressing a 
 button and a player performing the action. This makes it difficult to play one-two passes, and 
 near impossible to gauge the power of free kicks and corners. It is very playable, but you will 
 notice the difference between playing a friend in the same room and playing a friend over Xbox 
 Live.
  
  Visually, the game has had a major face lift. Players bear a striking resemblance to their real-life 
 counterparts, and the licensed kits look great. The presentation is getting closer to the standard 
 of arch-rival FIFA. The main graphical draw are the incredible animations that see players dribble 
 and move in a very fluid way; the attention to detail is amazing. You can see strikers shifting 
 their body weight in order to direct a shot to the far corner of the goal, and goalkeepers stretching 
 to punch out a goal-bound effort. The stadiums look equally impressive. Although there are only 
 eight stadiums in the game, each one is an accurate recreation of the actual venue. Famous stadiums 
 such as Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabeu have been crafted excellently, and are populated by a full 
 3D crowd. The cheers and jeers of the crowds, combined with the scintillating stadium architecture, 
 create a great atmosphere. The commentary, from Trevor Brooking and Peter Brackely, is sufficient. 
 However, some of the lines sound odd and forced, so the option to disable the commentary is a welcome 
 one.
  
  PES6's achievements are relatively uninspiring. An achievement is unlocked for every league and 
 cup you win, regardless of game settings. Gamerscore addicts will be able to blitz through them 
 by playing five-minute matches at beginner level. Despite this, leagues can last for as long as 
 38 full matches. Even on a short match time and low difficulty, it will take you a while to plough 
 through every league achievement. The remainder are challenging online achievements, with the most 
 difficult being win one-hundred matches.
  
  It is a disappointment that PES6 has dropped many of the features that made its predecessor so 
 successful. Despite this though, Konami has once again improved on the excellent game play, and 
 further consolidates Pro Evolution Soccer's claim as the ultimate football game. The fusion of 
 fluid and flowing game play, beautiful graphics and booming sound make up for the disappointment 
 of dropped features. If that isn't enough for you, competing over Xbox Live is excellent. As great 
 as the AI is, there is no substitute for beating live opposition, and Xbox Live gives you the opportunity 
 to do so. For all true football fans, Pro Evolution Soccer 6 is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cagnaccio74
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  When the Konami announced the X360 next-gen version of Pro Evolution Soccer, all the lemmings, 
 including myself, were dreaming the ultimate football game ever on any platform... And I think 
 most of us will be disappointed.
  
  Let's make it clear: if you are thinking to but an X360 just to play PES6 save your money... or 
 better, buy a X360 and enjoy other games that really make the difference between the current-gen 
 and the next-gen (like Ghost Recon or the upcoming Gears of War) .
  
  The first reason to be disappointed is the graphical department.
  Apart for the high definition, 
 there is just a minimal visual difference between the X360 and the PS2 version. If you don't own 
 a widescreen HD TV the difference is negligible. Which is a shame, if you consider the graphical 
 delight of FIFA 07 next-gen incarnation.
  
  Then the editing mode is really limited, the online modes are not completely satisfactory, the 
 menus and the overall presentation are below par.
  
  The good news start when the match begins. This is probably the most realistic and well-balanced 
 game in the PES series, that is the closest thing to football you can experience without a ball. 
 Plain and simple PES 6 is a must have for any football fan just because it is the most enjoyable, 
 realistic and fun to play football game ever.
  But do not expect this game to push the X360 to its limits. And do not expect that Konami has closed 
 the gap with EA for what concerns presentation, graphics, options and licenses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonhaldon
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Sadly, this franchise has now been reduced to nothing but a rip-off means to extract more money 
 out of fans of the series. Pro Evo 6 offers nothing new, makes no effort to go 'next gen' and indeed 
 removes functionality from previous versions! This game is extremely disappointing and not worthy 
 of the Xbox 360. Online play is broken, too, removing one of the main reasons for buying. There 
 is a petition online to get this game patched - let's hope that happens before the PES reputation 
 is damaged beyond repair.
  
  I was worried when I saw Gamespot were not posting a review ahead of the release. This sets alarm 
 bells ringing that an arrangement has been made with the manufacturer to 'hold back' the disppointing 
 news. Still no review forthcoming from Gamespot, I for one am very interested to see what they 
 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rsk54
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  A great game that at times is too realistic. For what used to make pro evo so fun was that sense 
 of realism mixed with that sense of disebelief and this is what enabled it to score so higly. Perhaps 
 being this realistic has taken the fun out of pro evo. For a start once you lose the ball you would 
 be lucky to see it again before half time. Then you would be extremely lucky to score a 30yard 
 shot which was a regularity on pro evo 5. However once you have been playing pro evo 6 for about 
 4 hours you begin to truly appreciate it. I mean maybe its better to have to score a simple tap 
 in with all the build up play than simply blast the ball from 45 yards. Still a great feeling to 
 see the net bulge when you score a goal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb1981
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm a positive person so lets look at the good first... gameplay wise, this game is almost perfect! 
 Lots of little fixes, like the refs allowing games to flow by playing advantage alot better than 
 they did in PES5. More licenced teams and names than previous versions too, which is always good. 
 The problem is... there's something missing....
  
  1. Why can't we edit our teams Konami? I set up a Master League, I have come to expect to be creating 
 my team from scratch! And being a Liverpool fan, I dont like being Merseyside Red when i'm playing 
 Arsenal and Man U.
  
  2. PES points... where are they? Although not incredibily important, it's nice to reward your hours 
 of playing the game with unlocking a new feature in the game. Acheivements aren't enough!
  
  3. Match analysis of any description! On previous versions, you could look at more detailed 
 ststs from the game you just played... each player was given a rating etc. None of that here.
  
  Its almost like the game has taken 1 step forwards then 2 steps backwards. There is definite 
 room for improvement, thankfully they gameplay holds up the overall score this game deserves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gungopea
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  pro evo 6 on xbox 360 has very little difference from pes5 on xbox the graphics are basically the 
 same there is only a tiny difference in the gameplay and the master league is exactly the same. 
 Online sucks and only 1 vs 1 is possible the only thing that makes this game worth buying is the 
 easy achievements
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldomc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  i am at a loss to understand why the xbox360 version of this game has almost no edit mode (all we 
 can do is change players stats, name and some other stuff) ... a major part of the game if u have 
 grown up playing PES is the edit mode where u can correct the team names, strips etc etc etc... to 
 leave this out of game for 360 and for it to be included for PS2 is a joke and will no doubt have 
 plenty of people taking it back on this console and digging out the PS2 from the cupboards (wish 
 i had kept mine as i would be doing this)
  
  I would love gamespot to find out why 360 owners are getting punished in this way and find out 
 who authorised such a decision 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikaku9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Generally I slump more towards the FIFA side of the fence when it comes to football games. I just 
 prefer the look and the fact that it is fully licenced. This year, however, with FIFA screwing 
 over it's fans with a 360 version that, despite being brand new in its conception, is hideously 
 incomplete and flawed, I'm more impressed with PES. Here's why...
  
  PROS
  1) Gameplay is second to none - no such this as 'sweet spots' like in FIFA, where you can score 
 every time you get there. You have to work for your goals, and as such thre's much more satisfaction 
 to banging one home. Dead ball situations have always been a problem in PES but this year there 
 is a slight improvement, still not perfect though. Players hold onto the ball more instead of always 
 smashing it away in like in FIFA. Also, unlike FIFA, players actually jump in for the ball and 
 don't bounce off eachother and grind to a hault.
  2) Commentary is much more enthusiastic with Peter Brackley and Trevor Brooking sounding genuinely 
 excited to be there. Unlike Martin Tyler and Andy Gray in FIFA, who sound like they'd rather be 
 dead.
  3) Crowd and sound effects are great, constantly roaring over the commentary, deafening screams 
 on goal. The ball sounds much more solid when being kicked.
  4) Refs have calmed down. 'Nuff said. And they actually appear on the pitch.
  5) Skills are still 
 the aim of the game, with the better players being able to do much more complex skills.
  6) Master League will once again have you staring at the screen for days on end.
  7) Although 
 still nothing like FIFA, Konami have secured more licences this year from more teams, leagues and 
 sponsors. Getting there.
  8) Better replays, although a small point, you get replays more often and from more angles, and 
 the user-controlled replays are much simpler. FIFA's is too complex and replays, like with everything 
 in it, are quick and rushed.
  9) Weather and seasons are very much included.
  10) Some may call it a bad point, but I'm liking the simple menus. They are functional and, for 
 me, easy to understand.
  
  CONS
  1) Graphics are a bit of a cop out this year on the 360, with Konami lazily just taking the PS2 
 versions visuals and giving them a slight high def make-over. FIFA beats PES hand's down on graphics 
 anyday. However, the licenced players actually look more life-like than those in FIFA... less plasticy 
 too.
  2) 8 stadiums, bit rubbish. And the pitches always look tattered and worn out. Maybe that's what 
 all the pitches in Japan look like, I don't know.
  3) Online mode contains horrendous lag when it comes to button pressing. Is also limited to 1 Vs 
 1, FIFA has 4 Vs 4 and no lag.
  4) Although more licences this year, it's still not wholly official.
  5) Not much in the way 
 of editing this year. Doesn't bother me much as I don't usually edit stuff anyway, but still a 
 bad point in general.
  6) Music is that usual Japanese techno rubbish.
  
  CONCLUSION
  GOOD - Gameplay is addictive, great fun and satisfying
  BAD - Graphics, online mode's pants
 
  
  The perfect football game would be if EA and Konami joined forces and combined EAs licences and 
 visual design team with Konamis gameplay and animation experts... and choice of commentery. However, 
 since I can't see that happening in the near future I will be sticking to PES this year. Simply 
 because, despite feeling cheated graphically, I just find the game much more fun to play and more 
 of a challenge having to find new and inventive methods of scoring. Die-hard FIFA fans who absolutely 
 MUST have the real teams and players and leagues will probably disagree with me. But, especially 
 since FIFA 07 on the 360 has almost no leagues and modes and the gameplay is too loose, this year 
 my money stays with PES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwirvyIrvy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I've recently bought a HDTV and was excited to buy Pro Evo 6 as well so I thought I'd play it on 
 my new TV. I turned the 360 on, popped in the game and started a quick match. Straight away I was 
 disappointed with the graphics, even on a HDTV the grass looks flat and lifeless, the stadiums 
 look like the PS2 version and once again there were the cardboard cut out people in the stands. 
 On the other hand the graphics on SOME of the players were pretty good. Others (such as Paul Robinson 
 and Crouch) were awful and just looked like quick bodge jobs.
  
  The sound has improved from last years version of the game but still got the dodgy music through 
 the menus, if anything the menu music is worse. (No Kasabian!!) The commentary is better this time 
 and he actually sounds excited about being at the match instead of someone who's bored stiff. The 
 crowd chant but nothing you can understand, the only thing you can understand is 'Arg-en-tina!'
 
  
  But people who buy Pro Evo don't buy it for the graphics and sounds, they buy it for the gameplay 
 and that alone is enough reason for anyone to pay full price for this game. The skills have improved 
 massively and the shooting has become more realistic. The fact that you have to push the ball out 
 slightly in front of you to get a decent power shot is one of the many new realistic examples. 
 The ability to do quick throw ins quick restart free kicks speed the gameplay up and keep the game 
 moving at a very quick pace.
  Also the players have changed completely. This time the higher the skill ratings the actual better 
 the player not just good at free kicks or shooting.
  
  Once again the master league returns and all the usual features plus an improved online game makes 
 this game the best in the series, but at some parts of the game you do wonder if they've actually 
 made any changes from the last one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fulhamatt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me start by saying, when I got the game yesterday, I HATED it, i was close to 
 taking it back this morning, but I thought, y'know, what the hell, i'll give it another go before 
 it goes back .... So I did and now, it will never go back.
  
  Now, i've been playing Konami football games since the good old days of ISS on PS and it must be 
 said, having been hooked in and playing PES6 solidly all day, my disillusion at this episode in 
 the series has turned into complete and utter amazement at how Konami have gone and gone it again!
 
  
  Gone and done ****ing what:?! you ask...? gone and made the best football game ever made. Again. 
 Sure, FIFA 07 is also a truly great game in it's own right, any fool can see that, it's just that 
 FIFA feels and plays like a video game. PES6 actually forces you to play football the way you would, 
 had you actually got a ball at your feet.
  
  People are complaining about the Xbox 360 version of the game because it hasn't got an edit mode 
 and there aren't enough stadiums and my player hasn't got the right name and hasn't got that little 
 bit of chest hair i dream about... all I can say to those people is....
  .... GET A LIFE. If you want to be able to micro-manage how your players or teams look, go and play 
 invent The Sims: Pro Evo 
  
  However. if you live and breath football for what it is, just stop reading right here. Go and get 
 the game and play it for what it is, a football game. Yeah, that's right, it's NOT THE SIMS!!! 
 *SHOCK HORROR*
  
  Everything here feels so right, the way you'll string together the most fluid and intuitive passes, 
 only for it to break down at the last defender, or your striker to balloon it over the bar.... Because 
 of something YOU did wrong, you'll be gutted, you'll be infuriated, you'll scream at the TV as 
 if it were a real game... And cheer just as loudly when you score that absolute pinger of a 40 
 yard volley you've been practicing in the training mode. ANYTHING in this game that goes right 
 or wrong, is your own doing 9 times out of 10.
  
  No mistake about it, the way this game recreates the highs and lows of an actual game of football 
 provide dozens of memorable moments every game you play.
  
  In 3 words to sum up the game ... This IS Football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImjcI
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for pro evo 6 since I last played pro evo 3 on the ps2. (so much better than 
 pro evo 4 I thought.)
  Now this has been a long time but when the 360 came along I was absorbed by all the new next gen 
 games getting better and better. I refused to buy pro evo 5 and then play it on the 360 as I thought 
 this to be a waste of hardware. From all the reviews of pro evo 6 how wrong was I!!
  
  A few months ago my 360 was nicked so I had to go cold turkey for awhile. Don't worry I thought, 
 in 2 months I'll have another 360 and a new next generation football game. PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER 
 6. C'mon!!
  Retailers again *forget* to respect the release date of 27th October, so I smile get my wallet 
 out and frantically install the 360, recover my tag and load pro evo....
  
  ... I was expecting more...
  
  .... the commentary hasn't improved but I don't care.
  .... the 
 edit mode and shop are not there but I don't care.
  .... no co-op online? Now thats absurd!
  
  Also tell me, is it just me that thinks the player movements are not as smooth as they should 
 be?
  The game is good though, the AI are intelligent, the difficulty is fair and the tension it builds 
 when you are in the dying minutes of a closely fought dogfight is truely outstanding. There is 
 something missing though, something of importance. I just can't for the life of me put my finger 
 on.
  I will persevere with this game as I know I have placed it on a pedastel and I know that I will 
 love it in another 10 hours of gameplay.
  
  What do you think...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dovonob
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Right pes 6............................ o dear o dear o dear. Today felt like a part of my soul 
 had died, the games industry has been churning out cack after cack for a good few years now but 
 there's always a few series of games you know are always gona be good when they come out and save 
 that last shred of interest you have for gaming, most prominently for me are the elder scrolls 
 series and pro evolution soccer. We all know everytime a new PES game comes out we all hate it 
 for the first two weeks as they've cocked up some of the stuff that works (pes 5 - chip through 
 ball and lob shots) and fixed some of the annoyances (pes 5 - throw ins) personally i think this 
 a ploy to make you buy the next version when it comes out but that's a conversation for another 
 time. It's hard to get used to the new mechanics of a new pro evo as you usually have to play it 
 in a completely different way but after a couple of weeks you suss it and it usually turns out 
 that it is a better version that the previous one and everyone is happy.
  
  I have to say putting pro evo 6 into my 360 and playing it for a few hours with my mate i was in 
 shock, could it be that for the first time ever they've seemed to have made every aspect about 
 the gameplay better without making anything worse??? I rang everyone I knew who cared and pronounced 
 to the world that pro evo 6 was fantastic, I may have pointed out that it looked no better than 
 playing pro evo 5 on a 360 or the fact that the framerate can at times be shocking which is something 
 I've never seen on a pes game except the ps2 versions. Still it only happened on goal kicks and 
 other moments when it didn't particulary matter so I thought I'd let that go without moaning.
 
  
  Unfortunately there a was a niggling at the back of my mind, something was very wrong about the 
 whole situation, this isn't how it's supposed to go, I'm supposed to hate the new pro evo to begin 
 with and grow to love it, but there it is in front of me playing like i've always dreamt it should, 
 i can now even stand and shield the ball properly, passing is faster, everything is just better 
 and how it's supposed to be. Why then did it have &pound;10 knocked off the price on release day, 
 maybe konami wanted more people to play it and thought that a &pound;50 price tag for a game is 
 a disgrace, good on them I thought, give a slap to billy gates from me aswell.
  
  But then I found out what Konami seemed to have failed to tell you and certainly what the knob 
 in Game failed to point out while he went on for 20 minutes telling me how good the new one is 
 when all I wanted to do was go home and play it, not stand there with a massive queue of people 
 behind me while he gibbered in my face.
  
  So here we go, two things are missing from the new one which to be honest you just automatically 
 expect to be there and shockingly enough the fact that they arn't there actually makes this game 
 a disgrace and a worthless purchase if you've got PES 5. NO EDIT MODE - yep no edit mode, i'm as 
 confused as anyone about this, so basically you can't create yourself and your mates and put them 
 in the england team anymore, quite annoying but something you could just about put up with if it 
 wasn't for the fact that all the other stuff is missing. One of the things most people moan about 
 pro evo is the fact that a lot of the team names are wrong, personally this never bothered me as 
 you could just change the team names into the real ones, not now though, you'll have to play as 
 merseyside red until next october. totally unacceptable.
  
  NO ONLINE CO-OP - ??????????????????????????? you what!!!!!!!!!!!!!! why not? this is the final 
 nail in the coffin for me, this is what makes you keep playing pro evo, taking on a couple of frenchies 
 with your mate is what makes the game so good. not anymore though, also one player online is a 
 total frustration fest aswell, it constantly tells you when you try to join a game that it no longer 
 exists, when you refresh the server list it's still there!!!! Personally I'm not an overly patient 
 man so after 15 attempts (yes 15!!!) I switched the 360 off. I did manage to get a game online 
 later in the night but it still suffers from the annoying lag that plagued it on the xbox, whereas 
 before it only used to lag in one half as the other half you would be hosting, it seems to lag 
 in both halves now.
  
  So to sum it up, without the key features of edit mode and co-op online this game just really isn't 
 worth buying, basically your left with playing the master league for the millionth time which to 
 be honest is just dull considering you've probably done it for every previous version of pro evo, 
 and the only reason you played it one player was to hone your skills for when you played it online 
 or against a mate, o yeah no pro evo shop either so another reason not to play the one player game.
 
  
  Basically a shocking disapointment, of all the things you think could go wrong with a new version 
 of pro evo this sneaks up and takes you from behind like michael jackson in an orphanage. You just 
 don't expect these things not to be there and the fact they're not actually manages to make the 
 game a complete pile of toss.
  
  Jus to make you feel better the PS2 version has all these things and its 
 
  
  I will say if Konami patch this up to include edit and co-op online modes this game would be the 
 best pro evo ever irresspective of the graphics as the gameplay is so good. (lets be honest who 
 cares about the graphics on pro evo) I can't see that happening myself so therefore there is just 
 no point in playing this game. Anyway I'm off to japan to burn down konami HQ via Game to get my 
 copy of pro evo 5 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -James-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Right, heres the snap. Wait... wrong sport.
  
  Pro Evolution Soccer 6, is simply what it says on the tin. Its a slight update from Pro Evo 5, 
 nothing thats really going to catch your eye and say WOW that looks so Next Gen, its just not going 
 to happen.
  
  OK, so the general jist is. It still plays a cracking game of football. Don't get me wrong, it 
 still is Pro Evo on a general level. The passing is good, and building up moves from the back is 
 fluid, and leaves you with a sense of satisfaction. One key problem, which I didn't notice before 
 is the lack of pace in my wingers. When I have done the last man, on the wing, I want to swing 
 a cross in. More often than not its blocked. (much to my dismay!!)
  
  The graphics, I'm going to be honest here look VERY dated. On a direct comparison from FIFA its 
 like stepping back a generation. When watching the game, the graphics look poor. Close up they 
 are slightly better. The game runs so much smoother in 60hz, which helps the fluidity. And for 
 the people obssessed with absolute realism. The net bulges much better than on FIFA
  
  On Live, its... different. The lag issues aren't completely resolved. And getting a match is a 
 nightmare the majority of the time. (I'm talking 20 minutes of searching here, and finding nothing. 
 Hopefully this may be because not many people have the game yet, or 3am in the morning isn't a 
 popular time to play) .
  
  All the cup options are back. The achievements are a little ridiculous, (just a glorified Trophy 
 Cabinet) but its a good game of football. Master League is back, so yeah I suppose there is enough 
 options.
  
  My problem... I loved Pro Evo, and have done for god knows how long. But the fact is, this feels 
 cheap. Its a good game of football, but worth &pound;15 more than the PS2 version? I really wonder. 
 Pros - A great football game, which plays Football WELL!
  
  Cons - Doesn't feel next gen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk5eye
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  After all the anarchy of the early release, finally it has arrived the king of soccer games is 
 back. Straight to the point then, the gameplay has been tweaked again for a more challenging game 
 but at the same time more entertaining. Graphics are improved obviously now being on the next generation 
 of consoles, in this instance the Xbox 360. But I feel the real triumph is the improvement of the 
 A. I. e. g. opposing players are intelligent and can read plays and supporting players are drastically 
 more intelligent, making better runs, creating space and making more options. If I had to pick 
 one problem it would be that the editing seems to have been drastically been reduced. For reasons 
 unknown, Konami have stripped a lot of editing features e. g. being able the create unique players 
 is no longer possible and physically editing is also no where to be seen. Apart from that the game 
 has great potential and should still be the preferred game of true soccer fans or even non-soccer 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedders05
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  this game franchise has been one of the most popular in sporting history! and this year making 
 its way to many platforms. it had a new match within the xbox 360!
  this version has better graphics as u would expect, but misses a key lineup of what we come to 
 expect from the series!
  
  1. no goal saves, unlike the playstation and pc versions, where you can save your most amazing 
 goals. 2. no team edit, you can only edit the players!
  3. only 8 stadiums! yup konami will make us pay with our xbox points to get more stadiums! DISGUSTING!
 
  
  yes the game may be beautiful but you somewhat feel it has become FIFAish!
  this s somewhat gd as the graphics are become very very nice, but i feel the play is becoming a 
 bit slower!
  
  overall missing loads of key parts, and not hitting the back of the net this season but it is very 
 close to the goal! lets see if the can improve next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali_g_84uk
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Still pro evo, but hardly next gen. Ok good and bad points
  
  Good:
  
  -Plays better than pro evo 5... not every team defends like Italy now and you don't have to take 
 it round the goalie or slip it by the side of him to ensure you score on a 1 on 1 chance. Also 
 it doesn't turn into pro evolution pinball when you get near the box like pro evo 5 did.
  
  -720p... i'm sure it will look nice and sharp when i'm playing on my mates 42 plasma tomorrow.
 
  
  -The analog stick is surprisingly accurate and tight, tho this still doesn't beat the ps2 dpad. 
 Bad:
  
  -Graphics... this looks like an xbox title or the pc version of we8 (literally... that isn't an exageration) . 
 I dont expect gears of war quality graphics... but come on Konami surely you could redo the models 
 to look more accurate and add some extra lighting effects to give everything a bit more depth. 
 Extremely disappointing. Considering how much flak EA took for cheap ports of nba with flashy graphics... well 
 Konami just directly ported the xbox/pc version with no flashy graphics...
  
  -You're being charged more for what many will consider an inferior version. The ps2 version will 
 play better due to the dpad, the pc version will look as nice as the 360 version (and you can use 
 a usb adapter and use the ps2 pad) . Many bought this version as it's the next gen title, expecting 
 much more in terms of online leagues, subtleties in the game engine and graphics somewhere close 
 to the fifa/nba/nhl franchises etc. If anyone is considering buying this version and has a decent 
 pc... get the pc version and a ps2 pad usb adapter (that way you get the same graphics, the online 
 play and the better controls) .
  
  -The reviews. 8.4 on ign really doesn't convey how much of a cheap port this is... yes it still 
 plays pretty damn good but konami all year explained how they were completely rehauling the physics 
 and game engine... they lied. Yes there are differences, but no more than usual. For someone who 
 owns WE10 and pro evo 5 on ths ps2 and we9 &amp; 8 on the pc.... this game probably does not justify 
 a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruskiodoe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell this new installment of pro evo is a mixed bag to say the least. Purely on a gameplay 
 basis, this year is an improvement over last year, with lots of little tweaks and improvements 
 over the last installment, none of which i think were unnecessary. However, the rest of the game 
 (gameplay aside) is pretty lazy to say the least. The menu's are downright awful, the options compared 
 to all the other games in the series are so limited it's inexcusable and almost everything else 
 has been stripped back and simplified, but not for the good, oh no. Why Konami have done this is 
 open to endless speculation but whatever the reason, it blatantly has more to do with cost/time 
 restraints than to do with improving upon what they already had in ther previous game. All this 
 said, the game does still play like no other football simulation, so if you are looking for the 
 best game for gameplay, this has to be it. I just wish that konami had put in more effort with 
 the presentation and options, and then this would have been the game we were all waiting for, maybe 
 next year...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pugberto3122
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  It hasn't really been long since the last one which was one the most well made football game at 
 it's time but now has to step down as its son takes control of the ball. The Gameplay:
  At first play you try to notice what makes this game a sequal. Well I'll tell you. First off they 
 got out all the problems which bug us most about the last one, like the fact there was to much 
 fouling and offsides which caused the game to become annoying because this made little time for 
 clean play. The controls are well suited to the controller. What adds to the gameplay in this though, 
 which is the best bit is that each players special moves and charcteristics are there like crossing 
 and shooting like Gerrard or doing a header like Crouch.
  
  Graphics:
  Set a side the moderate detail, the animations are amazing like on the net and the players of course 
 which move like in real life. Tackles look great as well. The ball seems as if it's real and moves 
 like it should.
  
  Sound: The nosie from the crowds is great and feels real. Sadly the commentators can get on on 
 your nerves as they repeat the lines as much as five times in one match but don't worry because 
 you can just go into settings and turn it off.
  
  Value:
  With the online, offline multiplayer and single player rolled into one game which is as great as 
 this means that this game will last you till the next one comes in on the rebound. Even though 
 they removed edit mode it isn't even a big deal because a lot off the leagues are now offical.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I remember when I was 11 years old and I just got Offical PS2 Magazine which had just come with 
 a demo to an all new football game which was Pro Evo 1 and after playing it, it made me love football 
 and ever since I have owned almost everyone of them which means that I love these games.
  
  Overall:
  This is a must have game and this coming from me is something because I review games 
 harshly. It's a must over Fifa 2007 and even to people who hate football you'll love this game. 
 Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gobes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is no arcade footy sim. Konami have strived to recreate the real game - on a console, and 
 it's pretty damn accurate. The players move and react just like they should. The ball moves and 
 spins just like it should. Your opponents break you down, pass around you , and hit the back of 
 your net just as they should... even if it's far too often than you would like.
  
  Don't expect this game to be another 'through pass, speedy dash, goal fest'. This game is all about 
 keeping posession, passing around your defence, and midfield - untill you can create and take advantage 
 of an oppening.
  
  The graphics are good enough. Not the best you will see on the 360, but they do the job. Some players 
 look a little odd.
  
  The sound could be better. Music is a bit weak, and commentary has not changed from the last game... 
 but when the glorious sounds of the crowd drown it out - you won't care.
  
  Gameplay (as above) can be realy frustrating due to how difficult games can be - but thet just 
 makes every goal taste so much sweeter.
  
  All in all... this is a footy game for hardcore football fans who can appreciate the game far beyond 
 what happens around th goal mouth (because you won't be there much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezmontutu04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Okay first things first lets get the bad ponits out of the way:
  
  1. Editing - A stripped down version, could have been better.
  
  2. Replays - At first I thought 
 OMG but it does not really matter about the game play now does it. (But i think they'll patch it 
 up cos in the manual it says to save replay press X)
  
  3. 8 Stadiums, I dont care about the actual stadiums but it is nice to have variations oif pitches 
 to play on.
  
  4. The Nets - Look slightly odd and could have done with netting variations as in PES4 &amp; 5.
 
  
  Now the Good stuff -
  
  1. Awesome gameplay to all you FIFA suckers, have a good time on the crud FIFA while we all play 
 PES and actually have satisfaction by scoring goals. 2. Animations are very tidy with plenty of 
 variation so you dont feel like every game is the same.
  
  3. Goal keepers, you can actually tell a good keeper from a bad one as good keepers are very hard 
 to beat. Thats if you get past the defense.
  
  4. Overall playability is immense as you get involved in a season you start convincing yourself 
 to play 1 more game even though its 3AM.
  
  5. Graphics, to all those who diss the graphics. Ive had every PES &amp; the graphics are ACE (I 
 admit not as next gen as possible but still very touched up as crisp.)
  
  Final thought -
  If you buy football games because you love playing and watching footy buy this 
 game 2day. As with every new PES there are a few moans and groan from back benchers but once you 
 play this game for a few hours you'll find what you are looking for.
  
  A GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparda2007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  The new Pro Evo is here at last for next gen. This has probably been the most eagerly anticipated 
 one yet, so does it live up to the hype, the answer: not quite.
  First of all the negative points. Pro Evo 5 had more stuff than this one. Firstly the it had more 
 stadiums than this one which only has 8, secondly there was a much larger edit mode, this one only 
 allows you to customise the players, thirdly there still seems to be few English licenses, though 
 saying hello to Man United they wave goodbye to Chelsea.
  
  However, you can't overlook the fact that this is still Pro Evo and is still the best one yet. 
 The graphics are very impressive, from the in game to the cutscene they still don not seize to 
 amaze. Sound effects are better than ever, though you can't here the commentary (this is a good 
 thing) the crowd noises are incredibly realistic. The gameplay has risen the bar yet again, the 
 new ball physics make sure that the balls move incredibly realistic and there are tons of new tricks 
 to pull off. There is still all the leagues and the cups, and yes the master league is back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gursoy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  If you liked the other games in the pes series your guaranteed to like this one. This game is everything 
 pes 5 was and more, with great new animations which give the game a more realistic feel, the game 
 no longer seems like an arcade game with the same animations being repeated over and over, and 
 the ball dosen't move to match the animation anymore. The ball physics have also been improved 
 with the ball now doing exactly what it should. The movement has been improved and so has the slide 
 tackles, now u actually win the ball instead of just kicking it away. Loading times have been removed 
 from matches, now when you win a throw in, foul or even make a sub you don't have to wait for it 
 to load it just automaticly flicks to the next screen. Online play tends to lag a bit, and can 
 also crash at times. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys football even in the slightest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Ever since I learned that Pro Evolution Soccer was coming out on the XBOX 360 I had the jitters, 
 eagerly anticipating what Konami could produce given the chance to go graphically to the next stage. 
 For years Konami had the gameplay edge on EA and even though for a long while licensing didnt really 
 exist, the support base for PES grew and grew, and I was certainly on that bandwagon. So bring 
 forth PES - Next Generation Gaming, and what do you get?
  
  A sorry state of affairs.
  
  All the build up I created about the game, expecting a football game to rock the foundations 
 of the earth, and within minutes of opening the game and putting it into my XBOX 360, my dreams 
 were well and truly shattered. It was yesterday morning, I was up ut of bed at 9:30 waiting for 
 the post, so I thought I would have a look on the internet to see if there were any sneak previews. 
 I saw a few notes. There is little to no edit mode , Only 8 stadiums , I thought What? This cannot 
 be serious - knowing that only a year or two ago there was rumours of no stripey kits being available. 
 So when I put the game in, I thought I would check.
  
  Oh deary me...
  
  No edit mode at all. I thought it was hidden, so I had a look through some of the menu's, nope 
 - nothing. So then I proceeded to play a game, thinking in the back of my mind... Oh no, I will 
 have to put up with Manchester United vs Merseyside Red for the entire season . Now I know that 
 the game isnt fully licensed, but I am one of many players who like to create that sense of realism, 
 even if it means changing the name of the team and the kit they wear. In the game itself, I felt 
 very subdued by it. It just seemed too flat. The graphics were a little better than current gen, 
 but thats about it. The passing was okay, but a little unresponsive, and tackling was made very 
 difficult (as was dribbling on the top level of difficulty. To cap all of this off, the computer 
 scored off a cross after only minutes, and I dont mean a dangerous one - and easy one for the keeper 
 to catch.
  
  I played on for another 2 - 3 minutes, thinking Hey its probs like the rest, I will get used to 
 it , but then it dawned on me - I loved the rest of them right from the kick off. This version 
 was just shabby, they should have waited another month and ironed out all of the issues before 
 releasing it. Needless to say, it was put back in the box (even before the half time whistle) and 
 sent back to the shop. I was disgusted by this disgrace of a game that costs a pretty hefty &pound;50. 
 Konami had well and truly raised a two fingered salute to all next generation gamers, and created 
 a shabby, awful version of the worlds greatest football simulation.
  
  My vote this year is EA, which I do not for a second believe I am saying, but even though their 
 version is far from perfect - its a hell of a lot more exciting that this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glasgow_dandie
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Well another year, another PES.
  The latest (number 6) makes its debut on the 360, and overall I guess the word is solid.
  
 
  First, Game play is really good. All the foundations of the previous edition which the majority 
 of us loved is still present but with simple additions such as reinvented goalies which can actually 
 make a good decision and referees which dont blow for a fowl for you sneezing. In addition to 
 that the new skills are pretty impressive. They are difficult at first to master but given time 
 in game they can be really effective and make you think your Zidane.
  
  Graphics are nice but slightly disappointing. For a 'next gen' game it looks as Konami rushed this 
 edition to rival Fifa.
  
  Sound is just the same old delayed repetetive commentary.
  
  Achievements are pretty useful. Majority are offline (win leagues, cups etc.) but there are a few 
 online which will have you playing for months (100 wins) . Not a bad 1000 points.
  
  Extra's are where we start talking about PES downfall.
  I was a big lover of the shop where you 
 could buy classic strips, players etc, but unfortunately is non existent.
  Saving replays was also very useful for bragging rights over fantastic goals but I cant seem to 
 work out how to, if this is possible.
  Strip selection is now boring and straightforward as there is no mix and matching any more.
  
 Finally, the thing which most annoyed me was the lack of edit mode!!!!! The 360 version only allows 
 the edit of player name and attributes, meaning their is a lack of editing club names, strips, 
 leagues, cups, player appearance, and player movements between clubs. This to me is very disappointing, 
 as this means no January transfers, editing strips etc.
  What upsets me more is that the PS version seemingly contains all of the above and more.
  One 
 question: WHY????
  Can any one answer this?
  
  All I can hope for is that Konami produce some content for download, and hopefully for free, as 
 this a wee let down to me and I would assume others.
  
  In reflection, the game is generally good in terms of the footie game play. The game forces you 
 to play some nice football. The only thing is that the lack of extras keeps niggling away at me.
 
  Maybe Next Year!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  It's a football game. There is little you can do to change football games really. It still has 
 all the same league options as it did before except it seems to have lost the marketplace bit where 
 you could spend your PES points. Hmmmmmmm, interesting. But it occurs to me that they actually 
 tried to get the club licenses this time round but still really only got the major ones. The most 
 evident change in this game are the special skills. There are about 150 of them to master &amp; 
 they are pretty cool. I spent quite a long time trying to do some of them in training but when 
 it comes to the matches you very rarely use them. But apart from that i can't see any difference 
 from PES 4 although this time round I have XBL. So I played it on XBL &amp; it is great. Especially 
 when you're hammering some Chelsea supporter 3-0 &amp; he starts complaining that it's 'Lampards 
 fault'. Even in videogames people still have to complain that is was all [insert player name here] s' 
 fault. Graphics are nice, sound is good, except for those bloody comentators who say the same thing 
 over &amp; over &amp; over until you eventually have to go to the title screen &amp; turn the commentary 
 off. Achievements seem reasonable enough like win this league or that cup. Compete in 100 ranked 
 live matches etc. The different difficulty levels means that any level of gamer can play it comfortably 
 or can have a challenge if they want one.
  All in all a good game but if you want the official players &amp; teams buy Fifa but otherwise 
 I'd say this was the best footie game out there at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazza2003
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Apparently the PS2 version is really good but being logical I got the so called next-gen version 
 on the Xbox 360. Its the worst PES I have ever played. Every year I buy both PES and FIFA and 
 last year I totally berated FIFA and since I have no particular allegiance to either side its 
 only fair I do the same to PES this year. I have split up the negatives but since there are only 
 a handful of positives they get one category.
  
  Lack of editing
  Cant change kits (But its okay  Newcastle have never played in stripes  no really they have 
 always played in all white)
  Cant transfer players or create them  so no January transfers (It sure is a good job the squads 
 are all up-to-date because Sibierski doesnt play for Newcastle now does he? And Amoroso didnt 
 leave Milan at all  oh wait turns out Im being sarcastic again)
  Editing of players is limited  as far as I can see there is no way to edit appearance
  Cant 
 edit teams  why?
  
  Other issues
  The game menus look like they were designed by some 10 year old intern and are hard to navigate 
 around
  No covering marking anymore  my DM just charges up the pitch like his arse is on fire leaving 
 a nice big gap.
  Cant change kits  There is a set home and away kit  no mixing and matching
  No post-match 
 analysis - Looking at who ran the furthest, got the assists etc was a nice feature but that is 
 gone too. By this point though I wasn't particularly shocked.
  
  Gameplay issues
  Cant save replays anymore  Whats the point in scoring a great goal against the AI when you cant 
 save it to show people
  My defence charges up the pitch as soon as I kick off  sure it makes for open gameplay but it 
 also makes for a nice big gap for through balls.
  The commentary is terrible although foreign commentary is quite funny mostly because I cant understand 
 when they talk rubbish
  Unless Ive missed something the game has to be in widescreen. It must be the only up-to-date thing 
 in the whole game but it means the sides of the screen disappear off the edges  way to go Konami.
 
  
  Online play
  No more co-op online play
  Low success rate of getting into games  managed to get into 2 games in an hour of trying (not 
 including the time I was in these games) . It seems like whenever I try to join one the game session 
 is no longer available. I also left a game open for half an hour and got no challenges
  
  Positives
  Goalkeepers seem to do better
  Referees pull up less niggly fouls but that said 
 Ive been sent off a few times for getting the ball
  Looks quite shiny but graphics dont mean much if the game as a whole sucks
  
  To Sum Up
 
  Konami have taken a huge step backwards with this latest offering of PES and I feel many on the 
 fence players will be hugely disappointed. Looking at the reviews it has been given Id say bungs 
 in football stretch a lot further than the real world game. The only explanation I can think of 
 for them to make the 360 version so bad is that Sony and Konami are in that proverbial bed together 
 and they want to save the good game for the PS3 next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyCatSmells
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure where reviewers are getting their scores for this but it seems people are reviewing 
 the hype that this game should have been
  
  let me also state that this is a review of a full retail purchased product and not a beta or demo
 
  
  here are a few of the key points you should know
  
  1) the graphics are NOT amazing - they're ok, but i'm afraid Fifa still has it licked in this department
 
  
  2) Yes, the passing is much more fluid now and BETTER than fifa
  
  3) the controls are so over complicated that it's almost impossible to do anything in a controlled 
 manner. there are 120+ different skills involving left stick, right stick, digi pad, bumper buttons 
 and triggers...... way too complicated when you're trying to play
  
  4) shooting is vastly improved, but it's claims to have netbusting goals is gibberish, ball movement 
 seems to be quite slow, and the power control is very twitchy
  
  5) the worst part of this game - the scratchy commentary that sounds like it's coming from wither 
 underwater or off a gramophone... really spoils the atmosphere very dissapointing - i'll be trading 
 it in ASAP 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
