-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worldwide Soccer Manager 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/footballmanager2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Top-notch realism.
 Great use of Xbox 360 controls.
 Fast processing suits the platform.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sounds and looks bland.
 slow and unwieldy online games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 92 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date: Canceled
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sports Interactive's best title to date combines stability and variety in an immersive football 
 experience. 

  Football Manager 2007 is Sports Interactive's third game since leaving the Championship Manager 
 name behind, and while it's a case of evolution rather than revolution, it turns screens of statistics 
 into something so absorbing that it is possible to lose entire hours, days, and weeks of your life 
 analyzing.  

  The game, like most of its genre, thrusts you into the front line of football management at a club 
 of your choosing. Where that may be is entirely up to you, and FM 2007 provides an almost endless 
 list to choose from. You can go for the glamour of Barcelona or AC Milan, head to smaller clubs 
 such as Accrington Stanley or Worksop, or take a punt with clubs from leagues you've almost certainly 
 not heard of, such as the Hong Kong First Division. You can manage any of these clubs, and even 
 international teams, should you so desire.  

          Scouting can unearth some great young players, but only if your staff has the experience. 
     

  There are several options that you face when starting up a game, and those are based upon the number 
 of leagues you want to activate. You can opt for four branches of setup: any nation, from a choice 
 of more than 50, with the top two divisions active; any nation with the top four divisions active, 
 where available; a combination of preset nations, grouped in twos or threes, with all divisions 
 active; or a combination of preset nations grouped in fours and fives with a varying number of 
 divisions active. The choices aren't as extensive as those on the PC -- for example you can't simply 
 make up any combination of nations or activate more than five at any point -- but they do give you 
 more than enough to be getting along with. The next step involves setting up your manager's profile, 
 and because several of the divisions included in the game are fully licensed and contain player 
 pictures, it's possible for you to add your own picture into the game, which is a nice touch.  
 

  After you're installed in your new job, you'll need to inspect your squad to work out where your 
 team's strengths and weaknesses lie. That's something that may be much easier to do with big clubs, 
 especially those with players you're familiar with, than it would be in lower league teams. So 
 if you're a beginner, you might find it easier to start off with either a top team or one you know 
 well.  

  You'll also start your management job with some idea of what the board and fans of your chosen 
 club are hoping you'll achieve over the course of the season. Managers of football clubs live and 
 die by results, so if the board is expecting promotion and you're delivering losses, you may find 
 that your first contract ends prematurely. However, if that does happen, it's not the end of the 
 game; you can apply for jobs with other clubs that have vacancies at any time, and you can even 
 throw your hat into the ring anywhere if an incumbent manager's position is looking shaky.  

  It won't take long to learn your way around the game, although for anybody that's transferring 
 from the PC, reeducating yourself on the location of various information screens might take a little 
 longer. However, once you've played a few matches, it really does become second nature, and that's 
 thanks largely to the well-used trigger buttons on the controller. At any time the left trigger 
 button will bring up an overall menu that lets you continue, view your squad and its tactics, and 
 so on, while the right trigger will show options more localised to the screen you're currently 
 on. Pressing the start button will bring up the load and save menu, while other context-sensitive 
 options can be found using the A, B, X, and Y shortcuts. It's all been configured in such a way 
 that it doesn't take long for you to get to any screen you can think of.  

  Once you have a feel for your players, either through real-life knowledge or some careful inspection 
 of players' relative statistics, you can begin to construct your title-winning team, choosing a 
 formation and tactics that best fit the level at which you're playing. This can change from division 
 to division, but while world-class players might prefer slick, fast passing manoeuvres and elegant 
 counterattack plays, you'll probably be happy for your inexperienced, unfit, part-time lower league 
 players to just lump the ball unceremoniously up the field at any opportunity -- hit and hope.  

 
  As well as deciding whether to play 4-4-2, 4-3-3, or one of any number of other formations, you'll 
 need to keep an eye on the financial state of the club, as this will give you an indication of 
 what your transfer budget might be. Again, this reflects directly on the level at which your team 
 competes, but unless your club is in debt, there's usually something in the kitty.  

          The news screen is the centre of your virtual football world.     

  Having financial 
 acumen is crucial, especially at smaller clubs, and you'll want to send out scouts to watch prospective 
 transfer targets. FM 2007 introduces a new format to this section of the game, adding in knowledge 
 bars for scouts based on their past experience. Some of them will specialise in certain countries 
 or regions, and while smaller clubs might confine missions to a relatively local area, you'll want 
 a good depth of global knowledge at your disposal if you want to compete on the world stage. Particularly 
 important are staff members with South American experience, which may let you tap into the potentially 
 priceless players of the Brazilian and Argentinean leagues and uncover the next Pele or Maradona 
 before anybody else -- and before the price gets too high.  

  Larger clubs will also have youth academies, which will give you an influx of youngsters each year, 
 some of whom may make it through the youth and reserve teams and even break into your first-team 
 squad over time. And another nice addition this year is the option to ask the board to consider 
 setting up a formal arrangement with another club to send or receive players on loan. These agreements, 
 known as feeder or parent clubs, can be very useful for big teams, letting them farm out promising 
 youngsters for valuable first-team experience, and for small teams that would never normally be 
 able to attract the young talent. It's something that has been around for a few years in real life, 
 and it's great to be able to see the relationships transfer into the game.  

  The matches themselves are where the real action happens, and FM 2007's match engine has been refined 
 further to create the most realistic player activity to date. The games are presented in a top-down 
 view, with players as numbered circles moving around a pitch, which is usually green but can deteriorate 
 into patchy brown to give you an idea of conditions on the ground. It's not the most sophisticated 
 method of displaying a football match we've ever seen, and other games such as LMA Manager 2007 
 certainly pull it off with more aplomb, but the crucial aspect of it is that you can learn something 
 from watching a match. The movement of players is almost bulletproof when compared to watching 
 a real-life game, and it's incredibly easy to forget you are watching a bunch of circles move around 
 inside a green rectangle.     

  By sacrificing visuals, FM 2007 does a far better job of providing a useful tool for analysis and 
 entertainment than any of the fully 3D match engines. What's more, the rest of the game presents 
 you with information in a clean and efficient manner, and it's clear that extensive work has gone 
 into making the most important screens easily accessible. The trouble is that Football Manager 
 2007 doesn't give you a next-generation experience. Certainly the processing power is there to 
 enable a fast, efficient approach to a generally quicker all-round game, but if you're used to 
 something a little flashier, working your way through a series of screens won't be that appealing. 

          Worldwide Soccer Manager 2007     

  In addition, sound in the game is still fairly basic, with a dynamic crowd noise that rises and 
 falls depending on what's happening in the game. But while the impact of sound in the game is minimal, 
 there has been no real attempt to innovate in this area. Crowd noise cuts off suddenly at halftime 
 and fulltime, and no attempt has been made to brighten the many menu screens with music or other 
 sound effects.  

  That said, it's obvious where the focus lies in Football Manager 2007, and thankfully it's on the 
 most important part of the game -- the feeling of immersion. News items that alert you to goings-on 
 from around the world are sensibly tailored to your own part of the world, while still keeping 
 you in touch with important developments globally. Depending on your progress, journalists may 
 approach you from time to time to ask you to comment on your situation. If you're on a winning 
 streak, you might like to gloat a little or maybe praise the players. If you're not doing quite 
 so well, you might prefer not to comment at all. Everything you say and do, especially where the 
 media is concerned, can have an impact on the morale of your players, so it's important to consider 
 the bigger picture when talking to the press.  

  Team talks return once again, letting you have some influence on the performance of the team on 
 match day. While you can fire the players up or give them the hair-drier treatment, you're relatively 
 powerless once the whistle goes. You can change basic tactics on the fly, as if shouting instructions 
 from the touchline, but bigger changes and substitutions can take place only when there's a break 
 in play.  

  Players, teams, league setups, and even competition rules are accurate for all of the 116 leagues 
 across 51 countries that exist in the game, something which not only adds massively to the feeling 
 of realism, but also gives you the scope to learn more about world football as you go.  

  Once your career is under way, the football world carries on around you, giving you as much attention, 
 or as little, as your current managerial position deserves. From the moment you begin, FM 2007 
 creates an environment that's based on reality but lets you forge your own path and create your 
 own stories. You have the scope to do almost anything within the confines of what a real-life manager 
 would do, and setting yourself targets -- or just seeing where "life" takes you -- is one of the best 
 parts of the game.  

  Sports Interactive has also set about making use of Xbox Live to facilitate multiplayer games, 
 and on paper it's a pretty good idea. The options let 2, 4, 8, or 16 players hook up and play through 
 a friendly league or cup, with either new or existing manager profiles. The matches are played 
 out as if in the single-player game, with the passage of time all as you'd expect. Injuries, cards, 
 and other incidents will carry across from one game to the next, and the full range of squad and 
 tactical options are available to all players.  

  However, although it's a great addition in theory, there seems to be several problems in execution, 
 the most crucial of these being that there are very few people, even some time postrelease, who 
 are willing to play online. The likeliest reason for that is the sheer amount of time it takes 
 to process through even one-on-one matches -- it's unclear whether players like to spend half an 
 hour micromanaging all of the tactical settings for a single match or whether there's an issue 
 with the processing.  

          Worldwide Soccer Manager 2007     

  The notion of taking your favourite team and managing them to success against others around the 
 world is an attractive one, but the process needs streamlining to make it more compelling. If you 
 do take part in an online match, there are leader boards to track your progress, and they will 
 sort from a handful of different variables, including True Skill, matches won, goals scored, and 
 so on.  

  There is plenty of variety to be had in terms of gamer achievements. From a number of miniscule 
 rewards for inevitable actions such as signing or selling players, through to more significant 
 points hauls available for winning leagues, keeping clean sheets, and so on, getting them all will 
 definitely take some time. However, you should be able to unlock plenty over the course of several 
 seasons. Overall, FM 2007 is a game that you might still be enjoying when Sports Interactive is 
 releasing the next version in a year's time, and football fans won't find a more rewarding and 
 realistic tool for fulfilling their sporting fantasies anywhere else. The addiction of playing 
 just one more match, season, or career won't fade anytime soon with this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: leaping-tiger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  so far i have spent 15 hrs playing this game and i am totally hooked. i admit it isn't as good 
 as the pc version but it is definately worth the &pound;20 i payed for it. if you havn't played 
 it i suggest you do. at first i found myself shouting at the control because i kept pressing the 
 wrong buttons but i soon got the hang of it. i can see hour of my life being wasted on this fantastic 
 game but it will be worth it. i really hope they continue with the series on the 360. GO BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Design As the name suggests you take on the role of a Football manager of your favourite club (providing 
 your favourite club isnt some non league one that wallows in their despair &amp; has their team 
 talks in a shed like Llangollen F. C) it even has a handy search system when you start the game 
 to track down even the most obscure team (except Llangollen F. C) &amp; once youve chosen your 
 team &amp; sorted out the personal details you want your manager to have you can jump right into 
 the action. Of course the first thing that strikes you is the sheer choice of what you can do. 
 Well thats a good thing isnt it? I hear you cry &amp; I would have to agree with you there 
 but some might take the view that if it takes you more than 30 minutes before you start your first 
 match its not worth sorting through everything. Certainly its not necessary as your assistant 
 manager takes care of the training schedule &amp; your scouts have the job but if you do feel the 
 necessity to maintain control of every little aspect of your club you will get lost in the various 
 pages of information for quite some time but once youve got a few hours of play under your belt 
 things should be quite easy to find. Alternatively you could use the manual to help you navigate 
 the halls of your virtual stadium but it is as large as a Dickens novel &amp; unfortunately lacks 
 the plot &amp; character development of one. But as one would expect from a management game the 
 design is never going to be one that amazes.
  Gameplay Taking no active part in the playing of the football match its hard to describe the gameplay 
 but I can certainly say that it is addictive. Unlike many of the other managing games when you 
 watch a match the same things do not always happen which (to my knowledge) is a first in such a 
 game. You have the team talk option which plays a large part in the gameplay with a bad team talk 
 leading to your downfall &amp; a good one leading to a fantastic victory. The team talk isnt completely 
 random however. It is linked with what you have said to your players leasing up to the match &amp; 
 how youve presented your team to the media. This brings up the interaction part of the game. Should 
 you take a dislike to your opposing number you can play mind games with them which can completely 
 trip their team up before your next match against them or like me you can just slag them off. For 
 example, everyone who isnt a Chelsea fan thinks that Jos&eacute; Mourinho is a jerk &amp; when 
 talking to the media you can say that I hope his team crashes &amp; burns which brings up the 
 subsequent screen in the news section [Insert your name here] has told skysports. com that he will 
 take much delight in beating Mourinhos team &amp; he &amp; all the [Insert your clubs name here] 
 fans will revel in them failing in all competitions they participate in. Which inevitably brought 
 a smile to my face? There are many features that I could have mentioned but I thought this was 
 as good as any, and it is little things like this that sets this game apart from the others &amp; 
 makes the experience all the more fun.
  Audio/Visual
  As one would expect there is nothing to test the power of your console here as the game focuses 
 on charts &amp; progression &amp; results. But there is a nice sheen to the whole look of the game 
 which is pleasing to the eye. In sound there is again nothing much in the game to produce the sound. 
 When watching the match you can hear the roar of the crowd which is a nice touch but you could 
 live without it.
  Multiplayer This seems like a pointless addition to a managing game because all you can do is... well... er... manage 
 your team which isnt a particularly exciting prospect, but if you want to prove to your mates 
 that you could take your club to the top better than the current manager this might be a bit of 
 fun. You can set up a league against your mates as well which can be a laugh but its not a feature 
 that will excite the mind.
  Longevity If you like these sort of games you will be only to happy to while away the hours, but 
 looking at statistics, progress reports &amp; transfer lists can become boring so you may only 
 be able to take this game in short bursts but as I said it all falls down to how you react to this 
 sort of game
  Achievements In short, dont bother. You have the relatively easy ones like Sign a player which 
 gets you a whopping...1g &amp; there are a few achievements like this. Others are ridiculously 
 hard like Get a club from the lowest league into the highest league which takes a long time &amp; 
 is a lot of hard work for a measly 40g. Others you will unlock in time like win a cup etc but 
 none that provide a high yield.
  Overall A very solid game that I cant get enough of but others might not really get into the swing 
 of it. Put simply; if youve never played give it a go. If you liked the previous ones youll love 
 this one &amp; if you didnt like the previous ones there is nothing here to make you want this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanescentlion
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  FM followers will all know how much of your life the game can take up, and the 360 version is no 
 exception.
  One of the interesting aspects of the game is that it is a bit quicker than the PC version, I finished 
 3 seasons in about 2 days of playing. The user interface takes a bit of time to get used, especially 
 if you are unfamiliar with FM.
  However, the game does have its bad points. Unlike PC gamers, there is very little support available 
 in the form of patches or updates, and this is more to do with Microsoft rather than SI. Also a 
 data editor is unavailable, so any recent transfers or league updates cannot be changed by the 
 user. There are other minor irritating glitches, which I am sure, had this been a PC game, would 
 have been resolved with patches, but as usual, console owners (esp 360) get the short end of the 
 stick.
  My advice would be to get this for the PC rather than the 360, and that if you are a hardcore FM 
 follower then definitely get this for the PC. If you're looking for something to pass the time 
 and don't have a decent PC, then it is worthwhile getting this for the 360, but don't expect this 
 to be as good as a PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferret2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I have only started this game last night so havn't gone deep enough to write a huge review but 
 so far i am pleased with this years version of FMA.
  When you start the game the setup is very easy to go through and loading the database is very quick 
 which is pretty cool :-)
  i also like the feature if you own the Xbox live vision Cam then you can take a pic of yourself 
 and your image is saved to the game :-)
  I like how the layout is presented to get too all the different areas is easy and pops up almost 
 instantly, also the preocssing between fixtures is very quick which is very good unless loads and 
 loads of teams are playing the same day.
  The acheivments to unlock are pretty good it makes it a challange to try promote from the lowest 
 league to the premiership which will take while to do but not impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Still lot's of players and options.
  ==========
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: It's the same game as last year (or more acurately, this ============ year, thanks 
 to a late arrival) .
  
  The Football Manager series is an annual event, and with each comes new features, players, coaches 
 and stats. Football Manager 2007 simply doesn't offer enough to be a truely worthwhile purchase, 
 maybe for Christmas, but thanks to many irradical flaws, it just isn't worth it.
  
  For starters, it's exactly the same game as last year, the gameplay and achievements have just 
 been cut straight from last year's version. The only new feature is, of course, the new coaches 
 and player's, and unless you are desperate to stay in the present, it's not worth an extra &pound;50.
 
  
  Overall, Football Manager 2007 is a worthy manager game, but with SO may similarities to 2006, 
 it's not worth the extra do$h. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Sports Interactive football management games going all the way back to 
 Championship Manager. This is the first time I have bought it on a home console (for the achievementsIll 
 admit it) having been playing Football Manager 2005 (Mac) and Football Manager 2006 (PSP) over 
 the last couple of years.
  
  Most people are already familiar with the game so I will just highlight the 360 specific gameplay 
 mechanics and new features for 2007.
  
  The first thing I noticed switching from mouse to controller for navigation is how well the actions 
 and menus have been implemented. I tried LMA Manager a few years ago and it was dreadful, but SI 
 Games have made it very intuitive and easy to use. The triggers bring up the Go and Action menus, 
 while the Start menu effectively brings up the File/Save menu  dead simple. On the whole the controls 
 are very good and I found myself easily navigating the menus and pages using the controller that 
 I previously would have used the mouse for. Its all quite logical and familiar if you have played 
 FM before.
  
  I was pretty much able to setup and start playing FM07 in a matter of minutes which was a welcome 
 change from the 6 minute database build from the PSP version. A new feature in FM07 is the ability 
 to have your face to your manager profile. I now have my ugly mug in Vegas and Norwich City (my 
 starting team) emoticon. Other new features in FM07 include half-time team talks, feeder clubs 
 and other communication improvements.
  
  For the 360 version there are a number of XBL modes to play. Fantasy Draft is a new XBL mode for 
 FM07  it is a bit like American Grid Iron in that you take turns to pick your players before launching 
 into a mini competition. I have never played FM online before and it will be interesting to see 
 how well it works.
  
  The graphics are functional, including player photos and the 2D match engine. There where some 
 minor lag glitches as I navigated the menus but nothing major. The sound effects are fine for 
 a game of this type.
  
  I will probably devote some time to this game over the Christmas period, but first impressions 
 are very good. As with all the previous SI Games from Championship Manager to Football Manager, 
 once you get into these games you are hooked so value for money (it was &pound;30) is very good.
 
  
  In summary, its Football Manager on the 360 with a neat control solution, a few nice new features 
 and your own ugly boat visible to all on XBL (should you wish it) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
