-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/worldseriesofpoker2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Xbox Live vision cam support is pretty cool.
 Good online multiplayer.
 Decent roster of pro players.
 Odds-calculating tool is a handy feature.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Player behavior is fairly predictable.
 Presentation is weak.
 Some graphical issues involving the camera-mapped custom players.
 Bad commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.0, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 260 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Left Field
Genre: Casino
Date: Sep 21, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The things Tournament of Champions does well aren't quite enough to make it stand out from the many, 
 many other poker games available. 

  The 2006 World Series of Poker has come and gone, with no-name TV producer Jamie Gold taking the 
 $12 million dollar top prize. But soon enough the WSOP Tournament of Champions will find its way 
 to ESPN, and alongside it you'll find World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions for the Xbox 
 360, PlayStation 2, and PSP. Like the regular World Series, this is a series of tournaments where 
 players earn points and try to make their way into a final tournament to take home a huge cash 
 prize. Much like Activision's previous attempt to turn the World Series into a video game, Tournament 
 of Champions does a serviceable, if unremarkable, job of emulating the event. This year's game 
 does put a greater emphasis on its included pro players, and the online multiplayer is certainly 
 a draw, but the offline play is still a bit mundane, thanks to off-kilter artificial intelligence 
 and lackluster presentation.  

          Can't get enough poker? Neither can Activision, if World Series of Poker: Tournament of 
 Champions is any indication.     

  Like with last year's game, the focus of Tournament of Champions is its career mode. You begin 
 by creating a character, as you do in most poker games. On the PS2 and PSP, this process is pretty 
 by-the-numbers. There are a decent number of facial and clothing customizations to choose from. 
 The Xbox 360 version of the game also includes these options, but in addition, you can use the 
 Xbox Live Vision camera to put your own face in the game. The game asks you to snap two pictures, 
 a front and side view, and then renders out a head based on those shots. It's pretty cool, and 
 the image it creates is surprisingly high in resolution. It even maps basic hair, provided you 
 don't have an especially nutty hair style. If you do, there are some add-on hair options available. 
 The one creepy thing about this feature is that your scanned face never animates. The default character 
 heads in the game do animate, so having a totally stoic, blank-stared character can be kind of 
 unnerving; but considering that you can use your scanned character online, maybe that will work 
 to your benefit. Fortunately, you do have the option to turn scanned characters off in the online 
 mode in case you don't want to see what unspeakable parts of their bodies others have scanned as 
 their faces.  

  The basic progression of events in the career mode is simple. You start out at a home game against 
 a few generic guys, but lo and behold, your dealer for the night is Chris "Jesus" Ferguson. It 
 seems Mr. Jesus has lost some kind of bet and is now at your home game, scouting for talent to 
 take to the WSOP Tournament of Champions. Whether you win or lose this game, Jesus takes you under 
 his wing and sets you on the path to poker riches. There are four casinos with four events each 
 for the preliminary rounds, and then there's the final round at the Rio in Las Vegas. You try to 
 earn points in the various preliminary tournaments to move from one to the next. Wins give you 
 more points and cash, but you can earn points just by placing in the final table rankings at each 
 tournament.  

  Along the way, you'll encounter a variety of pro players, including Scotty Nguyen, Men Nguyen, 
 Antonio Esfandiari, Phil Laak, Jennifer Tilly (yes,  the  Jennifer Tilly) , TJ Cloutier, Kristy 
 Gazes, Clonie Gowen, Andrew Black, and, of course, last year's champion, Joe Hachem. Each of these 
 pros provides some at-the-table dialogue, though it doesn't consist of more than a few token barbs 
 during and after a hand, as well as a few generic "check" and "I raise" statements.  

  The pros also don't play much like their real-life counterparts. Joe Hachem may say, "Pass the 
 sugar, baby!" from time to time, but you don't get the same flair from his actual play. All the 
 AI opponents play functionally the same. You'll notice that some AI players play fewer hands than 
 others, but that's about the only difference. On the surface, the player AI is reasonably intelligent, 
 if rather robotic. However, there are some issues with overaggressive betting, especially before 
 the flop. It's rare to see a table's worth of players fold around completely to a raise before 
 the flop. You'll see a bunch of reraises, even if the other players don't have anything better 
 than a king-eight off-suit. Table position doesn't seem to play into this. Once the flop comes, 
 it's easier to bully players out by raising heavily, but if an AI player makes a hand of any kind, 
 he or she won't quit unless you try to put the player all-in.  

  Tournament of Champions isn't a good poker teaching tool in the way that, for instance, Stacked 
 was. The game's load screens do occasionally toss you some decent nuggets of info that might be 
 useful to new players, but in-game, the tips that scroll across the screen are beyond obtuse. "Poker 
 is a game of position," says Chris Ferguson. Gee, thanks, Jesus! However, one thing the game does 
 offer that might be useful for non-video-game poker play is a tool that unlocks once you've played 
 a decent number of hands. By pressing a button, you can bring up a menu that shows you a wealth 
 of statistical data, such as what your pot odds are, based on the number of people already in the 
 hand; the odds of making a specific type of hand, based on what you have versus what's on the board; 
 which cards are your outs; and the percentage of hands you have played in and raised prior to the 
 flop. For those who find the more mathematical aspects of poker dizzying, this handy little tool 
 gives you a better idea of where you stand. It won't win hands for you, but it might keep you from 
 losing a few.  

  Most poker games live and die by their multiplayer components, since poker is inherently a game 
 best played with live people. All three versions of the game include online multiplayer for up 
 to nine players. Hosts can set up sit-and-go tables, as well as multitable tournaments, and you 
 can play any of the available games, including hold 'em, Omaha, and several other basic poker variants. 
 As tends to be the case with online poker, the game is slow-moving. Offline you can use speed settings 
 to blaze through hands, but no such option presents itself with live players, so you may find yourself 
 in a number of long, drawn-out games. But if the slowness doesn't bother you, then you'll find 
 the online play pretty good and basically lag-free. You can also use the vision cam on the 360 
 version to display a small image of yourself onscreen each time the hand comes around to you. The 
 EyeToy provides similar functionality in the PS2 version.  

  The Xbox 360 version also has a good number of achievements -- 35 in all. Few are outlandish, with 
 most simply tasking you with winning the various in-game events and collecting some of the special 
 collectible chips that pop up when you do things like get on a good winning streak or reach a certain 
 number of final tables.  

  What drags Tournament of Champions down the most is its presentation. It's tough to make an exciting-looking 
 game of poker, considering that players at a poker table don't do much beyond shifting around in 
 their chairs and occasionally screaming wildly when they lose or win a big hand. The basic in-game 
 graphics aren't terrible, though they're fairly bland, and the game lacks the dynamic presentation 
 of one of the TV poker broadcasts. You'll also notice some ugly clipping issues with character 
 models from time to time, especially if you use a character with a custom head in the 360 version. 
 The upper and lower sections of these characters' necks don't line up properly, so you'll often 
 see the upper half of the neck clip through clothing in a pretty hideous way whenever your character 
 turns his or her head. The 360 version looks better than the PS2 and PSP games, but mostly because 
 of better skin textures and crowd graphics. Viewing the 360 game on an HDTV does not provide an 
 impressive visual experience compared with what else is available for the 360.  

          Apart from some notable pro players and the WSOP commentators, there's not much about the 
 game's presentation that feels authentic.     

  The audio presentation is considerably worse than the visuals. Though the developers did at least 
 go to the trouble of getting both Lon McEarchen and Norman Chad this year, they didn't give them 
 anything to do. They have maybe a couple of dozen lines apiece, and both repeat often. Norman doesn't 
 have many of his trademark jokes available, and Lon's play-by-play is badly stitched together, 
 with lots of instances of horrible shifts in voice tone and volume coming at random. The pro player 
 dialogue is at least delivered pretty well. Otherwise, a lot of background casino noise and generic, 
 slide-guitar-heavy music occupies the menu screens.  

  We're at a juncture now with poker games, where providing a decent online mode and a lengthy career 
 mode isn't quite enough to sell an entire package. With games starting to step it up in the AI 
 category, it's time for all poker games to get smarter and not rely on the same robotic AI routines 
 that don't emulate how people really play. And as far as presentation goes, it's not enough to 
 just trot out a bunch of pro players, some licensed commentators, and camera support and call it 
 a day. The PS2 and PSP already have a gaggle of poker games available that offer roughly the same 
 features that Tournament of Champions does. On the 360, your only option at the moment may be the 
 single-player-bereft and bare-bones Texas Hold 'Em for Live Arcade, but at least that game costs 
 four times less than this one. You won't necessarily go wrong by checking out Tournament of Champions, 
 but there are smarter and deeper games available elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  I could have reviewed this game after the first ten minutes of playing it but decided to try to 
 get all the achievements first to experience the game from beginning to end.
  
  Story and Content:
  There is a campaign mode believe it or not. Sure there is the quick play 
 for the different types of poker but you would want to start a career. You can work your way up 
 from small time tournaments to the big million dollar matches. 
  
  Game play:
  Different types of poker at two skill settings. Along the way you get tips from pros that help. 
 Also there is stats and charts to help you decide on betting and winning hands. In career mode 
 you also have a room to decorate and play and practice you poker with. In most tournaments you 
 will run into some pro players who can give you a hard time in winning. There is also an online 
 multiplayer option that lets you play across xbox live. What fun is seeing their faces through 
 live cam as you beat them.
  
  Graphics: 
  Passable graphics. You can see you chip stack rise and fall on the table. Card dealt and even the 
 option to peek at your cards. Only a few areas like you poker room , casino floor and the final 
 table with all the bells and whistles. The pro players look somewhat like their real life counterparts.
 
  
  Sound and Music:
  The music is only on the menus and can get quite annoying at times. The sounds of shuffling, chips 
 falling and the crown cheering wins is about all the sounds you get
  
  Difficulty:
  Only two settings. The Semi Pro lets you get into debt while the pro setting starts you off with 
 the 10,000$ bankroll which you have to restart if you lose. If you know how to play poker and the 
 skill of betting you will not find a difference in the level of difficulty of computer players. 
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If your already a poker player there is much better free online options available out there. This 
 game teaches you the fundamentals of the game and you will quickly get bored of the computer players 
 once you improve a little.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermuk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  A few years back this feature in player creation was first shown on theN64's game Perfect Dark 
 . You could make a immage if your own with the gameboy camera, hook it on a device under the N64's 
 controller and upload it into the player creation menu. This way you could play the multiplayer 
 of perfect dark with your own face on your created player. However this was very limited in graphics 
 and complicated to implement the feature itself was really AWESOME!! I already imagined to get 
 my own face on a soccer player, njammmm!
  
  World Series Of Poker 2 got it ! and quite simple to. You simply take an photo of your front and 
 side and the game automaticly creates your face after about 2 minutes of time. Now you have your 
 own face on your player and you can play your face not only in career mode but also via xbox live.
 
  Still some minor graphical issues are there; necks sometimes have a brown edge depending for light 
 skinned people, some players have bigger heads than normal, i for example have a pointie nose (for 
 real i have a round tip) , sometimes you see a bumped back of the head sticking out the neck part 
 and occasionally you see in animations inside players heads. BUTT all in all these are MINOR GRAPHICAL 
 ISSUES, PLAYER HEADS LOOK LIKE YOUR OWN HEAD, and it's cool to play on xbox live with your own 
 head.
  
  The presentation of this game is good. It looks good and plays good. What the players say is quite 
 normal, sometimes dull but i do not get disturbed by this. It's not at all irritating or something 
 like that. What do you expect, poker is poker, talks are often the same.
  THOUGH, i have played PKR. com and there you can select the way you behave and what you say (out 
 of a list) so that is rather cool wich could be used for the next WORLD SERIES OF POKER 3.
  
  Overall this is a good solid poker game and the best currently on the XBOX360. Digimask feature 
 (photo) is pretty cool and presentation is good.
  I've bought it new for the price of 33 euro, about 30 dollar and that's worth all, i would pay 
 the full price if i had to.
  
  Excellent poker game, don't let yourself get chased away by the poor rating!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alaho
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 4, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  this probably best poker game on the market, but very short and uncreative. I'd just rent cause 
 thats how long it will take to beat. This game does feature a wide variety of characters and game 
 modes, With four different locations. Worst thing is the career mode cause of only one playing 
 mode.
  Dispite this game being a let down to me you may find this game entertaining. well this the end 
 but i got have a 100 words so bye bye bye bye be bye bey be y by yb by by by by byb y by luv u 
 guys l8r bye bye bye bye bye ye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  It is hard to count how many times Game Developers and publishers have tried to create a poker 
 game that is so excellent that you will play it for ever and ever! WELL THIS ISN'T IT!
  
  From the first time you select play on this game you will come across a create a character selection 
 where you create your poker player and enter him into the world of poker! then it all goes HAY-WIRE!! 
 instantly when i picked up this game I thought WOW! the graphics and the atmosphere look great 
 but it isn't at all!
  
  First off, the graphics aren't up to the standard of the Xbox360 you would expect muscle definiton 
 , sweat , e. t. c but there isn't it feels like an XBOX game to say the least
  
  Another thing with poker games is A. I you would have 3 of kind kings and in the end you lose to 
 someone with 3 kind of aces! it happens again!
  
  Another real bad point of the game is sound I SWEAR! every 10 seconds someone randomly snezzzes 
 and it really annoys you plus overall the game doesn't at all feel fun!
  
  Another dissapointing Poker game on the market that should have done a lot better than planned! 
 however it didn't
  
  Having said that this game does let you play poker that is what you want to do and it has a medicore 
 way of doing that.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I wa expecting more form this game, but actually I didn't like to much the graphices were horrible 
 the same as the PSP, for the PSP looks great but for a 360 come on, spyce them up you know is a 
 360. The camera thing is ok I guess for some people is fun as long you don't get the perverts. 
 Honestly I didn't like it , go get a better game.
  
  You can learn tournament Poker from one of the masters, and even get your own face in the game. 
 World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions takes a story-based approach putting players on 
 the Pro Circuit as a new pro and protege of Chris Jesus Ferguson. Players test their skills at 
 the premier Circuit Events in hopes of qualifying for the winner-take-all, invitation-only Tournament 
 of Champions at the Rio Resort in Las Vegas. Along the way, they face-off against more top pros 
 than ever before, including Joseph Hachem, the 2006 World Series of Poker Main Event Champion and 
 Jennifer Tilly, the Academy Award nominated actress and World Series of Poker bracelet holder, 
 among others in hopes of bringing home the Tournament of Champions trophy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saint
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Now it isn't one of the greatest games and it certainly isn't the most entertaining. You can say 
 this if you are judging this game outside of its genre. It does what the game should do. And that 
 is to offer an excellent poker game. Although far from being 'excellent' it will always be the 
 best poker franchise. WSOP 2 is not the greatest game made and that is very clear to me. It is 
 however the best game in its genre. Give this poker game a chance and you could be surprised. It's 
 better than most people believe. I myself am also someone who plays Texas Hold 'Em on occasion 
 and while playing this game realized how different it is. Don't judge the game based on the transition 
 from reality to gaming. Obviously there are going to be vast differences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fordcountry
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was overly hyped, in my opinion, lauded as a complete poker game with insight from the 
 professionals. It has insight, alright, it has loading screen tips from card player mag, and scrolling 
 tips from Chris Jesus Ferguson. Only problem is, that if you are experienced at any level of playing 
 cards, these tips are so beginner level that they are nothing more than an annoyance and waste 
 of screen time. The game is plagued, in my mind by presentation and pace. The game has three game 
 speed settings: slow, normal, and fast. Slow is just ridiculous. No one can play at this pace. 
 Normal is what should be slow. As for fast, well. it is really fast. Happens so fast you have to 
 look at the player's status bar to see what he/she did. There needs to be a Medium_Fast, in my 
 opinion, for most people to enjoy this one.
  On to the presentation and gameplay. This game's default display gives you an odd angle pullback 
 shot of the whole table. It just doesn't work. Everyone who has/has seen this game agrees with 
 me. It is just a weird angle that doesn't work. You can change it to a first-person perspective, 
 but that is even worse. Now the cards. How is the poker? Not great. Players can't get a read on 
 the computer opponents at fast speed, which you'll end up playing because the other two are WAY 
 too slow. The computers do not act as they should with the cards they are dealt. I had JD-10D preflop. 
 Play went around, I called the blind, and we saw a flop. It came 10S-9H-10C. I checked to the two 
 remaining players, and one of them raised $50. (Blinds were 75-150 or 100-200) The other computer 
 folded, and i raised $50. I was re-raised $200, so I called. Turn card came 5D and I raised $250. 
 He called. The river came up JH. Making my full house, not that I needed to improve, I knew I had 
 the best hand. Now I bet $500, hoping to get called. He called the $500 and raised $1500. I was 
 taken aback at this a little. I take a second look. 10S-9H-10C-5D-JH. The only thing that worries 
 me is pocket jacks. Would he raise that hard on KQ for a straight? No, I thought this guy had been 
 incredibly tight all game. So as I was about to call, I thought he had the miracle pocket JS-JC, 
 making his jacks over tens beat my tens over jacks. I was angry, but I had to call. I never fold 
 a good fullie. So I call. And this is when I realized the card playing engine sucked. I show a 
 full house, he shows 4C-8S. 4-8. Rags. Beyond rags. And raising me all day. Just plain dumb. As 
 long as you play tight, this game is easy. It seems like it is meant to punish the overly aggressive 
 player who wants to see too many flops. Graphics are not next-gen. PERIOD Bad voice to animation 
 syncing. Bad models. Bad game. I suggest you don't even rent it. it is bad. Foul even. Want a realistic 
 card game? Find four friends and a deck of cards. At least they will act like a person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I do not think poker games will ever be great games. There is just so many AI controls you have 
 to deal with. I have never seen a game with good AI including this game. But it is poker and even 
 if it does not have good graphics, sound, or gameplay. it is still a great game of poker. Using 
 the vision camera is also a huge plus. This game has what might call the stuffing, but does not 
 include the pumpkin pie. This is what you should do: Get on the multiplayer, make sure you have 
 already made your player with the vision camera, put your favorite music on to your hard drive, 
 or put in an I pod, now go play some poker tournys and listen to YOUR music so you don't have to 
 die listening to the games, then maybe you'll have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin0330
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  World Series of Poker: Tournament of Champions is a good attempt at a poker video game. That being 
 said, it is hard to give this game a score out of 10 because it is just video game poker. The style 
 played is Texas Hold'em which is best played with real people when real money is on the line.
 
  
  The flow of the game is very good. There is an option to speed up play when you fold which speeds 
 up the game tremendously. The computer A. I. is ok for the most part but can be somewhat predictable. 
 The graphics get the job done but don't really excel. One nice feature included is the Xbox Live 
 vision camera support. This allows you to put your face on your character which works well but 
 could use some work. The sound in this game is pretty standard. One extremely annoying aspect is 
 that it seems like one of the characters coughs or sneezes every 30 seconds. I ended up just playing 
 with the sound turned down to avoid this.
  
  The value of this game all depends on whether or not you want to play poker on your Xbox 360. If 
 so, there are plenty of tournaments to enjoy. If not, there isn't really anything new here and 
 can probably just be rented or avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midivox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Hi All, I grew up playing poker for Lunch Money at school. Videogames or PCs did not exist and 
 would not for many years. Do you think you are enough of a Poker Stud to enter and win the World 
 Series of Poker. Find out if you have the right Poker Skills to know when to fold, when to hold 
 em and when to bluff. Real Poker for Real Money is not a fast paced game, its slow and tension 
 filled. World Series of Poker captures this real world poker feel perfectly, even down to players 
 comments and actions. If you have the time and it will take a long time, you can complete through 
 all World Series of Poker events. There is a fast play mode, but the default 3D setup is the best 
 for practicing for the Real Thing. The game AI is Excellent, so if you can handle and slow pace 
 and win in the game, you stand a good chance of winning in real card rooms and casinos. You can 
 even put your own face in the game and pick your outfit, hair style, etc. World Series of Poker 
 is slow and fun, just like real playing for money Poker. A good buy for anyone wishing to improve 
 their Poker Skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipper847
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  When you get over the lousy comentry and sayings like In China You would be already dead and crowed 
 reactions this game is good. THE GAMEPLAY.
  
  If you dont no poker to begin with it could take abit to get use to but i knew poker to begin with 
 so it didnt take me long to lern this game. The Game it self is like playing real poker it can 
 get boring at times wating your turn but then it just like watching it on TV woundering what the 
 other players are going to do.
  
  THE GRAPHICS.
  
  Not NEXT GEN apart from the vision camera feature this isnt anything to scream about. I used the 
 vision camera once to put my face on the player i dont no whever it was me doing it wrong but i 
 looked like i needed to go out and suck blood like vampiers do.
  
  SOUND.
  
  Not very good The sound is very poor like when you win a pot or go all in the crowed just jump 
 up and down with no sound like clapping etc. There is some every so often but more often then not 
 there is no clapping or shouting when you go all in.
  
  Multi Player.
  
  Not tried it
  
  OVER ALL.
  
  If You like poker I would say buy this game but in my opinion 
 its a rentel for most people only the hard core poker players should buy this game.
  
  Oh and for the learning curve its actualy quite hard ive been playing poker for about 2 years and 
 still learning so im actualy going to put 2 to 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  World Series of Poker is a game where you get to create a character and venture into different 
 casinos to win moneey. You can create your own poker room, character, and collect poker chips.
 
  
  Unfortuanutely it is very boring and takes around 3 hours to finish one match. It is very repetetive 
 after the first 10 minutes and each match will drag on for hours. In other poker games you compete 
 against 8 players. In this you go against up to 36, which can be very time consuming.
  
  WSOP is definately a game ONLY for hardcore texas hold em fans who have alot of time on their hands. 
 I do not recommend this game to anyone else. The gameplay is really stupid because most players 
 (CPU) will do some fancy move like make a little tower with their chips or yawn. This sounds neat 
 because of the realistic animations, but each animation takes 20 seconds and really gets old. Luckily 
 you can speed it up in options menu.
  
  The mediocre graphics dont add any substance and the game itself is sadly really boring and repetetive. 
 The music makes your ears bleed after
  
  I highly sudgest steering clear of this disater, dont even rent it if your not a fan, or youll 
 be done with it in 2 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centralpitcher
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok where do i even begin, i'll start with the good cause theirs not that much to say! The over 
 all graphics of this next Gen Poker game are fantastic, some of the characters could look a little 
 a little better, but hey not everyone is perfect. the sound is well annoying very annoying.... 
 someone get that girl some Allergy medication!!!! that sneezing has got to go... i mean once every 
 30 minutes is ok, but god not every 2 seconds! Ok now this is where it gets bad, now when u think 
 poker you think random, and a game of chance with somewhat of some skill behind it... knowing when 
 to call and when to fold. But this game brings a whole new level to irritating games! you pull 
 pocket Aces, then u pull one off the flop, three of a kind right, well to make a long story short 
 the computer will come out of nowhere with the last ace, and some how come out with a full house 
 on the turn, and the river cards.... i mean does anyone else have as bad luck as me.... my hate 
 for this game has grown and grown, with the over whelming odds that the Computer has to win!
  
  i haven't tried the Online yet, so i won't rule that out as a good feature yet. but to those 
 new to the poker world be weary, this game takes no prisoners, so don't take it lightly. but u 
 will give Activison mad props with the cool web cam feature, it brings a whole new meaning to putting 
 on your game face! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Assuming you already know how to play poker, there isn't much of a learning curve here. The interface 
 is intuitive and really there isn't too much need for a manual.
  
  The gameplay mechanics work pretty well. There are a few annoyances, such as when you make a decision 
 such as fold, your player will sit there playing with his chips for a while before folding. Stop 
 playing with your chips, and fold already! I realize it's for visual effect, but it happens way 
 way too often, and it gets incredibly annoying when you just want the game to move on. The AI seems 
 good, though I'm no poker expert. Some of the characters really do play like the pros, as they 
 play fairly aggressively compared to a lot of newbies who play online (for real money) .
  
  Graphics are severely disappointing and are PS2/Xbox level graphics. Clearly Activision didn't 
 put much effort into spicing up the 360 version of the game. Character models are rather basic, 
 textures are ho hum, and the character's movements look robotic. The game clearly would've benefited 
 from some motion capture. Facial expressions are lifeless, which you'd think is a good thing for 
 a poker game, but even when someone wins big, their face remains emotionless.
  
  Audio is also extremely disappointing. It would've been really nice to have a lot more audio going 
 on: audience noise, better chip sounds, things like that. Even if some people find all that annoying, 
 there could've been options to adjust those sounds. It's really a bummer when you go all in and 
 win a major pot, and you CAN see the audience clapping, but hear nothing. Sometimes you can hear 
 them clap (not sure why you can't always hear it) , but it sounds like a few people clapping, not 
 a large crowd. Players sneeze WAY too much, seriously. Is there a huge cold bug going around Vegas 
 or something? It would've been nice to have more recorded phrases from the pros, too, and maybe 
 a nice extra bonus if players talked to each other once in a while ( you got a pair of jacks, don't 
 ya? ) .
  
  I haven't tried online play yet so I can't comment on that.
  
  Overall, it's a good game, probably one of the better poker games out there right now. But I hope 
 Activision addresses the above issues for the next version. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
