-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/smackdownvsraw2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay still offers a solid wrestling experience.
 The new fighting styles do a decent job of differentiating different wrestler types.
 Still lots of different stuff to do.
 Fantastic wrestler models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Old problems like clipping issues and AI shoddiness are still a big problem in this sequel.
 New 24/7 mode is severely disappointing.
 Most modes have seen little to no updating.
 Fighting styles sometimes feel imbalanced.
 Commentary is still abysmal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,668 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Yuke's
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With little notable improvement to the formula and steps backward in several key areas, SmackDown! 
 vs. RAW 2008 is a big disappointment. 

  THQ's WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW wrestling game franchise may have taken one chair shot too many. As 
 much as this series has always been about piling new features on top of existing features, the 
 pile is starting to teeter and is in danger of falling over entirely. Once again, this year's game 
 adds several new components to the existing game engine that's been piled upon since the series 
 was a PS2 exclusive, but the difference this year is that few, if any, of the changes really feel 
 like they impact the overall experience for the better. In fact, some of the changes impact the 
 game negatively. The gameplay is still basically fun, but all the various little problems that 
 have built up over the years remain unaddressed, and some of the surrounding components of the 
 game are really starting to show their age.  

           This year's SmackDown! doesn't do an awful lot to improve the franchise in any meaningful 
 way.      

  By far the biggest change to this year's game is the addition of fighting styles. This is a sort 
 of classification of each wrestler type that gives wrestlers under each type specific abilities. 
 For instance, powerhouse types like Batista can effectively "hulk up" when they fill up their energy 
 meter and store a fighting style icon, which renders them impervious to strikes and makes all their 
 grapple moves irreversible. Secondary abilities are also available. For instance, a powerhouse 
 can also pull off stronger Irish whips that send opponents over the ropes. There are several different 
 types of these styles, including technical wrestlers, high-flyers, brawlers, submission specialists, 
 dirty fighters, showmen, and hardcore types.  

  For the most part, each of the abilities assigned to these different archetypes fit nicely into 
 each wrestler's general moveset, but some have a tendency to appear overmuch over the course of 
 a match, and in some cases, they also feel a little overpowered. The powerhouse's ability to just 
 grapple at will tends to be a lot more effective at ending a match quickly than the high-flyer's 
 ability to do surprise pins. Granted, there's always been that difference in effectiveness between 
 wrestlers of this type, but these fighting styles just make those differences all the more pronounced. 
 Not to suggest that you can't win with smaller, less powerful guys, but if you get caught in a 
 flurry of punches from a brawler or a series of hard slams from a powerhouse, you're down for the 
 count.  

  Beyond that significant change, the gameplay hasn't seen much alteration from last year's game. 
 The same right analog stick-based grappling system is on offer, though the number of buttons you 
 have to press to pull off a total-control grapple move has been lessened. The submissions system 
 has seen a slight change, where both players use the right analog stick to respectively apply pressure 
 or escape, but this doesn't add much dynamism to that particular component. This year's game does 
 also add ECW into the mix, along with all the various hardcore-isms that go along with that. The 
 ECW extreme rules match is available in all its glory, and weapons have been given a bit of an 
 overhaul, specifically how you go about getting them from under the ring. There's a nifty little 
 weapon wheel that pops up, letting you select among several different weapons, like tables, chairs, 
 2x4s wrapped in barbed wire -- you know, the usual stuff. Also, you can set weapons on fire now, 
 which is undeniably awesome.  

  Still, apart from this ECW-centric stuff, there's not much else to marvel at with the gameplay 
 this year, especially considering all the holdover problems from previous games that plague this 
 sequel. The artificial intelligence continues its downward spiral into utter boobdom, especially 
 in any kind of gimmick match where weapons are prevalent. They'll constantly stand around, periodically 
 flailing at another wrestler with a weapon and hoping for the best. Any match that has a ladder 
 involved but nothing hanging above the ring to collect still results in a number of wrestlers constantly 
 scaling ladders in the middle of the ring over and over again. Tag partners still sometimes forget 
 that they're supposed to help you when you're in trouble, too. And now, with this new fighting 
 style system, the AI has taken to relying on these various special moves to an almost irritating 
 degree. How many times can one guy use the ref as a shield, or "hulk up" in a match? Apparently 
 the answer is "too many."  

  Collision detection is still terrible as well. Body parts warp through one another and the ring 
 regularly, and you'll often see wrestlers simply warp from one side of the ring to the other in 
 place of certain transition animations, primarily during weapon-centric matches. All told, the 
 animation engine really looks like it needs an overhaul. Even the general moveset is looking a 
 bit stiff and flat these days. The good news is that the animation and clipping issues are really 
 the only major blight on an otherwise sharp-looking game. The wrestler models are still some of 
 the very best character modeling you'll see in a game, save perhaps for the still-hideous haircuts. 
 You can tell that this game is still running on the engine built for the PS2, especially if you 
 look and see the surprisingly small dip in overall visual quality in the PS2 version versus its 
 current-gen counterparts, but even so, the lighting effects, crowd graphics, and just the overall 
 sheen of the 360 and PS3 games shine through. The 360 version ultimately looks the best, as the 
 PS3 iteration's frame rate isn't quite as steady, and the lighting looks a bit funny in spots. 
 Interestingly, the PS2 version actually runs smoother as a whole than the PS3 version, though obviously 
 the dip in overall visual quality in that version is pretty significant, as well.  

  In terms of content, SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 offers roughly the same roster of match types and 
 modes as last year, with a few small additions and a few significant downgrades. The biggest downgrade 
 is the 24/7 mode, which now wraps the single-player story mode and the general manager mode up 
 into one haphazard package. In an effort to combine the two, the story mode has lost all its punch 
 and ability to deliver something even closely resembling a real storyline. Sure, you still get 
 the yearlong title hunt with one of the main superstars in the game or a created grappler, but 
 the story barely rears its head beyond the scope of a series of voicemails you get from other wrestlers 
 and the general manager of the brand. The few cutscenes you do get are pretty generic, and sometimes 
 they don't even fit the context of what's going on. Sometimes wrestlers you supposedly are fighting 
 with will give you a handshake backstage. Couple that with some of the voicemails sometimes identifying 
 the wrong person as your rival, and even identifying the wrestler you're controlling as someone 
 you're supposed to fight, and the story aspects of this mode feel more than a bit hacked together. 

           Yes, this is much better than a decent storyline.      

  In place of story is a bunch of lame statistical data and achievements that your wrestler is supposed 
 to hit over the course of the season. You earn respect and eventual title shots by increasing your 
 skill and your popularity with the fans, and you increase that stuff by doing all these little 
 challenges and ventures between shows. Is your strength rating lacking? Go wrestle a guy for two 
 minutes and do as many strong grappling moves as possible. Need to improve on the mic? Spend some 
 cash for a nonplayable training exercise and get a boost to that statistic. Need to rest up? Take 
 some R&amp; R at the expense of your wrestler's fatigue rating, as well as a bit of his popularity. 
 The trick to this whole aspect of the mode is keeping a balance between all the various things 
 you're doing. Overexert yourself and you'll be much more prone to injury, which forces you to wrestle 
 with damage already taken (even though the doctor always tells you to rest up, you can't skip shows) , 
 and if you just rest constantly, your popularity rating will plummet.     

  It's a very strange balance to keep, and one that really isn't much fun. Since you can't actually 
 see your wrestler do much on the mic, or take part in any of these film roles, or interviews, or 
 autograph signings that he's supposedly doing, it all feels more than a little meaningless. And 
 while injuries might be realistic to how wrestling tends to go these days, they don't make the 
 mode any more fun. Why anyone thought these silly additions would make a good replacement for actual, 
 unique storylines is anyone's guess, but they aren't, and ultimately this year's story mode is 
 a real downer.  

           Clipping and animation issues aside, the wrestler models still look fantastic.      

 
  The interesting thing is that all these various training bits can be done in the GM mode as well, 
 though obviously you can apply them to any wrestler on your roster, not just one guy. Apart from 
 that stuff as well as a greater frequency of injuries, GM mode is practically untouched from last 
 year. You still draft rosters or pick existing ones, you still book matches, you still try to get 
 more fans than the other two brands (ECW has been added to the mix this year) , and it all still 
 feels like a piece of a good idea rather than a fully fleshed-out good idea. Booking the matches 
 just isn't that exciting unless you're playing all the matches yourself (and sometimes, not even 
 then) . Another big problem is the truncated roster this year. Despite the addition of a new brand, 
 there are actually fewer wrestlers to pick from in this year's game than last, and that severely 
 limits the kind of roster you can have in the GM mode. If you choose to draft, you only get something 
 like 13 or 14 wrestlers before everyone's been taken, so unless you feel like creating a gaggle 
 of guys in the create-a-wrestler mode, you're not going to have a lot to work with.  

  On top of that, the roster itself is rather severely out of date. Notably released wrestlers who 
 are in the game's roster include Sandman, King Booker, Cryme Time, Marcus Cor Von, Chris Masters, 
 and Sabu (who is admittedly in the game as a "legend" wrestler for some reason) . Couple that with 
 a few names who are currently out with extended injuries, and the roster is looking a little ragged. 
 It might not feel so off if it weren't for the fact that there are less wrestlers overall than 
 last year. It's not Yuke's fault that this is the case, considering the development cycle and how 
 far ahead the rosters have to be locked for this thing before the game is finished, but maybe this 
 speaks to a greater issue about the game's development cycle that this problem keeps popping up 
 again and again, and with greater notability each year.  

  Elsewhere in the game, there are a few tournament modes you can play around with, as well as a 
 hall of fame mode that puts you into some classic matches and tasks you with winning them (Bret 
 Hart vs. Shawn Michaels in an iron man match; a TLC match against the Hardy Boyz; an extreme-rules 
 fatal four-way match between yourself, Tommy Dreamer, Sabu, and the Sandman; and so on and so forth) . 
 Beyond that, you're looking at the same basic exhibition, online, and create-a-wrestler modes as 
 last year. Online has seen almost no alteration whatsoever. You just get into either a ranked or 
 unranked match against up to five other opponents (depending on the match type) , and you can trade 
 created wrestlers with other players. The online basically works fine, with little lag that we 
 could see. However, the PS3 version lacks voice chat, and the PS2 version actually lacks any kind 
 of online component whatsoever. It's also $10 cheaper than the 360 or PS3 versions, so take that 
 for what it's worth.  

  The create modes are similarly unaltered. You can design belts, movesets, stables, entrances, and 
 finally, a superstar. This is still a very deep mode with lots of options to play with, but it 
 doesn't feel like it really adds much to the equation from last year's game, and elements of the 
 interface still feel clumsy. The one really nice addition is the ability to use custom soundtracks 
 for your created entrances on the 360 version. It's a pretty simple process. Just throw whatever 
 songs you have on your hard drive into a playlist, and the game recognizes any playlist you have 
 in the create an entrance mode. Unfortunately, the 360 version is the only one to have this feature. 

           Online and create modes are mostly identical to last year's game.      

  That one element is about the best thing you can say for the game's audio, which is exceptionally 
 underwhelming. It's mostly the fault of the voice acting (though the recycled sound effects don't 
 help, either) . The 24/7 mode dialogue bits are badly delivered, and the commentary is the same 
 recycled nonsense we've been getting from this series for the last few iterations. You've heard 
 practically every one of these lines, and you've heard them be just as inaccurate as they are in 
 this game. Something has seriously got to give in next year's game, because at this point it serves 
 more to ruin the presentation of the matches than help it.  

  You can count the number of things SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 does to improve the series on one hand, 
 and the number of things that it does wrong on the digits remaining on the rest of your limbs. 
 It's not that it's an awful game. The gameplay still has plenty of life in it and in multiplayer, 
 the matches can be quite fun. But everything else about the game -- the few middling changes to the 
 gameplay, the major gameplay issues that remain unfixed, the lackluster 24/7 mode, and the thoroughly 
 rehashed create and online modes -- just makes you wonder if it isn't time for this series to finally 
 start over from scratch. Every year these games include a greater breadth of content, but rarely 
 a greater depth. SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 is perhaps the greatest example of that. It's a solid 
 wrestler, but not one that's worth spending $50 to $60 for if you already own last year's game. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (113 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: faceburner
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  smackdown vs raw 08 is just a fun game to play. The moves are great, the arenas are awsome, the 
 amount of weapons you is just awsome [so are the weapons themselves] , graphics are pretty good 
 if you ask me though there is really no poinat to the gaem then beatting the living hell out of 
 each other until your opponent can't get up or move so you can pin him and win the match. I also 
 like the wide aray of diffrent matches you can compete in like hell in a cell, royal rumble and 
 tornado tag where you can team up with a frien or two and face a few other friends on another team. 
 I also enjoy how you can create a superstar or diva and alot of other things so chech it out the 
 reason this gamw is fu to play is because of all the features it has and how you can play up to 
 four or six player [not sure of that] with your friends
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been promising reviews so heres one on wwe o8. First off the graphics are good but like sometimes 
 the hair of like Jhonny Nitro goes in and out of HER back. Theres alot of legends but I would give 
 up iny of them for Hulk Hogan. The music is really good and the controls are easy to get the grip 
 of like my BALLS. And Damnit Theres ECW charecters but you can't youse them in season mode but you 
 can be ECW general manager which is Tommy Dreamer. Theres alot of diffrent macths onlike the WII 
 version which has like 5-10 and this one has like 50-100 like what the hell Wii you basterd. So 
 the challenge mode is now the Hall Of Fame mode which is how you unlock arenas to wrestle in unlike 
 prvious games. But I don't know why Gamespot does not like it but don't get it if your not a WWE 
 fan. wooo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatgaminglife
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok THQ...
  The graphics are very nice. The 24/7 mode is very dull. Lacks many improvements that should have 
 been made.
  
  Why can they not create a great game?
  
  With every passing year and technology continues down the road of amazement. THQ has everything 
 they need to be successful with their Smackdown! vs RAW series. The roster on this one is horrible! 
 With all the great superstars available this game is so limited.
  
  With only a year to make the next Smackdown vs RAW, the only thing it seems they have time for 
 is... finding a new cover for the game, changing the year "WOW! Lets call this one 2008!", leaving 
 us to guess what button will they choose as a finisher this time?, and making a few slight roster 
 changes.
  
  OKAY... So maybe they do a little more, but is it really worth talking about?
  
  I personally quit staying up-to-date with wrestling a couple of years ago, but for some reason 
 I love the idea of getting to make your own decisions.
  
  THQ could make this happen!
  
  To: THQ
  From: All of us fans!
  Take the time to get creative. Build a mind blowing story 
 line. Add unforgettable matches. GM Mode is a nice feature for me, Give Me More Control! Give us 
 a HUGE roster "2009 should be the year for this, however, I feel like much will be the same"! The 
 graphics are there... no more worrying about a poor display. THQ, you have everything you need to 
 make this work. Even if it means taking more than a year to do it. Every fan could agree, that 
 if you build the perfect wrestling game, we will not need anything extra for a couple more years 
 anyway. 
  
  Main Point...
  So stop wasting years, money, and losing fans by the game. AND build one to rank as an all-time 
 best! They can earn a 10 on GameSpot, but with the way things are now, it looks like it may never 
 come.
  
  Overall...
  -Graphics on 2008 are very very good.
  -Storyline for the most part is dull. "this could be huge!" Think of the possibilities wrestling 
 fans!
  -Matches are really not that impressive. "Hey we do get an inferno match for 2009!" AND in the 
 videos and screenshots it looked like hell in the worst possible way. Maybe I am too picky. But 
 if this is what we have to look forward to every year COME ON!
  -The Rosters are so small! If you are going to bring in Smackdown, RAW, and ECW... then BRING IT!
 
  
  Nothing else really worth reviewing here...
  
  Rent the game before you buy it. If you are looking for something fresh, Axe deodorant has a nice 
 new scent. Not worth the price tag for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan552
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  the game smackdown vs raw 2008 is an okay game. it is a multi platform video game. it is a very 
 fun game if you are into wwe. (world wrestling entertainment) i used to be a wwe fan . one of my 
 favorite things in this game is the create a character option. you can make the ugliest funniest 
 people in this game. in 2008 the other brand ecw is in this game. i like this game because it has 
 alot of match options like table match, extreme match, and hardcore matches. my favorite match 
 is hell in a cell. i would recomend this game if you are a wrestline fan. the game smackdown vs 
 raw 2008 has really good graphics. one thing i hate about this game is the lack of charaters you 
 start off with. like if you are a old wrestling fan you have to unlock hulk hogan or bret hart 
 or owen hart. bot the best game i have played but it can be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster-1234
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Well I think the game needs more WWE superstars it looked like last years game 2007. I think they 
 should wait a while untill more superstares come to the WWE and then add those supertsars to the 
 games.. EXample ... 
  They missed Chris Jerico, Festus, Big show, the roster was totaly wrong. ECW should have more superstars. 
 Thats wat i mean the other thing i hated was the 24/7 mode once ur done the story mode with a raw 
 superstar and then decide to play with a smackdown superstar the story is the same as RAW except 
 diffrent superstars involved... The Hall of Fame was good i liked it multiplayer was good the Genral 
 manager was good to except the roaster were messed up they should allow u to update the roster 
 so it looks right CM PUNK IS ON RAW NOT ECW anymore.. Well overall the game is pretty good i hope 
 2009 has the right superstars this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supervegeta07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game is like the best because they have a lot of of character and every thing i mean what 
 can you guys expect it brought way more belts than 07 looks better and everything even in game 
 stop the rated good. so try the game and start liking it because there's a new cal smack down vs 
 raw 2009. 08 is real cool you can do cool stuff or it probably get tiring and your not your not 
 gonna want to play but trust if you save it later on your goin to go right back in to it after 
 i got tired i didn't play but i still watched the but later on as the days passes i went right 
 to and started playing 24/7 it was so fun and especially playing with your friends you gotta love 
 it its the best. so if i were you don't trade in smack down vs raw because your gonna want it back 
 and if you do don't expect to earn a lot of money for that game or any other game so sit down and 
 start a new of wrestling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWFAttitudefan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 is an amazing wrestling game, with a few ups and sowns, lemme break 
 it down for ya!
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  AMAZING graphics, the arena, the wrestlers, it looks so realistic! it's like you're watching WWE 
 live while playing, the entrance videos are extremely high quality.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  Sound is extremely high quality, the entrance music sounds like it came off a CD, the commentary 
 is decent, the weapons make high quality sounds, it just sounds awesome!
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  The gameplay is good, smooth controls, easy-to-use grappling system, and awesome 
 ultimate control moves, however, this gets a 9 for a couple of reasons...#1 is because in matches 
 with more than one person, you can't target another person unless you get close to them, which 
 can be a real pain in the ass. #2 is the countering system is a little suckish, it's pretty easy 
 to reverse grapples, but very hard to reverse strikes.
  
  ONLINE 5/10
  
  Online is just downright frustrating, unless you're playing with a friend, playing quickmatch or 
 custom match is little to no fun, alot of cheaters online and people who abuse cheap moves, it's 
 just frustrating at times
  
  FEATURES 9/10
  
  This game has plenty of features to keep ya going, with Create-A-Superstar, Create-A-Belt, and 
 more, Season mode (called 24/7 Mode in 08) is decent, a few glitches here and there but fun, General 
 Manager mode makes it's 3rd appearance in WWE games, and is still as frustrating as ever, if not 
 more frustrating. Then there's tournament mode, which allows you to make different kinds of tournaments, 
 like Beat the Clock, King of the Ring and SmackDown! vs. RAW tournaments. So, tons and tons of 
 features to keep you playing.
  
  Overall, I give SmackDown! vs. RAW 2009 a 9.0, if you see it, you should pick it up, or wait for 
 SvR 09, your choice! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon_tracer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  We Will Go Through Different Ways:
  
  Graphics:
  
  As usual they are the same but a bit more detail on the wrestlers. More detail on the Weapons too 
 :P .
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Alot of new features such as, We can get cover by pressing buttons and getting behind the referee 
 and then using him as a shield against the opponent, We can choose our SELECTIVE TYPE of WEAPON 
 in the ECW Extreme rules match, We can press some buttons which allow us to actually get on top 
 of the person ( while he is lying down on the mat ) and then punch him on the head by controlling 
 the punches with the right analog stick, The submission is also applied by the right analog stick, 
 we have to use the right analog to apply pressure to the hold but if we apply too less pressure 
 or too much pressure the opponent break the hold and block it. besides that there is new match, 
 ECW extreme rules match which actually allows us to choose our selective weapon everytime we check 
 below the ring, and we have new wrestlers like , Sabu etc. ( the players from ECW ) .
  
  Online:
  
  The online is cool, we can play online to compete for titles, the gameplay is the 
 same even though we play online or live.
  
  Career:
  
  The Generel Manager mode is the same as before but the season mode is better this time, the story 
 is interesting :D
  
  Thats It... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  i personally am not a fan of wrestling, but this game is great. u can easily get thousands of hours 
 of gamepaly from this game. many many different match types, great graphics, nice finishers, everything 
 someone would want in a game
  
  Good:
  -Wide variety of wrestlers to chose from, including some wwe " (soap-opera) legends", including mick 
 Foley, the rove, terry funk and stone cold steve austin.
  - tons of fun matches, ecw extreme rules match is fun, yet overrated.
  -good graphics
  
  
 Bad:
  - soap-opera story mode that repeats it self year after year, no matter if u r on raw or on smack 
 down
  - Dropping the Batista boob of the f-u is very fun - Some clipping issues
  
  Verdict: great game very fun
  
  story: 6.2
  
  graphics:8.7
  
  game play: 9.2
  
 
  overall: 8.7
  
  Fun game, its a hit or miss, if want u should wait for svr 09, but to tide u over till november 
 , pick this up for 30.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, this deserves more than a "6.5" GameSpot. This game is by far the best in the series. 
 With an updated roster, including fan-favorites Triple H, Jeff Hardy, Undertaker, Matt Hardy, Shawn 
 Michaels, Batista, and more. Now with ECW, it has a new match type;"Extreme Rules" which is pretty 
 much a hardcore match but more... hardcore. In Extreme rules you can choose four of your own weapons 
 to put under the ring, and the other four are there normally, including Tables (which you can now 
 set on  Canes, and more! The match types include; TLC (Tables, Ladders, and 
 Chairs) , Table Match, Hardcore, Extreme Rules, Battle Royal, Royal Rumble, Submission, Iron Man, Singles, Hell 
 In a Cell, Tag-Team, Tornado Tag-Team, and Cage Match. Also with a new mode called "WWE 24/7" where 
 you are a superstar but you are just now entering the WWE. Its kind of like season mode from the 
 earlier games but you do want you want day-by-day. Activities inluding training (to get stamina, strength, speed, and 
 all skills up) , autograph singings, and everything a normal wrestler would do. It really makes you 
 feel like you are a wrestler. The game also features new in-ring controls which are easier, yet 
 more difficult to use. Including a new sumbission game where you have to move the analog sticks 
 to "unlock" the submission. If you don't have this game yet, then I reccomend you not get it and 
 just wait for SVR 2009 to come out. Thank you for reading my review!
  
  -ShawnEffect_58 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redfan23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i was at my friend's house and had never watched wwe or played it 
 but i loved it so much. If you are wondering weather to buy Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 stop go out 
 and buy it.
  
  The controlls are really easy to grasp and the multiplayer modes are fantastic. Most of the visuals 
 are great but some of the moves don't quite make the cut. The customization is fantastic. You can 
 make your own superstar, edit their (or anyone else's) moves or even create your own championship. 
 The 24/7 mode has been getting a lot of stick but i would say this is one of the best bits. Also 
 you can do 24/7 GM mode where you are the general manager of Smackdown, Raw or ECW.
  
  I have not tried online mode but my friend says i don't know what i'm missing. Like i have said 
 great game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat37
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  I loved SvR 2007, I truly thought they hit the nail on the head with that game, but they of course 
 had to make 2008 different. The first problem I have is with the new special move storing/stamina 
 system, it is just a bar that only allows you to perform a special move by having it completely 
 full, so you are not able to store a special move. Another problem with the single bar is that 
 your stamina isn't really shown, but its still there. In last years game you could press a button 
 and in a matter of seconds you are back up to a some what decent level. But in this game if you 
 start out too fast and use to many moves you walk slowly for the rest of the match and it takes 
 forever to get back up if your beat down. 24/7 mode is a mixture of general manager mode and career 
 mode. But the problem when you choose to play as a wrestler is it takes ungodly long. Not the actual 
 wrestling in matches, but the training, in last years game you paid to have your skills increase, 
 this year you wrestle for them in 3-minute mini games in which you must complete a certain objective, 
 which is cool at first but later makes you realize that your playing them more to get your wrestler 
 attributes up then you are actually the real matches. Along with attributes like strenght and speed, 
 you can buy skill increases in being a good guy or a bad guy. This helps your "fan popularity" 
 but it makes no sense. If you over due it you'll get injured so you'll take time off, which will 
 make fans hate you. This is my biggest beef with this game, if you choose to take an R&R day to 
 lower yiyr fatigue you lose like 20 fans, but if you spend a day to gain fan support, like signing 
 autographs, you gain about 2 fans. Also the submission system makes no sense, it is confusing and 
 to complicated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare-_-
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Last year's SVR game was pretty good , it was new to the x360 , and had some nice additions (mp 
 was good) , SVR 2008 promised so much (at least of potential point of view) and delivered a decent 
 game but fun.
  
  Graphics:
  SMVR07 was a pretty game , it had the new "sweat system" , some new blood stuff , and improved 
 cut-scenes (some ppl can say that the cut-scenes itself were bad..) any way, this years the games 
 graphics looks even more good in HD , the intros looks awesome (fireworks etc) , my personal taste 
 is that the models are a bit to much "ripped" , especially guys like Carlito , Orton , Undertaker 
 but overall its just a way to give the fans more "precision" to it.... i dont take this as a big 
 problem.
  
  Sound:
  I can't leave any feedback for sound since I'm deaf soo.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well , SVR08 gave us "Styles" for new things up , but besides some cool hardcore moves 
 (and thank god 2-3 more animations) , most of the styles just ruined the gameplay with some bad 
 downgrading movelists ,finishers, and having only 2 slots for moves (even though in the wwe most 
 of the wrestlers dont use more than 5 moves but still , it was a nice feature in smvr07) and 2 
 ucms moves (ultimate control moves that were brought from 2007 when it debuted) .
  overall the gameplay is somewhere not what it supposed to be , SMVR08 could have been alot better 
 if THQ and WWE didn't cut lot of wrestlers from the years roster , downgraded the movelist , some 
 bad calls in the "styles" and overall very linear and short STORY MODE , even though it was awesome 
 for the first time (with caw) , the second and the third time is getting repetitive and boring 
 after a while , even the GM mode from last year is here, but overall it seems like its the same 
 old thing with some small improvements and some decent fun.
  HOF MODE-this mode gives some decent time spending playing the game , u will need to unlock more 
 events and areas through some challenges like defeating DX (HHH ,HBK) in a tag team match , winning 
 MITB match , finishing GM MODE in 100% (getting GM of the year) and some direct challenges , even 
 though its fun and giving some replay value , its not the same as the SMVR07 big and hard list 
 of challenges.
  
  Conclusion:
  SMVR08 is a very good game for wrestling fans and party game (4 players) , it has a new match (ECW 
 extreme rules which have awesome new weapons) and some reanimated finishers (2 new RKO'S (standing 
 and from the rope) , Tombstone piledrivers , Kane chokeslam, Batista Spinebuster, HBK Sweetchinmusic 
 got no pin SCM and new Pin finisher with the new laying ending which is nice and overall some good 
 reanimated stuff , too bad they downgraded the amount of moves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I personally am a huge wrestling fan and I have bought and loved every single wrestling game. When 
 I picked this one up I was very mad that they merged the 24/7 mode and GM mode so now you can't 
 play one and the other at the same time. The GM mode is the one of the most addicting things to 
 me ever. I mean just having the feeling that you can judge what happens is great. You want Kane to 
 have the Raw Title then DO IT! The tournaments aren't amazing. They are acually pretty repetitive. The 
 roster is well there is good and bad, I hate that there isn't some of the little stars, no point 
 intended but like Hornswoggle, here is a few that I was disappointed that they wasn't on there, Mark 
 Henry wait was he on there? Well I'm not for sure on that but I think he is so I'm sorry for putting 
 that. But Hardcore Holly wasn't there I hate Jimmy Wang Yang but he wasn't on there um... Big V wasn't 
 there even though he would take up half the screen with one man boob. But what I wan't is to have 
 DLC where you can download some of the little superstars and maybe some extra matches. Which brings 
 me to my next point there is a lot of matches...... a lot! From ECW Extreme Rules Match to a Buried 
 Alive Match. I also wan't to see The Miz on the next one and The Glamazon. The online function isn't 
 great with some flaws. But the CAC is still pretty deap with making the entrance and moves and apperance. The 
 graphics are different some love them and some hate them, I think that they are better this time 
 around. You now know that the announcing will and probably forever will be abysmal. But seriously 
 JBL announcing is the most boring thing you will ever listen to. Watch out you might go to sleep 
 while listening. On the next one I know they will have some of the newer bigger superstars like 
 Big Show and Y2J I saw a pic where I saw Y2J in the background, honestly he didn't look to real. Also 
 they need to take off the Cruiserweight title. But I'm just mad addicted to the GM mode.
  Real Score:7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Well, there are a lot of ignorant people towards this game for no reason. I can honestly say it's 
 one of the funnest wrestling games I have ever played and there is just so much to do.
  
  Let's start off with campaign, you pick your favourite superstar from any brand and you go along 
 with a storyline of facing other wrestlers in all types of matches and it shows fun clips to watch. 
 At the beginning of this game when you're learning how to play with the new controls and all the 
 features it's kind of hard but any wrestling fan will adore this game! With the addition of so 
 many amazing moves it makes campaign so much better and interesting.
  
  Now let's go to exhibitions, there's a ton of different hardcore match types from Hell In A Cell 
 to ECW match which will just make you jump out of your seat n go O MY GOD! When you put out that 
 perfect elbow drop from the top rope threw a table you will be ecstatic. There is definitely a 
 great exhibition in this game that goes from 1-1 to a 30 man royal rumble
  
  Now let's go to some other features of this game. You can play as a general manager booking matching 
 and fighting which is very fun to play. It is not as fun as some of the other features but still 
 very fun.
  
  Lastly let's go onto multiplayer. It has a great multiplayer system beating the crap out of your 
 opponent but you can reverse it. Though it gets sooo frustrating after just a match, of getting 
 owned. It is very fun though.
  Now that's my really short review to a really good game
  
  
  My rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games 
 on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of 
 other awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game 
 is a great game, on the system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you 
 and get to the point. If theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read 
 it because they are the best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Fun 8/10
  Replay 7/10
  Single+Multiplayer 7/10
  
  
  Overall = 39/50 
 = 78% 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihs21596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Sm v Raw 08 is a mix of the good and the great... and the there's the not-so-good bits. Like having 
 to spend about an hour on creating just one fully detailed superstar. In saying that, The Create-a-superstar 
 mode is possibly the best feature of this version of the game. Character customization comes right 
 down to patterns on a guys shirt! 
  
  The game feels like a completely new game rather than the yearly re-hash we get in the WWE. In 
 fact, this year the fight is taken to a whole new level with ultimate control grapples and even 
 fighting in the crowd (I know fighting in the crowd was in last years WWE but there are some new 
 editions this year) . People might argue that this is a "Remake of last years game" But i beg to 
 differ. Sure, some things a identical from last year, but i reckon THQ have still got a lot of 
 tricks up their sleeve. There are some problems that arise, like the game getting a little samey 
 and tedious at times. And you get the feeling that if it weren't for Create-a-superstar mode the 
 game would be absolutely terrible. 
  
  As for the graphics, well, there awesome! (On the 360 and PS3 of course!) Although actual superstars 
 seem a lot more detailed than your own creations, the effects are brilliant. Shading and character 
 expressions are nailed perfectly, and lets not forget the realistic beads of sweat that begin to 
 fall of your superstar towards the middle of the match. 
  
  In the end i guess it all comes down to personal preference. If you like big, 7 foot tall men kicking, 
 punching and choke slamming each other to death, then this is the game for you. If you don't, but 
 you enjoy a not-so-much visceral but more "Ouch, that much of caned!" thrill, then this is also 
 a game for you. Or if you're a guy who doesn't like any of the above (Which is very unlikely) , 
 then go have a cry in the corner YOU BIG SOOK!! 
  
  I rate this game 8.5: Great!
  
  Thanks for reading 
  By ihs21596 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  First off, i think it was pretty good. The counter reversal system is quite fun, and fighting opponents 
 on legend mode can be a bit of a chellenge. The modelling and character animation is very well 
 done, as well as the voice acting, if you play on 24/7 mode surprisingly all the voices are RIGHT 
 ON. Even the divas sound just like they should, and its funny as hell watching the divas pummel 
 someone like the great khali or batista. I had no idea who khali was before i played this, or sexy 
 kelly kelly so Iv learned a bit more about the WWF, but im wondering where is the BIG SHOW WHERE 
 is lesnar . Where is the rock and austin, to name a few they seem to be missing. Quite fun I was 
 hooked for about a week, playing on 24/7 mode and the hall of fame where you recreate legendary 
 matches that are quite chellnging.. I don't have buddies who play this too but i imagine culd be 
 pretty entertaining. The entrance and character customization is always original and very well 
 done. I must of spent hours just fine tuning and polishing my wrestler's looks and moves. He has 
 3 different looks, his cutscene look, entrance look, and his in ring look. Always can count on 
 a WWF game for top notch personal customization and some fun little rpg stuff like building his 
 attributes. There is lots to do in 24/7 mode the only bad side i could see is being stuck in the 
 same locker room at times with no ability to free roam. Would of been fun to play a diva too, or 
 customize one maybe we can count on that in future versions.
  
  Stilll I had lots of fun, it was a rental and its got to go back, maybe ill pick up the next one 
 to own, i suggest if your a gamer to keep one wrestling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoneys_Rock
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown Vs Raw (Featuring ECW) is one of those games that gets released every year and that one 
 expects to be building on its success and improving in critical areas from last years feedback. 
 
  
  The problem is they have made it more of re-release and a downgraded version of 2007. From the 
 start season mode is handicapped, there's a big roster of WWE superstars and I'm sure they may 
 be unable to get the voice acting done every single year but they did it last year mostly. This 
 year however, you can't go any ECW superstars nor can you go many of the Smackdown/Raw superstars 
 either.
  
  Sure I can go the staples; Triple H, Shawn Michaels, John Cena or even Ken Kennedy but why are 
 people like Randy Orton or MVP off limits? it feels like they really rushed season mode and a lot 
 of the stories aren't even that fun to play through sometimes. You get the WWE title but it seems 
 sidetracked on other non relating issues other than defending it against to your brands protagonists. 
 
  
  Not to say ECW shouldn't have a role in season but I think it was way too much and in the end seeing 
 Sabu, Tommy Dreamer or even Bobby Lashley attack me at every turn. All the parts at the beginning 
 are always the same where your backstage and rarely do you make any impacting decisions nor do 
 you ever come out to the ring like you should do in a cut-scene of a WWE game. All the beginning 
 scenes and ending scenes are just repeated and in the end you'll get sick of it.
  
  Commentary is from last years game its annoying still as JBL is now Tazz they could have given 
 him at least new material but they just had him saying what Tazz did in last years game.
  
  Online is a joke, I always get appalling latency issues with WWE games I don't know why. Maybe 
 they should sort out the servers it plays on. If I can play big team battles on halo or call of 
 duty 4 why can't I just have a online singles match without rubber-banding or the delayed reaction 
 feeling.
  
  The classes each wrestler is shorted to is pretty nice but you get the feeling some are way too 
 overpowered; (hardcore resurrection, referee pushing and stealing taunts for example.) 
  
  I also hate the fact they scrapped the partner controls for tag team and the manager controls making 
 them absolutely useless and the tag team integration with CPU just none. The graphics are hardly 
 improved and instead of working on 2008 as a next-gen title it seems they just re-kitted 2007 with 
 a new roster and season. If you look at 2009 the change in just graphics shows they didn't really 
 care.
  
  The game does have good points, the create a character system. Kicking your friends ass is still 
 appealing, all the bells and whistles are in the matches. The AI does tend to reverse a lot making 
 the game slow paced sometimes but then again you can just reverse them back. The controls are sharp 
 and easy and season mode isn't too bad sometime either just abit too repetitive for its own good.
 
  
  Its good if you like the WWE but the repetitiveness in the core mode will be daunting for some. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Wow 9 years of this series and I never get tired of it... A lot of changes have happened since 
 the past installment, and for me there are pretty good changes and some are pretty bad changes 
 as well, well... here is my review for Smackdown Vs Raw 2008!
  
  Modes: 8.5
  The game's newest mode 24/7 Mode, where your goal is to become a legend and you can exercise, train 
 and relax and do stuff not related to wrestling, GM (General Manger) mode returns this time ECW, 
 Smackdown and Raw are the shows, ECW's GM is Tommy Dreamer, where Smackdown's is Theodore Long 
 and Raw's is Jonathon Coachman. There is also a Tournament Mode where you are in some tournaments 
 some what like the King of the Ring and Beat the Clock. A lot of match types return as well, a 
 lot of favorites such as the Iron Man Match, Buried Alive, Hell in a Cell, Cage and some others.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7.8
  The analog sticks are still used to be grapple moves, there is a lot of the stuff you could do 
 in the around the ring, like bash someones head into the steps, make them swing on the ropes and 
 there is a new Submission system as well, the controls are confusing at first as well, but there 
 is one more part.. each wrestler has 2 fighting styles, but there is 8 out of them all... which 
 are high-flyer, hardcore, submission artist, powerhouse, showman, dirty, technical and brawler. 
 
  
  Graphics: 8.6
  The graphics seem the same as last year, the wrestlers in the game look like the wrestlers in real 
 life, and the sweat is still in the game, also the wrestlers shine like they are oiled up, the 
 crowd has been improved.
  
  Creation: 8.9
  The Create-A-Wrestler, Create-A-Moveset (I think thats how its called) and the Create-A-Championship 
 belt return and the Stables return, they did remove a lot of moves and nothing has really change, 
 but they are really all enjoyable.
  
  Sound: 8.5
  The sound is still great, you could hear the wrestlers scream and the crowd cheering or booing, 
 it really is great.
  
  Replay Value: 9.0
  You'll have a lot of replay value, from match types to creating stuff and if you get bored of it... 
 just keep relaying it until Smackdown Vs Raw 2009 comes out.
  
  Overall: 8.2 (8.0)
  This game is really good games, even though it has some glitches and some flaws, you should check 
 it out, it'll keep you playing a WWE game until the hyped WWE Smackdown Vs Raw 2009 and just to 
 tell you it looks awesome and its the 10th game in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) The wrestlers look amazing and practically real.
  
  2) A bunch of different modes will always give you something to do in the game.
  
  3) A huge 
 roster from both raw, smackdown, and ecw and every wrestler has their own specific moves and finishers.
 
  
  4) You can use the environment to hurt your opponents and you can use weapons like steel chairs 
 and sledgehammers.
  
  5) You can target one part of the body as a strategy to weaken the opponent.
  
  6) There are 
 a whole bunch of customization options so you can create your own character and add basically whatever 
 you want to him.
  
  7) There are 8 different fighting styles that wrestlers have and each one of them have different 
 abilities.
  
  Cons:
  1) No huge improvement from 07
  
  2) There are some clipping detection problems.
  
  3) 24/7 mode wasn't as great as it could 
 have been.
  
  4) They could have added more moves for each superstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padawon2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I was really impressed with this one although many wrestlers are not in it. Like hollywood or goldberg 
 sting but my favorite legend ole bret hitman sure is in it though. the character creation is smooth 
 and i have rock bottom and sharpshooter on my person. But its realy hard to fight with them because 
 they suck so bad at the beginning. 24/7 is boring and the achievements are quite tough to get. 
 the hall of fame stuff is tough and im still trying to the hardyz and dx. I actualy watch wrestling 
 in RL and my fave tag team is dx bcuz of HBK not HHH. Also IMO i think batista is garbage he can't 
 make his own moves like spinebuster and spear is not is wat a bad kid. I love the entrance making 
 for your person, i got nothin but a good time as my song and wen my person cums in he raises his 
 hands and lighning strikes. Its sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock_Roberts
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  SvR '08 was a great game I thought, but it really lacked something, mainly a season mode. I loved 
 the idea that you take complete control of your wrestler, and you have to keep up with when he/she 
 does. But most of the cut-sceens made almost NO sence what so ever! Here are some of the good and 
 bad of the game (IMO) ...
  
  Good:
  You take complete control of your wrestler in 24/7 mode.
  ECW is in the game, who can whine about 
 that?
  ECW Extreme Rules match, great idea.
  HOF mode really does the trick.
  Great idea, don't give me my intro video or pyro until I reach a certin rank.
  
  Bad:
  Storyline 
 is the same on both brands for 24/7 mode.
  You can't join ECW in 24/7.
  You are pretty much fighting the same people through the year.
  360- What happen to playing our 
 own music?
  Outdated roster.
  
  That's just some of the good and bad that I found in this game. I mean, this game was billed as 
 the best so far, and I think it fell short of that glory. Remeber the old Smackdown! games where 
 you went backstage and fought it out? What ever happen with that? And what ever happen walking 
 around before you match and talking to superstars? Combine all of this, and have your own stable 
 in the 24/7 mode and you would have a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Smackdwon vs Raw 2008 is a really good game. Although every year it feels as something has changed 
 for the worst. I have always been a fan of the series but for some reason I am not having as much 
 fun with this one. It still feels like something is missing that needs to be there. I think that 
 there isn't enough freedoom in this game. Like in Here Comes The Pain and In Shut Your Mouth you 
 were able to go outside and fight and the roster was alot better. Now I understand that its not 
 THQ's fault for not having people like Goldberg and Brock Lesnar anymore into the roster because 
 there not part of it anymore wich is fine but maybe some Downloadable superstars like Classic supperstar 
 or some icon supperstars wouldn't be to bad. 24/7 mode is a huge failure. I have always been a 
 season and Gm mode fan but GM mode is way harder and Season is terrible. The graphics and sounds 
 are nice but the Commentary is getting really old. Seriously THQ its been 3 years since you have 
 changed the commentary. You would think since there is a new announce team there would be new stuff 
 right? Wrong. The new announcers just replace the sentence that the old announcer used to say. 
 The new match types like ECW X-treme rules match is fun but gets kind of old. Its fun to play as 
 most of the superstars so the gameplay is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigtubby
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  After playing last years smackdown Vs Raw I was very pleased and couldnt wait for this years with 
 its all new fighting styles. I had seen a lot of previews which detailed how this game would be 
 the best game in the series so far. However after playing for an hour I saw how wrong they were.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is solid and fun and can amuse you for hours playing with a friend or your favourite 
 wrestlers. However the game can become repetitive and frustrating when put on the higher levels 
 and you really need to master the reversal system to get very good at the game. 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are not mind blowing but are ok for this type of game. I dont see much 
 of an improvement graphically from last years game
  and there are lots of graphical glitches such as body parts going through other body parts.
  
 
  Modes
  One of the most dissapointing thing about this years game was the 24/7 mode. They have combined 
 last seasons manager mode and season mode into one which in my opinion makes the whole thing much 
 worse. You go through a calendar to select which event to participate in the week. Before every 
 show there is a terrible cutscene with your chosen superstar. These are very plain and are repeated 
 very frequently. There is also an exhibition mode where you can chose to wrestle anyone in nearly 
 every type of match and a tournament mode where you create a series of matches for a tournament.
 
  The create modes are very impressive this year and allow you to create your very own wrestler. 
 You can add an entrance, theme music, place him in a stable and give him his own created championship 
 belt. This mode is excellent and it has been given a lot of detail.
  
  Online
  The online mode for me was the part that I played the most as it is very entertaining and you can 
 play nearly all the same match types as offline. You can defend your title and can have up to four 
 player matches with your friends. These 4 player matches can sometimes have some lag unfortunately 
 if someone has a bad connection.
  
  Conclusion
  Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 is an entertaining and fun game for a few hours and its full potential can 
 be had if you play with friends. It is not a must buy if you had last years game but if you are 
 new to the series then this is the best one for you. Only really for wrestling fans or people who 
 have really enjoyed the game before, I just hope next years version is better!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxLackyxX
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  
  The graphics used for the game are actually quite good, really. Between John Cena's sweat dripping 
 off of him post-match to watching Bobby Lashley close his eyes and smirk during his entrance pyrotechnics, 
 it is quality through and through.
  
  That is, for the male wrestlers, however. The female wrestlers look terrible. Sure, you can add 
 or adjust things yourself thanks to the create-a-wrestler mode, but the female wrestlers simply 
 don't look good. In this day and age, after all the technological advances that games like Half-Life 
 and such have come up with, it still amazes me how wrestling games still have the women shaking 
 their hips on their way to the ring like they are trying to bust in half. Another point, in one 
 cut scene that you'll get used to during the 24/7 mode, your wrestler will stumble in to the women's 
 locker room before his match. It really, really looks scary. A lot of the women look like drag 
 queens. I'd say the worst one is probably Lillian Garcia. Wow. It's bad. Facial detail is horrible 
 on a lot of the women. If you didn't see some of the women's digital versions along with their 
 picture and bio during some of the load screens, you'd never know who some of them were. How THQ 
 can have one sex look so good and the other look so bad is beyond me. I will give them this, however 
  it's better than it has been in the past. They're getting closer; they just haven't perfected 
 it yet.
  
  Same goes for animation flaws, such as clipping of your opponent through you and such. If I do 
 a top-rope Tiger Driver to the Great Khali, he clips entirely through me. That's just insane. But 
 I'll get to that later.
  
  Sound
  
  One other thing that pissed me off about the game was the sound. Music and voice acting were actually 
 pretty good, but the announcing - as always - was atrocious. On RAW, Jim Ross would say stupid 
 crap about eating barbeque while Lawler yakked it up. He'd make claims about the match not ending 
 until both men were slobberknockered to death, and this would happen after the pin fall and the 
 bell rang. Joey and Tazz simply bicker or talk about how great Tazz was back in the day. JBL and 
 Michael Cole do the best job of actually putting stuff over in the ring (interesting how fantasy 
 parallels reality, eh?) , but still suck overall. Somehow, someway, a damn wrestling game is going 
 to need to find a way to make the commentators actually call a match. I know, it's not easy, but 
 if you're not going to do it right - why bother at all? The smartest thing that they could do in 
 the future with announcing in the matches is to call the action in the ring and link the announcers 
 calling wrestling moves to the moves in the game. That would be a lot like old-school announcing, 
 but it's probably the only way to really make it work in this game. The announcers putting over 
 stuff during cut scenes and what-have-you is great and it works well. Trying to put over anything 
 other than the match during the match isn't working.
  
  Fun Factor
  
  Honestly, the game is pretty fun.
  The game has most of the pieces put together; they are just 
 missing some sections.
  
  The games various modes are plenty of fun. The Create-A-Wrestler portion is quite good, providing 
 you with plenty of things to adjust on your wrestler from his looks, to licensed tracks for his 
 theme music (Having Edge's theme by Alter Bridge is a bonus point from me *wink, wink*) . What is 
 especially interesting about the Create-A-Wrestler mode, is that beyond a few other pre-fabbed 
 wrestlers (such as John Cena) , my character actually looks better than the entire WWE roster. Kudos 
 to THQ on that end. The 24/7 mode with the storylines and such are pretty awesome. I actually enjoy 
 playing SvR'08 more than watching the current WWE product. Why? Because as sad as it is to say, 
 the SvR'08 storylines in 24/7 are actually better than every single storyline that WWE put on television 
 in 2007. They should seriously look in to the guys who wrote the storylines for the game and consider 
 hiring them, because their stories make sense and actually are entertaining. The storylines do 
 have some flaws, however, and I don't think it is directly linked to the stories themselves, but 
 the computer's AI when putting the stories together. For example, if I am having a feud with Chris 
 Masters over Torrie Wilson, I still hobnob with Masters and two or three other guys I've just finished 
 feuding with (or who are tossed in to the middle of this crazy story) before my match. Why the 
 game chooses those particular people for me to give high-fives and fist-bumps to? Who knows. Also, 
 after my feud with Masters finished up rather abruptly, Edge worked his way in and pulled some 
 crazy shenanigans to try and win her over. So she acts all strange and lovey-dovey after I kick 
 his can, throws me some extravagant after-win party when I beat Randy Orton for the WWE Championship 
 following my destruction of Edge, -for which I get charged, of course- and then disappears completely. 
 What the hell? All is not lost, however, as guys like Johnny Nitro (John Morrison now, kids. Which 
 is stupid they released him as Nitro considering he's been going with the Morrison gimmick for 
 over 6 months now) , Chris Masters and any and all of the women actually do more voice acting in 
 the game than on-screen acting on television. Another gripe I have is that so far I've had several 
 opportunities to change brands and made that choice. However, I am still on RAW. Four different 
 times I've been given that option. Still on RAW. I've had the option to choose allies or opponents 
 for matches. Always ends up wrong. Somehow, they have a serious bug in the game when it comes to 
 making these selections in storyline mode. Way, way not cool. Even worse? After being the WWE Champion 
 for the past 3 months and battling with the McMahon family, Stephanie wanted me to drop the belt 
 or pay an even higher price. Being a regular stud like I am, I chose not to forfeit the belt.
 
  
  Can you guess what happened at the next show?
  
  That's right, I'm no longer the champ. I chose one thing and the opposite happened. These are just 
 absolutely terrible, ridiculous flaws that made it into the retail release of this game. Sometimes 
 these option menus work, sometimes they don't. I've e-mailed THQ about the problem and still haven't 
 got a response yet (it's been two weeks) .
  
  But the storylines are fun for a lot of other reasons, like pissing off Vinnie Mac and him demoting 
 my pay to $1 a week until the next PPV. That's just awesome.
  
  Gameplay
  
  
  
  
  Just when you think that Triple H can't hold you down anymore, he racks your nuts and points fun 
 at you in front of millions of fans across the world. **** Could be worse, he could say I raped 
 a corpse ... oh, wait ...
  
  Wow, what a difference a year makes for gameplay. I owned Raw, Raw 2 and Wrestlemania 20 for the 
 Xbox along with SvR'07 for the X360 and I can tell you that the gameplay is much, much better here 
 than in ANY of those - hell, it's better than they could possibly dream. A few issues here, too, 
 however. First of all, as with virtually all of the Smackdown games since their inception on the 
 PS1, it's nearly impossible to choose what opponent you want to attack. Hell, sometimes the game 
 picks the ref or your tag team partner because it's following the W. O. S. S. or Wonky Opponent Selection 
 System as I call it. The next item is the controls themselves. While they are slowly reaching closer 
 to a more simplistic system that still gives you plenty of flexibility, they are still fairly difficult. 
 I understand that the Xbox 360, Wii or PS3 controllers have a ton of buttons and they want to utilize 
 them, but come on. With each release the controls change and we have to relearn how to play a wrestling 
 game. The four game franchise that AKI put out (WCW vs. nWo World Tour, WCW/nWo Revenge, Wrestlemania 
 2000 and the CJOWG ) all followed the exact same control scheme but simply added more stuff to 
 it with each game. By the time No Mercy came out, you had a ton of options to choose from, but 
 if you got bored and wanted to relive the days of World Tour, you could easily pop it in and rock 
 their socks off. The issues I have with this game are related to the strong grapples, which require 
 you to use the RB button and up or down on the Right Stick. From there, you have to push the Right 
 Stick in one of the four directions to pull off a move. I don't have many issues with the X360 
 controller, but it would have made a lot more sense and allowed more moves to be done if they has 
 used the RB and Right Stick, in any one direction, to apply a strong grapple and then use one of 
 the directional pad (which is unused) buttons to pull off a move. That would give you the possibility 
 of 16 different grapples on the Strong Grapple side alone. The same method could have been applied 
 to weak grapples, minus the use of the RB button. There's another 16 different grapples that could 
 be assigned. In all, that would provide the wrestler with 32 grapples not including their finisher (s) . 
 Wrestling fans don't want storylines about Candice Michelle thinking they are hot and wanting to 
 leave Chris Masters for them (although it's a nice touch, it's not the meat of the game) - they 
 want dynamic controls that are simple, yet powerful and diverse. THAT is what No Mercy had that 
 people loved. Other than that, the match-types are very good with excellent controls, same goes 
 for the environmental grapples. The addition of the Extreme Rules match is definitely a bonus as 
 well, and any old school ECW fan should love it (I know I do) . Another thing that is pretty much 
 retarded is the lack of size recognition in the game. Now, look. I understand that SOMEONE will 
 want to create X-Pac and have him give The Great Khali a running power bomb, but can we at the 
 very least TRY to make it realistic? Like I said earlier, I gave Khali a top rope Tiger Driver 
 that caused clipping. Then, I gave him a top rope side slam. My created character weighs 275 lbs. 
 Sure, he's a pretty big boy. But he isn't THAT big.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  
  I can see myself and my kids playing this a lot until the next installment comes out. Overall good 
 graphics and good game play make for a good game. That's about all there is to it. Smackdown vs. 
 Raw 2008 is thus far the best title in the series, but THQ really need to figure out what they've 
 done with the Smackdown games and its game play and reinvent it more similar to the old No Mercy 
 controls. I know every wrestling fan/gamer says the same thing - but it's true. Fun controls makes 
 for a fun game. There should be no excuse why these games are continually panned by critics for 
 its subpar game play. It's not like a different company produced them. Sure, Yukes built the game 
 instead of AKI, but whose fault is that? THQ is the same company that made No Mercy and therefore 
 this shouldn't be an issue - yet two generations later, it is. Sad, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 8
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 featuring ECW is a disappointing addition to the hit selling wrestling 
 franchise. There aren't any new match types, except for ECW extreme rules match, but I have to 
 say this match is extremely fun, for sometime. Extreme rules allows you to choose, before you start 
 the match, the weapons that are going to be under the ring, for example you can replace the default 
 kendo stick with a guitar. Also, only for this kind of match, there is a scrolling wheel that will 
 let you choose what weapons you want to take out. Not like SvR 2007, garbage cans, crutches, etc. 
 aren't only seen in the audience area. Plus, you can take out more than one table, which in '07, 
 you could only get more than one table if it was a tables match. Moreover, now that the ECW brand 
 has come to the WWE, the hardcore styles come with it. You can now, with a saved finisher icon, 
 set tables and barbed wire 4x4s on fire, which will inflict twice as more damage if used. Chairs 
 can also now be used in many different ways in '08. Instead of just smashing it across the opponents 
 head, you can open up the chair and put it on your opponents leg or neck and then stomp on it to 
 inflict severe damage. But that is not all, you can also put the chair in the turnbuckle and then 
 irish whip your opponent, making them go head first into the chair. Lastly, by using two chairs, 
 you put one under their face and smash the other chair in the back of the head. Before I finish 
 talking about the weapons, the bell now makes a bell sound! when used and finally once again you 
 can use steel steps. With a ultimate grapple move, you can powerbomb your opponent onto the top 
 of the steel steps (achievement) . Furthermore, this year each superstar has a different style of 
 wrestling, for example, Batista is a powerhouse, Jeff Hardy is a high flyer, and of course Sandman 
 is hardcore. I'm not going to talk about this so much because there is too much to say, so I'm 
 going to keep it nice and short. Each style allows you to do different moves. So if your a hardcore 
 superstar you can do those chair maneuvers that I explained earlier but if your not a hardcore 
 superstar you can't. High fliers have the possum pin, powerhouse has rampage mode, and etc. If 
 you want to know everything about the wrestling styles look for the video on youtube. Moreover, 
 every game has a down side to it, '08's main downfall being 24/7 mode. This year THQ combined the 
 season mode and manager mode together as one. But that's not the problem, if your superstar gets 
 injured, your doctor will say to take sometime off, but you won't be able to, so you must fight 
 in the matches with the injured shoulder, leg, or whatever, while trying to both win the match 
 and by trying your best to not get the area already injured more hurt than it is. It may sound 
 good, but in my opinion, it just sucks the fun out of season mode. So trying to earn money or trying 
 to get your created characters stats up is a huge hassle. Also new to 24/7 mode is now you can 
 go into interviews, appear in movies, autograph signing, and much more to boost your popularity, 
 downfall to that is that there is no cutscene or anything, it is just simulated. Also, there is 
 no customizable locker room this year, the new way to get your stats up is horrible, and the only 
 3 team match type is a hardcore match, taking out 3-team elimination etc. Other than that, there 
 is one new tournament added this year which is beat the clock. WWE Shop is back if you remember 
 it from N64 WWF No Mercy. You can purchase, titles belts (WWF Attitude Championship, WCW Classic 
 Championship, etc.) , kits for player type (powerhouse, high flyer, etc.) , legend superstars (Sabu, 
 Terry Funk, Stone Cold, etc) , and DX entrances and clothing for HBK and HHH. Furthermore, the layout 
 of the menus are nicely done and look great. The superstars look amazing to the smallest details. 
 The sound is also great, except for the recycled commentary from last year. Overall, Smackdown 
 vs Raw 2008 is a great game IF you didn't play 2007. If you did get to play '07, do not waste your 
 money, unless you really want the updated roster and the addition of ECW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omrikk87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Last year's SMVR game was pretty good , it was new to the x360 , and had some nice additions (mp 
 was good) , SMVR 2008 promised so much (at least of potential point of view) and delievered a decent 
 game but fun.
  
  Graphics:
  SMVR07 was a pretty game , it had the new "sweat system" , some new blood stuff , and improved 
 cut-scenes (some ppl can say that the cut-scenes itself were bad..) any way, this years the games 
 graphics looks even more good in HD , the intros looks awesome (fireworks etc) , my personal taste 
 is that the models are a bit to much "ripped" , especially guys like carlito , orton , undertaker 
 but overall its just a way to give the fans more "precision" to it.... i dont take this as a big 
 problem.
  
  Sound:
  This aspect is probably the worst aspect in SMVR08 , some of the cool sounds like the chops , finishers 
 and stuff like that , kinnda downgraded alot , and since smvr06 , u have like 3 wrestlers type 
 of "getting hurt" , one sounds just like hhh , one like a generic one and the 3rd like someone 
 with a bad voice , anyway i would wanna hear some more personal sounds for hits , moves , taunts 
 (flair woo , hunter's dx suc* it or something , orton's cockiness when doing any stomping\knee 
 drop moves , MVP's Ballin etc..) , and still some of the stuff that are still from smvr06 like chairs 
 ,tables , ladders sound just right. the one thing that is just aweful is all the commentaries in 
 the game, now that JBL (well was in that time) SD! commentator, i thought they will give him some 
 new lines (more than TAZZ's one , but besides personalised wrestler lines like orton , hhh ,evolution 
 , undertaker ,shawn hbk-has been kid and more it sounds the same lines that Tazz had last year) .
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Well , SMVR08 gaved us "Styles" for new things up , but besides some cool hardcore moves (and thank 
 god 2-3 more animations) , most of the styles just ruined the gameplay with some bad downgrading 
 movelists ,finishers, and having only 2 slots for moves (even though in the wwe most of the wrestlers 
 dont use more than 5 moves but still , it was a nice feature in smvr07) and 2 ucms moves (ultimate 
 control moves that were brought from 2007 when it debuted) .
  overall the gameplay is somewhere not what it supposed to be , SMVR08 could have been alot better 
 if THQ and WWE didnt cut alot of wrestlers from the years roster , downgraded the movelist , some 
 bad calls in the "styles" and overall very linear and short STORY MODE , even though it was aweosme 
 for the first time (with caw) , the secodn and the third time is getting repetetive and boring 
 after a while , even the GM mode from last year is here, but overall it seems like its the same 
 old thing with some small improvements and some decent fun.
  HOF MODE-this mode gives some decent time spending playing the game , u will need to unlock more 
 events and areas trhough some challenges like defeating DX (HHH ,HBK) in a tag team match , winning 
 MITB match , finishing GM MODE in 100% (getting GM of the year) and some direct challenges , even 
 though its fun and giving some replay value , its not the same as the SMVR07 big and hard list 
 of challenges.
  
  Conclusion:
  SMVR08 is a very good game for wrestling fans and party game (4 players) , it has a new match (ECW 
 extreme rules which have awesome new weapons) and some reanimated finishers (2 new RKO'S (standing 
 and from the rope) , Tombstone piledrivers , Kane chokeslam, Batista Spinebuster, HBK Sweetchinmusic 
 got nopin SCM and new Pin finisher with the new laying ending which is nice and overall some good 
 reanimated stuff , too bad they downgraded the ammount of moves.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8srfsno
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  it has some bugs but not all games are perfect. best on this platform lots of achivements to keep 
 you playing only thing needs a bigger roster. blah blah blah a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa a aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redd123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great to me. But at first it wasn't.. i guess cause i didnt like it at first.. i didnt 
 really get the controls and all.. but after playing it.. which was alot.. i have to say that it rocks 
 now. Now for you other folks out there.. you may want to rent before you buy which is a smart thing 
 to do. I personally like the 24/7 mode which i think is cool. I especially like the fact that you 
 can go on to being the champion and stuff. not like 2006 where you won the titles and then the 
 game is over. So this is a big step for me. anyways.. this game might not be good at first.. but 
 keep playing it alot.. and it will grow on you. like it did me. Some matches are not there.. like 
 the backstage match and bar match but the others are good too. nice graphics.. nice gameplay.. value.. the 
 game is nice. go rent it.. and you will like it really much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  For years, the Smackdown! series has been revolutionizing the wrestling generation and proving 
 that the WWE brand is more than just cheap pops and lights. Since first appearing on the PS1, the 
 series has evolved drastically in both the technical and visual aspects. However, despite the exponential 
 increases in every iteration, it seems that wrestling is not as fun as it used to be on the next-gen 
 consoles, as the series still struggles with control and frame rate issues, something that should 
 have been noticed this far along in the series' lifespan. Sure, the games are still fun to play 
 if you are a diehard fan, just don't expect to be enjoying much from the latest offering.
  
  WWE Smackdown! vs. Raw 2008, if anything, ups the ante in terms of size. There are bigger options 
 available in the menu, more match types, more options available when creating your own superstar, 
 and even a larger group of wrestlers than last year. So with everything being sized up for bigger 
 thrills, why does this game feel like a smaller version of last year's title? The solution could 
 be execution; Jakks Pacific decided to focus more on in-ring content than out of the ring ambience. 
 The result, however, is a poor combination of mediocre wrestling with shoddy management and career 
 modes, which makes WWE Smackdown! vs. Raw 2008 only worthwhile in short bursts.
  
  The biggest change series vets will recognize right off the bat are the controls. Instead of mapping 
 moves with button configurations, performing moves is as simple as pressing or holding down one 
 of the shoulder buttons and than flicking the analog stick in any direction. Moves are much more 
 accessible and the fluent movements mean that performing skills in the ring are no longer a struggle 
 to master. Every wrestler has his own unique style of fighting, which can be used to gain advantage 
 of your opponent or utilize specific moves. While the game does a good job of separating the specific 
 stars by class (such as high-flying for wrestlers like Rey Mysterio to brawlers like Kane) , there 
 is, more often than not, an unfair advantage for the big-time wrestlers who can master skills such 
 as instantly reversing grapples and blocking, a feat the smaller and more athletic wrestlers cannot 
 perform.
  
  But since the game is very sensitive towards how hard you press the buttons, there will be many 
 times when moves will be performed when you were not ready, or just random skills will be issued 
 without command. Pinning an opponent for a three count used to be as simple as pressing a button, 
 now it requires a two button combination that many gamers can easily mistake for other moves. Plus, 
 it seems rather irritating to constantly tap buttons when you are in a submission hold, a feat 
 that just gets tiring extremely fast. The frame rate also seems to drop when there are more than 
 one wrestler in the ring at one time. Moments when other stars run in to help you just feel annoying 
 due to the slowdown the game issues and playing in tag matches and royal rumbles is too much of 
 a hassle to enjoy.
  
  Securing victory can be as easy as just picking the biggest star and unleashing hell on your opponent 
 until he can no longer move. While you could go this route, utilizing all of your skills is essential 
 to surviving in later portions of the game. If you want to stick with your star for a long time, 
 you can try your luck at 24/7 mode, which mixes GM and Career modes together. You can spend all 
 of your time out of the ring exercising, appearing at promos, or talking to other wrestlers backstage. 
 You can skip through any scenarios you want as well, so if you want to just wrestle and skip all 
 the nonsensical jargon, you can do simply that and the computer will automatically calculate estimated 
 exercise times and publicity tours for you. But what 24/7 mode makes up for in originality, it 
 lacks in structure. There were multiple times when the game would tell us our superstar needed 
 to appear at a publicity tour to help improve our image... only there was no option for us to attend. 
 Or when our wrestler had an ultimately grueling match the night before a pay-per-view and the game 
 tells us to relax, only to not give us the option and forces us into a title match with a weak 
 leg. It's moments like this that will surely damper the most patient of gamers who will try to 
 spend time making their wrester the best, only to be bogged down by inconsistent structure and 
 options.
  
  The cast of characters is great, with a nice diverse set of high-flyers and hardcore brawlers. 
 However, many of the game's lesser characters are hardly even worth mentioning on air, let alone 
 in the game. After the notorious steroid encounter, the WWE has suspended numerous wrestlers; which 
 include nearly ten wrestlers in the game roster. Needless to say, their roles on television are 
 being hampered and many fans may not even recognize who Charlie Haas or Mr. Kennedy are. Besides, 
 the game's cover has three well-known stars, but two that have been out of action for months, a 
 measure that may turn off casual WWE watchers who may not have even heard of the wrestlers on the 
 cover before.
  
  The online mode still features the same problems as the single player, but at least you have a 
 seemingly similar advantage against each another. You can play through an assortment of modes, 
 including hardcore matches, submission matches, and even tournaments to crown King of the Rings. 
 It's definitely he highlight of the series in terms of multiplayer, but its highly reassuring knowing 
 the problems that plague the controls and lag.
  
  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw could have been a great game and a step into making the best wrestling game 
 to date. With so much potential that could have been used, the game just feels a bit too unbalanced 
 at times. Controls will take some getting used to and the 24/7 needs some serious fine tuning. 
 Fans will no doubt enjoy the quick matches using their favorite superstars, but casual watchers 
 may not get as much out of the game as they would have expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_ofoblivion
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  The first next-gen wrestling game, yeah I trusted that the hype was real but, It turned out to be 
 all full of it! The graphics, well they're better than '07 but I've got to say i was expecting more, and 
 then there's the rosters, the title is enlisted smack down vs raw 2008 featuring ECW but The only 
 ECW wrestlers on there are the out of date old school ones. There is also a distinct lack of how 
 JR and King really commentate, it's like listening to Stephen Hawkins having a malfunction ,honestly 
 I think they spent to much time on controls and graphics than they did on gameplay! This game has 
 some serious issues with how much effort they really put in and I'm utterly devastated by the sloppy 
 work put in by THQ (i thought they could have shown a much better showcase of wresting games) 
 
  Sloppy work from the makers of this game ,better luck next year WWE!
  Lordo out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccer10
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  SVR 08 is a awesome game and for any wrestling fan is a must get. It has a few flaws but is still 
 really enjoyable for anyone who plays it. The only real bad thing about Smackdown vs Raw 2008 is 
 the crappy 24/7 mode. The 24/7 mode is a take over of the season mode in the previous games. The 
 reasons y i think it is bad is because u have to go through the same storyline all the time depending 
 on witch show u choose to be on. Also most of the time u get injured and have to take breaks off 
 thus decreasing your popularity with the fans. and finally you have to, between shows decide wat 
 u wanna do. Whether it be practise your microphone skill or stuff like that.
  
  But SVR 08 is still really fun to play and a really gud buy. I cant wait to get my hands on 09. 
 I hope this has helped you make up your mind up about getting Smackdown vs raw 08.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rpgfightgamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  The good: 
  Finally!! They've improved all of the create modes!! Create an entrance is awesome, even better 
 than DoR!! The CAW finally stepped up a notch! And we do not have to put in too many moves in CAM! 
 Five stars all around. I love wrestling in this game! The diving moves are great, and so are the 
 grapples! Even countering moves here is fun! ECW ECW ECW ECW!! Gotta love the Hardcore matches!!! 
 
  
  
  The Bad!: 
  Let's begin with the game controls: Alright, I LIKED having two finishers at the ready like SDvs 
 RAW 2006. It was unneccisary that they had to change it! I can take the importance of having attributes, 
 but don't make makes it hard to do so through the story mode!! This isn't the worst WWE game I've 
 ever played, but even Smackdown Just Bring It is better!! For godsake who the hell put in the roster??? 
 Almost half of them are not working in the WWE anymore!! And how the hell do you counter the freakin 
 submission moves!! SDvRaw 06 and DoR can top this new system in that category...
  
  The PAINFUL:
  
  Recycle is only good for the enviornment, not video games!! I am seeing the 
 same tattoos from SdvRAW 06 for godsakes!! How the hell do you imporve your wrestler during 24/7 
 mode??? Even Story mode in SD vs RAW and Just Bring It were straight forward!! Fix the damn submission 
 system will yah??? And fix the game controls!! I do not mind countering moves, but I do mind my 
 OPPONENT countering practically ALL of my moves and it's in NORMAL MODE!! 
  
  
  In Conclusion:
  
  It isn't worth the 59.99. But I would like to see the price decrease by oh 
 say....20-50%. Sure, there are a lot of things to do if you prefer simply CAW all the way, and 
 I do enjoy the return of King of the Ring match, except it's all Booker T style. What about the 
 Kurt Angle and Edge styles??? I love the Hardcore matches a lot more than the previous versions, 
 that's for sure. All and all, I say, the workers on this game should really put some more effort 
 into it. Good try though I give them that.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  First off, I've read the main review, and most of the player reviews. After renting this one, there 
 is something I do have to add. This game represents my first game playing on the 360. I haven't 
 seen the 2007 version, but I hear it's nearly identical, outside of a different roster. Yet to 
 see the 2007 version score an 8+, and this version score a sub-7 puzzles me. Especially if they 
 are supposed to be nearly identical.
  
  I guess it simply comes down to this game amounting to nothing but a roster update, which of course 
 was a disappointment since there are so few wrestlers. Yet how is this THQ's fault? They have to 
 lock the rosters in so far in advance and are essentially limited to who the WWE has on it's roster 
 in real life.
  
  I like the unlockables, I like the create a wrestler option. Let's put this into perspective. The 
 last wrestling game I played, was Raw 2 on the original X-Box... and before that... Smackdown 2 on 
 the original PlayStation. That's 8 years and 8 versions of this game ago... I mean... Kurt Angle 
 had hair in the game back then!! Comparing the 2008 version and what I had played over the year... I 
 love this game. But I can understand for those wrestling nuts who have had every single incarnation 
 of the game... this might not wet your appetite.
  
  To be fair, I do think the 24/7 mode is a bit frustrating at times. I will compare it to the "Be 
 A Legend" mode in NBA Street Vol. 2. It probably had good intentions... but it just simply doesn't 
 pan out unless you devote days and days to it. The increases are were so small and insignificant, 
 that if you don't play the game for a day or so... your skills fade away. Now I do not believe that 
 is the case here, but it is similar in that the increases in training stats you get are so insignificant, 
 that you will need to repeat a lot of the training exercises just to become respectful.
  
  In my opinion, that isn't fun. If I wanted to spend that much time doing virtual exercises, I'd 
 do them in real life. Much like what wrestling is, I want to be entertained. And from that aspect, 
 I am with this game. So for what I am looking for the game itself is enjoyable. But for $50. No. 
 For $50 bucks I'd want the game to be fully fun, and that is were this game fails for me.
  
  This is a rental at best, unless you already own the 2007 version. If that is the case. Forget 
 the 2008 version, and wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocalguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  This is a great game i dont know why everyone hates it
  anyway smackdown vs raw 08 is basicly what you would come to expect from a wrestling game... you 
 wrestle! well more than that there is 24/7 mode (like season) only this time there are different 
 fighting styles like powerhouse types like undertaker or batista that can become indestructable 
 for a limited ammout of time or high-flyers like rey mysterio can preform a hard to get out of 
 possim pin now these styles are interesting but they cause balanceing problems as you would expect. 
 any way this years 24/7 mode isnt dissapointing well sort of i mean its fun playing like normal 
 or as a general manager in normal mode your goal is to fill up the legend meter on the top right 
 screen by acomplishing various things like staying at the top of the power 25 for a while. the 
 real problem is after wrestlemania the events that happen to you for the most part just keep repeating 
 like in the begining you are interviewed by melina you have 2 options but they both have the same 
 out come its the very same thing for EVERY decision you make so it took me about 2 years to fill 
 my meter to the top so it seems very shallow. gm mode is fun and intersting your goal is to have 
 more viewers than the competiton by putting on the shows and maintaning everything. Also there is 
 hall of fame mode where you complete various tasks to get ranks and pieces of a medalion. So all 
 and all its a great game i reccomend it to anyone who likes fighting or wrestleing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL8664
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've been waiting to review this until I put plenty of time into to it and now, after about 
 20+ hours with it I have made up my mind. Starting off with the graphics, its good. For sure it 
 is nice to look at. Most of the animations are smooth and well done but some are in need of an 
 upgrade. Otherwise though it is a pretty game and looks pretty damn nice in full HD. Character 
 models are quite accurate for the most part, some of the lesser wrestlers arent as great but that 
 is to be expected to a certain degree. The match options are spectacular. Just about every match 
 type you can think of, outside of some of the more dumb ones, are in. The ECW extreme rules matches 
 are nice and quite fun. They are a welcomed addition to the series. Its always bad ass to put your 
 opponent's sorry ass through a flaming table then hit him over the head with a barbed wire 2x4 
 that is also on fire. Hehe... The CAW feature seems to be just about the same as previous entries 
 except for the 360 exclusive entry of custom soundtracks. Thats right, you can finally make your 
 CAW come out to you favorite Slayer tune or Hansen song, whatever your heart desires. This feature 
 is nice to have especially if you are making real wrestlers so that you can put accurate theme 
 music in their entrance. Enough with the good things, now on to the bad. First off, a simple yet 
 horrible flaw of the game. There is no longer a button to switch your focus onto different opponents. 
 This may seem unimportant to you but wait til you are trying to play a money in the bank match 
 and someone is right behind you with the ladder and you cannot grapple it away from them, that 
 gets old really fast. Second, the career mode is now a joke. They made the mistake of combining 
 it with the GM mode and changing the name to 24/7 mode. The GM aspect of it is ok, albeit a bit 
 hard but its the career side that really deflates the balloon. First of all you cannot play as 
 a single ECW superstar in it. Yup, thats right, those of you who like me intended to finally earn 
 CM Punk that WWE title shot that he so deserves will not be able to do it. Thats was pretty weak 
 considering how much of a big deal they made about the ECW "invasion" of the game. Another things 
 is that it makes little sense. What I mean is you could be in the middle of a huge fued with HBK 
 and then it shows you in the back shaking his hand or joking around with him. This is a dumb error 
 that shows a sign of lazziness in my opinion. Also, the cinematics and situations repeat themselves 
 over and over. Your second year of career mode will be damn near exactly like your first. The achievements 
 can also be a bit glitchy at times, but the easiest way to solve it is to just always play on legend 
 difficulty. Not only will this make you better but it will also get those vital xbox gamer points. 
 In the end, i really do like this game. I've had a lot of fun with it and gotten all but one of 
 the offline achievements. Fun if you are a wrestling fan and fun if you are not. A few words of 
 warning to wrap this up 1. There isnt much of a learning curve if youre new to the series, shows 
 a view videos but thats it. 2. If youre looking for a good season/career mode you might be better 
 off to get SvR 07 instead. 3. The roster is a bit lacking but with the custom CAW feature you can 
 recreate wrestlers and put them in the game. All in all, if you like wrestling you will enjoy the 
 game, not the best but lets all just take a moment to remember the Legnds of wrestling games, need 
 I say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiglyBiglyFK
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Some franchises only sell because they are the only ones in their genre. Take Tony Hawk games for 
 example. Skateboarding fans have been always complaining about how unreal the gameplay is, but 
 we all always loved the series and have always bought the new one when it came. But since EA blessed 
 us all with Skate, nobody plays Tony Hawk. 
  THQ's Wrestling game is the only wrestling game you can find nowadays and it's been like that for 
 quite a long time (good thing Midway TNA! is coming) . The people who like wrestling (like me) have 
 been buying WWE games over and over, wishing every time not to see those big flaws. But I guess 
 it never happens. Year after year, we wait for the game for months, only to see the boring career 
 mode, the horrible commentary and the not-so-addictive and bugful gameplay. This year's no different 
 (only there are even bigger disappointments like the worst WWE franchise since Smackdown! Just 
 Bring it) . It's obvious that THQ is having fun with this: Making the same boring game over and 
 over with few improvements and watching everybody buy it because there is no competition.
  All this said, This is still the best Wrestling game ever made. Actually, THQ did a few tweaks, 
 too. Like Fighting Style, Some interesting game modes, an All new Create-An-entrance mode and really 
 good graphics.
  Like every year you can play the game in exhibition mode (where you choose your arena, game mode, 
 rules, character, enemies, and everything) or in the Career mode. You can choose to be the GM of 
 a brand or to play as a wrestler (you can choose your created superstar or choose from a list of 
 WWE superstars and no, you can't choose them all) . The bad thing is, like every year, the career 
 mode puts your character in a middle of some animations, making boring stories, and those stories 
 just repeat over time. There are so few of them and they aren't dependent on the character you 
 choose or the decisions you later make. Instead, you get piled with useless Text and Voice Messages. 
 There was this time when I had to fight Sabu at my first day on ECW. I broke his head and won the 
 match, only to see a clip at the end where Sabu was laughing at me and forcing me out of the ring 
 and the fans were cheering for him. What is that?
  Anyway, The goal is to choose a superstar, control his whole calender and . lead him to WWE's hall 
 of fame. You must fight on sundays for your brand and sometimes you get qualified for a PPV on 
 some other day. On the other days of the week, you must choose between resting, practicing, impressing 
 the fans, shoot photos, go out with chicks and all that stuff. But there isn't really much to do 
 because these are only icons in menus and all you do is choose them. This whole thing will be a 
 pain in the head from the start of the season to the point where the gameplay also has nothing 
 to offer you, so you just take out the CD and never play the game again.
  So let's talk about the gameplay. This is the section which got the most attention since the last 
 game, and I must say I'm quite happy about it. Altough the improvements aren't very much, They 
 do a decent job in keeping the gameplay fun as ever (it's still lacking that addiction and you 
 lose appetite after 5 or 6 hours) . The controls are a bit different now, but fun and simple like 
 always. As you do grapple moves with the RS and strikes with X. You can "steer" while running using 
 the LS. Everything else stays pretty much the same. The new additions is where this game shines 
 a little. 
  The new fighting style system is the best one. Every wrestler has a primary and secondary style. 
 There are 8 total styles: brawler, Submissionist, high-flyer, powerhouse, hardcore, showman, Dirty 
 and technical. Each style has its own ups and downs. Each style has some abilities. Powerhouses 
 can become invincible for a short amount of time and they can irish whip their opponent out of 
 the ring. Showmen can steal the opponent's special moves and can fill their meter by taunting. 
 Dirty wrestlers can open the ringside apron, push the referee and make him hit the opponent and 
 have access to illegal moves such as eye poking. This Separates wrestlers from each and it prevents 
 having 500lbs. guys up the turnbuckle and keeps the game realistic. The only problem is that some 
 styles are superior to others. For example, being able to possum pin isn't as helping as being 
 able to become invincible. 
  The other good addition is The ultimate control grapples. They are moves where u can control while 
 they are taking place. For example you can lift your opponent to the air. From there, you can move 
 around or you can do a powerbomb. When you did the powerbomb you can lift him up and do it again 
 or you can release him. This is really fun and it's something I've been looking for. 
  The character models look great, so does the arena and everything else in the game. The presentation 
 is great except for the commentary. Fans act better than ever, The entrances are the best in series 
 and the menus are easy to navigate. The commentary, on the other hand, is the most horrible one 
 ever. THQ has never did a good job in this field but at least in the last games, you used to hear 
 JR saying: "Oh my god!" 1000 times a fight. Now, you hear long paragraphs about your character 
 1000 times a fight. 
  This year's WWE franchise is one of the worst in the series. Sure, the game tried to bring superstars 
 from 3 shows and it also brought some legends and whatnot. Still, the small number is a big problem. 
 You wonder how Hurricane and MVP got in the list of 50 top superstars of all time (as THQ advertised 
 earlier) .
  The Create-A-Modes is another rather strong department in WWE 08 and there's more options than 
 ever. There's a new Create-An-Entrance mode added which is very good but it's not really easy to 
 use. The good thing is that with enough time, you can create a superstar that looks just like you, 
 then make him/her the entrance you always imagined, and then hook him/her up with some great moves.
 
  The bright side is that this the best wrestling game made to date. The very dark side is that 
 it's still an incomplete game and THQ doesn't seem to want to fix these problems. However, if you 
 are a wrestling fan be sure you play this one. There's even more chance you'll love this game if 
 you've never played it. My guess is that we see the best WWE game ever made next year. With TNA! 
 coming (and my guess is that it's going to kick head!) , I'm sure the people in THQ are sharpening 
 their razors. Now I realize why we gamers just love competitions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevinLD
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Raw vs Smackdown 2007 raised the bar for the series. 2008 took the bar and dropped it, bent it, 
 & threw it to the side and said hey lets undo everything great and not improve a damn thing. When 
 I got 2007 I played and played and loved it. This game however is not very fun at all. I've had 
 to force myself to play to get several of the achievements. It seems like they've taken away half 
 the moves your allowed to do and added very little. Sure the flaming tables and some of the new 
 weapon moves are fun but overall this is a very lackluster effort and needs to be rethought way 
 before 2009 comes out. Even with ECW wrestlers in there (and oh btw half the wrestlers in the game 
 are not even employed by WWE anymore) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nooboobabe32
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome! It's really addicting and fun to play!
  
  Smackdown VS. Raw 2008 comes with a brand new game, called 24/7 Mode.... and although it has great 
 storylines, it's not that great. It's really confusing and boring at times. The wrestling is the 
 only fun part about 24/7 mode.
  
  This game is quite confusing if you played 2007 or any of the other games. They switched up the 
 buttons and I can't figure out how to replenish staminaright now I'm thinking there IS no stamina. 
 Despite that, wrestling is really enjoyable! There are way more advanced moves, and the graphics 
 are AMAZING! The loading times are even worse, though!!! The game would be a bit better if it wasn't 
 for those dang loading times! But other than that... awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SzymonMWG
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  I've bought WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 because I've been a fan o WWE (WWF in past) . I've played 
 demo before full version, and I was impressed. Graphics are real beauty. There were only two exhibition 
 modes in demo, so I was excited about 24/7 mode (it's somehow "carrer" mode) . This mode is totally 
 crap. Same stories all over, and again, and again. After about 2 hours of playing, you will probably 
 skip all of these cut-scenes, because you will have a "deja-vu". 24/7 is very boring. You need 
 to fight against same opponents all-over. In other aspects of game - as I said before, graphics 
 are really cute. Sometimes there are some glitches, but I can live with them. So, if you are looking 
 for good "carrer" mode - this game is not for you. If you want play exhibition games for relax 
 - you will probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  This game is without doubt the worst wrestling game I have played in years!2007 was lacking stuff 
 I wanted, but this one a year later is pretty much the same mess the last one was and even more!
 
  
  First of all the roster really sucks. NO Beth, no Trish, no Lita.. A terrible Diva roster. No real tag 
 teams. Deuce and Domino are missing, Paul London and Brian Kendrick are not here. WHAT A DIRTY RIP 
 OFF! A lot of ECW characters are missing. Such as Balls, the Miz and the Boogy Man who was indeed 
 in the last game. And what makes me even more sick is, this game was delayed and they still "forgot" 
 to add some important characters. SO now a lot of us will have to waste our time making them.
  
  The new features include a lame 24/7 mode. It tries to combine both Story and General Manager 
 mode together. But its boring and there is a lot of poorly written text to read. And the game is 
 terrible on telling you how to do things. Such as raise a brands TV rating. Hall of Fame Mode is 
 also a new mode, but it makes no sense. There just challenges, it really has nothing to do with WWE 
 Hall of Fame.
  
  Game play has not changed a whole lot, the only thing that has been added is some new weapon attacks 
 and a new submission system. Thats not very cool, its kind of like picking a lock in Splinter Cell. Thats 
 what you have to do to get out of submission, or you tap out. And if you hated those analog controls 
 last time, just to let you know. THERE BACK! And they still are not nearly as responsive as using 
 buttons.
  
  Graphics are the best thing about this game. There is still a ton of clipping, and the Divas look 
 sadly terrible. But the guys at least look great. They shine and sweat and can pull off some decent 
 looking moves. There is still that annoying slow motion when doing your finishing moves. And a shotgun 
 noise when its pulled off. So thats another disturbance, and its a huge bother after a while. The 
 game suffers from huge lag on Live most of the time also.
  
  The games soundtrack is not good at all. The songs don't even mix with WWE, and are even recycled 
 from the older games! WHAT!? O, and Jim Ross and Cole are still saying the same stupid stuff as the 
 last two games. Why are these games not evolving?
  
  60$ is a true rip off for this game. I am a big fan of Pro Wrestling, and I am so angry at this game 
 it may be the last I play. I would still rather much play No Mercy on my N64. At least that game 
 was fun and an addictive gaming experience, this is far from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Thelot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  SvR 2008 is definately not what it's cracked up to be. The loading screens have gotten worse and 
 more frequent, the comentary recycles from last year even with the new commentators, and it's still 
 blatantly using the game engine developed for the original on PS2.
  
  The new content is scarcely good enough, and they've dropped too much from last year *cough* The 
 Boogeyman *cough*. The new fighting style system is to unbalanced and annoying, just due to the 
 fact you can't use stored icons for finishers, and some of the special abilties aren't going to 
 get you the 3 count. The control system change brought on by said fighting styles will confuse 
 veterans easily.
  
  Itis still a good solid game, and still worth the purchase if you are new to the series on the 
 current gen consoles, like me, but if you own 07, stay well away until it's in the bargain bin, 
 which if it sells the way it should for a game of it's calibur, should be long before next years 
 installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Return2Gaming91
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  SVR 2008 is very disappointing. Does THQ care about upgrading Smackdown! based games? The graphics 
 didn't surprise me, as they looked the same in other SVR games. Horrible selections of legends, 
 and the matches are boring to me. I lost interest in this game, so I just let my friends kick my 
 butt. What is wrong with SVR? Many fans believed the hype, and in my opinion, they lost 60 dollars. 
 But on the bright side, it should be just a rental. I don't know if I am going to buy another SVR 
 game ever. The commenatry stills sucks, but that still is not a surprise at all. I really don't 
 dig this game. This should be one of the biggest dissapointments of 2007 behind Kane & Lynch. My 
 God. WWE Smackdown vs. RAW 2008 smacks down a D-minus. I thought SVR 2007 was bad, well we can 
 get off SVR 2007 and boo at 2008. THQ, please upgrade 2009! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valek22
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is riddled with glitches. Some of the choices you get to make in the text message part 
 are backwards. One choice I had to either stay on Smack Down or go to Raw, I chose Raw, and it 
 keep me on Smack Down. Another was my choice of tag team partner. The game chose the opposite character 
 of what I chose. When I had the choice to give up the title to Stephanie or stand up to her. I 
 chose to stand up to her, and the game stripped me of the title. I don't know if this is just the 
 way the game is or if someone screwed up in the programming, but it really sucks! If anyone else 
 is experiencing the same problem, please post it. Other than that it's ok. Creating is easy, and 
 there are a lot of choices. The only other problem I have is when you create an entrance and play 
 24/7 mode, not all of the things in your entrance get played. I have lights, firework, ect. and 
 only the way I enter and my music played when I entered the arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  So they did change up a lot of things with the new SDvsR game. The major problem I have though 
 are the cut scenes. They recycle about the same ten scenes just with different lines by the commentators. 
 Besides this problem though I can't really think of anything else, except for the fact that it 
 is way to easy now. Sure they have all been easy in one way or another, but I feel like I can take 
 Rey in legend mode and take on Undertaker... just way to easy... oooo and I just thought of one 
 more thing. Everyone is pretty much a 90 or 80... thus making everyone even and thus somewhat boring.
 
  
  Besides those to problems they did make the game better in some areas with say more weapons, better 
 graphics, and I like the fact they show which area you are beating up on right at that moment.
 
  
  If your a fan and you dont have it yet, get it. If your just getting into the series... try 2007. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  If you've been into wrestling games, you'll surely notice the difference between this title from 
 the former ones...
  
  First is the graphics, which didn't improve and actually... became worse. Same models from the 
 previous series, same amount of blood. Cutscenes sucks more than ever, very very repetitive.
  Second is the gameplay, which IMO was worse than the previous one. Like the previous title which 
 is smackdown vs raw 2007, they still forgot to place the "switch target" button which makes the 
 game hard when playing in the legend difficulty. So little new matches, e. g. ecw extreme rules 
 match.
  Third, the sounds didn't quite have any improvements except added commentators. e. g. Joey styles 
 and JBL.
  
  Overall, this title still packs some punch into it despite of all those negative parts i mentioned.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlreese77
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I am playing the game just to complete the legend right now. It is kind of ridiculous how a lot 
 of the stuff doesn't match up with the story. You think that they are letting you choose your own 
 path, but somehow they do make you go a certain way. I saved and rechoose an option 4 or 5 times 
 and could not get it to go the way I wanted to. Other than that if you want to just speed threw 
 the matches, just look at the match type and if DQ is on choose your opponent and hit your character 
 with a weapon, the opponent gets disqualified and you win. It doesn't seem to have any affect on 
 anything, you get a win the story line goes on. Since I just want to reach legend status this is 
 how I am doing it. If DQ is off I just use weapons to finish the task. ONce I beat it on legend 
 will probably never play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulcan22
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I have been a wrestling fan for quite some time. I have been playing wrestling video games for 
 quite some time. This game is one of the worst representations of the wwe in quite some time. The 
 smackdown series usually had some fun story lines; not this year. The inclusion of ecw could have 
 been really great, but like the new ecw it is disappointing. The 24/7 mode is one of the most uninteresting 
 things in gaming. The mode could be very cool if they would let you create a wrestler and start 
 him in one of the territories (OVW or other development group) then get called up into the WWE. 
 This would make more sense then sticking the terrible wrestler they give you in a match with a 
 former world champ or other elite wrestler. Worst of all, most of the parts of this game are not 
 fun to play. Sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stover197
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  First off the all new 24/7 mode isn't very good the storylines repeat themselves your choices really 
 don't affect anything like say you get an email from ur GM saying you have earned the no.1 cont 
 spot do you accept then if you say yes apparently ur still not no.1 cont and u have to go through 
 a whole different storyline. Also after every yr the storylines repeat exact same thing they have 
 for me anyway. The GM mode is same as last yr with a little new features and ecw but it really 
 isnt any fun to me but it might to you. The online is good sometimes it can get laggy but not very 
 often. It is extremely fun if you have some friends playing the game with you and doing tags triple 
 threats and what not. Overall this is a decent game with some new features solid online play and 
 a story mode that is... not so good.
  
  
  P. S If you get a message with choices don't delete it or it will go to the default answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDrift2k8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in this game gets easily boring and repetative. With the story mode being exactly 
 the same no matter what superstar you use. The exhibition mode is ok with the new match types such 
 as ECW extreme rules match but still not as expected. Create-a-superstar mode has improved a little 
 but not by much.
  
  Graphics
  This is where this game scores its points. The graphics in this game are absolutely unbelieveable! 
 The superstars look amazingly realistic and so do the arenas and environment around it.
  
  Content
  Not much really. Same match types apart from the addition of ECW extreme rules match. 
 New superstars but not a very big roster. Addition of ECW Roster this year including tommy dreamer, 
 sandman and sabu. New unlockables such as DX-attire, JBL and New title belts.
  
  Multiplayer
  The online aspect of smackdown-vs-raw 2008 is pretty good. You get the usual Ranked, 
 Player, Trade, Leaderboard and My records. Games online are very competative and this years addition 
 has fixed the bit where someone quits and doesnt get a loss which has made the gameplay a whole 
 lot better.
  
  6.5 Still a big dissapointment for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgambini420
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOK
  
  By now we all agree that SvR07 was 'eh, had hope...'
  now, SvR08 simply SUCKS!! YOUR KIDS will hate it!
  
  Sure the graphics are good DUH they should 
 be,
  besides that SvR08 is a WASTE OF TIME/MONEY!!
  
  You cant go TWO FIGHTS without GETTING ANNOYED at the commentary!! All they did was take SvR06 
 commentary & have the Smackdown & ECW guys REPEAT it over & over & over!
  
  Its soooooooooooo BORING to be knocked down by a dropkick (or anything else) & take 2 minutes to 
 get back up... WTF!!
  this game has to OPTIONS: GET YOUR ASS KICKED REAL HARD or KICK THEIR ASS REAL HARD.
  their is 
 no 'challenge', the AI is still stuck on stupid!! DONT BUY IT!!
  
  Plus, the new 'STYLES' are lame, "kickout of a pin" is dumb! EVERYONE should be able to kickout 
 of pins! idk, if your a FAN of WWE your giving this game a good rating. IF YOUR REAL & you judge 
 it by what the game offers then you would agree that FROM PAST SVR TITLES this game falls short!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marsh123
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Smackdown! franchise since the first game on the original Playstation.
 
  
  I have been with it through it's highs and lows. I have watched it develop to the next gen high 
 def game that it is today.
  
  Why do I keep paying 60 dollars a year for what people say is about the same game?
  
  There 
 is usually enough in the most resent game to make me want to buy the new game. This year's major 
 promise was special styles that both made the moves done by the wrestlers make more sense (why 
 could Mark Henry steal Rey Mysterio's 619) and made the gameplay more fun.
  
  I think in execution it was a success. Submission wrestlers sucked before. I mean who played Ric 
 Flair? It was almost impossible to win by Figure Four Leg Lock before. Now between the Dirty finisher 
 and the new Struggle Submission introduced he is a potentially dangerous threat.
  
  But another reason that I buy Smackdown! games is the Season mode. I have to say that in this regard 
 the game did horribly. I do not even play the game anymore. Even though I love the new fighting 
 styles and all the new moves and animations (diving out of the ring hits people really satisfyingly) 
 I am planning on returning the game.
  
  The reason why the Season- renamed 24/7 mode- is so horrible is both because of the fatigue gimmick 
 and because of the lack of wrestlers.
  
  I am pretty sure that everyone with a review has touched on how unbearable the fatigue portion 
 on 24/7 is so I will make it brief as possible. They make you do activities. If you don't want 
 to they make you simulate them. Nothing fatigues you faster than simulating. So it's either be 
 bored not wrestling 70 percent of the time or be fatigued (and most likely injured) all the time. 
 And the rub is unless you are careful it is easy to get fatigued even if you do all the boring 
 in between matches stuff.
  
  Voice acting in the game is bad. JR and the King are entertaining at first (but extremely repetitive) , 
 but there is no reason for there to be voice acting in this game. It is not wrestler's job to do 
 this. It is painfully obvious that they do not have the time or the resources to do it well so 
 they really should give it up.
  
  They have said that the reason that the roster is so small is because they had to throw out so 
 much voice acting. That is unacceptable. This was a semi-cool experiment when they first came up 
 with it but letting their crazy pie in the sky dream of all the wrestlers acting out all the lines 
 is getting in the way of the game reaching it's potential.
  
  Also I have a feeling that the season mode is so stagnant because of the voice acting. In other 
 words they have to make season mode around what wrestlers recorded well rather than MAKING A GOOD 
 STORY MODE. To sum up I wanted to like the game. They have good ideas- most of them pan out. 24/7 
 was a failure- it was ambitious but not what players want. The styles was wonderful and I hope 
 they keep it. They could really have a gem next year if they ditch the whole integration of GM 
 Mode and Story Mode (24/7 mode in other words) and increase the roster. Plus as I just stated I 
 believe that abandoning the whole full voice effort would be best for the franchise, but it seems 
 like something they want to keep so I just pray they find a way to not let it get in the way anymore.
 
  
  I will probably buy the next Smackdown! to come out, but releases like this keep pushing me into 
 thinking I should start spending my money on other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffunited18
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 77 77 7 7 77 77 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 77 77 7 77 7 7 7 77 
 7 7 7 7 77 7 77 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 77 77 7 7 77 7 7777 7 7 7 77 77 77 777 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 77 7 7 7 77 77 
 7 77 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 77 7 7 7777 777 7777777777777777777777 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 77 7 7 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIack3r
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I wasn't to hyped about this new release as I had already heard bad things. Though, being an avid 
 fan of the series I bought it and was bitterly disappointed. The games physics engine hasn't changed 
 1 bit, I was expecting a whole new dynamic range to the way you could slam your opponent to the 
 mat and choke slam them off the Hell In A Cell. The storyline by far was the worst disappointment. 
 Some people claim the last series storyline was to short and in 2008 this is by far not the case. 
 The storyline or 'legend mode' is too long and boring and it's one of the most repetitive games 
 I've played. SVR 08 was the biggest game disappointment for me this year and I hope THQ take note. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmac1981
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  This is a poor excuse of a sequel. The developers have made excuses regarding the smaller roster 
 being due to time constraints, who WWE say is to be in the game etc. Garbage! They are still using 
 the same graphics engine they have for years now, only with a bit more spit and polish. There must 
 be minimal work involved for the characters who have been in the game the last few years. Also, 
 they've somehow managed to make the season mode (or 24/7 mode) worse than previous installments. 
 It is very apparent this game was rushed out to meet the deadline. As is always the case every 
 year, the A. I. still hasn't been fixed at all, and likely never will be while the masses keep buying 
 this crap every year.
  
  To sum things up, the game is not completely awful, but this is a classic case of lazy development 
 at it's very worst. The kind of thing EA are (rightfully) slated for with their annual updates 
 of franchises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I wonder who rates the games? they have no clue as to what they are doing gameinformer gave the 
 game a 8 how could gamespot give it a 6.5? Well this is my take on the game as far as the story 
 mode goes I havent really played but i did expierience repetition in the cutscenes and things of 
 that nature what makes this game so good to me is 1 the fighting styles add variation to the gameplay 
 and all wrestlers are different the struggle submission system is a welcome addition now it doesnt 
 matter what level the game is on when its time to tap out its time to tap out. Also they have included 
 a number of ways in which your character can carry his championship to the ring. Im still wishing 
 for the day when u can walk to the ring with more than 1 title but for now title entrances will 
 do they included the wwe, ecw, world heavyweight, wwf and wcw tiltle belts all in the game and 
 that to me is awesome. Also online u can beef up your roster up from 50 characters to 80 characters 
 by online trades or plugs my roster is outlandish with tna wcw and other legendary characters that 
 r almost dead on this is the best wrestling game they fixed alot of the plagues of last year ecw 
 extreme rules match? flaming tables and barbed wire 2x4's? I dont know game spot double flaming 
 tables? 6.5? wow! I mean they king of the ring tournaments were at the end you are actually crowed 
 and robed as the new king of the wwe! Ive heard them say that this game is exactly the same as 
 last year and thats a bunch of garbage yes it sticks to the formula as it should this is smackdown 
 vs raw the genre that lauched wrestling games into a NFL NBA like simulation for the wrestling 
 genre i heard some say lose the smackdown vs raw title and build the game from the ground up and 
 i say to thq stick to the basics you are doing well only thing I would like to see more legends 
 every legend from every game should be here but then again if there not u can always create them 
 so I dont know 9.5 is my rating great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samherrett
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown Vs Raw Series,
  Well what can I say it all started off in 2004 when smackdown vs raw (2005) came out for the playstation 
 2,
  That was a decent game but I started to think maybe its losing its touch since here come the pain 
 was the best in the smackdown series.
  Now 2006 and 2007 was good with some flaws but still a generally strong game.
  Now here we are 
 wwe smackdown vs raw 2008 for the 360, let me just say all these bad reviews WHAT ARE YOU THINKING?
 
  This game must have the best graphics yet, the gameplay has advanced alot, running has improved 
 it is now shall I say free will, you feel much more free with the controls and the reversing it 
 is much better this year rather than simple tapping a button and reversing the move straight away.
 
  Now onto a good idea but not the best 24/7 mode, now this mode is a great idea but it vastly needs 
 improvements, its good but not enough depth.
  General Manager mode has done well but its not as simple as it used to be.
  Now heres for the 
 dissapointment, Online play, you can have good games and bad but THQ/YUKES really need to sort 
 out the lag in this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellieg96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I had hours of fun playing this game. Although I'm not very good at all, I had fun designing superstars 
 and entrances, fiddling around with the controls, and trying some of the newer superstars moves 
 on the oldies, which was cool. I haven't tried the 24/7 mode yet, but I hear it's disappointing. 
 I really love the models for the characters, because they look so alike and do exactly the same 
 actions the wrestler would in real life. The animation is spot on, although some of the movements 
 are a little jerky. Overall, it's very similar to last year's, but still keeps the fun factor. 
 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcma4393
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the WWE, the Smackdown vs. Raw series has been a series that I look forward to each 
 year, but this year's version is sorely lacking. The main problem I have with SvR'08 is the control 
 schema.
  
  Great controls will make or break any fighting game, and sadly, they broke this game. Trying to 
 do simple tasks, such as climb the ropes, is a pain and reaction time between the button press 
 and the actual character movement seems to lag somewhat.
  
  As for the new matches, they really don't add much. It's great they decided to incorporate ECW 
 into this year's game, but hardcore matches were pretty similar instyle to ECW matches already. 
 Not to mention, they took away some of the other match types from previous versions.
  
  As for the graphics, they're a slight improvement of the previous version, but not a leap forward 
 I was expecting, considering there has been some many great looking games released in-between '07 
 & '08.
  
  If you a real hardcore fan of the WWE, then of course you're going to get this game (like I did) , 
 but if you're just a causal fan or someone looking for a decent fighting game, you should definitely 
 consider renting Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 before spending the $60 on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Smack Down vs Raw 2008 Review
  
  Scores:
  Overall Score : 4.5
  Gameplay : 5
  Graphics : 9.5
  Sound : (-5)
  Replay Value : Limited
  
  First the good points about Smack 
 Down vs Raw 2008. Well, the character models, the arenas, and the menus all look next generation 
 in this version. Unfortunately that's the only good thing about this version of the wrestling series.
 
  
  Now for the bad things about this game. Oh, where, oh where to start!
  
  First let me say I'm not here to bash the franchise. I've been playing 2007 since it came out and 
 loved it from the beginning. Even with its glitches and lame season mode.
  
  The Bad:
  Sound:
  The announcer commentary is EXACTLY the same lame one used just as badly in 2007. Not 
 only is the commentary stupid, it almost never follows the action in the ring. If this were the 
 first time a game was trying to incorporate commentary into a sports game we as customers could 
 laugh at the bad lines and non-contextual conversations during the matches. But this feature has 
 been a mainstay in all forms of sports titles for at least 5 years. Now it's no longer a laughable 
 joke, but a prime example of the game designer's gorse incompetence. The voice over work for the 
 phone messages and little scenes in 24/7 mode are at best lame if not down right embarrassing to 
 listen to.
  
  Controls:
  Yet another game designer decides to revamp their controller layout. Unfortunately for the 2008 
 version it's several steps backwards from the 2007 version. The Right Tumbstick for submission 
 holds and breaks fells better than the button massing from 2007, but the left bumper for running 
 and climbing the ropes is awkward.
  
  Computer AI:
  Even on legend level with the sliders all up to 100% the computer controlled wrestlers are idiots. 
 They'll reverse and counter everything, but their tactics are none existent to down right stupid.
 
  
  New Fighting Styles:
  A nice idea. But with so many other flaws and bad designs in the game, we never got comfortable 
 enough with the game to explore this area to its fullest.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you are a die hard fan of the WWE and only desire to play the game using your favorite wrestler 
 in different style matches against some of the other well known names from the WWE then you'll 
 have an enjoyable time playing countless matches in the exhibition, online, and tournament sections 
 of this version.
  
  If, however, you're like me and my friends and enjoy creating your own roaster of superstars to 
 fill your events you WILL be greatly disappointed with this version of the game.
  
  Although the graphics and item selections for CAWs has been improved over the 2007 version, the 
 ability to alter your newly created wrestler's stats to your play style has been removed. In the 
 2007 version, once you earned the GM of the Year award you were given unlimited points to change 
 stats. Now, in the 2008 version, for each and every CAW you create you must purchase an upgrade 
 for their particular wrestling style. If you want to change your wrestler later from a high flyer 
 to a dirty wrestler, well... that's another investment in cash you'll have to make. (The cash comes 
 from playing 24/7 mode) Raising the money is not very difficult in 24/7 mode, but it is time consuming 
 if you want to create your own stable of CAWs to challenge the real wrestlers that come with the 
 game. And the upgrades cap at an overall rating of 80. Whereas most of the big name stars in the 
 game reach up into the mid 90's. (80 vs 95 doesn't lead to many balanced matches.)
  
  Gone from the game and greatly missed department.
  The 2008 version has stripped away the PPV 
 event. Don't ask me why. My friends and I loved it. We would constantly make up our own PPV's and 
 battle it out while waiting desperately for the next big PPV to hit the tv. Instead, this year's 
 version has a tournament mode. It's a neat addition. But with a limited, pre-structured format, 
 the replay value of this new mode is very limited. 
  
  More than half of wrestlers from the 2007 roster have disappeared. (Maybe they were abducted by 
 aliens) The Legends that make up the roster (when unlocked) are at best an insult to the fans and 
 old time wrestlers who cheered and fought to create the wrestling empire Vince now sits atop. (What 
 kind of list does not include legends like  Hulk Hogan. And where is Andre the Giant!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  This year's game sees the inclusion of ECW and the extreme match. But once again the game locks 
 the divas out from all but the simplest of matches. (Hey, Vince, what gives? Are you afraid the 
 Divas might get TOO popular and outshine your muscle boys?)
  
  The New and Improved 24/7 mode!
  This is without question the most idiotic display of programming 
 and story writing that it has been my sorry misfortune to have played. (And I've played some very 
 crappy games, folks)
  
  In a beautiful display of 'if it aint that broke, try screwing it up some more', the game designers 
 have combined the single character season and the GM mode from 2007 into one nifty packaged piece 
 of poop.
  
  The 2007 version of GM mode was okay, if not repetitive after a point. But it was quick and painless 
 to get through a full season if you wanted to. The 2008 version of GM mode is a slow painful crawl 
 through hell with Vince and his three little lackeys as your only companions. Instead of just putting 
 on shows once a week, with the occasional PPV event, you MUST now schedule events for your superstars 
 EACH AND EVERY DAY! Even if you sim the events you STILL have to select each day and tell the game 
 to just sim it! After 2 hours of this tediousness (we were still in April) my friends and I gave 
 up on GM mode.
  
  When we exited out of GM mode and tried to enter the Superstar mode we were introduced to yet another 
 of the designer's brilliant works of coding. We had to choose between deleting our GM save to play 
 the superstar mode or not playing superstar mode at all. (Great coding, guys. One save point for 
 two different game modes.) After only 1 hour we left superstar mode for good. It's the same lame 
 story lines from 2007, but with the annoyance of having to do daily tasks that are pointless, repetitive, 
 and actually hinder your superstar's health for the upcoming matches (Which should have been the 
 real focus of the mode) .
  
  Overall View:
  Don't even give them the money from renting this game. Maybe if Vince and the game designers see 
 their profits slump they'll get the message that they're putting out a crappy game and actually 
 try to improve it next time. Odds of that actually happening... nil.
  
  Buy 2007 and have some fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Once again, this year's iteration of Smackdown vs Raw adds several new components to the existing 
 franchise that's been around since the very first Playstation. The new features make for a better 
 wrestling game, but there's STILL something missing. The gameplay is still fun, but at the same 
 time all the little problems that have built up over the years remain unanswered which is really 
 becoming a problem. As a long time fan of both wrestling and the Smackdown series of games it's 
 a bit frustrating why these issues still rear their ugly heads. 
  
  The biggest and best change to this year's game is the addition of fighting styles. It's pretty 
 much a classification system for each Superstar to more clearly define the characteristics of your 
 chosen grappler to match them more with their real life counterpart. For instance, powerhouse types 
 like Batista can go into a "RAGE" mode which renders them impervious to strikes and makes all their 
 grapple moves irreversible. There are several different types of these styles, including technical, 
 high-flyer, brawler, submission, dirty, showmen, and hardcore. For the most part, each of the abilities 
 assigned to these different archetypes fit nicely into each wrestler's moveset, and really adds 
 a lot to the games formula and makes it feel you're that specific Superstar even more.
  
  Beyond that the gameplay hasn't changed much from last year's game. The right analog stick- is 
 still used to grapple. Although the submission system has seen a slight change, where both players 
 use the right analog stick to respectively apply pressure or escape the hold, which adds a lot 
 more dynamism to a match as opposed to bashing on the buttons like a madman in the previous games. 
 This year's game also adds the ECW brand (For better or worse really) , along with all the various 
 Superstars that go along with that. It's a bit of a disappointment considering there are REALLY 
 only four Superstars not counting the legends tagged to the ECW brand. Wrestlers like The Boogeyman, 
 Big Daddy V and Kevin Thorn are mysteriously absent from the roster so the presence of ECW is a 
 bit under whelming in my opinion. However we do get the ECW Extreme Rules match which is a specialty 
 type match allowing you to use all sorts of weapons and dish out all kinds of new pain on your 
 wrestlers. This will probably be the most fun of all the match types considering you can set weapons 
 on fire now, which is undeniably awesome. Yukes has also fine tuned the ultimate control scheme 
 from last year by allowing you to reverse them which in last year's case once you were caught it 
 was pretty much a done deal until your opponent was finished doing what he had to do.
  With all these improvements there's STILL some unanswered issues with the game that have been lingering 
 around for years now which in my mind is perplexing. For starters the artificial intelligence is 
 still way under par. Opponents will constantly stand around, or climb in and out of the ring for 
 no apparent reason. If you're fighting in a match with weapons they'll periodically flail at another 
 wrestler with a weapon hoping for the best. Any match that has a ladder involved but nothing hanging 
 above the ring still results in a number of wrestlers constantly scaling ladders in the middle 
 of the ring over and over again and tag team partners still seem to forget that they're supposed 
 to help you when you're in trouble.
  
  The collision detection is still terrible even though it has gotten better. Body parts warp through 
 one another and the ring regularly. Not to mention for some reason Yukes has decided with all this 
 next gen technology they can't seem to include proper ring and entrance attires. I mean where the 
 hell is Edge's coat or John Morison's sunglasses? You had them in the last game why did you take 
 them out? Was all this new dan fangled mechanics too much for ya? Did you have to sacrifice those 
 elements to include a tag team who's been released for about 5 months now? It REALLY irritates 
 me to see these items missing from the characters considering we are in the next gen and these 
 items have been in the games before but for some reason Yukes got lazy and didn't want to include 
 them. If you're shooting for realisim you're missing some key points here guys. 
  
  With all my ranting on the game thus far I will say the wrestler models are still some of the very 
 best character modeling you'll see in a game. Each Superstar looks almost photo realistic compared 
 to their in game counterpart, but again I'll say it, if you're going to have the character models 
 look so realistic it only helps to add their proper entrance attires to REALLY send it home. I 
 can't stress this issue enough THQ! WHAT THE HELL!? 
  Even with the impressive character models you can tell that this game is still running on the engine 
 built for the PS2, especially if you look at some of the clothing options that look painted on 
 as opposed to actually BEING on your characters. THQ needs to let the last gen go and focus on 
 this gen and rebuild the engine to TRULY make this game shine, but even so, the lighting effects, 
 crowd graphics, and just the overall sheen of the game does shine through. 
  
  In terms of content, SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 offers roughly the same match types and modes as last 
 year, with a few additions and downgrades. The biggest let down this year is the 24/7 mode, which 
 now wraps the single-player story mode and the general manager mode up into one mode. Thus the 
 story mode has lost all of it's flavor and ability to deliver a compelling storyline. You still 
 get the yearlong title hunt with one of the main superstars in the game or a created grappler, 
 but the story barely goes beyond a couple of cut scenes and a series of voicemails you get from 
 other wrestlers and the general manager of the brand. The few cut scenes you do get are pretty 
 generic and under whelming to say the least. The story aspect of this mode feels more like a hack 
 job then anything else which is truly a disappointment. 
  
  
  Instead of well written and story driven cut scenes to move the season along you get a bunch of 
 statistical data and goals that your wrestler is supposed to hit over the course of the season. 
 You earn respect and eventual title shots by increasing your skill and your popularity with the 
 fans, and you increase that stuff by doing all these little challenges and ventures between shows. 
 You can do things like improve your mic skills, increase your strength, star in a movie or simply 
 advertise merchandise. The whole idea of the mode is to maintain a balance between all the various 
 things you're doing. Overexert yourself and you'll be much more prone to injury, which forces you 
 to wrestle with damage already taken, but rest to much and your popularity drops. It really isn't 
 much fun since you can't actually see or partake in your wrestler doing much on the mic, or take 
 part in any of these film roles, or interviews, or autograph signings that he's supposedlyof these 
 events, which makes it all feel a little meaningless. This along with my rant on entrance attires 
 makes me wonder who was making this game to allow these types of decisions get by. Ultimately this 
 year's story mode is a real downer. 
  
  
  As with most Smackdown games the roster is rather out of date. Notably released wrestlers who are 
 in the game include Sandman, King Booker, Cryme Time, Marcus Cor Von, Chris Masters, and Sabu. 
 Couple that with the omission of Superstars who ARE in the WWE and have been for awhile but missed 
 the cut like London and Kendrick, Cade and Murdoch, Santino Morella and Deuce and Domino it further 
 cements the fact that Yukes and THQ REALLY need to improve on how most things are done with this 
 game series in order to pull it out of the slump it's hitting. a few names who are currently out 
 with extended injuries, and the roster is looking a little ragged. It might not feel so off if 
 it weren't for the fact that there are less wrestlers overall than last year.
  
  The online feature of the game has seen almost no alterations whatsoever. You just get into either 
 a ranked or unranked match against up to five other opponents (depending on the match type) , and 
 you can trade created wrestlers with other players. The online works fine, with little lag, so 
 not much to write home about. You still face off with the same cheaters as you did last year. Using 
 one or two of the more dominant Superstars and abusing a few key moves over and over again
  The create modes are also unaltered. You can design belts, movesets, stables, entrances, and as 
 always, a superstar. This is feature is as deep as it has been with lots of options to play with, 
 but it doesn't feel like it really adds much to the equation from last year's game. You still have 
 the same pieces of attire with the same designs and logos as the past two or three games. Another 
 area that needs a graphical facelift in my opinion. The one really awesome addition is the ability 
 to use custom soundtracks for your created entrances. Which has been missing for years and finally 
 realized on the 360. This ability single handidly saved the game for me. 
  
  
  SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 does do somethings right this year but ultimately it's still not the pinnacle 
 title we were hoping for. It's not that it's an awful game. The gameplay still has plenty of life 
 in it and the matches can be quite fun. But everything else about the game mentioned above that 
 remain unfixed, coupled with the lackluster 24/7 mode makes you wonder if it's time for this series 
 to finally start over from scratch. Every year these games include a greater breadth of content, 
 but rarely any improvements. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edge118
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I've played WWE Smackdown VS RAW 2008 for about two weeks now and overall I am disappointed with 
 the overall game play. My primary disappointment is the 24/7 (season) . The thing I was most impressed 
 with was the implementation of unique fighting styles. Below are the PROS and CONS I found with 
 the game. I started with the CONS since I'm still upset I dumped $60 on this game instead of renting 
 it.
  
  
  CONS
  24/7 mode is terrible. The storylines are repetitive and don't make sense most of the time. It's 
 very annoying boosting your superstar's stats, because you need to do training exercises/matches 
 that quickly become repetitive and annoying. These exercises add to your fatigue level, which require 
 you to rest or else your superstar is more likely to get injured. When you do rest, you lose huge 
 amounts of popularity among the fans. You can also choose GM mode in which you set up the matches 
 in an attempt to win GM of the year.
  
  Glitches and Online Play. There are too many glitches in this game, including moves that are unblockable. 
 This negatively impacts online play. The online system ranks your superstar and based on your rank, 
 you can match up against other players --- however, opponents are not automatically selected so 
 you need to manually join match sessions, which can be annoying. There is some lag which makes 
 online play difficult in that it's hard to pull off reversals.
  
  Superstar Rosters. I was unsatisfied with the rosters, because they seem to be missing a lot of 
 popular superstars including Umaga, Paul London, and Brian Kendrick. For some reason they have 
 Kenny Dykstra and Marcus Cor Von in the game. The selection could have been better; enough said.
 
  
  Controls. The worst part about this game is that you cannot manually change the opponent you are 
 targeting. This can be very frustrating when competing in a match with more than one opponent.
 
  
  PROS
  Match Selection. The list of available matches is impressive, which include hell in the cell, ECW 
 extreme rules match, and the money in the bank ladder match.
  
  Graphics. The graphics are excellent. The wrestler's faces look more realistic than ever and it 
 makes the matches (and ring entrances) that much more enjoyable.
  
  Weapons. The choice of weapons in this game is very extensive. From ladders, to wood with barbed 
 wire on it (which can be set on fire, by the way) to trash cans.
  
  Superstar Fighting Styles. Each superstar has their own fighting style (Brawler, Dirty, Hardcore, 
 High Flyer, Powerhouse, Showman, Technical, Submission) and each fighting style has it's unique 
 abilities. For example, dirty superstars can argue with the ref, risk disqualification by ignoring 
 the ref during a rope break, push the referee into the opponent, and deliver a low blow. The different 
 fighting styles makes the gameplay more diverse and exciting.
  
  All in all, this game didn't improve much, if any, over Smackdown VS RAW 2007. It's definitely 
 a game you should rent first before plunking down $60 of your hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswarrior
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys, 
  
  For those who dont already know, I am a huge wrestling fan. I love Professional wrestling, I go 
 to wrestling events all around the United States (most recently, TNA Bound For Glory in Atlanta) , 
 and I watch all types of wrestling that is available on TV. I used to be a huge fan of the WWE 
 but a few years ago I noticed that the WWE product was going down the drain, so I became a loyal 
 watcher of TNA Wrestling. I feel that TNA is the best Wrestling promotion currently on TV, it may 
 not be as good as it was in 2005, but it is still leaps and bounds over the current WWE product. 
 With that said, I still enjoy playing the WWE videogames, but this year's WWE Smackdown vs RAW 
 is probably one of the most dissapointing games of the series, this is why:
  
  I'll start by talking about the good parts of the game. I think gameplay has improved greatly. 
 It is alot more fluid and the new controls are alot better, and make the game more realistic. This 
 is the type of game that can be enjoyed at a party with a group of friends because of all the match 
 types that are available. From Hell in a Cell to tag matches to Singles matches to Buried Alive 
 matches to my personal favorite, the Ladder match. All of these matches really make the game a 
 very fun and exciting experiance for not only 1 person, but everyone playing and can culminate 
 in hours and hours of fun. The graphics are also top notch, you can even see the sweat comming 
 from the Wrestlers which I think is a good addition and adds that realism that is needed in wrestling 
 games. 
  
  Now I'll talk about the bad parts of the game. First off, 24/7 mode seemed like it was going to 
 be revolutionary at first, but it is a big dissapointment. You can only use like 24 wrestlers out 
 of the 50 that are included in the terrible roster. And the cut scenes repeat themselves over and 
 over again. Also, if you get injured, their is no option to take time off so you end up wrestling 
 even if you are injured, which means that if you have a leg injury your leg will be red when you 
 do the match, and that is very annoying. The option to do autograph signings and movie roles are 
 all good but get annoying after a while. The GM Part of 24/7 mode is decent but still the same 
 as last year's game. The roster this year is terrible. Their are basically no tag teams, and as 
 said before, you can only use 24 wrestlers out of the 50 in the game. The legends are ok, Sabu 
 was a nice addition. Other than that, nothing is really special to the roster this year, in fact, 
 I think it is a major step backwards.
  
  Overall, if you are a big fan of the Smackdown series and you really want to try this game just 
 because you love the series that much, I guess you can go ahead and rent it. But for everyone else 
 who just wants a good wrestling game, trust me, this game is NOT for you. All in all, WWE Smackdown 
 vs RAW 2008 is a major dissapointment, just wait for the TNA iMPACT! game, because this year's 
 Smackdown game is NOT worth the 60 dollar price tag
  
  _asswarrior 
::::::

::::::
UserName: straybullet1975
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  How do you take things out of a game? I do CAWS and sim matches. They took the multiple profiles 
 from '07 so you just have 1 profile with 30 CAW slots instead of 5 profiles with 120 slots or so. 
 They also took out a good bit of moves no back submission moves unless it's a finisher. Yeah the 
 abdominal stretch is a finisher... hmmmm. The graphics and presentation both look great I'll give 
 them that. The roster is a bit weak no London/Kendrick, no Deuce and Domino. Same crappy commentary 
 same stupid AI. Hardcore matches are good. The game's not total garbage buck it's a step backward. 
 
  
  If you're a CAW guy there are a few new items like head bands and some good hairstyles but with 
 1/5th the CAW slots... stick with '07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alljoemama92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  ok like must of you i thought that this game was going to suck . but then i rented it and the minet 
 i did a match i thought wow this game looks reeally good bt then i statred doing crazy flips with 
 jeff hardy and breaking necks with Tommy Dreamer and i was just hyped up when i wacked cena in 
 the face with a 2 by 4 on fire and people are bashing the 24/7 mode its not great but its not bad 
 either and also people seid the create a wrestler suck i have no idea what they are talking aabout 
 i love it. It has a lot of thing from wwf no mery and a good number of moves are from no mery to 
 i almost craped my pants when i saw tko as a finisher. I love the roster there are a lot of people 
 i like in this one unlike in 07.
  chould it have been better of curse but thats why there is next year 
  am i wrong for liking 
 this game no as are any of you for nott liking it but it all leds down to this its a Opinion not 
 a fact 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  The SmackDown franchise has been around for a while now and has seen some significant changes over 
 the years. Last year's entry seemed to be going in the right direction, with the new GM Mode, new 
 control schemes and the ability to take the fight outside of the ring and beyond. But a lackluster 
 online mode and problems with collision detection kept it from being a significant step in the 
 right direction.
  
  In this year's offering, THQ have made a few changes and fixed some problems, but they either fall 
 flat or are hardly noticeable to seem like you're playing something new In fact, on several occasions, 
 it feels like you're playing SvR 2007 instead of 2008. That doesn't mean it's a bad game, it just 
 doesn't feel like a different game.
  
  The one noticeable thing that has changed since last year, in gameplay modes anyway, is that GM 
 Mode and Story Mode have been combined to form the 24/7 Mode. This year's locker room is much smaller 
 than last year's, as they've taken away most of the useless crap you could buy in the WWE Shop, 
 like wall posters and figurines. In this area, you will have access to your cellphone, where Superstars 
 will leave you messages and challenges, the WWE Magazine, where you'll find information on your 
 current storyline, a laptop where you can see your Superstar's health & progress, as well as WWE 
 Shop and, finally, a calendar.
  
  The calendar is where all of the action happens this year. All 3 shows are scheduled on their respected 
 days: Raw on Monday, ECW on Tuesday and SmackDown on Friday, plus one Pay-Per-View per month. You'll 
 take your Superstar through different storylines and feuds and, all the while, your Legend Progress 
 bar fills up. When it reaches 100%, you are a certified, bona fide Legend. This isn't anything 
 special, it's just a way for you to know how far you are in the 24/7 Mode. From Monday to Friday, 
 you'll have the possibility to participate in several activities. In previous versions of SvR, 
 you earned skill points to upgrade your Superstar's abilities from wrestling in matches. Not this 
 year. You'll have to take your Superstar through some monotonous, repetitive training sessions 
 in the ring against an opponent to increase their abilities such as Stamina, Speed, and so on. 
 It's a good idea that is very poorly executed and is very unexciting. If your Superstar has already 
 reached their full potential, you'll just want to skip these entirely.
  
  You'll also have the choice to practice the Entertainment side of things since, as Vince McMahon 
 so eloquently suggests, that's what the E in WWE stands for. You'll be able to choose from activities 
 like practicing your mic skills, your endurance to pain, and so on. Doing these will cost you money 
 and drain a little bit of fatigue, but will increase your popularity. Contrary to practicing your 
 physical skills, you won't enter the ring to do these. This is a very good idea that has not been 
 fleshed out properly and becomes very boring and repetitive, but useful if you want your Superstar 
 to rise to the top of the Power 25 and earn Championship gold. There are also other activities 
 to take part in which will influence your popularity, such as signing autographs, playing the leading 
 role in a movie or attending press conferences. These will earn you popularity and money, but will 
 take a huge chunk out of your fatigue and, if your Superstar is injury prone, that's a recipe for 
 disaster. On the other hand, if you take it easy and relax, your popularity will go down Once again, 
 a great idea that wasn't fully fleshed out and ends up falling flat.
  
  Thankfully, not every new addition is bad. In this year's game, each Superstar has their own fighting 
 style, which comes with 2 abilities. The first one is attributed directly to how your Superstar 
 will fight. For example, Batista is classified as a powerhouse while Mysterio is classified as 
 a high flyer. When your energy meter fills up, you'll be able to store your fighting style just 
 like you would store a finisher and will be able to use it during the course of a match. For example, 
 Batista will become impervious to strikes and grapples for some time while Mysterio will have the 
 ability to possum pin opponents. Your second ability, such as Showman, will let a Superstar steal 
 another Superstar's finisher. All of these work rather well and add a new dimension to matches, 
 but some feel very overpowered compared to others, such as the powerhouse's ability to end a match 
 more quickly than a high flyer. Nonetheless, this was a long time coming and, even though it's 
 not uber perfected, it works well.
  
  Aside from that, there isn't much that has changed since last year's game. Oh, yeah, they added 
 ECW to the mix. This isn't as bad as it sounds though, because you'll be able to take part in an 
 Extreme Rules Match, where you'll get to set tables on fire and all that awesome hardcore greatness. 
 You'll also be able to select the weapon you want from under the ring, as a circle will appear 
 with a wide array of choices. What's weird about this though is that it's only available during 
 the Extreme Rules Match and not during other no-disqualification matches.
  
  Once again this year, you can create a Superstar, a MoveSet, an Entrance, a Stable and a Championship 
 Belt. This is where the Smackdown games shine, as a plethora of customization choices are available 
 as soon as you pop in the game, especially for the Create-A-Superstar, Create-A-Moveset and Create-A-Belt 
 options. It's a good thing that the Create-A-Superstar mode is available, because this year's roster 
 is very, very thin. This is where downloadable roster updates and content would come in handy, 
 but there are no signs of that happening any time soon. Speaking of online, you can take your created 
 Superstar and his Championship online and defend it on XBox Live. The same matches from the offline 
 game are available here and there is no lag or problems with collision detection, and it's still 
 great fun.
  
  The gameplay has been fine-tuned and tweaked to almost perfection. Gone is the dreaded stamina 
 bar, which forced you to press the Back button until it refilled. Now, it all depends on the movies 
 you perform, how big and conditioned your Superstar is and how long a match lasts. So, in other 
 words, it reflects a real wrestling match. The controls are almost identical to last year's, except 
 for the finisher, which is now performed by pressing the Y button. Everything moves and flows adequately, 
 with just a little bit of collision detection here and there, but it's hardly noticeable compared 
 to last year.
  
  The graphics are absolutely phenomenal, as every Superstar looks like their human counterpart. 
 Each show and pay-per-view design looks great and is very well represented. The entrances are pretty 
 much on par with what we see on TV. One thing I've noticed this year is that the ring apron will 
 move slightly when a Superstar performs a high impact move, which is a very nice addition. If there 
 is one area where SvR loses all dignity and style, it's the voice acting. Almost every Superstar 
 sounds like they "phoned in" their lines. Oftentimes, they'll go way over the edge with certain 
 dialog, which just makes them sound corny. But the worse part of the voice acting comes from the 
 commentators. Almost all of their material has been recycled from previous years and, for newcomers 
 JBL and Joey Styles, they just gave them the same lines as Tazz and Jim Ross, respectively. This 
 is an area where THQ and the WWE need to work on, because it is becoming very, very annoying to 
 hear JR repeat the same thing year after year.
  
  There is so much potential behind WWE SmackDown vs Raw 2008 that is never fully exploited. The 
 ideas are there though, but their present form leaves a lot to be desired. The terrible voice acting 
 is enough to drive any wrestling fan up the wall and the 24/7 Mode just seems like a bad idea that 
 should be tweaked a lot more. The sturdy controls and excellent graphics aren't enough to save 
 this game from a very quick trip to the bargain bin. It just isn't worth your time or your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BustaSag
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Keep in mind that I'm a WWE fan ok? Alright, I think the game is somewhat broken by the fact that 
 the 24/7 mode sucks. It simply wasn't necessary nor was it a great new feature. The decisions I 
 chose in the 24/7 mode did no good, the storyline went the way "it" wanted to & I found that very 
 anoying. I've been playing Smackdown games since the PS2 was new to the world & it kinda sucks 
 to say but this was the best version. The soundtrack music was always terrible but that has nothing 
 to do with the actual game. The graphics aren't bad at all & having the ECW roster on it was cool 
 as hell. The multiplayer is what you would of expected & it's not that bad. I dig the game even 
 though it's not what I was hoping for but if you're a wrestling fan, I'd at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Xavier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Hall Of Fame Mode: This is a controversial nod to be honest, but, in this mode, they REALLY got 
 it right, replaying classic matches like Bret Hart v Stone Cold is seriously fun, and it's always 
 great to go over stone cold via submission. I recently watched this match IRL before I got the 
 game actually, or at least one of the stone cold/bret hart exchanges, and it put stone cold in 
 a different light for me. I've never liked him, but, he looked amazing in his matches with bret 
 hart, but, that is beside the point. Anyways, Hall Of Fame mode is the only way to unlock title 
 belts and venues, and it does it in amazing style. The first challange I took was the Shawn Michaels 
 v Bret Hart 30 minute ironman, landing on Bret Hart on legend difficulty is FREAKING HARD, you 
 really need to understand the mechanics of the counter system before you attempt this match, but, 
 what you'll be rewarded with if you do, is a beautiful match, filled with counter series, momentum 
 shifts, and classic strategy. The next one I tackled was Bret Hart vs Stone Cold in a submission 
 match, this one an easy freakin challenge, Bret Hart has all the advantages in a match like this, 
 he has an easier time countering, is way better with submissions, and, if you know the counter 
 system he can block most of stone cold's punches. The key to this one is simple, don't let Stone 
 Cold get a stored fighting style point. Anyways, I could go on and on about the different matches 
 in this mode, but, overall, it's just an excellent mode, you get a wide variety of goals, including 
 creating a title and maximizing it's prestige, a royal rumble match where you have to go from 1st 
 in, and win it, a 4 way extreme rules match against hardcore legends, win GM of the year, and much 
 more. It's just an excellent mode, and it makes up for the crappy "superstar" mode which I'll get 
 into later.
  
  -Match Types: There are a TON of match types, everything you can imagine, and they are all done 
 well, since they fixed up the ladder matches, even those are fun to play, elimination chamber remains, 
 as does hell in a cell and many of your favs, BUT, the new match this year is the ECW Extreme Rules 
 Match, and it ROCKS! In the Extreme Rules match, you get to pull out the weapon of your choice 
 from under the ring via a handy wheel menu, you get to light weapons and tables on fire and have 
 your wrestler perform a sub-style specific finisher on the table (High Flyers for example for a 
 bulldog through the table, whereas powerhouses do a powerbomb, etc) , you get to make use of the 
 scaffolding and really harm your opponent, AND you get to do a ton of awesome weapon damage, examples: 
 you can put 1 chair under your opponent's head, and slap him with a concerto, or you can stick 
 his neck in the middle of the chair, or his ankle, and do a move to drive it home, you can do triple 
 jump moonsaults from the chair, can choke your opponent out using a variety of weapons, etc. The 
 way it's done is 2 fold, some weapons can be attached to your opponent or set up for specific moves 
 via the A button, or all weapons can be used in a variety of ways (chairs for example can be van 
 daminatored, or tossed into the guys face and punched) via the right axis control. It's an exceptionally 
 done, and welcome newcomer to an all ready bloated list of modes.
  
  -GM Mode: This is self explanatory, you get to run a show, draft new rosters, build up stars using 
 a variety of situations, like "hot dates" or "film shoots" if you get a guy over enough, you can 
 even do photo shoots to collect some serious money. On top of that, you can to program and manage 
 wrestling cards, trying to "up the ante" on your opponent, and shooting for 5 star shows, I had 
 a bunch, by building up a variety of guys using promo events, then putting them in high intensity 
 matches. For the armchair GM, and those of us who scream "I can do better than having the title 
 on cena", this is the perfect mode. I completed it, and enjoyed it, I'm going to even go back to 
 it, and pick a different show. It's just fun.
  
  -Improved Game play: The pacing has been slowed right down, and it works way more realistically 
 like watching a WWE broadcast. On top of better pacing, there are some excellently re-animated 
 moves, like the RKO for example, and WAY more UCMs. UCMs are a huge step forward, I love being 
 able to control what my guy does, including things like powerbombing someone to the outside, it 
 makes you feel as if you are in the game more, and just improves the overall experience.
  
  -Improved Graphics: This is a small section, BUT, graphics simply look much better this year, wrestlers 
 look more like their real life counterparts, venues look more polished, and fire look hardcore!
 
  
  -Fighting Styles: This is a huge step forward for the series, I could rant on about how much of 
 a difference this makes, but, it's just more fun. I choose the Hardcore Style with Brawler secondary 
 first (I of course used Tommy Dreamer, no shock there) , and you get 2 very cool things with the 
 brawler: 1. You get the ability to use a stored fighting point and a chair to bash your head open, 
 and seriously cure a bunch of limb damage! Plus you bleed all over the place! 2. When your opponent 
 busts you open, your momentum meter fills! You can nail him for a finisher, or store it and do 
 the chair head bashing to clear up limb damage and get back into the match. It's a good thing. 
 For brawler, you get to do a UFC variety ground and pound from various positions, nailing left 
 and rights, as well as the occasional headbutt! Good fun! For brawlers, you also get to turn invincible 
 for a small period of time, and have all your strikes unblockable! Combine unblockable strikes 
 with your ground and pound, and you can seriously turn a match on it's head! Every single style 
 has pros and cons to it, example: The showman can steal finishers, and super charge the crowd by 
 doing a taunt followed by a diving attack, but has no invincibility time, and if you miss the diving 
 attack, your momentum dies, just like real wrestling! It's hard to pick a style, because they all 
 offer a wide variety of options to you, making this an all in all deep and fun advancement in the 
 series, and making the game worth picking up.
  
  Cons:
  -Superstar Mode: This mode SUCKS, especially compared to the other 24.7 gm mode. It's essentially 
 broken, what you choose as an option when given a choice seems to make no difference, as either 
 way, you get the same result, small example, I tried it twice to see, in the maria interview, first 
 time I picked "I don't think I want to be the face of the brand", but the cut scene had "What do 
 you think?" and a kiss that was interrupted by Helms and MVP, then a text from MVP claiming I need 
 to respect the brand more, what? The second time, I picked "I am smackdown elite", same EXACT cut 
 scene, and a text from MVP saying "No, I'm the face of the brand, wah wah wah", both resulted in 
 the exact same series of matches with Helms and partnering up with Mark Henry (You didn't get a 
 choice here...) , and it all ended the same way. This happens a lot, either no matter what you pick, 
 the same thing happens, OR, it disregards what you pick, and picks for you, a good example of that 
 if the Stephanie McMahon title thing, no matter what you pick, you lose the title, how cheesy is 
 that? The other problem is, the storylines make NO sense, you get texts from people calling you 
 a dipsh*t, then you are shown shaking their hands, then you get sucker punched by them, then you 
 have a match, then you are shown shaking their hands again... It's BROKEN...
  THEN we get to the other problem, you can barely choose anyone in this mode, I wanted to be Tommy 
 Dreamer, he is my fav wrestler of all time after all, but nope, no ECW wrestlers, even though Vince 
 goes on in the opening segment about how he is bringing back the "land of extreme", you can't pick 
 em, and they don't appear. Lame.
  I don't think they bothered to beta test this mode... Bah, overall, it's no fun to play, it's only 
 good for siming seasons with john cena to build up your bank. Nothing more.
  Just a side note, it never changing years, and you having to replay the same season over and over 
 is just the final slap in the face to those of us who love season modes.
  
  -Online Community: This isn't the developers fault, but, you get the biggest idiots in the world 
 online, trading characters, etc, you are left with people who sound like 11-12 year old kids, and 
 rip into you because the original undertaker you made doesn't have tattoos... apparently they don't 
 realize that undertaker didn't have any when he came out, also he had red hair, and didn't look 
 intimidating. Fighting a match is annoying, because almost always in ranked matches, when you are 
 about to win, the idiot disconnects, and blames his "net connection".... bah... I could rant on and 
 on about it, but, seriously, it isn't the game's fault, so, I'll leave it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  well i found that the draw back in the game is that there are'nt as many costomization options 
 to create a character. then ther's the story the wrestlers barely talk which is a draw back because 
 you'd think that it would be fairly important to do this the graphics are o. k i do feel though 
 that the game itself is a much more fluid experience but it's not as good as i thought it would 
 be i'm also disappointed that the legends to unlock is quite small the career mode is quite good 
 especially since you can do a second year and defend the title which is a good edition. if you 
 don't own 2007 and want this my advice would be get 2007 it's cheaper practically half the price. 
 the gameplay seems improved to me this time round your not button mashing as much but you do still 
 have to do it which is annoying still but at least they improved it. anyway thats my 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This is thq's next smackdown game it has had a lot of new addtions to the series like fighting 
 styles updated graphics and some new animation moves but all this is great but more would have 
 been better.
  
  This break this up first is adding ecw to the mix wih the new extreme rules match differnt for 
 the hardcore match this includes flaming tables barbed wire 2x2's and the intraction with the crowd 
 this is the best mode in the hole game.
  
  The roster is not up to date i look at ecw's roster and find that at least half of what is seen 
 on the tv programme is not there that also goe's raw and the smackdown roster i understand that 
 this is by far the wrost in all of the smackdown series.
  
  Now it is a shame that this has not benn updated with new modes new moves or any thing it adds 
 to the series of what needs to be done in 2009 besides from all that smackdown vs raw 2008 is worth 
 a buy to any fan of the tv programme.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all I followed all the WWE Smackdown VS Raw 's games , since 2005.
  
  Well , as usually , the career , which is known as 24/7 has too many repeats. The game-play is much 
 better than the previous games. The graphics are good too.
  
  Certainly , the game could have been better when talking about the 24/7. This type gets boring after 
 some-while.
  
  A new good addition which it really hits me is the new wrestler type... some of are these : Showman 
 , Dirty , Brawler , Hardcore , High-flyer & more! Each of these can have special abilities when 
 restoring a finishing move , which it gets to be used for your special wrestler type. To make you 
 understand this more I'll give you an example of some of the wrestlers.
  
  Rey Mysterio is a High-Flyer , since he always flies to there and flies to here etc.
  Sandman 
 is a Hardcore wrestler , since he is an ECW Extremist and he loves the hardcore way of play.
  Shawn Michaels is a Showman , since he is loved by the people. Being a showman is really easy to 
 steal your current enemy's finishing move.
  CM-Punk goes under the Submission wrestler , cause he is good at making his enemies give up.
 
  
  Now , the sound is even better , players now can react when hit or/and , when they get hit.
  
 
  The game is good , it could have been better , which i expected to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2gambino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Ok, My point of view on the game. I will say that I'm little upset when it comes to THQ keep changing 
 the control system but I guess that comes with many games. Another point that I must say is that 
 they REALLY NEED to do something when it comes to recovering the player when down the or should 
 I say the STAMINA SYSTEM past 3 yes thats right 3 from the 1st Raw vs Smackdown which made me sick 
 to my stomach playing that game till the last one to this one they really need to improve that. 
 The game overall is a good game I am a wrestling fan so I BUY em all I don't care if they suck 
 or not I still play em but I really wish THQ would stop rushing there games they use to be really 
 good but they have been disappointing the last few times but they can fix that. 
  Just play the game a little more its really not that bad but , like I said I will agree with other 
 people the game does suck in some spots but OVERALL the game is good. So THQ make Quality instead 
 of Quantity because sooner or later people or just gonna stop playing the game period and not buying 
 it @ all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLjimbolian
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of WWF/WWE games since the fan favorite No Mercy came out for N64. Granted, THQ 
 have enlisted the help of Yukes Interactive for the past 9 years for their Smackdown! series, but 
 they haven't failed to impress if their yearly SD! games... until recently.
  
  Last year, SD! vs. RAW 2007 presented the brand new "Ultimate Control Moves" along with a few fine 
 tune-ups in the Season and GM modes that breathed new life into the franchise, but it was awfully 
 noticeable this time around that THQ have been using the same exact engine all these years, which 
 definitely gives it an outdated feeling. Now, I know it's hard to build a game engine from scratch, 
 but 9 years is just too long to be using the same motions and moves over and over again. 
  
  2008 is the same story: New and cool additions to the series (Ultimate Submission Control, 
 24/7 Mode, flaming tables, updated roster, better graphics) but all and all, it's the same old 
 story. It's like the saying goes, "You can't teach an old dog new tricks." THQ really needs to 
 address this issue by having the guys at Yukes to make changes with their game engine or even go 
 with a new developing team. While Yukes have been using the same engine, the glitches and problems 
 that come along with it has been consistent throughout the series' lifespan (clipping issues, shoddy 
 collision detection) yet it never has been fixed. 
  
  Other major problems for SD! vs. RAW has to be the roster. You can't necessarily put on the blame 
 on THQ for giving such a lackluster lineup of wrestlers this year because WWE gives the final say. 
 But whether it's a reflection of the current state of affairs in WWE or laziness, this has to be 
 one of the worst rosters in the SD! series.
  
  You could cut some slack to THQ because this is the first year they had to deal with releasing 
 a SD! game on multiplatform (PS2, PS3, X360, Wii, PSP, DS) , but there are no excuses for having 
 reoccurring issues and not fixing them.
  
  
  Overall, the negatives stick out more than the positives like a sore thumb for SD! vs. RAW 2008. 
 It's great to see wrestling games have finally arrived on all of the next-gen consoles and THQ 
 has added some interesting elements into the series like ECW-type matches and innovative controls. 
 Unfortunately, some of that is hampered by a disappointing roster, longstanding in-game issues 
 (collision detection, etc.) , and a couple of laughable bugs and glitches. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_hodgson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  It feels totally different which some people think may be a good thing and i agree but in some 
 areas of the game it doesn't feel right. The whole storyline nd 24/7 thing are ok but all the training 
 u hav 2 do 2 improve ur superstar is just a waste of time. I like the start where u hav 2 go through 
 a few matches 2 wrestle on the main brand but as i said b4, i dont like it where u hav 2 do all 
 the training sessions!
  
  However it's still a fun/entertaining game and ECW has made a good impact as well. The Extreme 
 rules matches are probably one of the best. 
  
  But rent it first 2 see whether u really want 2 spend 50 on a game tht u might not like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is a great improvement on the roster, GM mode, the new Hall of Fame challenges, custom soundtrack, 
 and the addition of ECW. But the most disappointing thing is the "story" mode, which is broken, 
 and just doesn't work right. You don't have that many people to choose to play through it with, 
 you can't pick any ECW extremists and many other superstars. But the worst part about the game 
 isn't the story mode, it is the anouncers, all the commentary is the same but with the addition 
 of JBL and Joey Styles, but the say the same thing as Tazz and Michael Cole, which gets really 
 old and really repeatative, but other than that there are a lot of improvements on the game, like 
 the addition to Extreme Rules match, fixed Stable's Entrance, more fighting styles, and many more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, So I can never get tired of hearing the bell toal and watching the Undertaker stroll to the 
 ring, but even that can get boring after a while. The Graphics are great, but thats about were 
 it endsm and its pretty cool to be able to interefere with almost any match you please, but why? 
 It doesnt change the story line any. I started out playing 24/7 which is more or less a season 
 in any sports game. Start out on the bottom and work your way to the top, yeah ok no problem. So 
 I set out on the quest with the Deadman. Yeah the tag team matches and handicap matches get a little 
 old, but its entertaining. So I work my way to the top, beat Rey Mesterio for the title and fend 
 off many title defenses. The road narrows to Wrestlemania and it enters a story line of a feud 
 between myself and the McMahons, and all of a sudden (with out a loss mind you) my World Heavyweight 
 Championship is gone. Still havent figured that one out. Anyway, I make it through Wresltmania, 
 beating Batista, in a NON-TITLE no DQ match. In the locker room, I have a message from Johnathon 
 Coachman offering me a contract on RAW. Sure, I'm tired of the BS of Smackdown, lets give RAW a 
 shot. WRONG! This completely starts the story line over, still on SMACKDOWN and again at the bottom 
 of the totum poll! Not to mention that I was giving this same option of deflecting to RAW during 
 the season, and upon accepting the offer, was never taken to RAW and the storyline never changed. 
 It may be that the story line changes from one brand to the other, but I'll let someone else tell 
 you about that, I just am not interested enough to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad828
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  When first getting into the gameplay anyone that is a fan of the previous games in the series would 
 very quickly realize that controls have been completely mucked up. I haven't seen my world thrown 
 upside down since Sony took Star Wars Galaxies and rewrote the complete game and killed everything 
 I had come to know over a 2 year period. However unlike Sony killing my favorite game with a complete 
 rewrite and mix-up of the controls these changes made in Smackdown Vs Raw actually make sense and 
 if you give your brain a chance to catch up you will find that the moves which were almost impossible 
 to get on the last version "Reversal anyone" are a lot easier to execute.
  
  Much like previous versions the storyline doesn't seem to keep up with the actual game play or 
 actions of the matches. Most of the time your phone messages are a match too late. A lot of the 
 between match movies like to replay themselves and you see wrestlers that would never make motions 
 or have emotional expressions on TV as they do in the game {Such as the great Kali making an "ah 
 man" gesture} . I would like to see a little more control in which random wrestler gets picked for 
 a gesture or emotional display in the cut scenes in future versions. 
  
  Another thing I miss deeply are the video segments that play on the different screens on TV as 
 a wrestler walks down the ramp. As in every version the main video plays on the huge magnetron 
 screen but I would love to see the mini video play on the screen behind them in game as it does 
 on TV. That has never made it into the game as of yet.
  
  This game has improvements in Modeling, Texture. Faces are a lot better and emotions are starting 
 to emerge "as long as you don't count the funky clown eyebrows on the Divas back stage when the 
 wrestler walks into the locker room and is surprised by the Divas going through his stuff and hanging 
 out for no reason. Triple H actually looks like Triple H when he walks down the ramp and spits 
 the water ringside during his intro.
  
  Also movements are more fluid. clipping does not occur as much as it has in the past. When a wrester 
 holds another in a cross face his hands do not go inside the other wrestlers nostrils as they did 
 in previous versions.
  
  Missing are the Hulkster, and Andre the Giant. How can you improve on a game and not include better 
 models of the great legends for players. I realize they are on previous versions but HEY, if your 
 gonna include Roddy Piper you have got to include the Hulkster. 
  
  Overall the smoother movements, improved models and textures, realistic bleeding and sweat. More 
 fluid control, and downright awesome action make Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 a winner in my book. They 
 just better not leave out the theme songs and intros on the next one. You cant have a real Raw 
 or Smackdown match without the theme music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiruva
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game admitedly looks identical in graphical terms to 2007. I feel that the review is a bit 
 harsh and 2007 was a worse game and has a higher mark. I feel that for its flaws it totally makes 
 up for it by how much fun it really is. Clearly the game modes are not incredibly different to 
 last year, but surely the whole point of this game is for the multiplayer fun? which is even better 
 with the increased number of match types. Online is great, although i feel the achievements are 
 poor and frankly pointless! It is obviously not the best fighting game around but no others will 
 beat it for just pure fun.
  
  In some area's it is frankly disappointing, such as i feel it is much slower gameplay than 2007. 
 But i feel that the score given by gamespot is fairly harsh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianximinies
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Wow do I long for the days N64 and No Mercy. The in ring action for SvR 08 is probably the only 
 highlight of the game i came away with. The models look and it is fun to play. I also like the 
 fact that it is more realistic in regards to physics, a cruiserweight aint lifting a super heavyweight, 
 it just aint gonna happen and that is how it should be. My biggest complaint is the 24/7 Mode, 
 which seems like it drew its inspiration from Raw for the original Xbox, this just had more specific 
 cuts scenes which still didnt make any sense. Sometimes you cut the same cut scene right after 
 a much whether you win or lose. I think the best thing THQ could have did was give Next Gen graphics 
 to Smackdown Here Comes The Pain , updated the wrestlers and call it a day, In SvR 08 you cant 
 even use all the wrestlers on the roster in the 24/7 mode. Imagine how annoying it is when you 
 cant even use Bobby Lashley and he was the World Champ for awhile. That is inexcusable to a fan. 
 Isnt it about time to lose all the lame voice overs and annoucing and beef up the season mode, 
 make-it co-op and give us the choice to challenge for any title or beat down anyone with anyone 
 we want. As for the other modes. you could have kept last years version and had more wrestlers 
 and the same choices to play with, with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dwadeflash23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Its a great game for wrestling fans and non wrestling fans who just like the game. To start one 
 of the only problems I have is a few of da problem from 24/7 mode. Not as huge of disappointment 
 as everyone says but it was definently rushed. one problem is storylines. Example ur a # 1 contender 
 picture with RandY Orton 1 second he will be sending u hate mail the next second u will be shaking 
 his hand before a match it makes no sense. Another problem is the cut scenes they repeat over and 
 over and over. The 24/7 mode is still fun bringing a superstar the training and stuff is fun and 
 the concept is great if u ignore a couple of flaws. It was just like i said rushed.
  
  Now for the good tournaments r so fun to play ECW Extreme Rules is one of the best things dat could 
 have happened to dis game. U can finally put ur own entrance music in to da game. The gameplay is 
 great. The general manager part of 24/7 is good. Online is fun and a little problem with me in da 
 last game was wen ur oppenet quit u would get no credit for the match well now u get the win. U 
 could play this game for hours just screwin in match types with your friends.
  
  Thats how i feel its muc better den everyone says next year work on 24/7 and this game will be 
 great. CAWs r improved as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcManuva
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  its a good decent game, not the inovater that it used to be.
  the svr2007 for the ps2 had the new control type and also had an option to keep the old control 
 type which should have been included in this version. they should have had more legends and a more 
 updated roster. the cutscens in the story mode dosn't make sense. the voice overs are a lil bit 
 better but still lacking , look like not every wrestler participated in doin their voiceover. i 
 can't wait to create jerico and angle and kick everyone's ass online lol i can't wait for the tna 
 game comming out hopefully that one will be better. all in all i should have waited and bought 
 the game used and saved some money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmisto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm tired of reading peoples reviews on here, and people seem to never be impressed with video 
 games these days. Didn't we all used to be excited to play Oregon Trail? I mean we can't expect 
 these games to just be awesome.. So you think in a year, THQ can't just come out with a completely 
 updated game? You have to be crazy to expect so much from them.. You give games like Call of Duty 
 4 and Halo 3 perfect ratings pretty much? But Kane & Lynch isn't a great game? You guys should 
 learn how to openly review these games.. I'm talking about the reviewers for Gamespot.. I don't 
 give Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 a great review because I'm somewhat of a wrestling fan.. But it's a 
 very interesting game, and they are doing all they can to make the Smackdown buyers interested.. 
 Anyways.. It's a good game.. I even wonder sometimes if the reviewers even play the games.. lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown Vs Raw guess worse with each year. Yet people give it a perfect 10?! I'm glad I still 
 own Smackdown 2! I've been a fan of wrestling long time most of my life actually, but honestly 
 its getting seriously dry. In real life the the stories, and fueds are getting repetative. In the 
 games all they keep doing lately is recycling the core of the previous years game. Do they really 
 think that people won't notice the last three games have had the exact same audio commentary? Worse 
 yet the audio commentary still has all the flaws it had before. Like your in a match JR starts 
 talking about Ray Mysterio, but Ray isn't even in the match. Plus what made them think it smart 
 to not be able to play as a females in story mode? Even worse yet, why did they ever remove the 
 two player co-op that was in Smackdown 2?! I'll never think that a smart move. They also made story 
 mode linear, and that was just flatout stupid. The company is just gradually killing the video 
 game series. For the most part what was delivered was a recycled game, and I think giving the game 
 a 6.5 was being kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacosrule193
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is crap! svr2006 was really good. svr 2007 was ok, i was happy with it. but this game...... it 
 is 2007! they just added a few new things to it. i am not satisfied with it, they need to make 
 an expansion to this. ok heres the good part
  
  good :
  
  diffrent modes (alot of modes)
  wreslers from ecw
  new matches
  great replay value
  
 
  bad :
  were do i start talking about the bad....
  lagggg!
  same old 2007 with some new crap
  i like the old health thingie better
  since when did rey 
 wear horn thingie on his entrance
  same ol moves
  controls for the game is crap!
  takes u alot of time to get used to
  so u got used to the control... now get used to frustration
 
  so much more
  
  if ur a collecter for wresling games... buy. if ur a wresling fan or u liked 2007, 2006 or both, 
 save up your money for something better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gui_Mania
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok is not the best Smacdown ever is not smackdown 2 or sm Shut your mouth or sm Here comes the 
 pain but is still good .He have great think in this game i very like the new extreme rules match 
 and now we can beat the hell out of Vince McMahon finaly with Bobby Lashley or Dx is Fun . The 
 graphic are awesome and the control are easy to learn .the story line is not the the best ever 
 like shut your mouth but he is playable .And we dont have all legend were is Hulk Hogan and why 
 he delete the Chris Benoit move ,i like the flying headbutt .THQ say then gonna have update i think 
 is great is the first time ever in a wrestling game .New superstar like Chris Jericho when he come 
 back or the Boogey man ,Big Daddy V, The Miz or Beth Phoenix .Or more legend like Hulk Hogan and 
 The Ultimate Warrior .New match thq talk about like inferno match strecher match or pujami prison 
 match .New costume .In good many new stof .I given a 10 becose i am a very big fan of the WWE and 
 SmackDown series but i think gamespot can review the game 7.5 to respect the work for this good 
 game .I recommend the game for all the fan of the WWE or the fan of the series and thank for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweMysterio
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Mabe u wanna buy it but its not all this and that........ story mode sucks........ i wish i neve 
 bought it........ just bought something better... if u wanna learn bout the game just rent it...... is 
 not worth 50$ I liked 07+06 way better..... no offence THQ but u suck...... u always hav to make 
 it worst...... i liked the some options...... I'll go back to day of reckoning+smack 07 and 06. so 
 far 06 is the  
 mabe u wanna buy it......... if ur willing to waist  
 
  
  
  You would wanna buy it but its not to much 
  so just play at ur 
  I wish ii just waited for need fpr 
 speed
  pro streets 
  
  
  
  
  The game is ok but not worth
  all the attetion.............
  i hope this helped u between doing some smart
  and stupid
 
  
  its not even funny so its not a lafin mattter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imbulletpr00f
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is great fun still even tho it is like 2007 with some great additions.
  such as the new struggle system for submissions its very very confusing still havent figured it 
 out. 24/7 mode hey it has its ups and downs but is still enjoyable. the injury part is annoying 
 to it as your guy will enter matchs with some limb damage. another down is that earning money is 
 hard as you get a certain amount of money a week. then 2 add more money to unlock legends you can 
 do side events on your days off but hey there is a down fall to that one aas there we get fatigued. 
 want to take some randr wait that will loose you fans so then that makes u come down to a deicision 
 money or the fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  we all know the SmackDown vs. Raw series and up to now it was a great series. in the latest installment 
 the added ECW which happens to be the only fun part of the game. ECW has it  
 its share of carnage but, they forgot something that would have made this game good a season mode 
 for ECW. in the other shows you have your normal superstars. the problem is that even though you 
 have the edition of different fighting styles it still doesn't make them very different. allot 
 of the superstars have same ratings and everyone can inflict damage pretty quick. the diverse cast 
 of every other wrestling game is gone. Undertaker and Kane are now the same Batistas strength doesn't 
 matter. 24/7 mode should be called boring as hell 24/7 mode. the legends are the same as last years 
 with new ECW legends. the slowed pace of the game was a horrible thought. the real thing is faster. 
 as usual the sound track will make you want to kill yourself and it even has emo music. i wanted 
 to tare my ear drums out after hearing all the screaming coming out of my tv. the games usually 
 has a good story mode but, you have a lame run of the mill story. the game is just a huge mess 
 really and ECW is the only good thing about it. if your wondering it is true they don't have an 
 up to date roster. if you also notice they keep recycling cut scenes not to mention some superstars 
 will wrestle in every show. how bad is the game? the man menu is about as basic as you get. general 
 manager also continues to be useless. not even the average WWE fan could ever consider this to 
 be the best in series or even a good wrestling game. if your looking for an easier better wrestling 
 game go for last years but, please stay away from this heaping pile of poop.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spawned_Bug
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  looking at alot of the screens for the game i was thinking hell it may just improve somewhat over 
 last years. but the career mode being this 24/7 rubbich they put in... completely ruined the franchise 
 for me, no story in it and repeated cutscenes that make no sense and you end up skipping. most 
 of the career i started i ended up skipping all the cutscenes and simulating the matches cause 
 i lost all interest. hopefully next year they bring back the half decent story lines between PPV.
 
  
  the create mode i found a bit easier this year but there still doesn't seem to be the great options 
 i remember from games from over 5 years back (which by the way i enjoy more) .
  
  the other thing is bra and panties matches are gone.... these were my favourite little gems for 
 a bit of a luagh. the only thing about the divas i like is that ashley is in the roster. otherwise 
 the models are pretty crap compared to their male counterparts and there seems to be no point having 
 them there
  
  overall i'm taking my copy back to the store and trading in for something good. i suggest skipping 
 the game all together and putting your money towards assasins creed or something of equal awesomeness 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate623
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the nite of it came out got home pop it in and from the get go was a lil dissapointed. 
 The graphics are great but the rest is a little worse, the new fighting system is a step down from 
 last years. The fighting styles would have been good on top of last years system but the system 
 in a whole this year is a little weak. I do like how you can use weapons to your advantage a little 
 more but thats about it for me, all in all its an OK game nothing fancy but nothing awful either. 
 Gamestop will probabley end up with my copy in a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernspartan117
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  just goodh iohsaih hfapsouhgfp ohahf hdoifhah ahgauoghuhg hfgoadhgf gfhoidhao g gahg ahg gh g gfihafih 
 gfh gdhgf ogh ghg hgodighodgh fh hgohg gh hasiofhgf asdihfdh dfhioapg dgh goihasdgfhdgoih adf8hygt 
 hnvzh dgfhaguhasdhdj sidhfi siu jcid jdjfh sjrud id did fjdioiodjn diidhfodh jisjf aofihdiajfhe 
 eihfhasis hjishfios idfh fidsohfei dihsoihagf ioadfh aifoafha fhoihaf fiadshgiafoihf ihdhgohh hgohgoahg 
 hfiaohthuow ghiaehtguhg aoehgohg oghurh ahrguihr hrgarehgurehg adehguerhgu aauhu erhgtuhgu ah uh 
 aurh a rhh f hfuha gu g go haua hguh gu hga hugah gh aguh gdu haguh gduh gdiuph gdu hadgu ahguh 
 dghu dguhdg uhdg uah dguh dguhsad guah dsguh gduh gd hudgsuih asdguh ag uha hudhg hu adghu dg uhdg 
 uhdguhdgsuhdghuhdgudshg fdhudshga sd aguiafhuafuhdsa ghsaohdgfohsdfoihoshaf uhfiuha fhfudhauhfduhafhudfpouhadf 
 asdf sdufhiusdfh dsfdfushudfuihfds fuiasdhfuhdsfu dsf uahsfuihasdfhsidauhfusd sduhfiausdfhudhf 
 huasiuhf ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livewire29
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  You can tell that they did work on SDVSR 2008.. The create mode is perfect... One thing tho you 
 see long hair it goes through there body.. Melina, undertakers hair.. Or any one with long hair 
 rather it will be a superstar or one you made.. There hair goes through there body making it awful 
 looking.. Still when in the ring, doing a move there arms goes through the body.. story mode is 
 very short, can not think that people want just a year for a story mode how about 3 or 4 years.. it 
 is a game... Thats to short, less superstars in the game 07 had more, this game was rushed.. Should 
 have been checked out by the game maker way more before releasing this game... The game is good 
 in alot of ways, this one will not hold out until a new one comes out.... The controls are a mess... 
 last years was perfect, custom soundtrack is awful... You have to make a whole lot of saved list 
 in your console to have as many songs as you want... Then if you restart it, the music for you 
 player is not on... Locker room sucks, then for your entrance.. in cutsene is not on, this game 
 is awful and good... You would thought by now they would have the perfect and awesome WWE game 
 butt they don't.... I would rent this game first or wait until the price to drop before you decide 
 to get this one.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orrbdrummer3
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Smackdown games since they debuted, and last year (SVR 2007) , the game was 
 at its best I would say. The only thing I didn't like about last years game was the new ladder 
 match system, that in order to grab the object, you had to position the sticks a certain way, and 
 it just bothered me because none of my friends got it, as I didn't either. So what does THQ do? 
 They introduce this concept to everything in the game practically. The submissions, the ultimate 
 control grapples (which I actually liked) , and everything else. They all rely on the analog sticks 
 for reversals. It's retarded. The reversal system is flawed in alot of ways. The fighting styles 
 are flawed in a ton of ways. THQ has just watered this game down so much with an over-abundance 
 of features that it has simple become inconsistent with itself. And of course the hell in a cell 
 match hasn't changed ever to 4 fall through spots like everyone wants. I think THQ should really 
 start listening to the people and stick to a formula that works. Only thing the game has going 
 for it is its kick ass CAW (Create a Wrestler) and CAE (Create an Entrance) . Worth a few rentals, 
 but I regret spending $60 on this over Assassins Creed. Don't make the same mistake I did.
  
  I sure hope TNA puts on a game as good a game as theirs looks right now. TNA rules WWE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkangelnova
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  THQ keep saying they give what the fans want, they listen to the fans, and my response to that 
 is i don't think so, if they do this game would be 8.9 or 9.0 ratings!!!!!!!!!!!!
  we have to give the devil's due to THQ, for creating the 24/7mode. eventhough its not a complete 
 sucess, we can't blame them for trying to get the job done. The graphics are marvelous, the movement 
 of each wrestlers are incredible. but what bothers me the most is that the difficulty of customized 
 CAW attributes whether its a diva or a superstar. a superstar, in order to customized your attributes, 
 you have to go through living hell in GM mode or season mode, and your starting overall is 36!!!!!! 
 And you have no choice but to simulate the entire calander (that means a year) just to upgrade 
 your overall points faster.
  the commentary is recycle !!! THQ say they give 6000 new lines and thats only 2000 new lines for 
 each brand. those new lines are about the wrestlers not about the match. clever and yet THQ is 
 sooo cunning in telling us that !!!
  
  i thought 24/7 mode you can wonder around freely in the locker room, just like last year game, 
 the GM mode lack cut scenes and if you win or lose the GM year award, there's no cut scene where 
 mr mcmahon hand you the throphym but they give you a message where it says you win or lost ..... 
 there's more than just the world heavyweight title or the wwe title to hunt in the real world but 
 not 24/7 mode, the GM mode allowence is too low, the calander tend to recycle the same date , the 
 same place at wrestlemania!!
  the same matches as last year's game. just one new match isn't call and update but an additional 
 !!! you have the parking lot brawl but wheres the bar room brawl, boiler room match, i quit, 2/3 
 falls and so on?
  where's the button to target you opponents? we have to walk next to our opponents just to change 
 the target indicators? by the time it changes i'm dead !!!!
  i think there's a bug in the game, cause sometimes in the season mode, there's no music entrance, 
 in for any superstar i'm facing of that matter
  
  Most gamers would like to see the create a wrestler modes 1st. since WWE RAW 2 for the old xbox 
 come out, it has the best create a wrestler options, in the market today so as the season mode. 
 my suggestion here is that, why not THQ uses WWE RAW 2 create a wrestler, stables options and so 
 on put in smackdown vs raw 2008 ? why not? since the that THQ owns wwe raw 2. THQ also made wwf 
 atittude, with a unique commentary lines, whereby, the commentary, reponse on every move that the 
 superstar made, not just their finisher, they also reponse to one's name who interfere uptade roster 
 or the updated graphics is not much of a main issue for this game to rise to the occasion
  to combine both season mode and general mode is a good idea, its not the external look that counts, 
 its the internal look that actually counts. more options for general mode, and season mode. options 
 like, you can actually take day (s) off when your injured and lose your popularity, you can use 
 divas, legends , superstars, or created a superstar to start in your season mode. more match types, 
 we like to have a freedom to do what we want in the season mode, we want to have cut scenes in 
 the GM mode, more superstars, new lines for commentary , how bout some unlockable videos example 
 like, interveiw with the wrestlers promos and so on.
  i want to have a title shot with any title contenders in the season mode
  in 2009, the graphics 
 should not be change, its perfect the way it is, THQ only need to change, the gameplay, put in 
 the indicators button, upadate the 24/7 mode, as in gives us more freeom to walk, we can talk to 
 wrestlers, choose any title we want and when we want, we can at least go to ecw to start our career, 
 we can go to what ever show as we please once our contract is expired, new lines for commentary, 
 not just about wrestlers but the entire match as well, 
  TNA Impact is coming out, and its quite good from my prespective. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpac200
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Absolute garbage. They destroyed everything that made this game great. @007 was a great game and 
 this is abysmal. If i were to compare this game to any other wrestling game, i would say that it 
 falls under the category of the Raw games for xbox. Visually amazing for its time but the gameplay 
 is absolutely horrendous. It got better and better every year, until it hit 2008. I cant believe 
 i have been eagerly waiting for this garbage so bad. The story mode has been shitified as well. 
 It is the same stupid unrelated cutscenes over and over again. If i worked at thq, heads would 
 be rolling right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jab7604
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Despite the Amazing visuals of the game this on falls not short but miles away from previous versions. 
 First off lets talk about the mindnumbing 24/7 mode. 24/7 mode lets you paricipate as GM or Superstar. 
 I recommend using youre created superstar because the roster is fairly limited for selection. for 
 example players like Umaga. MVP are absent from 24/7 mode and while im on the mention of the roster 
 we have people on the game that havent been with the company in months.
  For example crime thyme, King Booker, and Chris Masters, Marcus Cor Von. Although its no THQs fault 
 i believe they could have filled the roster with people actuall on the frickin progam. Like London 
 and Kendrick ( they had the tag titles for almost a year and the get past up again) Cade and Murdoch, 
 Deuce and Domino, Jimmy Wang Yang) and the legenda are redundant. Am i the only one who notice 
 that Stone Cold the Rock, Bret Hart, Mick Foley, and Roddy Piper take up all the legend spots. 
 the only new additions are Sabu Terry Funk and Rick Rude. which they do deserve to be in the game 
 im just tired of unlocking the same legends every year. 
  Now Back to the annoying 24/7 mode. U start out trying to earn respect and become #1 contender 
 and after you comlete that storyline instead of getting your title shot you end up fighting for 
 a movie roll. what the hell.
  Also in 24/7 mode is redundant because as a superstar you have to gaine popularity but at the same 
 time u have to stay healthy because u cant miss shows. if you are injured u still have to work. 
 even though injuries happen at random. For example i played as my opponent and got DQed by hitting 
 the manager with a chair. the next day i get a message saying i torn my hamstring. i guess it was 
 while walking to the ring. but the only way tp hrlp rehab is to have a little R&R which takes away 
 fatigue but munches on ur popularity. and without being popular u dont get a title shot.
  A little advise for THQ next year is to go back to SvR 06 see what you did right and go back to 
 that.
  
  the create a wreastler looks solid and plenty of games modes to play. to bad the only new match 
 type is ECW match which is nothing more than a hardcore match that allows you to choose weapns 
 and set some on fire.
  The fighting styles are unique and its pretty accurate to the wrestlers themselves.
  
  and 
 on a final note lets either get new commentary for the game or no commentary at all. im getting 
 tired of hearing the same old jargin form 2 years ago. lets go back to HCTP and play backgroulnd 
 music during the match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bane004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, SvR08 is a great game. It has improved from SVR07. Graphics are better and the gameplay. 
 The majority of all game modes were not improved, they just stayed the same and I am fine with 
 that. I enjoy the storyline. I enjoy using my own music as my entrance theme.
  
  But the most disappointing thing is the roster. They need to seriously update the roster. About 
 4-8 people have been released and are in the game. Plus there are more that should be in the game.
 
  
  What they need to do is take more time in developing these games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murisaki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Next in the Smackdown Vs. Raw series, 2008 is the 4th entry whilst being the 2nd to make it onto 
 the X-Box 360. Now featuring a new 24/7 Mode, Hall of Fame Mode, the ability to create tournaments, 
 a new styles system and a new control scheme amongst others, this installment is also the first 
 to feature ECW as a brand, bringing-in many of it's own superstars, legends and even it's own match 
 in the form of the ECW Extreme Rules match.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  + Tweaks in control scheme feel weird at first, but are much easier to play with.
  + Fighting 
 styles system is interesting and helps add realism to superstars and matches.
  - Common problems such as collision detection, clipping and AI have been left practically untouched.
 
  - Lack of control in the targeting system can be really awkward during multi-man matches.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  + Superstar models still look great, with minor improvements.
  + New animations 
 look slick and move far more naturally.
  + Improved lighting and particle effects.
  - Many diva models look inaccurate.
  - Some major frame rate hits when using flaming tables.
 
  - Still some really ugly textures here and there.
  - Many awkward jumps in animation that look either unrealistic or just plain bizarre. 
  
  SOUND:
 
  + Much better soundtrack then the previous game, featuring bands like Sevendust and Puddle of 
 Mudd.
  + Some decent 24/7 voice acting.
  + Great custom entrance music integration.
  - Sound effects still sound weak.
  - Commentary consists of repeated lines from last year and 
 bored performances.
  - Some WWE voiceovers sound either forced, wooden or just show a lack of effort.
  - Crowd seems 
 somewhat dead.
  
  VALUE:
  + Improved interface with all existing match types still intact.
  + 24/7 Mode is a nice idea.
 
  + Still plenty of customisation.
  + Unique, if somewhat easy achievements.
  - 24/7 Mode really doesn't make full use of it's potential due to a series of bugs and glitches.
 
  - GM Mode is still no fun.
  - Online mode is not as laggy as last year, but still slow.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  To set one thing straight, it still plays like the previous games, which 
 isn't a bad thing. The biggest problem lies in the games biggest attraction: The 24/7 Mode. It's 
 just not that great. Along with the bugs, it really doesn't do much to make you feel like a legend-in-the-making. 
 The AI is still as dumb as bricks, and the wrestling engine really needs a polish, rather then 
 some more bells and whistles. In the end, it's still a good game, but in the regards to the Smackdown 
 Vs. Raw series, it's the weakest game since the first and might leave some fans dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woods0419
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I can't believe that the name WWE is on this product. I love most fighting games. Especially 
 fighting games with stories behind them. The story mode for SvR 2008 is completely ridiculous. 
 Fighting for movie spots, winning matches that make you number one contender but never getting 
 your title shot, extremely repetitive commentary, character's like the Undertaker or Kane trying 
 to make moves on Divas or female announcers, and out of this world DUMB (and also very repetitive) 
 cutscenes make this the worst wrestling game I've EVER played. Yes, I said ever. Some examples: 
 You will win the number one contender spot at nearly the beginning of story mode... however, there's 
 hardly any mention of it afterward. There surely isn't any title match for it, at least not for 
 a long time. The story begins to tell you that you are the number one contender for SummerSlam 
 and that you will lose your title shot if you attack the champ before the match. You are put into 
 a match as a "special announcer" where you actually just stand outside the ring for the duration 
 of the match (usually a handicap match between the current champ and two of his rivals) . You can 
 literally stand there the whole time, NEVER interacting with the wrestlers. Once the match is over, 
 it shoots to a cutscene showing your player leaving the ring a battered pulp! Then you receive 
 an email saying that you've lost your title shot! What?!? This kind of completely ridiculous events 
 happen consistently. There are several times before a match with a sworn enemy where your wrestler 
 is making friendly handshakes and talking with him backstage. Another nuisance: you will receive 
 several emails where you can accept or deny the offer made in the message... EVERY time I've denied 
 the offer, the game just goes along with the game as if I accepted it. I also have to go out and 
 say that there aren't enough wrestlers in this game. If you are going to include "Legends" in the 
 game, how about include more than approximately 7-8? They had the chance to completely pack this 
 game with the largest roster ever in a wrestling game, especially with the addition of ECW. Where's 
 Hulk Hogan? Andre the Giant? Ultimate Warrior? Jake the Snake? Randy "Macho Man" Savage? We all 
 know that WWE owns WCW and they talk about them (WCW) constantly in the game, so where is Sting, 
 Bill Goldberg, and Diamond Dallas Page, just to name a few? Players don't want to spend hours building 
 these characters in Create a Wrestler mode when they could easily be incorported straight out of 
 the box. The fact of the matter is, this game comes up terribly short of anything that could be 
 an even slightly good wrestling game. Lack of depth, extreme repetitiveness, stories that DO NOT 
 match the wrestlers and which will leave you asking yourself "What just happened?" or saying "I 
 just won the match but the game is acting like I was completely annihilated", and ZERO replay value 
 makes this game a complete bust. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. IF YOU MUST PLAY THIS GAME, RENT IT!!!!
 
  
  The only good news: Great graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAMIE1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is a definite step foward in the franchise. The 24/7 mode is very cool with a lot of options 
 that keep you really busy in your quest to become a legend. It has a nice realness about it and 
 you have to earn everything you have. Also the extream rules match is wasome, very fun!!. The new 
 submition system is a good addition to the game, it makes it more exciting, and the story line 
 is great too, very intriging with a lot of twist and turns Overal graphics are better and the roster 
 is good, not great but thats one of the few draw backs. Online is smoother than last year. Over 
 all a great very fun game, Its a defenite must buy for wrestling fans!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply a disappointment. The commentary is a copy of last years. The create a character 
 is a copy from last years even down to the clothing. In SVR 2007 you could buy load screens, banners 
 and decorate your locker room. This is gone now. You cannot play as a superstar and GM concurrently 
 as they have been combined into a 24/7 mode where you must pick one. This mode is weak in story 
 and plot and revolves around you beating the roster and becoming a legend over the course of a 
 year. The cut scenes repeat after awhile and there's less storyline than previous versions. You 
 have activities to do each day but most fatigue your superstar. The story is a constant fight against 
 fatigue and to gain popularity and gets redundant quickly. The controls rely heavily on the thumb 
 stick a little more so than last year's version. There are some nice new counters and total control 
 grapples you can do but the moves are limited. Wrestlers moves are now restricted to their fighting 
 styles. So Randy Orton will play dirty all the time and HBK will never take a pad of a turnbuckle. 
 I found that to be rather frustrating. The moves get repetitive fast. I also found myself getting 
 confused on how to do simple things like tag your partner and change you target when there multiple 
 wrestler's in the ring like a fatal 4 way match. I rarely struggled with this in SVR 2007. The 
 graphics aren't much better than last year's version. All in all I think you'd be better of skipping 
 this Game and playing SVR 2007 instead. This Game was obviously thrown together quickly is a huge 
 backward for the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjl1029
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  It seems as for the past few smackdown games THQ/YUKES give us litle things but take away huge 
 aspects of the game. They also continue to ignore little problems such as the hell in a cell etc, 
 this years game so far feels like a expansion pack and nothing more. The Extreme Rules match is 
 a welcome addition but the submission system is gimmicky and flawed. The roster is so thinned out 
 and it is ridiculous that you can only choose from a handful of wrestlers in season mode. They 
 have changed very little and unless next years game shows some improvement this will be my last 
 Smackdown game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theone86
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  Yes, Bi-polar. Upon exploring the new features of this game I went from elated, to mildy disappointed, 
 to pleasantly suprised, to a little confused, to extremely disappointed. Let me start with the 
 good.
  
  Create modes have seen a little more focus this year. I was very pleased with the way my created 
 wrestler turned out. There seems to be a few more options this year, although it does still have 
 limitations. Specifically putting multiple layers of certain items is impossible and they still 
 have limitations on the color range of some items. There also seem to be certain items that got 
 a little more attention than others, specifically hair. There are still categories, plural, that 
 leave a lot to be expected. The other problem is that they've streamlined the menus... somewhat. 
 The item select menus are still a one column long list, but there are some subtle changes to the 
 way other menus are handled. I, personally, don't like it. I think it was much faster finding my 
 way around the old menu. Now I have to go searching for a feature that used to be right in front 
 of my face. Created wrestlers do look much better, though, and a lot of the lag that used to occur 
 in this mode is gone or diminished.
  
  On to Create a title. This mode has also seen significant improvement. Most notably, there are 
 a lot more options. You can make just about any ECW Title, although they still haven't included 
 a way to edit the color of the belt manually. Instead you have to use their color options which, 
 suprise surprise, don't include orange. I guess I'm going to have to wait another year for a true 
 **** the World Title. You can also make a ton of different WCW and WWE titles, and *drumrolll* 
 the classic TNA X-Division Title. The other problem is that you still can't mix and match company 
 logos with different centerpieces. There could be a design for a specific belt that's missing just 
 the logo, and that throws the whole belt off. Also, some designs are still only available as spinners. 
 That wouldn't be a problem, but they never start out in the entrance at dead center, they're always 
 a little off, giving away the spinner aspect.
  
  That's where the fun in create modes ends. Create an entrance is largely unchanged, except for 
 a new timing menu. It basically works exactly the same except that now there's a little meter at 
 the top of the screen. It runs into the same issues it did last year, and again falls short of 
 the same mode in THQ and Yukes Day of Reckoning series. 
  
  Create a moveset isn't much better. There are some high points, but they get negated. First off, 
 weight class limits what fighting style you can choose, which in turn limits your moves. You have 
 much more moves available for a single category, but much less choice within that category. For 
 instance, a submission specialist will have a lot of submission holds available for their first 
 category, but not much in the way of anything else. To make things worse, two spots are now given 
 to ultimate controls. This essentially means that we went from having four categories, each with 
 four moves and an UCM, to having two categories with four moves and two UCMs. That's a loss of 
 two UCMs and eight moves. But wait, this isn't the only place they cut moveslots. there are now 
 two less strike slots, one less down diving slot, and probably a couple more. And that's just moveslots, 
 let's talk moves. I can't be totally sure because the moves they make available to you depends 
 on what style you have, but your choices become pretty miniscule. High flyer and hardcore, specifically, 
 have a lot of extra moves available while having some pretty useless primary abilities. I'll get 
 into styles more in a second. The bottom line is that your move selection is down. We wouldn't 
 even have new moves if it weren't for the new wrestlers in this year's edition. We would have an 
 even smaller movelist than before. If you've ever played a SD game you're probably going to be 
 missing at lest a couple moves. They also still change your move if it's a submission or pin an 
 a non-submission or pin situation. This means that almost any diving move becomes a body splash. 
 They did add a new move position that I've been wanting since I started playing the series, but 
 it really doesn't do much. You can now jump onto the apron at any point, but there aren't any moves 
 you can execute from there, sadly.
  
  Now to fighting styles. Good idea, bad execution. I like some aspects of it. The submission wrestler's 
 lockpick, the brawler's striking UCMs, the dirty wrestler's tactics. The problem is all of the 
 other useless stuff. There are a lot of things that are limited to one styles that I feel should 
 be pretty universal. Dodges, irish whip modifications, diving moves, and I definitely don't like 
 having a decreased moveset. You can talk about gameplay all you want, but at the end of the day 
 it still plays almost identically to every other SD game. The styles really don't do much to enhance 
 gameplay. Also, not being able to use two finishers in a row or store a finisher for later use 
 gets very annoying very fast.
  
  As for the rest of the gameplay, so-so. It is definitely slowed down, which I think is a good thing. 
 The new running mechanic works decently. As for matchtypes, gameplay is pretty much unchanged. 
 Nothing has been done to improve Royal Rumble matches, parking lot brawls, or just about any other 
 matchtype you had a problem with before. Hell in a Cell has a barrier on the top, which is a welcome 
 addition IMO, and Last man Standing now has a new winning method, basically you have to use a special 
 to win, which I could do without. You still can't have a pinning ladder or TLC match, you still 
 can't get weapons in HIAC, there is no Extreme Elimination Chamber, and like I said, basically 
 any match flaw is still present. They also still restrict which arenas you can use for which matches. 
 You still can't have an over-the-top-rope match larger than 6 people in an arena other than the 
 Royal Rumble, Elimination Chamber is available only at Mania and Survivor Series, and Extreme Rules 
 is available only in the new ECW arena.
  
  Extreme Rules is the standout of the game, although it's also completely uneccessary. It's basically 
 a hardcore match with pinfalls and submissions only in the ring, and a nifty little weapon wheel. 
 The problem is that the weapon wheel is available ONLY in Extreme Rules. You can't have a classic 
 ECW Three-Way Dance because you can't have elimination rules in Extreme Rules three ways. You could 
 do an elimination match, but you can't even get out of the ring in those, much less use the weapon 
 wheel. It's a good idea, but it falls short.
  
  As for the new 24/7 mode, it's almost unchanged. They basically put GM mode and Story mode under 
 the same menu title of 24/7 mode. There should be a law against this type of marketing. Nothing 
 new, just the addition of ECW. Oh, by the way, did I mention you can't use ECW wrestlers in story? 
 In fact, you can only use about 29 out of the 50. Have fun. The new Legends mode is also just a 
 fancy way of saying challenge mode.
  
  Speaking of story, it's pretty bad. The injury aspect really does almost ruin the whole mode. The 
 training exercises are just a very tedious exercise in micromanagement, and the locker room is 
 no longer customizable. They did bring back the popularity meter from years past and implement 
 a power 25, but the stories seldom change. You'll again be tired of this mode by the end of one 
 year at very best. They did add one new mode, tournament, which is pretty cool. But seeing as how 
 they refused to fix any of their matches it's pretty much a moot point.
  
  And now roster, it SUCKS. Think of my enunciation of sucks in the same way of Rodney Dangerfield's 
 in Caddyshack. Think of Homer Simpson's infamous quote, "They were the suckiest bunch of sucks 
 that ever sucked." I can barely fill a Royal Rumble with wrestlers that I actually want to play 
 as. There are actually a handful of pleasant surprises, such as Terry Funk, Sabu, and Rick Rude, 
 but the blatant omission of so many others combined with the pathetic number by this series standards 
 wahses out any benefit they make and then some. I don't care what you say about CAW or DLC, the 
 roster is a DISGRACE. It would be forgiveable if 08 was a great game, but it's just your regular 
 old sub-par SVR entry.
  
  On to graphics and sound. They're actually pretty decent. There's a good selection of songs and 
 the game looks great. The crowd is the one exception to these, but the game still looks great. 
 Collision detection has also improved. The flip side to that is that there are still instances 
 where you ahouldn't be able to do a move yet still can, like when someone is falling you can still 
 grapple them. A. I. also remains pretty much unchanged. The only difference is that they adhere 
 to their style. Hardcore will spam weapon shots, submission will spam submission moves, and so 
 on.
  
  I'm so sick of this series getting a free pass based on the name. The fact is that this series 
 is dying. It was fun five years ago, now it's just getting old. Nothing ever gets fixed. All they 
 do is change titles around to make things seem different and then repackage it as a, "BRAND NEW 
 FEATURE!!!" Please. All 2008 is is a fresh coat of paint on a car that needs a new engine. This 
 game is worth a rental only if you're a die-hard WWE fan ot SVR fan. I wouldn't reccomend a purchase 
 to anyone. No one who was involved in the making of this game deserves your money, don't give it 
 to them. You're just going to get bored in a month or so and forget about it until 09 gets announced, 
 why even bother? You're not going to be interested after a single rental period, it's time THQ/Yukes/WWE 
 got the message that we want a better videogame, why don't we send them that message by not purchasing 
 their half-hearted efforts year in and year out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  If you're like me, every year the new version of Smackdown Vs. Raw is practically a must-by. I 
 like to have the updated rosters, and usually they innovate some little thing to help you diffrentiate 
 the new experience from the old. When they brought in voices for your created character, although 
 they were all VERY cheesy, it was a definite improvement over having your character just gesture 
 crazily throughout his career. When they switched up the controls to the analog sticks last year, 
 I didn't think it was a good move. Due to the overwhelming opposition to the new control scheme, 
 I figured they would go back to the classic controls for '08. Well, how did things turn out this 
 year? Find out right now in my Game Review of Smackdown Vs. Raw 2008 on the Xbox 360.
  
  Sound: The sound issues that appear in this game should have been resolved two iterations ago. 
 The announcers still fail to comprehend any of the action going on in the ring. The vast majority 
 of the time, and I'm talking 90% or more of the time, finishing moves are not announced because 
 Michael Cole is busy explaining that, "These moves should not be tried at home." Does that sound 
 familiar to anyone? Yeah. You're right. That's the same line used in last year's game. Well, it 
 gets better. There pretty much is no new audio to speak of. The announcers say the same things, 
 keep talking after the pinfall has already happened, and your superstar... oh man. I like to play 
 through Season mode as my created superstar. Well, here's the thing. Yeah, I picked a voice for 
 him. Thing is.... I'm eight hours into the game.... and he hasn't spoken yet. W.... T..... F?? Also, 
 for anyone who has ever played Halo 3 and used the shotgun, that's the EXACT sound you hear as 
 an impact sound for finishing moves in this game. It's the personification of lame. The soundtrack 
 to the game leaves PLENTY to be desired, and the superstar voice overs are lackluster at best. 
 Even the messages on your cell phone are poorly done. 
  
  Graphics: This year's edition sees a nice bump up in character model quality. Unfortunately, it 
 comes at the expense of quality in every other category. I'm not going to lie. When I was playing 
 this game, I suddenly found myself feeling like I was playing RAW 2 again. For those that don't 
 know... that's not good. Also, the ever-present issue of "hair clipping", instances where characters 
 like the Undertaker who have long hair that seemingly graphically glitches through their body, 
 is still present. THQ... for shame. People were pointing this out in 2002... and yet, it's still 
 here. Are you guys hiring graphics designers or something? The ring looks good... I mean, outside 
 of the character models, what is there to see in a wrestling game? Oh yeah.. the crowd. It's generic. 
 I guess it isn't bad, but I certainly wouldn't say it looks good. The graphical package, on the 
 whole, is impressive. But the little hiccups, like hair clipping, get annoying after a few hours 
 of play.
  
  Control: An absolute trainwreck. I do not want to put the Texas Cloverleaf on my controller just 
 so my character will do it in the game. This is, without a shadow of a doubt, the worst control 
 setup I have seen in a video game since the days of WCW Thunder on the PS2, where they were still 
 using button combos to pull off moves. I'm really not sure what the goal here was other than to 
 frustrate the crap out of the player. Oh, mission accomplished by the way. For starters, the whole 
 concept of Technical grapple, power grapple, etc. has been thrown out the window. It seems someone 
 thought it would be sweet if, in order to perform a swinging neckbreaker, you need to actually 
 rotate the right thumbstick in a half circle to "simulate" the move. If you ask me, this is the 
 publisher's effort to "simulate" motion controls, since that's the new rage these days... a sort 
 of "See? We can make OUR game immersive this way too!" Well guess what? No you can't. In fact, 
 if anyone from THQ ever sees this review, I just want to say one thing: Your control scheme in 
 this game = fail. The triggers still do reversals, but who's the idiot that said you need to hold 
 down the left bumper and use the left thumbstick to run in the ring? I mean, honestly.... who was 
 that? It HAD to be on a Friday when they set this game up. I guess it's a good thing that you have 
 the thorough instruction manual to back you up in case you need help right? Well, not exactly.... see, 
 I still don't know how to tag in my partner after trying every button combination known to man... and 
 they seem to have left that one out of the instruction book. Guess they got tired of trying to 
 figure it out too. 
  
  Gameplay: Okay, I have my cup of coffee here. I think I'm just about ready to just cover the basics 
 of how this game goes out of its way to prove that, even with great graphics, a game can seriously 
 suck it up. First of all, whomsoever came up with 24/7 Mode should be fired effective immediately. 
 This edition does not have a season mode. In stead, it has this 24/7 mode that allows you to sit 
 in your non-customizable locker room and click on either the wwe magazine on the table, which contains 
 nothing more than storyline b. s., the laptop.. which shows you all the fun stuff they screwed up.. I 
 will get to that stuff later... the calendar, which shows your events, or your cell phone. That's 
 it. NO CUSTOM OPTIONS FOR YOUR LOCKER ROOM AT ALL. How can you take a feature out that was already 
 there? Let me explain to everyone exactly why this 24/7 mode.. SUCKS...24/7. You go through the 
 week, and each day, you can choose to work out or do other events, such as make a movie... yeah.. apparently 
 it only takes a day, and you can make another one the next day. Your charisma stats and other stats 
 determine whether the movie succeeds or flops, and you get charged fatigue for your effots. Does 
 this sound familiar? Maybe... RPGish? Yeah. And they should have left it at that. Okay, check this 
 out.... so you want to get your character's speed attribute increased right? Okay, okay.. well... here's 
 what you do. Remember how you used to have those user-friendly scales that showed a numeric value 
 for Stamina, Strength, etc.? Well, they are all gone. You want to up your speed, first of all, 
 you click speed training. It will take you to a ring with a random opponent and a 2 or 3 minute 
 time limit. Now, what you have to do is perform enough "dash attacks" (see also "running attacks") 
 on your opponent before time runs out. How many do you have to do? Well, that's a guessing game, 
 because THE GAME DOESN'T TELL YOU! You just do as many as you can until time runs out or you get 
 the message of "Training Successful."  not joking. 
 Want to increase your charisma? Same concept as before, only this time the goal is to perform a 
 hidden number of taunts within the time limit. Seriously, I felt stupid doing these excercises. 
 Also, you can now be injured. What i mean is, my character has had a broken arm for about 3 months 
 now. He wasn't put in a hold, hit with anything.. it just randomly, after a match, sent me a text 
 message that said, "You have a broken arm. You should try to rest and let it heel for about 10 
 weeks." Funny, because you have a match every week. And at the start of the match, my arms were 
 already in the red. It was awesome. I mean, the sheer realism of it all was  
 okay that's just stupid. Really, really.... really stupid. To top it off, the computer is practically 
 untouchable. They reverse EVERYTHING, and if you go into options and turn the A. I.'s reversal usage 
 down to 0%, they will STILL REVERSE EVERYTHING. What a sick, twisted joke. The create-a superstar 
 mode is the same thing as last year... heck, if it wasn't clearly marked 2008 I would say this whole 
 game was the last year's version... only with alot more suck added. In career mode, you see the 
 same cutscenes every time. I literally mean that. The game only has about 5 different cutscenes 
 to play before matches. It's pathetic. I get more variety out of my Pez dispenser than this game 
 gives me in cut scenes. I've never felt so sorry for a developer since I played Lair. Everything 
 about this game screams "I was rushed!!!" When a wrestler grabs the ref and throws him at you, 
 its funny because if you run out of the way of the ref he will follow you like a homing missile 
 until he collides with you. It's just hilarious how bad this game is. Seriously. 
  
  I could spend all day going on about issues with this game. I swear, I'm only scratching the surface 
 with what I have pointed out. I bought this game today... on launch day. My only hope with this 
 review is that it will reach people fast enough to keep them from buying this poor excuse for a 
 video game. As far as my recommendations go, they are as follows: As a rental, I don't recommend 
 this game.. even if it's the last game in the world and if you don't play it, the world will end. 
 Just don't touch it. As a purchase.... okay look. If you are thinking about buying this game, do 
 me a favor. Buy a Nintendo 64 and No Mercy. You will be much, much, MUCH happier with that. I'm 
 not even close to kidding. THQ.... Smackdown Vs. Raw..... someone forgot to flush. If every game 
 in the world sold out tomorrow, I guarantee this game would be the Last Game Still Standing on 
 store shelves. Man, what a stinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Over the past 9 years, THQ have delivered a series of fun grapplers that have good points, and 
 some bad flaws. That doesn't change this year, except from the fact that there are more good things 
 and more bad flaws.
  Some of the good things include an improved CAW mode, more fluent and realistic matches, and the 
 all new superstar fighting styles.
  The way to describe the good things is just like dominos. The fighting styles make matches much 
 better, and the much better matches make the gameplay alot more fun. And speaking of matches, and 
 dominos, ECW's prescence makes the Extreme Rules Match possible.
  ECW Extreme Rules Matches are definately the most fun to play. You choose a weapon from under the 
 ring with the nifty 'weapon wheel' this time around, aswell as taunting with the fans, using their 
 objects (e. g. a beer) as a weapon against your opponent, and now you even have the opportunity 
 to set tables, and barbed wire 2x4's flame. Believe me, slamming someone through a flaming table 
 is the best experience you can get out of this game.
  But then there's the bad points. 24/7 mode really is a big dissapointment. I mean, first of all, 
 there's like one proper cutscene per storlyine, and the others are repeated time and time again. 
 These include walking backstage, showing respect, or disrespect to superstars, which sometimes 
 turn out to be your worst rivals or greatest friends, and that gets really confusing. 
  The repeated storylines confuse you, and half the time you don't even have a clue who your PPV 
 opponent is, and that's annoying too. The 2 default champions are Boretista and Superman Cena, 
 and seeing as I hate both, I'm stuck with the others.
  And also, when you start up as a CAW, it really is strange how after you've finished on heat, your 
 in the same old WWE title picture. 
  But the rest of the game is great. Hall of Fame and Tournament Modes are simple and easy to play 
 through, with King of the Ring ending with a ceremony, which is pretty cool as you can select which 
 diva you'd like as a queen. 
  A couple of roster dissapointments, here and there, but it's nothing a little CAW mode can't fix, 
 especially with the 360 version having music upload version, with which I have already given Sandman 
 his almighty 'Enter Sandman' theme.
  Overall, here you have yet another great wrestling game, which is most definately a step forward 
 in the series. Great graphics and gameplay will keep you up all night scoring pinfalls. 1....2....3.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcp_mark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I have not tried all the game modes yet, but the gameplay is fabulous. The sound and visuals are 
 great. Entrances are very well done, and the character models look great! The game play is smooth 
 and overall great looking. 
  
  The only thing I was disappointed with were some of the limitations in create a player. I was hoping 
 to be able to create the road warriors, but the face paint options were limited. I am hoping there 
 is more to discover in this mode later. 
  
  I was pleased with the ability to create a stable. I didn't dig to deep into this, but it certainly 
 adds a lot of replayability to the game. I also tried several match types and they are phenomenal! 
 The action gets rather fast and furious when there are more than two people in the ring (ie 6 man 
 hell in a cell or royal rumble) . 
  
  This is a must have for any wrestling fan. I am glad that I picked this up on launch day and feel 
 it really is worth the cost, and a value at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainstead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I think this game has everything really. The graphics are phenomenal. The menus are slick and easy 
 to use. I am having trouble adjusting to the gameplay but I think that is because I am so used 
 to the 2007 game controls. I can see how thee controls for 2008 are much better and when I get 
 used to it how easy it will be. It does bother me that I need to hold two buttons to run easily. 
 
  
  The only real downfall is the roster. I like some of it, I think the legends that are unlockable 
 are great and the hall of fame section to unlock them is awesome. Problem is many of the current 
 superstars are already gone from WWE such as JTG and Shad and Booker T and then there are some 
 major players missing like Paul London and Brian Kendrick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorgedodo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  okay let me make this quicjk smackdown vs. raw 2008 is a great game but... it is just the same 
 thing you aw in 07 but with better controls , bigger roster , and some new modes wich dont work 
 quite well ,,, so if youre a wreting fan youll defently love this but if lot just rent it ,, it 
 may be fun for a weekend just playing extreme rules but otherwise dont buy this game ,, it is just 
 dont worth it if you are not a smackdown or raw or ecw fan... but the grafiz have improve .. and 
 you can do something with music but i havent test that yet .. onlyy really bad thing is the voice 
 acting it tis just terrible .. like to hear : "hey it jbl here on samckdown" with a strange voice 
 thta just make you say like wtf!! thas not jbl ... and if you go outside the ring you can see that 
 they are the same character models as 07 wich suposely whre tazz and other guy.... fin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Practically solid gameplay returns . ECW Extreme rules match, major hardcore improvement 
 . 8 Fighting styles help to mix things up a bit . Good, streamlined menus and match making . Tournament 
 modes add even more replay value . Short but awesome soundtrack 
  
  The Bad: Still often a buggy mess . Still pathetic AI . A mediocre roster . Many match types still 
 need work, feel unfinished . 24/7 mode is a little rushed and undesirable
  
  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 is the 9th game in the long running smackdown series, and recently the 
 series has seen far better times, and so has the WWE its self, thankfully though THQ and Yukes 
 have managed to bring the series back up to a respectable level. However, that doesn't mean to 
 say that Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 is a complete overhaul from SvR 07, the game does have a handful 
 of new features, but still, the game does has an incredible amount of bugs and visual glitches, 
 such as clipping, pretty much all the same stuff from the last game. Again thankfully most of the 
 irritating glitches from the last game have been touched upon.
  
  Right off the bat the first thing you will notice is how streamlined the menus have become, for 
 one thing when setting up an exhibition match, the matches are no longer categorized to the actual 
 match type, instead its all been grouped under the amount of players that participate in the match, 
 while this is certainly more user friendly, it does seem just a tad too messy how some of the match 
 types have been placed into categories such as "6 man", also it's a little hard to find exactly 
 what you want. The first new addition to the menu is the play now option, which essentially is 
 just a standard quick play mode, plus you have your standard "game modes" which take up the main 
 core of the game, and of course, your always welcome "create modes" The major new core game mode 
 this year is the 24/7 mode which acts both as a season mode and the every popular GM mode, the 
 season portion of the mode is pretty basic, you can either select a created superstar or one of 
 19 (sadly only 19 due to voiceovers) available regular superstars, the more well established the 
 superstar, the higher in the "legend" status you will be, when playing a created superstar you 
 start at the very bottom of the ladder and Your basic aim in this mode is to make it to "legend" 
 status, but its not easy, your superstar has to train stats, such as stamina and strength along 
 with quick challenges, train skill, such as camera skills and pain management, and perform daily 
 activities such as autograph signing, these new additions along with the possibility of injuries 
 add something interesting to the board, but look a little deeper and these features seem a little 
 tacked on.
  
  The Story lines them selves are the usual rivalry type of affairs, in between matches a standard 
 cutscene will appear to try and help create some atmosphere, but these scenes are little to be 
 desired, they usually feature your superstar walking down a corridor bumping into other superstars 
 who may be participating in your current story line, or just walking away from the ring in a bad 
 state, trouble is it usually makes no sense what so ever, you will see your superstar occasionally 
 show good sportsmanship to your rivals for no reason, and the next show disrespect to your partner, 
 its clearly a rushed system. Other than that the 24/7 mode is somewhat enjoyable, its still no 
 "Shut Your Mouth" kind of season, but it is at least a more free from ordeal.
  
  Once again with the credits you earn-from 24/7 mode in this case-you can purchase a select few 
 items such as legend wrestlers and alternate attires, moves sets and new to this year, fighting 
 style "kits" that train your created superstars stats the easy way. Sadly once again, there's hardly 
 anything interesting to buy, just the usual list of legends and slightly adjusted attires. The 
 challenge mode from previous games has been given a makeover as the "hall of fame", here u can 
 take a select few "direct challenges" and achieve other activities such as getting a created championship 
 belt to maximum prestige, once you complete one of these challenges a small section of the "hall 
 of fame" logo fills up, again this mode is nothing entirely new or interesting and feels, again, 
 tacked on.
  
  However probably the best new addition to the game modes this year is the tournament modes, here 
 you can partake in various tournaments such as, of course, the King of the Ring, Beat the clock 
 sprint, Road to Wrestlemania and you own custom tournament, the best part about this mode is the 
 freedom of choice, there's a bunch of variations to choose from, and with the custom tournaments 
 specifically you can choose from a lot of the gimmick matches for just that match, its most definitely 
 the best new mode in the game, especially for people who love multiplayer tournaments modes.
  
  The Create modes are pretty much the same as last year, which in some regards is a little disappointing, 
 the create a superstar has had a little makeover with some of the categories, for instance things 
 such as mask designs and tight designs have now been categorized to make things somewhat easier, 
 sadly, crotch blurring is still in there. Create an entrance remains the same, but with some good 
 improvements, for one thing the music isn't on loop when previewing the final product and timing 
 fireworks and camera angles has been made easier with a new time bar at the top of the screen. 
 Create a belt hasn't been improved but it never needed be, however, making title matches with created 
 belts has been made far easier and thus, making created belts is far more enjoyable.
  
  The actual gameplay this year is almost identical to last years, its still pretty much the same 
 stuff, but the main new "crutch" so to speak is fighting styles, each superstar has 2 different 
 fighting styles, whether it's a "high flyer", "powerhouse" or "showman" is all down to the superstar, 
 before each match, you can choose which primary fighting style you want, but you do still thankfully 
 get the secondary abilities from the second fighting style to mix things up. The fighting styles 
 themselves are diverse in ability, but aren't completely overwhelming in the amount, of abilities, 
 "high flyers" can do a wide array of aerial moves, "showman's" can steal taunts and finishers, 
 and "powerhouses" can activate a brief moment of invulnerability, if it wasn't for a second fighting 
 style, it would be pretty bare. That said, you don't entirely want a lot of abilities that alienate 
 other superstars more than it already does, no other superstar than a "dirty" superstar can remove 
 the turnbuckle padding and no other superstar than a "high flyer" can perform "special" plancha 
 moves from the apron, those may be small niggles, but to die hard fans who are used to being able 
 to anything with anybody, it can alienate them as well.
  
  Major props go out to Yukes and THQ this year for improving upon the hardcore element of the WWE, 
 which appears to be dead nowadays, even with ECW as a sub brand, its still appears to be dead, 
 but that's not the case with SVR 08, certainly not with new addition of the ECW Extreme rules match, 
 here, things get very hardcore indeed, and rightly so since last years game, and the 2 iterations 
 before it, had hardly any hardcore elements at all. This is where, for me, SVR 08 really shines, 
 and especially if you are using thehardcore" fighting style, before each match your able to 
 choose which 4 special weapons you want to be in the match, this consists of chairs, kendo sticks, 
 guitars, sledgehammers and the like, as well as tables, ladder, trashcans and barbed wire 2x4's 
 that come with the match as standard. No longer is it a case of a specific weapon from under the 
 ring, now a new radial menu appears when reaching for a bone shattering tool of destruction, allowing 
 you to choose what you want and when you want, on top of that, this match also features the ability 
 to set 2x4's and tables on fire!, and overall, that's just awesome. Sadly this does leave the hardcore 
 match feeling slightly redundant. Speaking of match types, many of the old classic match types 
 such as "Hell In The Cell" have still not been improved, and are beginning to look really dated, 
 which is a real shame.
  
  Of course this is a smackdown game, and a smackdown game with no bugs and visual errors would have 
 to appear in "Ripley's Believe It Or Not" because its just not going to happen, that said things 
 have been improvedslightly. The collision detection is way off once again and there is still a 
 lot of clipping here and there, but still, there is some noticeable improvement, even if its not 
 a lot. The AI this year is still abysmal, even on legend difficulty, the AI will still often stand 
 there, or when ladders and tables are around, pick them up and mess around with them like a crazed 
 child. Even when THQ said Yukes were working on it, its still hard to believe that, as with every 
 year.
  
  Visually the game looks fairly impressive, its no overhaul from last years game, but for a game 
 that is made under a year it looks somewhat better, there is some great depth of field work in 
 there, and some really good detailed player models, the flame effects look exceptionally impressive 
 as do some of the pyro effects, the game runs super smooth on the 360, on the PS3 there is some 
 serious framerate issues on a SD TV.
  
  A few other things to note are the achievements, soundtrack and the roster, the achievements this 
 year are a step above last years, stuff like making every ECW Superstar bleed at least once is 
 a real neat addition to the list. The roster this year is probably the worst one yet, with the 
 WWE releasing talent left right and centre, the roster is incredibly out of date and short, its 
 even missing a lot of crucial superstars who are still in the WWE, mainly tag teams, which can 
 be a little irritating. The soundtrack this year is superb, it's the usual rock/metal-core mix 
 up of a soundtrack, with the occasional hint of hip hop, but the actual songs are great this year, 
 and luckily, none of them are irritating bar the rap tracks.
  
  Overall, Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 is a major improvement over 07, but not a major improvement in 
 the series, it still has its irritating nuances, glitches and tacked on features, and has a long 
 way to go. While its no "Fire Pro" its still a really fun enjoyable experience for any wrestling 
 fan, fans of the series however may be left a little disappointed.
  
  
  ~Death Burnout
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djthompson64
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  With another addition introduced this year we're treated to another list of new features, updates 
 and overall tune ups. Like 2007, Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 is still just a shell over the old Smackdown 
 Vs Raw engine. The use of the thumbsticks are back and more intuitive than ever. The game introduces 
 new gameplay concepts and modes. Some work, most don't.
  
  Let's first focus on the Gameplay, as I explained the game uses the thumbsticks a lot. A LOT this 
 year. Every grapple move is done using them as well as the 'Ultimate Control' grapples which were 
 introduced as gimmicky custom moves which when you got right down to it weren't all that custom. 
 Well instead of tweaking them they've added a few more options to them and a few more Environmental 
 Hotspots. The real thing that's improved is the ability to wriggle your way out of a move and counter 
 it. These counters are very well animated and satisfying to watch yourself get out of a highly 
 risky situation.
  
  The new Fighting Styles introduced this year in my opinion is great yet quite restricting in terms 
 of what moves you want to perform and what moves you're specified to perform. The new styles gives 
 you advantages in the form of special moves which can benefit you beating an opponent. If you understand 
 which combination on Y, RB, X and A to press then you can activate these moves like stealing a 
 taunt, taking off turnbuckle padding and even using the Ref as a human shield then throwing him 
 into an opponent. 
  
  These little gimmicks are great but they do restrict you. Like for example taking off the padding, 
 Doing weapon grapples, Strong Irish whips where all available to all fighters last year now you're 
 almost forced to abide to how your style fights which is more realistic and tactical yet at the 
 same time tedious and hampered.
  
  The overture of ECW has been on demand for years now. Well in theory more hardcore orientated updates. 
 It just so happened to have the ECW name slapped on it due to WWE's acquisition of ECW. The presence 
 of ECW is defiantly noticeable because that has introduced a host of new weapons and a host of 
 things to do with those weapons. A personal favourite of mine is the Extreme Rules Match which 
 enables the player to conventionally select a weapon form a wheel menu which gives matches a little 
 more control so you won't just randomly haul out a broom or a crutch when you just want a table. 
 
  
  The presence of ECW has also spawned new legends such as Terry Funk and Sabu. Although on the subject 
 of legends me and I'm sure other fans are peeved at the fact Eddie is missing from this year's 
 Legendary line up. Instead making his exclusive mark on the PSP version. The rest of the legends 
 are all the same with Rick Rude making a debut. For some reason.
  
  The Graphics have been greatly improved since 07. Last year's shiny next-gen visuals have been 
 replaced by a more realistic organic style. This is especially noticeable when you focus on skin 
 texture and tone as well as the faces which have been build very well around their likenesses. 
 CAWs have also had a huge graphical update. The skin of Caws no longer look blotchy, their clothes 
 no longer look pixelated or blurred and small graphics look more crisp making CAWs look the best 
 they've ever been. The game also uses depth of field and better textures for arenas. The lighting 
 seems unchanged as does the pyro and particle effects especially which still seem quite dated.
 
  
  The Big Mode for this year's Smackdown Vs Raw is WWE 24/7 Mode which is basically a really useless 
 idea. It's a mode which slaps GM Mode and Career into one account despite both Modes being separate. 
 GM Mode is pretty untouched from last year with the exception of some new features introduced in 
 career mode which enhances certain superstar's stats and or abilities to become more popular with 
 fans, make some more money or exploit your rival shows and invade them with a chosen WWE Superstar. 
 
  
  These options are nice but will be used only on occasions to see what outcomes they create or to 
 make a certain superstar insanely popular. It takes away the whole strategy of having to put them 
 in shows and win to gain fan popularity when now you can buy the popularity from the bucketful.
 
  
  The Career Mode is a really Leap Of Faith in terms of mixing the Story Mode up with a more realistic 
 Season simulation. Now like on HCTP on PS2 you'll fight through a year in it's entirety right down 
 to every show, right down to every PPV, right down to Wrestlemania. Before you start you can choose 
 to be an existing superstar or play as a Created Superstar. 
  
  After playing as both I found the CAW more enjoyable especially starting as a rookie and slowly 
 becoming a legend. Talking of becoming a legend the whole mode revolves around that. To become 
 a legend or to become General Manager of the year. You're pretty much made to do that and made 
 to make the right decisions otherwise you'll be sitting there watching the percentage meter wondering 
 why it hasn't budged from 11% in 4 months. 
  
  The real true flaw in this mode is fatigue and dealing with it without costing you a bomb or making 
 you fall in popularity which will disable you from reaching higher in the ranks. Like previous 
 user reviews it's impossible to avoid injury without having a major drop in your popularity. Which 
 means you'll have to buy some but that fatigues you too. And when you're injured you still have 
 to wrestle and that'll fatigue you more and chances are you'll loose and loose fans. It's a vicious 
 circle of failure and it can and will get on your nerves after a while.
  
  That's pretty much it. The game is good and it has been updated for the better. I just hoped they'd 
 spend a little more time on the 24/7 mode and not make GM Mode a part of it as it's unnecessary 
 to be there with Career Mode when they don't link with each other at all. Changing that would defiantly 
 make things less complicated and less frustration when you want to switch between playing GM Mode 
 and Career Mode.
  
  Overall if you're a WWE fan this is an essential pick up. The game has a ton of new content to 
 offer die hard Smackdown Vs Raw fans and Modes to keep you occupied till you toss it off the shelves 
 for you Xmas collection. So what would you like in 2009's game then.?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conor_es
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  when you start playing smckdown vs raw you immediately realise the difference between this years 
 and last years game. the new fighting styles make the game so much better in the fact that every 
 different type has its own strenghts and weaknesses which makes a match like bobby lashley vs jeff 
 hardy very very fun. the 24/7 mode is good in the fact that it matters if you win matches or not 
 and the storylines are good but sometimes it doenst make much sense. i got hate mail from the undertaker 
 and when im walking down the hall hes tryimg to shake my hand. even though it has a few problems 
 smackdown vs raw is a game (if u like wrestling) you should definetely buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigervamp
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  At the time of writing this there is one other player review, and that person claims it is the 
 "best in series" which is absolute nonsense.
  
  I have no idea who tested this game, but they are absolutely terrible at spotting problems, fire 
 them, and hire me!
  
  Smackdown Vs Raw 2007 had some big problems, one of which was the poor career mode. You could not 
 use a created female wrestler in career mode, have they fixed this? No, they most certainly have 
 not! And this is not really a cry for equality; although a lot of my female friends were annoyed 
 at this, i just happen to think that the complete lack of this option is ridiculous.
  
  I was looking forward to the 24/7 mode, it sounded like an interesting step forward, but the additions 
 which should have been interesting only help to ruin the game. 
  The same cut-scenes are used over and over again, and i mean that they are used repeatedly in the 
 FIRST season, not just repeated from season to season.
  
  The commentary is ripped straight from SvR 2007, with pointless additions to pretend that the ECW 
 inclusion is well done, "CM Punk is a good guy for wrestling" for example.
  
  There is the "choice" of things to do each day in 24/7 mode, which seems nice, until you realise 
 that the intelligent thing to do as far as popularity is concerned, is to choose the basic "sign 
 autographs" option. Signing autographs gives you 1 or 2 points in popularity, with no fatigue, 
 as opposed to other popularity options which give more points but add a LOT of fatigue, and the 
 only way to remove fatigue is to use "R&R" which removes a LOT of popularity points, something 
 like this, but not exact:
  
  "Star in movie" Success = 10 points, but 50% fatigued.
  "R&R" Success = most of fatigue removed, but costs you 15 points in popularity!! Absolutely POINTLESS!!!
 
  
  Ah, but you can use custom soundtrack music, right? Yes, you can, but that system is also painfully 
 flawed! Think of games like GTA and Project Gotham, you can create a Playlist and add the entire 
 folder, and then choose a track from that folder, right? You can't do that here; it only selects 
 the first track from the playlist, so in order to have a list of songs to choose from for different 
 characters, you must create a separate playlist for each song, MADNESS!!!
  
  Plenty more issues with the game, I'll focus on one thing i saw, Coachman tells you that you are 
 in a triple threat match (part of many matches to prove you are the best talent to be included 
 in a film... silly story... and does not matter how many times you win, if you lose the last match, 
 someone else is chosen over you) and he tells you it is a main event match, but when you look at 
 the schedule, your match is a 1v2 handicap match, and NOT the main event, then after the match, 
 no matter what happens (i won it) Coachman will apologise and say he did not know it'd be a handicap 
 match... and he says nothing about the fact that it was scheduled to be such BEFORE the match, and 
 that either way it was not the main event!!!
  
  Lazy programmers + lazy game testers = A flawed and lifeless "game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Having taken the trouble to click on this review, you're clearly the sort of person who realises 
 there's more to showbiz wrestling than greased-up men kicking the living sh*t out of each other. 
 And for extreme console brawling, the tongue-twistingly-titled WWE Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 is a remarkable 
 recreation of the TV grapple-opera.
  
  Building on previous editions in THQ's evergreen series, 2008's list of features is impressive: 
 more attention has been given to individual fighting styles and using them to recreate professional 
 bruisers, techniques such as Powerhouse, Dirty and Showman helping to capture the unique approach 
 of a fighter such as Sandman. A more interactive audience also makes for hilarious matches - especially 
 if they grab hold of your opponent so that you can get in a few cheap punches - and new weapons 
 such as fiery tables, barbed-wire clubs and breakable guitars add extra flair to the explosive 
 bouts. And with simplified controls that allow you to lay the smackdown with little more than a 
 button press, anyone who picks up the game can look like a wrestling superstar in minutes.
  
  Slick visuals and the best graphics so far in the series - check out the realistically bad 
 hair - also make 2008 an essential purchase for fans, and an outrageously fun grappler for anyone 
 looking for straightforward, beautifully presented ultra violence. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
