-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/smackdownvsraw2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of modes and content, including a lengthy season mode and online play.
 new grappling system takes some learning but ultimately works well.
 excellent-looking wrestler models.
 a solid amount of voice-over from the WWE superstars.
 new environmental hot spots are a hoot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 GM mode is still rather limited and kind of dull.
 longtime artificial intelligence, clipping, and collision-detection issues remain.
 commentary is weak.
 roster is fairly out of date.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.0, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,059 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Yuke's
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 improves isn't necessarily what the series actually needed to improve, 
 but on its own merits, it's still a great wrestling game. 

  The WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW franchise, from THQ and developer Yuke's, may have finally hit a wall. 
 Granted, we're on the eighth iteration of the series, which dates back all the way to the PlayStation 
 era, and the series has steadily evolved with each sequel, with only a few missteps here and there. 
 But with WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007, it's tough not to harp on some of the major issues that have 
 gone uncorrected year after year. The collision detection is still suspect. The artificial intelligence 
 is still unreliable. Clipping problems still plague the graphics engine. Now, that's not to suggest 
 that 2007 is devoid of merit. An all-new grappling system does a bit to give the game a fresh feel, 
 and with the series' debut on the Xbox 360, you'll be treated to a glimpse of the visual treats 
 you'll get to experience as SmackDown! inevitably moves from the older consoles to the current 
 crop of hardware. It's another great entry in the SmackDown! lineage that suffers only because 
 what it fixes and improves isn't necessarily what is wrong with this aging game engine. Fans will 
 undoubtedly enjoy it for what it is, but they'll also certainly be wondering if a true overhaul 
 of the series is on the horizon.  

          A Microsoft console finally gets a wrestling game that's actually fun to play in SmackDown! 
 vs. RAW 2007.     

  For what it's worth, Yuke's has completely reworked the game's grappling engine, even if that isn't 
 something that really needed reworking. Whereas wrestling games have relied entirely on the notion 
 of a grapple button to start up grappling moves in the past, SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 maps all grappling 
 functions to the right control stick. Simply flicking the stick up, down, or to either side while 
 facing your opponent will pull off one of your wrestler's quick grapple moves, and by holding down 
 the right bumper on the Xbox 360, or the R1 button on the PlayStation 2, then flicking the stick, 
 you'll go into a stronger grapple, one that depends on the direction you pressed the stick (animations 
 are different for luchadore moves, submissions, power moves, and the like) . With the opponent locked 
 into a grapple, you then press a direction on the stick once again to pull off a move.  

  The idea with this new grappling system seems to be to give you more of a sense of freedom in your 
 moves, though it doesn't entirely succeed. Being able to pull off quick grappling maneuvers simply 
 by flicking the stick definitely feels more natural than the old methodology, but with strong moves, 
 you still end up having to hold a wrestler in a grappled state for at least a second or two before 
 pulling the move off, and flicking the stick doesn't give you any greater sense of freedom in this 
 case than pushing a button. Basically, the system isn't better than what was there before, but 
 it's not any worse, either. It's just different.  

  One cool addition, however, is the new ultimate control move system. When you first put an opponent 
 into a strong grapple, instead of pressing a direction on the control stick, press down on the 
 control stick button and you'll pick up your opponent in one of several different ways. For example, 
 you might pick him up like you're about to suplex him to the mat, but instead you'll suspend him 
 in midair and have a few different options of how to dispose of him. By walking over to the ropes 
 and pressing up on the right stick, you'll drop him midsection-first right onto the ropes. Pressing 
 down will perform a normal suplex. There's a number of variations of typical wrestling moves to 
 use with this feature, like the DDT, Samoan drop, choke slam, and pile driver, to name a few. You 
 can also drag opponents over to environmental hot spots like the ring steps, announcer tables, 
 and the like, and use the same sort of right-stick-based attack methodology, with these areas acting 
 as weapons. It's an extremely cool idea that's only hampered by the limited number of ultimate 
 control moves you have access to. It makes sense that each wrestler would have access to only a 
 few of these individual moves, but there's only a dozen or so of them overall. A little more variety 
 would have gone a long way here.  

          Ultimate control moves are an interesting and fun addition, though the variety of moves 
 available could be better.     

  Speaking of environmental hot spots, SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 includes a whole new section of the 
 ring area that is littered with weaponry and other objects to slam your opponents into. Just drag 
 your opponent over to the right section of the crowd and throw him over the ring barrier. Once 
 you're there, there's a multitude of objects to use to decimate your opponent. Apart from the usual 
 tables and chairs, you'll find extension cords, fire extinguishers, racks of speakers, fans' signs, 
 and a huge production rig to jump off of. Very little of what's over here operates much differently 
 than the usual menagerie of weapons you find in a hardcore match, but having an out-of-the-ring 
 area to brawl in is a nice touch.  

  While the new touches on the gameplay system range from decent to great, few of these changes are 
 aspects of the game that really  needed  updating. Instead of new grappling systems and added hot 
 spots, some updates to the wrestler AI system or improvements to the collision detection would 
 have been nice. For what it is, the opponent AI is OK, though it's periodically incapable of dealing 
 a final blow in some of the more weapon-heavy gimmick matches. Partner AI in tag matches is still 
 mostly broken. Sometimes they'll come running to your rescue when you're trapped in a submission 
 hold or about to be pinned, and sometimes they'll just stand there twiddling their thumbs. Oddly 
 enough, opponent partners in tag matches never seem to have an issue rescuing their comrades. AI 
 opponents in general still rely very heavily on perfectly timed reversals that happen to be significantly 
 tougher to time on your end, and it's not terribly hard to get stuck in an unbreakable string of 
 attacks from your opponent if you aren't deft with the reversal timing. Considering the only way 
 to get up off the mat is to mash buttons like a lunatic, it's tough to balance that with timing 
 your reversals. That's something else that could stand to be improved.  

  Collision detection is as it's been in the last few SmackDown! games. Generally, it works well, 
 though there are a number of spots where you'll miss with strikes inexplicably, and flying attacks 
 are always a total gamble as to where you'll land and if you'll even hit anything. It's also annoying 
 that putting wrestlers through tables or smacking them off downed ladders isn't more dynamic. You 
 still have to treat these weapons as hot spots more often than not, and doing moves like powerbombs 
 or suplexes near them isn't typically enough to make them break. Perhaps this is just a limitation 
 associated with the fact that, even on the Xbox 360, this game is still running on the engine designed 
 for the PlayStation 2. Still, with a 360 game, you'd hope for some improvement in the dynamics 
 of these types of weapons and attacks.  

          The new battle zone outside the ring is rife with things to pummel your opponent with. 
     

  What you simply can't complain about in any of the recent SmackDown! games is the breadth of content, 
 and 2007 is no different. Every single match type, game mode, and feature found in last year's 
 game is on hand again, and many have been extended or adjusted to give them even more lasting value. 
 The only new match in the game is the money in the bank match, a six-man free-for-all ladder match 
 that, admittedly, isn't terribly fun unless you're playing against friends. But with so many other 
 matches available, from the usual table, TLC, and hardcore matches to big-time gimmick matches 
 like buried alive, elimination chamber, and backstage brawls that take place either in a parking 
 lot or a bar, you're unlikely to run out of ways to pummel opponents any time soon.  

  Xbox 360 owners will also be able to whittle away the hours picking up the game's 29 achievements. 
 Some of them are pretty standard, like beating the season mode on varying difficulty levels, completing 
 a year of the GM mode, and winning certain types of matches. There are also some more involved 
 achievement types, like defeating every single superstar in the game on the hardest difficulty, 
 winning 50 online matches, and defending your created belt online 20 times.     

  The season mode has improved a bit on the basic story-driven formula found last year. There's around 
 40 different individual storylines in the game, each of which centers around some kind of feud 
 or situation leading up to a Pay-Per-View battle. Which storylines you end up experiencing depend 
 mostly on which wrestler you bring into the season mode (created wrestlers and a few of the legends 
 can be brought in, along with the main roster) , though there are a couple of specific spots in 
 a few of the storylines where you'll get to make a specific choice and branch the story one way 
 or the other. The storylines themselves are basically on par with what you'd find on the show, 
 with feuds centering around title shots, Royal Rumble slots, various divas, and such. The only 
 thing that's a bummer in this year's storylines is that the dialogue and commentary don't seem 
 to form fit around whichever wrestler you're using quite as well. The commentators refer to you 
 generically as a "superstar" in most cases, and the cutscenes often go out of their way to make 
 it so you don't talk much, save for when it's most necessary. Still, there's plenty of wrestler 
 dialogue to be found, and most of it is good. Sometimes it's real stiff, but not necessarily any 
 more so than what you'd see on TV. And certain wrestlers, such as Mr. Kennedy, do a masterful job 
 bringing their personas to the game.  

          Season mode includes around 40 individual storylines, many of which are about on par with 
 the writing on the TV shows.     

  The GM mode returns this year, as well. Making its debut last year, this mode introduced the concept 
 of being able to book your own shows, setting up feuds, and trying to earn fans away from the rival 
 brand. It's a purely menu-based mode, and it works similarly to some of the PC wrestling management 
 sims floating around on the Internet, though without a ton of depth. This year's mode adds a few 
 wrinkles to the formula, not the least of which is specific feud types and storyline writers. Along 
 with having to hire an entire roster of superstars, you'll need to periodically hire writers. Each 
 writer specializes in certain types of storylines. One writer might be adept at handling storylines 
 revolving around factions, whereas another one might be good at pulling at the heartstrings of 
 American fans via patriotic angles. Each storyline requires certain types of wrestlers, so you 
 can't just shove anyone into an angle and have it work. The basic idea for setting up these rivalries 
 is that matches between wrestlers in a rivalry get match-rating bonuses.  

  The addition of rivalry types and writers is a nice idea, but it doesn't fix the fundamental issue 
 with the GM mode, in that you still feel totally disconnected from the experience. Though you can 
 play through any of the matches you book for a card, doing so doesn't seem to have any more of 
 an effect on the match rating at the end than simply simulating them. It's also impossible to book 
 cards that are realistic in comparison to what the WWE actually books for its shows. For one, you 
 can only have 20 wrestlers on a roster at any given time, which makes trying to create a variety 
 of matches and feuds a touch difficult. Additionally, none of the promos you can book for a show 
 play out visibly. They're just menu options on the card, and they give you varying types of bonuses, 
 but that's it. The same can be said for rivalries, which seem to be there purely for bonus purposes 
 and not much else. It might be asking a bit much at this point to be able to book full-on storylines 
 and have them play out in some tangible capacity, but what the GM mode offers still feels a bit 
 mundane. It's cool to be able to take control of one of the WWE brands, but what you end up doing 
 with it ends up being repetitive and not very interesting.  

  All the create modes found in last year's game are back this year, and most of them work functionally 
 the same. Create-a-wrestler, create-a-belt, and create-a-stable are mostly the same, though CAW 
 has plenty of additional attires and customization options. Create-an-entrance has seen the biggest 
 overhaul. You can now view previews of every single change you make to a wrestler's entrance on 
 the fly, from basic camera angles to varying types of pyrotechnics. The load-up time for each preview 
 is almost nonexistent, and in general, it's a much breezier process to create a good entrance this 
 time around. The only real flaw is entrance music. For one, the entrance music you pick just plays 
 on loop in the background, and it doesn't restart each time you load up a new preview, which might 
 make timing pyrotechnics and entrance moves a bit off-kilter. Also, for some strange reason, the 
 Xbox 360 version of the game doesn't support custom soundtracks as theme music. The game won't 
 recognize any music you might have saved on your hard drive. While the SmackDown! games have never 
 had this feature, all the previous wrestling games on the original Xbox had it, making its omission 
 here very disappointing.  

  Online features are pretty much par for the course for the series, with every available match type 
 playable online on Xbox Live -- or, at least, any match type that doesn't require more than four 
 players. The Xbox 360 version only supports four players online. But that quibble aside, the online 
 plays great. Matches we tried were basically lag-free, and with the ability to challenge for opponents' 
 created title belts, as well as trade created superstars among other players, you'll find plenty 
 to do online.  

          The new additions to the GM mode don't do much to make it a more entertaining endeavor. 
     

  The only thing decidedly missing from the online mode that seems like it ought to be added to this 
 series eventually is the ability to download new wrestlers into the game. WWE rosters are constantly 
 shifting, and every single year the roster is out of date well before the game ever makes it to 
 store shelves. No year has this been more evident than with SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007. Plenty of 
 highly pushed superstars like the Spirit Squad, Brian Kendrick, Paul London, and basically any 
 ECW superstar not named Big Show or Rob Van Dam, are nowhere to be found in the game. In fact, 
 the ECW brand isn't really acknowledged anywhere, nor do several of the wrestlers have their current 
 gimmicks. Booker T is sans the King Booker gimmick, and though there's an unlockable DX entrance 
 available, the gimmick isn't prevalent anywhere in the season mode. Also, you've got guys like 
 Psicosis and Kid Kash in the game who haven't been on TV in quite some time, not to mention Kurt 
 Angle, who ditched the WWE quite a while back for the rival NWA-TNA promotion. Though you can certainly 
 create most of the omitted wrestlers, it's a hassle to do so, and you'll undoubtedly be disappointed 
 with the overall makeup of this year's roster.  

  The SmackDown! games have consistently delivered some of the best graphics on the PlayStation 2, 
 but like the gameplay, some of the nagging issues conspire to drag the experience down this year. 
 This is especially true on the Xbox 360, where the overall graphical presentation might look better, 
 but issues like frequent clipping and clunky animations stick out even more offensively. You still 
 have wrestlers clipping through the mat and objects, move and reaction animations that don't quite 
 line up, and poorly animated long hair that looks hideous on what are otherwise fantastic-looking 
 character models. And make no mistake, they look amazing. All the detail of the PS2 models has 
 been ramped up on the Xbox 360, with even more realistic-looking skin and progressive sweat effects 
 that manage to avoid the "greasy" look that most in-game sweat tends to take on. Some stiff animations 
 aside, the movements of the wrestlers are still great, especially the facial reactions and animations 
 as wrestlers get hurt. All the while, the game's frame rate stays steady. It's an undoubtedly great-looking 
 game.  

  However, those great looks evidently come with a price, as the game's load times are just shy of 
 unbearable. The improved load times in the create-an-entrance mode apparently didn't make it to 
 the rest of the game, because you'll find yourself sitting around, waiting for things to load almost 
 as much as you will find yourself wrestling. When you start up a match, it has to load the initial 
 face-off screen, then load each individual wrestler entrance, then load up what you think is the 
 match, but it actually turns out it's a load to  another loading screen , then it finally gets 
 you into the match. Once the match is over, it has to then load the celebration movie at the end. 
 In season mode, every cutscene takes several seconds to load as well. You'd think that with the 
 power of the Xbox 360, things might run a little quicker, but in truth the load times are nearly 
 as bad as the PlayStation 2 version's.  

          The character models look fantastic up close, though the animation is a bit stiff.     
 

  The audio presentation is rather uneven. We've already covered the solid voice acting, but the 
 in-match commentary is very much its own animal, and a far more wounded one at that. The commentary 
 that pops up during the season mode that's specific to the storylines you're involved in is quite 
 good, since it actually covers something relevant. When you're just wrestling a match, however, 
 you get the same recycled tripe that both the teams of Jim Ross and Jerry Lawler, and Michael Cole 
 and Tazz have been spouting for the last couple of years. Play one match, and either announcing 
 crew will run through every single line they have, meaning you'll basically hear the same lines 
 in every single match you play. In-ring effects are also feeling a bit stagnant. Crowd noise never 
 seems to really come alive, and many of the slams and hits don't seem as impactful as they could 
 be. The soundtrack is another scattered collection of generic hard rock tunes and hip-hop tracks, 
 though the inclusion of Ghostface Killah's "The Champ" is a welcome change of pace from the usual 
 generic nonsense tossed into these games.  

  WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 has its share of lingering problems that probably ought to have been 
 cleaned up long ago, and some of the improvements it makes don't come across as terribly necessary. 
 But what the game does right, it does very right. There's so much to do and experience throughout 
 the game, and as a multiplayer game, it's a riot to play, especially with a lot of the crazy gimmick 
 matches. Not to mention that for fans of Microsoft's consoles, this is the first time that an Xbox 
 system has gotten a wrestling game worth its salt, and that fact alone ought to excite just about 
 any Xbox 360 owner out there. Longtime fans of the series will be disappointed by a few shortcomings, 
 but they'll ultimately enjoy what the game offers. And for those who've missed out on the SmackDown! 
 series during its many years as a Sony-system exclusive, it's a great chance for you to find out 
 what you've been missing out on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (209 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 is one of those games that you will play only once or twice and then never 
 play again, unless you want the achievements. The game has some good graphics and a large amount 
 of wrestlers to choose from. The controls are good and there are many things you can do to attack 
 your opponent. You can even interact with the crowd, but all you can mostly do is grab a sign they 
 are holding and rip it. The commentators in this game sometimes glitch out and repeat there selfs 
 a lot. You can create your character with a entrance, moves, clothes, songs, and fireworks or fire 
 etc. Sometimes the entrances don't work out though... the AI is pretty good but when you play on 
 the harder difficulties all they do is counter almost everyone of your attacks. The online play 
 is sort of fun but most people on the multilayer has practiced ever since it came out. This game 
 is pretty good and a great rent but you probably wouldn't want to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  the seaon mode was great. it had awsome cut scenes and intresting story lines. I wish that when 
 you werea perfect rated superstar, they didnt give you a rivalry with no names like hardcore holly 
 ( well not he isnt really a no names but i mean look at the guys he wrestles now, shameful) but 
 yet make you fight cena when you begin your carreer.
  
  the actual fights are awsome. there are so many ways to hurt you oponent. the tutorials dont show 
 you anything. the environment things are so cool.
  
  the sound sucks. play one match and you have heard all that the commentators will ever say. they 
 say intresting things as you walk into the ring in season mode.
  
  they also have GM mode and pvp mode which are fun additions to the game.
  
  I love making a 
 superstar. making his looks and entrance is fun but making the moves is better.
  
  online is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rgallivan0015
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 brings great action with wrestling moves to the table. The moves look incredibly 
 fluent, and the finishers are a fan favorite... until two weeks after the game is purchased and 
 played. Smackdown vs Raw 2007 offers a limited number of moves and finishers to a player, monotonous 
 game play, and stupid campaign stories. Every time I see someone win a match, its the same thing. 
 Hit the opponent fast, grapple (strong) move. Build to finisher using grapples, use finisher, pin.
 
  
  The game modes offered are the same as previous games in the genre, and it doesn't get better here. 
 When certain difficulties become to easy, people move up. The expert difficulty in this game is 
 quite simple. Use strike attacks, and reversals. Smackdown vs Raw 2007 does not satisfy a gamer 
 looking for a fun challenge. However, someone looking for easy achievements will enjoy this game, 
 with points given for created superstar and created belts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_1226
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  SmackDown vs RAW 2006 featured a few difficult controls, some last-gen graphics, and a narrow range 
 of console release. But SmackDown vs RAW 2007 is a step up from every one of those things. 
  This game, released towards the end of 2006, has all new grapple systems, new environmental hotspots 
 (take fighting to the crowd) , and a longer, newer lineup of WWE superstars. 
  Not only that, but SvR07 has been released on a next-gen console, the Xbox 360. Being released 
 on this system manages to add a more "real" feeling to the game, and the superstars are incredibly 
 detailed, and matches feel more like Monday Night RAW or Friday Night SmackDown!.
  Now, as far as the Playstation 2 goes, the graphics are simply amazing for a PS2, even though the 
 controls are a little difficult to get used to if you've played SvR08 first.
  Season mode is unrepetitive, as compared to SvR08. New surprises around every Pay-Per-View, while 
 as SvR08 takes one storyline and repeats it over and over as your completion percent steadily increases 
 to 100%.
  The all new match types add more fun to the game, giving you a full WWE experience . 
  This is 
 a great, probably the best, wrestling game, and I recommend it to any WWE fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Remember, this review is coming for a wrestling fan so if ur not a wrestling fan you might view 
 this review a little differently.
  
  I was excited for this game 4 a while because i love the wrestling games and the fact of ultamite 
 controll and ECW made its extremely awesome.
  
  I started the game off in exebition, with my favorite current superstar "The Undertaker" facing 
 off against John Cena. Honestly, I kicked his butt and it was fun doing it. 
  
  Punched him in the face, Kicked him in the stomach, Gave him a body slam, Went off the ropes and 
 gave him a leg drop then wen to the top rope to deliver another leg drop than to top it all off, 
 my tombstone piledriver!
  
  1
  .
  2
  .
  3
  .
  
  Ding Ding Ding
  
  The awesome music hits and the incredible graphics show the undertaker
  
  
  A truley phenominal 
 game for any wrestling fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3king123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Smackdown and raw games have been getting so good its hard to keep up sometimes, they are truly 
 amazing, and this is no exception for 2007, also on many different platforms, with the oldies and 
 the most famous "playa's" to choose from, with a career mode and other facinating options.
  
  along with the best of the best superstars you have "playa's" like Rey Mysterio, Triple X, 
 Bautista and other famous superstars every wrestling fan knows.
  
  Also the graphics are immensily outstanding in their own unique way, with the variations of shading 
 and texture, 
  
  there is the all-new feature to jump into the crowd on ANY fight, and pick up the well known weapons 
 of choice, there are the usual types of matches such as, 
  
  money in the bank
  
  tag team
  
  hell in a cell
  
  singles
  
  diva comp
  
  armageddon 
  
  overall 
 an amazing game thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Now to many people, Smackdown Vs Raw 2006 was a huge success! This game was meant to continue the 
 glory that SVR 2006 started, but the question is does it continue or does it crash? Here is the 
 review for Smackdown Vs Raw 2007!
  
  Modes: 8.7
  The game indeed has a lot of modes that won't make you bored, although there were no new match 
 types, but the ladder match was improved to be the Money in the Bank. A lot of peoples favorite 
 matches returned, like... the Hell in a Cell, Cage Match, TLC and many others.
  
  Gameplay: 8.3
  The controls changed dramatically, a lot of new changes were made. You now you 
 use the analog stick to grapple, which can be kinda confusing to use at first but if you want to 
 learn and master it, you'll have no problem within around a day or 2.
  
  Graphics: 8.9
  The graphics are one of the things that make the game shine, with the new sweat system... (it is 
 a system right?) it makes it more realistic, the wrestlers really shine in the light. Some of the 
 wrestlers hair are amazing real and the wrestlers like really like them in real life, believe me.
 
  
  Creation: 9.0
  This should have been in the modes section, but... lets just put it in here.. Creating a Wrestler 
 for me is very fun and some parts are great, now instead of elbow pads that looks like paint ons, 
 they really do look like really elbow pads... and the move sets, well.. they took some of the moves 
 away, but not moves that are really big.. well for me they aren't. The Create-A-Belt is very fun, 
 you could also now make your belt spin like John Cena's, there is also Create-A-Stable in which 
 you can make teams.
  
  Sound: 8.5
  The sounds is great, hearing chair shots to the head and the crowd cheering and in heel's point 
 of view, booing. The season mode does have voice over.
  
  Replay Value: 9.2
  The game has a lot of replay value, trust me, playing matches and matches over and over again never 
 get tiring, just learning new ways to beat your enemy is way fun.
  
  Overall: 8.7 or in which case 8.5
  The game is really fun, you could play it over and over all 
 day long and you could spend a lot of hours on it. Although I mostly spend time on creating stuff... 
 but playing matches is optional as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djrmc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really into wresting that much but after playing this wresting game it has made me somewhat 
 of a fan. I think it is cool how the story mode evolves when you play a season with a wrestler 
 now depending on who you pick the story mode will be different. There has to be over 100 different 
 story modes that branch off depending on who you play with. Also after you are done with one character 
 for 1 season you can continue playing with them for as long as you want. Now I've notice that on 
 my third season with John Cena one of the story modes repeated but it might have just been a glich 
 or something like that nothing to really worry about. Now I haven't played the new smackdown vs. 
 Raw and I don't want to after seeing the reviews for it. I will wait for the price to go down or 
 something. If you want a fun wrestling game then pick up the smackdown vs. raw 2007. Now if you 
 do expect to play this game online I haven't encountered any players online yet probably because 
 the new one is out. I am sure there is someone out there playing online though.
  
  I give this an 8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_redstar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely brilliant fun with action suitable for friends of all abilities playing together or 
 more serious solo players looking to create and play using custom characters. The quick moves and 
 fairly easy to learn harder moves are great and make playing in groups of friends lots of fun. 
 I don't think I've enjoyed many other games as much as this one and there's tonnes to do. Great 
 for casual or more in depth playing and as someone who knew nothing about WWE to begin with I've 
 found it easy to get in to. I still won't be watching it on TV though as the soap opera stuff is 
 fairly moronic but I can see why people enjoy it!
  
  Considering the scores and reviews that 2008 has been getting I would definitely recommend getting 
 this after having played the PS2 version I was certain that 2007 is superior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the Wrestling game for all the xbox 360 users out there who have been waiting for one which 
 does justice to the console. The character models are impressive and the moves that they do are 
 very authentic. You can see that THQ has done their homework in this department. Once you unlock 
 all the wrestlers you will have a lot of fun putting them through their paces in the quick match 
 mode. The game offers a plethora of match choices ranging from your typical one on one match all 
 the way to the Elimination chamber match. It can be extremely fun to pit 6 of the toughest superstars 
 and fight it out for the wwe Championships and this is the highlight to the game. 
  On the other hand though getting to this point will most certainly involve that you do the superstar 
 mode/story line mode that will probably have to be played a multiple times to unlock all the achievements (Normal, 
 Superstar and Legend difficulties) . This is where the game can get just plain annoying, especially 
 if you try to make your own superstar and put him though the paces. For starters the storyline 
 will pit you in matches with some of the top rated superstars and while that is sounds good it 
 is actually not. Your superstar will have a very low rating (Around 37 and they will be in the upper 
 80's and 90's) . It is not uncommon to go long stretches without a victory and you will be rewarded 
 likewise ( 200 exp for loss) . These will undoubtedly be a very annoying portion. However once you 
 have manged to beef up your character it is all fun from there. 
  Another compliant is the story line, they repeat themselves a lot and you will spot loopholes and 
 characters who are not supposed to be what they are (The undertaker was the WWE Heavyweight champ 
 when actually Rey mysterio was supposed to be) . Another annoying part is the voice acting on the 
 part of the commentators. once again they repeat themselves a lot; in fact I think they only have 
 about 10 lines or so. Some of the comments they make , especially "jerry the king lawler' will 
 make you want to get out of the ring and beat them him up.. but unfortunately you can't . 
  The controls are tricky at the higher difficulty settings and you probably you will have to invest 
 a lot of time before you get the hang of everything. On a side note though the character move sets 
 are excellent and you can select from a huge variety of moves for any character in the game. 
 
  Another extremely annoying part is the superstar "detection" system, you will have a hell of a 
 time trying to point your character in another superstar's direction especially if he is behind 
 you. I have lose many four way matches because my superstar couldn't point a the right enemy. This 
 is one of the more annoying things about this game. 
  Overall it is a very fun game and I would recommend it for anyone looking for some mindless fun. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  S VS R 2007 is Microsoft's only superb Wrestling game, Raw 2 wasn't that bad and in fact was much 
 better than the last Wrestlemania game and Raw 1 but the fact still remains.
  
  Graphics are at their peak when you see the sweat effects. Glitches pop up now and then but not 
 that much. The roster isn't as outdated as people say but thats probably because I don't have cable 
 TV. Roster in fact very nice and good enough, the main reason I like it is because of the Legend 
 selection which includes the best there is, the best there was and the best there ever will be 
 Bret The Hitman Hart. Also Steve Austin, The Rock, Jimmy The anvil and Hulkamania etc. Current 
 superstars like Carlito and UNDERTAKER etc are here too.
  
  Gameplay is now much more exciting with the anolog system and full freedom moves which include 
 the rope between the legs trick. Create a superstar is much more detailed now but could of used 
 more clothing patterns, still great.
  
  You can create your own championship whick you can put on the line but appears to have no official 
 holder, unless your online. Great season mode with really nice voice overs. Overall this is a greatly 
 improved point in the series, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta_god_dbz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  this game has not improved the one thing it should had. The SEASON mode.
  The earlier games had better season modes as there was a variety in the story of different wrestlers. The 
 commentry is worse than ever. I was expecting it to be a better game but my expectations are now 
 broken...
  I dont know why have they classified Khali as an "ultra heavyweight". Khali even proves to be too 
 powerful. For eg:-Shawn cant lift the great Khali but can lift the big show! They have also the slobber 
 knocker match. The GM mode is boring! It has only few costumes for Character creation
  The improvements are very minute. We can go inside the audience and slob our opponents with weapons 
 there! Then we can position ladders in ladder matches and give high flying moves. The challenge mode 
 is interesting and there a cool unlockable characters........
  fav char-Triple H, Bret hart, Shawn michals
  least fav char- vito
  THE good points
  New and 
 better bar brawl 
  we can crush tables and destroy TV's in the audience
  no cheats
  Money in the bank is interesing
  The bad points
  everything is bad!!
  including graphics 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevinLD
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  All in all this is a very solid game. The addition of the alternate control moves add even more 
 moves per wrestler which is a lot of fun. The create a player keeps evolving and is still one of 
 the tops imo. The storyline mode is fun as always I just wish it was a bit longer and you had a 
 little more control over which one of the stories you go into. Of course this is as usual a top 
 notch game from WWE. I've enjoyed pretty much every game they released (never played that odd racing 
 game though) . So this one is a must have for any wrestling fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is the first game in the wrestling series to have been moved to the next 
 gen consoles. Noone can say they didn't do a good job, as many of the well known games series have 
 taken the leap with them and have failed miserably the first time round. This has inevitably become 
 a popular game, but there are many things that need to be sorted out. The gameplay is good, giving 
 you control over many different wrestlers with 16 unlockable legends. Exhibition mode can be really 
 fun to play with your mates while career mode is for those who want to spend some time alone. There 
 are three different aspects to Career mode, one of which being the season mode, where you take 
 your chosen wrestler through a year in the wrestling industry. This can be quite fun the first 
 time round, but the storyline repeat themselves over and over again if you play it more than once. 
 This can get rather frustrating. The second one is General Manager Mode where you can become the 
 GM of either Raw or Smackdown. You have to sort out the roster and deal with injuries, pay salaries 
 etc. This can be quite good but can also be repetitive, a problem that is commonly found in this 
 game. The last is PPV mode where you make your own pay per view, this is a limited option and can't 
 really keep anyone interested for long. There is also a detailed customization sextion where you 
 can create a wrestler, create a move set, create a championship belt, create an entrance and create 
 a stable. These can all be fun to mess around with during your time playing the game and have proved 
 to be a good feature of the game. This game can be very frustrating achievements wise, because 
 over 300 of its gamerscore is dedicated to online play. For those of us offline at the moment, 
 like myself, this is terribly annoying.
  Overall this is a good and addictive game to play and could be enjoyed by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Scores:
  Overall Score : 9.5
  Gameplay : 9
  Graphics : 9
  Sound : 3
  Replay Value : Very Good
  
  Yah, I know it's kind of weird that I'm doing a game review for 
 the 2007 version after I've done a review for the 2008 version. But I wanted to show everyone that 
 I wasn't trying to bash the francise after my low score for the 2008 version. And besides, I really 
 like this version.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay breaks down into 3 parts.
  
  First is a Season mode that has you taking on the persona of a real wrestler or one you created 
 (Sorry, no girls allowed in this mode) and going through one year of the wrestling season trying 
 to win matches that the GM's keep throwing at you. The story lines for the Season mode are kind 
 of goofy, but then we are talking about the WWE, right? I mean it's not supposed to be Pulitzer 
 Prize material. And to the designers credit, the story line is not linier, but depends on the show 
 you start with and if you win or lose a match. Yes you can lose a match and continue the story 
 line. (Neat idea, I wish FPS designers would take notice of this for their stories.)
  
  Second mode is a GM mode where you take control of one of the shows, manage your roster, schedule 
 shows and PPV events, and try to end the year with more money than the other show's GM. The inclusion 
 of unlocked legends, created wrestlers, and a pre-season draft are all points that help add to 
 the openness of this modes play style. And once you win the coveted GM of the year (which is really 
 easy) you unlock unlimited points to add to your created wrestler's stats.
  
  Third mode of play is a PPV mode that lets the player create her own PPV event by selecting the 
 number of matches, types of matches, and then selecting the wrestlers who are going to take part 
 in the event.
  
  There is also the option of creating a wrestler, creating a title, and creating an entrance. All 
 of which add greatly to the replay value of this title. Unfortunately it looks as if the create 
 a wrestler costumes and designs for the divas do not have as much variety as the males.
  
  Controls:
  The controls are easy to learn, but take a little more effort to master, if you know 
 what I mean. There's no button mashing (Always a good point) , except for the submission mini-games 
 during the matches. But they really aren't that bad of a masher and are over too quick to be either 
 annoying or stressful on your fingers.
  
  Computer AI:
  Unfortunately the computer AI is not the smartest AI in the video game world. Some examples are 
 - AI wrestlers will stand around a lot. Handicap matches will see the side with the numbers advantage 
 have its extra wrestlers continuously sliding out of the ring to leave only one wrestler against 
 the solo wrestler. In Royal Rumble matches, wrestlers will routinely toss a wrestler over the ropes 
 and then ignore the wrestler and not try to shove him off the apron.
  
  Multiplayer:
  When multiplayer works it is as fun and enjoyable as the offline play. Unfortunately there seems 
 to be a lag issue with the game. Almost all of my online games, even with friends who live in my 
 town, there was always lag, sometimes very serious lag that took away from the enjoyment of the 
 match. 
  
  Sound:
  The announcers during the matches are silly at best (and not in a funny silly kind of way) . They'll 
 more often then not mention wrestlers who aren't even in the match and talk about them continuously. 
 Meanwhile they won't even stop or act surprised when one wrestler pulls off a big move or pins 
 her opponent for the win.
  
  Music:
  I'm not very big into the hardcore style music that plays during the main menu screens, but I guess 
 it does fit with the image the WWE is trying to put out there. The music selection for created 
 entrances is a lot more diverse and enjoyable.
  
  Overall View:
  Sounds like I hate this game, right? Wrong! For although it has glitches, it still delivers a enjoyable 
 gaming experience because of the openness of the design that allows the players to play any type 
 of match they want with almost any of the wrestlers, either in the game or that they create.
  
  Smack Down vs Raw 2007, buy it and have some fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiGamer23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  smackdown vs raw 2007 is one of the best games i have played in a long time the graphics are amazing 
 the gameplay is amazing and the controls were hard at first but then i got used to them there is 
 so much stuff you can do in smackdown vs raw the online play is great and so is the story mode 
 the only thing wrong with this game was that they didnt have jeff hardy as one of the choices and 
 their werent enough ecw wrestlers but in smackdown vs raw 08 their will be jeff hardy and ecw superstars 
 so if you are a wrestling fan smackdown vs raw 2007 and 2008 are great choices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmyre
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The game play is good and for the first couple of hours this is a good game but this game can get 
 old very very quick. It has good graphics and plays well the story line is so so, and it has it's 
 fair share of quirks and glitches. It takes time to figure out how to pull of some of the moves, 
 they should dumb down the sequence of buttons to make the contorls feel better and not have to 
 worry about hitting 6 buttons to pull off a top rope move. Over all i would say that this game 
 is good and is fun. It may be my adhd that kicks in and the monotony of the game sends me on to 
 other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Another installment from the smackdown vs raw franchise and it is looking great! There are many 
 new wrestlers and kind of matches you can compete in. Added hotspots wherein you can perform special 
 action to truly brutalize your opponent. New kind of gameplay and crowd getting involved in action 
 make this sequel innovative, combined with great graphics make this game the best in the series 
 up to date. But still there are some disappointments from previous sequel that still is unattended 
 like commentators getting repetitive but overall is still the best in the series until Smackdown 
 vs Raw 2008 finally comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushahid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Sure... this game isn't really all that polished from the 2006 version. In fact, it is largely the 
 same game. But so what? It is still fun to play. There is a new storyline, which I actually don't 
 like as much as the RAW storyline from 2006, but I'm in the minority there. The fighting largely 
 works the same way. In short, it is a clone of its previous version but it is wearing different 
 clothes. What you think of this game will depend on what you thought of its predecessor.
  
  The graphics are still pretty good, though same old commentary is back. There are clipping issues. 
 Hair isn't all that well done. The loading screens! Oh god - the loading screens seem to take forever!
 
  
  And despite all that, I still play it on occasion and I'm still getting the next one. The game 
 is fun. At the end of the day, what more do you really need from your entertainment? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown! vs. RAW 2007 For Xbox 360
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Great Wrestling Action, 
 Once You Pick It Up You Can't Put It Down, Great Graphics, Sound Is Awesome, RVD!!!!!!!
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Not Enough Classic Wrestlers, 
 Arenas, Not Enough Match Types, The Great Khali And All Of His Overpowered Glory.
  ===========================================================
  
  I've always been a fan on the 
 Smackdown series, and I am not let down with the newest installment. However, there are some little 
 issues that keep the game from possibly holding the title of Greatest Wrestling Game Ever. 
  
  
  GamePlay : This is what makes this game. The new analog controls are the best idea Yukes 
 has had in a very long time. Once you get use to them, which takes maybe 20 minutes, it makes the 
 game feel more like a wrestling game. And if you don't like them you have the option of going back 
 to the old school ways of things, plus a few other types. The reversals are way better this time 
 around, in which ANYTHING can be reversed. Plus they can basically be endless, if you are good 
 enough. The A. I. in the game still has a few bricks missing from the pile, however it's not near 
 as bad as it was last year. Remeber the crappy ladder matches? Well this year the A. I. will actually 
 try to fight you, instead of constantly going for the belt every 3 seconds. Plus, the A. I. doesn't 
 always gang up on you like some past games have done in the past.
  
  I loved last years GM Mode, and this year it basically got better. You can do so much more with 
 it, which makes it more of a challenge all around. You can buy different story lines for rivalry 
 purposes and other little things as well. The only negative about it is that it is a bit of a challenge 
 to actually get past Survivor Series with your best guys not hurt and still have a nice chunk of 
 cash under your belt. Graphics : These are probably the best graphics you will find on a wrestling 
 game today. Everyone looks like they are suppose to, face wise. I still don't see why we have extremely 
 cut abs on some of the wrestlers who haven't had them in years. Plus there are still some detection 
 miss and hits, but that is a minor thing to me. The environments looks great and the CAW's look 
 almost like they actually belong in the game, instead of looking half as good as the others.
  
  Sound : What brings the score up even further is the fact that they readded the RingSide commentators 
 they add a new level of awesomeness to the game. The music, to me, is the best so far. Even though 
 you aren't able to do your own custom music, which does suck, there is still a great selection 
 of songs on the game to choose from, so it is not a total lose. The impact of moves isn't bad, 
 but it could of been better. Again though, if you are like me this isn't a major deal.
  
  
  With the negatives I've mentioned I still think this game pulls a nine. I've heard about glitches 
 in the game, and I've really only ran across a few of the many I heard. The biggest one being if 
 I change a look on my CAW, the front grapples change and so you have to fix them back. Other than 
 that the game is a winner. I've heard rumors of patches coming out for the game, so you might also 
 take that into consideration when purchasing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  I didn't buy this game - I really didn't! Well, I DID, but I really didn't mean to... Ok, let me 
 tell you the unlikely story of how this game came in my possesion, hopefully you'll understand... 
 So, there I was at my local electronics merchant, browsing around, when suddenly - and for no apparent 
 reason - a wad of cash jumped out of my back pocket and lunged at a nearby clerk. Shocked and confused 
 by the strange turn of events, the clerk recoiled, picked up a random game and threw it at the 
 charging bills and coins. Somehow - and this is were the story gets almost unbelievable - the game 
 found it's way through the cloud of currency and landed right in my bag. Terrified at the thought 
 of what other things might escape the confines of my pants and attack innocent by-standers, I stormed 
 out of the shop and ran home. Later that night, as I was watching a Fellini movie, I suddenly felt 
 the need to check my bag to make sure I had indeed returned that library-copy of Class and Etiquette 
 , which was due that very same day. To my relief and amazement, all I found was an X360 game with 
 a wild, sweaty man on the cover. WWE Smackdown vs RAW 2007 it read. I retraced my steps of the 
 day, and umm... played the game. So, you see -- it was a million to one chance, a million to one. 
 Now, the reason I just spend so many words trying to defend myself against an accusation which 
 may not even have been uttered yet, is this: To us Europeans, wrestling (or wrasslin', if you will) 
 is a wholly embarrassing affair. I mean, we know it's all make-believe, and we know that American's 
 know this too, so how can they get so fired up cheering and booing when these so-called Superstars 
 act out their little pantomime? I admit, when I was a kid I really liked wrestling -- and I guess 
 it was mainly because I was so young that I couldn't really tell whether it was real fighting or 
 not. Of course, it always seemed a bit strange that the wrestlers would stomp the ground while 
 punching... and those punches never really seemed to collide. It was also odd the way downed wrestlers 
 would just lie there, like unconscious - though obviously not - while the enemy would make his 
 way to the top of the ropes for some high-flying antics. But, strange as all that might've seemed, 
 I also found plenty of reasons to believe that it was, in fact, somewhat real. Like, when blood 
 reared its face, or people were injured or matches got interrupted by other wrestlers with a grudge. 
 Yeah, I know.. that really doesn't make much sense either, but sometimes a young mind works in 
 weird and wonderful ways to keep a fantasy intact. Basically -I just loved it too much to consider 
 the fact that it was ALL bogus. Anyways, eventually I got older, realized that it was all bogus 
 and should be considered as a soap-opera sporting greased up, heavy metal enthusiasts instead of 
 anything sports-related. But I've concluded that THAT must be why the Americans love it. It's a 
 Bold and the Beautiful for men, which revolves around fighting and talking smack instead of love- 
 and family-issues. But... it's still really, really dumb. So was it nostalgia, stupidity or an 
 actual accident that lead me to play this game? Well, a little from column A, B and C. Nostalgia, 
 because I remembered how much fun I had with my friends playing Royal Rumble in the PSX original 
 - WF Smackdown plus childhood memories. Stupidity, because I actually thought they'd do it again 
 and be able to use the extra years and experience to find humor in the otherwise worryingly egocentric 
 and humorless Superstars instead of just laughing AT the game (as happened) ... and an accident 
 because I was just too desperate for a game and there was nothing else out there -- furthermore; 
 the price'd been slashed. Is the game any good, then? Yeah, sure, as wrestling games go, this is 
 just peachy with plenty of homo-erotic moves and game-modes. Just remember: Wrestling isn't fighting 
 - wrestling is wrestling. There is a completely different pacing to these games, and people who 
 know wrestling will understand this and work with it, while others (like my friends) will simply 
 drop the joypad in frustration and boredom. It's a slow affair, and the characters can't exactly 
 be described as dynamic . Quite realistically, they are more like big steroid-gulping hulks, who 
 may be able to lift a small truck over their head but who will also keel over gasping for air and 
 sweating bullets after a small run around the ring. You must constantly keep those two extremes 
 in mind, if you want to avoid prolonged sessions of button-bashing trying to inject some life into 
 your limp Superstar as he lays on the canvas unable to muster the strenght to raise himself up, 
 because YOU had him do five bodyslams in a row without a simple break to catch a breath. Get the 
 hang of this, and the game gets more and more enjoyable, right until it becomes way too easy and 
 repetitive. When that happens, a bunch of friends for a 2 on 2, Battle Royal or Royal Rumble, is 
 just what you need. If you can find anyone willing to try and understand this game. I couldn't, 
 but then again - I'm not American. Now let's go and dance naked in a fountain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I'll try and keep this as objective as possible regardless of my dislike of the game. The graphics 
 on this game are very well done and enjoyable with fairly life like representations of all of your 
 favorite WWE superstars. The beads of sweat standing on the skin of the WWE superstars after the 
 end of a match are a nice touch to the game. The storylines in game could easily be right out of 
 the pages of Smackdown or Raw and are very well written. The voice acting, even though not voiced 
 by the actual WWE superstars, is well done and very well scripted. The game offers a nice variety 
 of play options including General Manager mode where you can schedule events and basically play 
 the roll of the GM. Sadly though the game falls incredibly short on two accounts. Firstly the character 
 creation mode, though for the most part well made, is lacking on key thing. When creating a character 
 one you accept a change to the costume there is no way to remove that change or reset the costume 
 back to the default. Secondly the control scheme is atrocious. Control is the one thing you have 
 very little of with regards to the wrestling matches. I very much disliked the fact that even if 
 you have the timing spot on many of the moves, counters, etc. just don't work. Overall the game 
 is fun to watch played but I would definitely never play this installment of of Smackdown vs. Raw 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Well the story mode wasn't that great but it was still fun to do. Create a character didn't have 
 enough choices of clothing and everything to pick from. General Manager Mode was one of the best 
 things about the game in my opinion. The graphics and game play were solid. Some of the special 
 moves seemed a little weaker than they should be and the table moves were kind of cheap. The entrances 
 were fun to create. I just don't understand how the body builder ring entrance is like a girls. 
 There also should have been more legends in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good the caw mode owns and the game never gets boring and the new hotspots 
 are awesome fun. the new controls are so easy. fun game to play but the season is good but not 
 soo good. the gameplay got really good then 06. the graphics are just so amazing. the roster is 
 good too. great fun on multiplayer. the match types are good i reccomend you buy this game if you 
 like wrestling games. now the bad things about this game theres not much but the commentary gets 
 boring and lame its the same thing as 06 commentary they havent really changed it. the other thing 
 is the wrestler stays down for a while. otherwise the game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion-King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  So, whats new in this years game? Well, quite a lot actually. The main adjustment being the change 
 in the way you control your character. To make gameplay more realistic THQ have incorporated both 
 analogs, and in my view, is a successful transition. By using both analogs, it makes gameplay more 
 intuitive and fun. A feature called environmental hotspots has been integrated into the game. You 
 can use the environment around you to inflict damage on your opponent. Things like steel steps, 
 barriers, ropes, and of course the announcers tables. And if you know what to do, spectators can 
 even give you items like canes, crotches, and WWE belts. Other weapons like tables, barbed wire 
 baseball bats, steel chairs and sledgehammers are all available, (as usual) under the ring. Anyway, 
 thats enough of weapons, lets talk about creation mode. This year you can create your own superstar, 
 of course, but detail is the key factor this time. As with any game thats being released for the 
 Xbox 360, the games are allowing for detailed character creation. Go into the finest detail you 
 wish, and even choose your voice. You can create your own belt, and encrust it with jewels. You 
 can even create your own PPV with the whole roster available to you. One of my personal favourites 
 in creating, is the creation of entrances. Again, detail plays a part in entrances, and you can 
 choose from hundreds of different styles of entering, no players entrance will be quite the same. 
 Choose your camera angles, and even choose when you want your fireworks exploding. Lets move on 
 to the different game modes available. First, there is the Season Mode, a never ending season where 
 wins and losses depend on where the season will lead next. I personally thought the Season Mode 
 had some entertaining storylines typical of the WWE. As you compete through the Season Mode, you 
 earn Experience Points which then allow you to upgrade your characters attributes. The other game 
 mode is General Manager (GM) Mode. I thought this was the weakest part of the game. It is not a 
 necessary part of the game but to get some of the achievements you will need to play it. In GM 
 Mode you must choose the schedule each week for either Smackdown or Raw. The ratings of your show 
 will then be compared with the rivals show. Whichever scores better gains fans, whilst the other 
 show loses fans. At the end of the year, the show with the most fans wins the GM Manager of the 
 Year Trophy. I found this mode hard to get to grips with. All I can say is I hope it is improved 
 upon in the next instalment. In SvR2007 you are even able to create your own locker room. This 
 is cool feature that allows you to change your locker rooms wallpaper, flooring, lighting and 
 posters, and even add things like pool tables, and motorbikes. It has a shelf to hold all your 
 trophies and a cabinet for all of your belts. This feature is not important to your season or your 
 character, just something to play around with. If you are a die hard WWE fan then you should definitely 
 have this in your collection. If not, and you are interested in purchasing a WWE game, this is 
 a great game to start with. It gets you used to wrestling whilst at the same time giving you hours 
 and hours of fighting fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertFuneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Smackdown vs Raw series returns with Smackdown vs Raw 2007 for the Playstation 2, Playstation 
 Portable, and makes its debut on the Xbox 360. Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is the first WWE game on a 
 Microsoft gaming console since the not-so-well received WWE Raw series and WWE Wrestlemania 21. 
 Does the game deliver or does the streak of mediocre wrestling games on Xbox consoles continue?
 
  
  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 for the Xbox 360 does just that and delivers an amazing wrestling game that 
 has improved many old features greatly. The season mode, as all other wrestling games have done 
 in the past, takes you through a journey up the ranks to become the champion. Youll be going through 
 various storylines and matches that will determine your path to the gold. You may choose to play 
 through it with your own created superstar or you could choose a real wrestler from the great default 
 roster to take through the road to Wrestlemania. By the end of the season mode, you will find yourself 
 either challenging for, or defending the championship of the respective brand your superstar is 
 on. If you end up rejecting all your title shots, you will eventually be put into a Royal Rumble 
 storyline. In this storyline you will play through matches that will determine your entry number 
 in the epic 30-man battle royal. The season mode is very well built with excellent storylines. 
 Although there are one or two storylines that are just flat out lame. (Candices magic wand, anyone?) 
 Then again, whats wrestling without the occasional bad storyline?
  
  The graphics in this game are just plain amazing. If graphics is one main thing you look for in 
 a game, youll definitely be pleased with this one. The character models are magnificent with detail 
 right down to the sweat drops coming down their backs. The clothing this time around, specifically 
 in the Create-A-Wrestler feature, does not look like theyve been spray painted on the characters 
 bodies. A lot of the designs and tattoos in the games predecessor Smackdown vs Raw 2006 looked 
 like they were drawn by children with crayons. There are still the occasional graphical glitches 
 in various areas of the game. The superstars hair will sometimes go right through their body and 
 such. The arenas, from the lighting, right down to the ring apron all look incredible. The weapons, 
 such as a table located in the crowd area, have extreme detail. You can see the dust come flying 
 off the table as the wrestlers swipe their hand across it. The audience looks and behaves a bit 
 more realistic than usual. Theyll actually hand you weapons and hold up signs which you can take. 
 When taking the sign from the crowd member, youll either hold it up or tear it depending if youre 
 a face or heel.
  
  The gameplay this time around entirely surpasses the previous games. The control system has been 
 completely revamped, making it much easier to initiate grapples and all of your favorite wrestling 
 moves. Followers of the Smackdown vs Raw series might have a hard time adjusting to this new control 
 scheme. However, the old controls have been conveniently placed for you under the Type C &amp; 
 Type D control types in the options menu. The game plays remarkably well with or without the new 
 control scheme, so old fans and new fans of this game series can enjoy them just as much.
  
  The game plays a lot more realistically, as opposed to the former games more arcade-like style. 
 The reversal system has been also undergone a transformation, as the reversals have been made to 
 look more realistic and believable. For example, running strikes and grapples will be reversed 
 into irish whips or headlocks. The biggest addition to the game this year is Ultimate Control Moves. 
 These moves are initiated by clicking in the right thumb stick following a normal grapple. Different 
 ultimate control moves can be assigned to all the normal grapples a superstar has. Ultimate control 
 moves are basically regular wrestling moves that can be controlled by the right thumb stick. One 
 of the ultimate control moves is a suplex. Once the move is initiated, the superstar will be held 
 up in the suplex position. From there, the game will give you choices on what to do from there. 
 You can choose whether to do a regular suplex, a front suplex, or stall the guy a bit more in the 
 air. All these choices are assigned to directions on the right thumb stick. (up, down, or clicking 
 it in again.) Another example would be a firemans carry. While in the firemans carry position, 
 you may choose to slam him down to the side, or roll forward with him with the steam roller maneuver. 
 Various other ultimate control situations include arm wrench, powerbomb, piledriver, etc.
  
  During a match up, the AI can behave realistically but also unusual at times. The AI has been 
 improved in a sense that all your matches wont feel like 30 second squash matches. Unless youve 
 completely maxed out a created superstar and given them the most powerful moves in the game, the 
 matches will always feel like a fair fight. One moment you will have all the advantage in the match 
 and another moment CPU will. Youll constantly be going back and forth with the computer, sometimes 
 to the point where theyll practically have you beaten. The AI often has its share of idiotic behavior, 
 which seems practically inevitable in wrestling games. Youll find them climbing the Elimination 
 Chamber too many times and plummeting to the ground whether somebody is there or not. If the ladders 
 are set up with one ladder leaned on the other, the CPU will continue to try and climb the ladder 
 even if it is not under the championship belt.
  
  Most of Smackdown vs Raw 2007s glitches are shown in the sound department. The commentary provided 
 for this game is exactly the same as the previous game. The only changes were a few lines added 
 for the wrestlers that have been added in this year. The commentators can get really annoying as 
 youre playing through a match. Youll often find them repeating lines from time to time or just 
 saying things completely irrelevant to the situation at hand. Occasionally the commentators will 
 also incorrectly call a move, like calling a chairshot a Stone Cold Stunner. The ring announcing 
 is also a bit glitched up when it comes to naming the hometown of a created superstar.
  
  Sound glitches aside, the games soundtrack this year really shines. All the music in the game 
 is terrific. After the horrible soundtrack in the previous game, this years soundtrack completely 
 made up for it. Bands such as Three Days Grace, Nonpoint, Godsmack provide some of their best tunes, 
 making this one of the best wrestling game soundtracks ever. Along with all the great entrance 
 themes of the wrestlers on the roster, you can also use these fabulous songs in the create-an-entrance 
 feature as well. The voice-overs by the wrestlers were done extremely well too. The backstage segments 
 and in-ring promos all sound great and dont sound like theyre being read off a script.
  
  Does the entire Smackdown vs Raw 2007 adventure end with the season mode? It definitely does not. 
 Smackdown vs Raw 2007 has a ton of re-playability that will always keep you coming back. The game 
 has various achievements to complete that will take some time to get. There are achievements for 
 winning a singles match with every superstar on the roster, beating everybody on the roster once, 
 winning certain amounts of matches online. If the achievements are not enough to draw you in again, 
 the multiplayer definitely will. You can crank up the heat by grabbing a couple of friends and 
 defending your titles against each other in exhibition mode. It definitely makes for a more thrilling, 
 action-packed experience.
  
  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is an amazing wrestling game for the Xbox 360 that tremendously surpasses 
 the previous Smackdown vs Raw games on the Playstation 2. It is the first time Microsoft has been 
 graced with a decent wrestling game and it could not have made a bigger impact. THQ/Yukes delivers 
 a body-slamming, high-flying adventure complete with stunning graphics and completely unique new 
 style of gameplay thatll keep you busy for many months to come. Smackdown vs Raw 2007 lays the 
 smackdown on the wrestling game genre as not only the best wrestling game on a Microsoft console, 
 but also one of the best wrestling games EVER.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Replay Value: 8
  
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Listen here brother.. Get this game. Its very good especially the wall papers you can get for your 
 room =) It has good graphics and is very deep into the storyline.
  
  The only problem is it gets VERY repetitive. You beat season and the only way to really make money 
 is too keep working on your season. The good part is graphics, characters, all the weapons available, 
 and voices. they are really cool and follow really well within the storyline. I suggest live for 
 this game without it your stuck fighting A. I. opponents.... BORING. If you like wresting games 
 i suggest getting this because it is the best wresting game out there.
  
  ~Don't dream it... Live it...~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Out of all the hype that has been around the game i couldn't wait to get it when i got my 360.
 
  
  Graphics: Since i don't have a HD TV i am forced to play on a normal TV. The graphics still look 
 awesome. Player models are fantastic and with most of the wrestlers that are in the game you can 
 tell who they are by their face in the game. You can see sweat beads on the body and head after 
 a match. Very excellent quality graphics.
  
  Sound: Sound is good. all of the Theme music is in there as well as the DX music. It would have 
 been nice if you could put your own theme music in there but there are several tunes that you can 
 select besides wrestlers music. Good mat crashing sounds and the commentary is good. I could have 
 done without the occasional profanity but i am able to turn the commentary down so my 6 year old 
 doesnt hear it.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is what needs to be the most important in games And Smackdown Vs Raw does a 
 good job. The controls take a while getting used to but once you have it its fun. Heres a complaint 
 though GET RID OF THE STAMINA BAR or come up with something better. I cant stand the fact that 
 i do a couple moves and i am worn out. If you get knocked down watch out. It takes forever to get 
 up and the computer can destroy you the whole match. The storey mode is good. Though i am not a 
 fan of fighting 2 or 3 against 1 especially since your created wrestler is so week. There is allot 
 of extras as well. You can create your own Champioship belt. Everything about the create a Wrestler, 
 Belt, PPV, Entrance, Move set is PERFECT!!! If you want you can spend at least 2 hours creating 
 your wrestler and its allot of fun. Especially creating your entrance. Very Depp and satisfying. 
 Overall: Overall the game is fun. It has its moments of frustration IE Quickly lose your stamina 
 but you get used to it. Buy it. Its allot of fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreCoolFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are really good, however the cliping is terrible with some fights
  
  Campagin Story: Pretty good. Seems just like a WWE story
  
  Roster: Good, but out of date. 
 It also sucks that there are no ECW wrestlers, but i'm happy with the roster.
  
  Gameplay: Very good! I love the grappling system! But i kinda don't like playing the PS2 version 
 cause of the grapples.
  
  Replay value: High. Not only is there a campagin, but a general manager mode too! And there some 
 unlockables in those modes to keep you busy.
  
  
  Notes and Comments: Like i said above, it sucks that there are no ECW wrestlers in the game and 
 the PS2 grapples kinda suck. But overall, this IS the best WWE game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has awesome graphics and sound, but the gameplay just made me hate it. I played this 
 game a while back, but I lost interest in it... fast. Very fast. So fast, in fact, that I could 
 only stand to get 10 achievement points from the game. That's right... not 100, but TEN. At that, 
 those points were from the create-a modes. Why, you ask? It could be that I rented it at the same 
 time as Lost Planet, and Lost Planet was a much better game. However, there are more things that 
 I hated about this game.... actually, just the gameplay and commentary. The gameplay in this game 
 is terrible.
  
  I remember playing the older Smackdown games for the Playstation and the PS2, and thinking that 
 they were awesome. You could do just about anything, go anywhere, and most importantly, you could 
 GET UP when someone knocked you down, and you didn't have to recover from doing the simplest moves. 
 In SVR 2007, you could be, say, Triple H or Kurt Angle and the computer could be some very low 
 card wrestler. Let's say that guy hits you with some lame move, let's say a scoop slam... at the 
 very beginning of the match. When you're down, it says Press any button repeatedly to get up or 
 something like that. However, it still takes you like 8 years to get up. Not once did I see any 
 improvement by tapping buttons. Also, while you're getting up, the people can hit you during this 
 slow process. The countering system is OK, but it could still be better. The A. I. in this game 
 is bad, and wrestlers (unless of course you're making the epic struggle to get off the ground) 
 will sometimes run around and do non-sensical moves... like Big Show hitting you with a drop kick 
 off the turnbuckle. C'mon, you make the stamina over-realistic but you're telling me a Big Show 
 Turnbuckle dropkick is realistic? If that ever happens in real life, videotape it, because you 
 would have live footage of Big Show as he sunk to the core of the Earth. Some parts of the A. I. 
 are overly brilliant, too. If you're in the middle of getting up, they will hit you with a ground 
 move so that you hit the dirt again. Also, I have never successfully Irish whipped someone. They 
 always counter it.
  
  The way they handled stamina in this game is the worst part of this game. I can see your player 
 getting slow and tired later in the match, but in this game you have to recover from EVERYTHING. 
 If you do a few lame moves... punches even.... your stamina is already getting low. Hang on Triple 
 H, I just hit you with a dropkick.... I need a 5 minute breather. It's nice to see that the commentary 
 still sucks, too. I think everyone else already ragged on that enough, though. I don't know how 
 this game got such high ratings. With the horrible gameplay, I only made it through a few matches 
 before I got extremely tired of tapping buttons to no avail and taking breathers every 5 seconds. 
 I hope 2008 is much better, because I want an Xbox wrestling game that has to total package. This 
 game looks very nice, and finally an Xbox game has a season mode and other modes, but I thought 
 the gameplay just took the fun right out of the game.... so much so that it also took three points 
 out of this game's rating in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacDonald_3536
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 was the first wrestling game I purchased for my 360. In fact, it was the 
 second game I bought, and I was not dissapointed when I played it for the first time. Because I 
 had a gamecube before, the new control scheme and using the right thumbstick as a grapple button 
 took some getting used to, but I feel that it's the most solid wrestling control scheme out there. 
 The ability to quickly switch from a strong graple to an ultimate control move is a great asset, 
 and speaking of ultimate control moves; they are a great new feature that brought a lot of new 
 color to the series. One thing that I found to be rather annoying was the fact that someone small 
 like Shawn Michaels was able to easily pick up and throw around Big Show. I know the ultimate control 
 moves are cool and everything, but a little more realism was needed in that department. As well, 
 characters like Undertaker, Big Show, The Great Khali and Viscera, who are very difficult to knock 
 down on TV are incredibly easy to knock down and throw around on SvR 2007. Again, the realism is 
 stretched a lot here. I'm assuming it's to add entertainment value to the game, and to make it 
 easier for younger players, but it's just wrong.
  The large amount of players that are available to you at startup is really good. I also like how 
 the developers added in a challenge series, and all the unlockables. Although, I think they should 
 have had more legends to unlock such as Randy Savage and other classic wrestlers.
  Overall, Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 is a very good game which can provide almost endless hours of entertainment 
 through it's various modes of play, especially if you have a friend to help you lay the smackdown 
 on your opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game is the bomb. Because you actually think your in this game. You could create your own 
 guy and create your own entrance and move set. This game is the best in the serious. Its not better 
 than Smackdown here comes the pain, But with better season. I love this game.
  
  Graphics is so so realistic
  
  sound is really realistic
  
  Value is worth every penny
 
  
  This game was worh waiting.
  
  Im a big wrestling fan, I do watch the wwe raw, Smackdown and ecw. Its awesome.
  
  It was the 
 game that to enjoy
  
  This game is the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if this is your first wrestling game then its a great game for you to buy. If its 
 not, however, than I would suggest not buying it. Its basically the same as the older versions 
 (ps2 versions, as this is the first wrestling game on 360) , with better looking visuals, a roster 
 update, a few new stuff which i don't feel is necessary (ultimate control moves, fighting in the 
 crowd) . Ultimate control moves seem helpful when its a handicap match (while ur the one fighting 
 alone) , otherwise it seems like a big waste of stamina. Overall, this game is fine for the first 
 timer whereas for the veterans of the series could just pass on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDiamnz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is just awesome. i couldnt stop playing it the graphics are good and they have almosy 
 very character (except for some legends) its fun beating the crap out of someone with my bare hands 
 or a metal chair
  i would play this game all night. the xbox live is fun to. its been takin to the next level. good 
 for people who like wrestling. i dont like watching wrestling because its fake but i love the game. its 
 differnt from others. intresting matched like money in the bank where you have to take a ladder 
 and get the belt or the case of money. and buried alive is good you have to pull the person into 
 a coffin and burie them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATFNeOpHyTe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well thats not entirelly true.
  I'm not telling that points are really really great negatives, just very small ones.
  here are 
 some negative points ( from my point of view) :
  
  like you cant play a career with the female stars ( who would like to play with candice or torrie????) .
 
  
  your player seems to be whining on the ground much longer then the AI player does.
  
  I dont say a word about the already know issue about the commentary. ( he/she)
  
  player should 
 have more choices on what to do ( cutscene or messages)
  
  THE GOOD things:
  
  Grapples: pretty deep ( heck could they be any deeper?)
  and the interactive grapples are and 
 very good addition.
  
  career mode isnt very long, neither is it short ( which more and more games seem to tend to over 
 the years) it's long enough tho.
  
  very deep character creation.
  
  stable creation ( though you cant upgrade your stable abilities, which i'd loved to see beeing 
 fixed )
  
  championship creation.
  
  dressing room customisation
  
  good career stories!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Outstanding, the best wrestling game since NO MERCY on the N64!
  
  True to the WWE the single player is amazing, the storylines the featuring of Carlito in most and 
 the fact he can actually beat you cause his AI is above all the other wrestlers or something, or 
 Kurt Angle even though he left oh and of course Tazz still chatting to Micheal Cole in Smackdown 
 portions of the game.
  
  The game failed to stay current to the WWE but the Tazz issue was probably due to JBL being stuck 
 up as usual
  
  The real sadness in the game falls to the last game with Beniot (RIP Wolverine) and even sadder 
 to see that I beat him so many times
  
  But the game is amazing and worth the money to tie you over until SVR '08 comes out, and finally 
 a next gen wrestling game thats truely NEXT GEN!
  
  Also heres a tip that I only figured out after I had done all the game, Turn off the stamina and 
 the game lowers itself to easy in Hard mode really easily! ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aileen115
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  its great on graphics but not so good on gameplay, the game play has different story modes then 
 smackdown here comes the pain and the graphics rocks and also a new room but not alot of places 
 to go outside of the ring during hardcores, but smackdown here comes the pain has the best thing 
 ever and the story mode of smackdown vs raw 2007 is bad and the story mode of smackdown here comes 
 the pain is awesome!!!! i like the grahpics of the ring and the characters. i rather play smackdown 
 here comes the pain because of the story modes. I like having more weapons neither on these games 
 but they are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NachoMontana86
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw is my version of Madden. No matter how many games come out, I always enjoy 
 playing them. And the 2007 edition is no different.
  
  Making the jump to Xbox 360, it defiantly shows. The graphics look great, there are a lot of game 
 options, the season mode plays well, and the new Ultimate Control, although it might take a while 
 to get use to, is a welcoming feature in my opinion. My only big complaint about the game is online 
 play. To me, sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. It also has a large amount of lag if you 
 are playing with more than one player, and if it is a specialty match, like the Ladder Match. Another 
 complaint is the GM mode. I just simply rarely play it. It's supposed to be like one of those wrestling 
 booker simulators you might have seen on the internet, but for some reason, it just doesn't work 
 well with me.
  
  With all those complaints aside, Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 is still a great wrestling game. Well worth 
 your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inyuashu
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for wrestling fans it have all the great attacks from the show and all the 
 experience like on the show it was really addictive to me once i start i can't stop till i get 
 tired. Gameplay of this game it was impressive it had related things like the real show it had 
 the blood whenever there head turn red and then when hit in the head again if it's a blood type 
 move you would attack and make your opponent bleed. The graphics were also empressive it show the 
 person sweat the blood and when they crashing through tables. The sound was great it need better 
 songs during your selection at the main menu. The value is that it's a game worth buying if you 
 like action. The final rating for this game is 9.9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the WWE since the days of ken shamrock, and the APA and smackdown vs. raw 
 2007 delivers the WWE experience perfectly. Graphics on this game are stunning. Everything seems 
 very crisp and clear, with nothing noticeably distorted. Character modelling and lighting are one 
 of the best.
  Gameplay is really fun and doesn't get old. The environment that u can use to hurt ur opponent 
 is really cool and innovative. The different moves that each character has and the animation seems 
 very realistic
  The sound is good too. Voice acting couldn't be more real and entrance music and ppl landing on 
 the mat is very convincing.
  Replay value is very high and the fact that you can have up to 6 wrestlers in the ring at once 
 is a great add-on. The different types of matches are very cool, especially the burried alive match 
 and elimination chamber match.
  Overall, this game took a big step forward in the WWE video game aspect, and i can't wait for smackdown 
 vs. raw 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themvp15
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  this was an ok game but they need 2 have the right rosters kane should be on smack down and stuff 
 like that they should also have put in ecw the customizing stuff was good and the new controls 
 they have suck and other then that it is the same game and the announcing sucked also y do we have 
 2 make these things so long who cares wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
 wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe wwe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for fans of WWE. The game play is nice. Instead of using the buttons to play 
 u can use the the analog stick to play. It is real easy to play with it too. There a lot of different 
 matches to play. The season is great. There is plenty of cutsences in this game and I love cutsences! 
 There a lot of wrestlers to play with and a lot to unlock too. In season there a lot of things 
 to buy for your room. There is this place where u can go in the crowd and use weapons. I like the 
 new features for this game. The online for the game is ok. I always get a bad connection for this 
 game. Only this game but I still win. I think ppl should buy this game if you really want to mess 
 somebody up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs raw 2007 is the best wrestling game right now, it's changed alot from smackdown vs 
 raw 2006, THQ have turned smackdown vs raw to a whole new level, I mean, you basicly got the whole 
 show on the game, all the new people, the locker room thingy has improved in a way. You can bring 
 the fight into the crowd and chokeslam people over the ring into tables. Anyway it's a good game. 
 You must buy it so get of your &aacute; ss and buy it NOW!!! Oh yeah, the graphics could be much 
 better tho. =] Ciao.
  
  Season mode in it has kinda changed I sposed but the mother f&uacute; ckers J. R., King, Tazz and 
 Michael cole don't say the your characters name, for example, say your John Cena, instead of saying 
 Omg, John Cena has just won the WWE title they will say Omg, he has won the title it's the same 
 in smackdown vs raw 2006, it p&iacute; ss&eacute; s me off. Oh well. Later dudes and dudettes. Enjoy 
 the game. xD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gujfu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs raw 2007 is the best wrestling game right now, it's changed alot from smackdown vs 
 raw 2006, THQ have turned smackdown vs raw to a whole new level, I mean, you basicly got the whole 
 show on the game, all the new people, the locker room thingy has improved in a way. You can bring 
 the fight into the crowd and chokeslam people over the ring into tables. Anyway it's a good game. 
 You must buy it so get of your &aacute; ss and buy it NOW!!! Oh yeah, the graphics could be much 
 better tho. =] Ciao.
  
  Season mode in it has kinda changed I sposed but the mother f&uacute; ckers J. R., King, Tazz and 
 Michael cole don't say the your characters name, for example, say your John Cena, instead of saying 
 Omg, John Cena has just won the WWE title they will say Omg, he has won the title it's the same 
 in smackdown vs raw 2006, it p&iacute; ss&eacute; s me off. Oh well. Later dudes and dudettes. Enjoy 
 the game. xD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heroface
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  WOW.. Where do I start.. OK I am a MASSIVE fan of wrestling, the WWE, wrestling games and all things 
 Slam-tastic (new word = awesome) so you may find parts of this review biased but hey.. it's an 
 opinion, and an honest one at that.
  
  Alright lets start off with the new features (I say new, I'm writing this after already reading 
 some first lok articles for the '08 edition.. so excited about that)
  
  CONTROLS
  So, you've just bought the game, you've heard the rumours about 'weird new controls' and all I 
 can say is 'Don't Worry' if your a fan of any wrestling game you'll already know what your supposed 
 to be able to do, it's just the 'how' that will get you at first.
  
  The controls have all now been shifted from the face buttons and onto the analogue stick leaving 
 more room for striking and running attacks on the face buttons. Different directions do different 
 moves and when combined with the shoulder buttons will then pull of even bigger and better moves.. 
 I won't go into the whole what button does what space taking tactics that some reviewers use to 
 meat up their articles but needless to say the controls are different.. beginners won't care because 
 it's gonna be the way that they learnt to play in the first place, where seasoned slammers will 
 have a spot of trouble getting used to it but will still be booting anus within the first hour 
 or so.
  
  SETTINGS
  The usual options are all there and mostly are useful.. set it to easy difficulty and bang bang 
 bang the match is over in minutes with you unscathed and you opponent lying bloodied and battered 
 on the floor.. but set the difficulty at it's highest and i wouldn't e surprised to find myself 
 lying in a pool of my own blood at some point during one of these matches... It's even possible 
 to LOSE!!
  
  The sound and video options are as useful as ever giving you the ability to turn on/off certain 
 aspects of sound (crowd, commentary etc)
  
  There are also options to transfer created wrestlers from your hard drive to your memory unit giving 
 you the ability to take them round your mate's house and challenge their own abominations (your 
 friends can NEVER make characters as good as yours can they) . This leads us on nicely...
  
  CREATE-A-WRESTLER
  Being an Xbox fan there are a lot of disappointments in this CAW mode but 
 that is only because i am used to features from previous games that smackdown has never had.. you 
 are still able to make some incredibl; e fighters and you can easily spend hours on one guy don't 
 get me wrong but I'd prefer to use a bulleted list for things that are missing so here goes:
  
  -Custom Soundtracks (the last 2 xbox wrestling games had this option. maybe 3 i didn't own 
 the first RAW)
  -3D clothing (is this the new generation of gaming or not? why take a step back to Sony's level?)
 
  -Custom facepaint (as in WM19 on NGC) this was such an awesome feature with it's own little 'paint' 
 program
  -Positionable accesories (again in WM19 for NGC) who wants to balance their hat on top of their 
 head or have their shades hovering in front of their face?!
  -What ever happened to the supposed music editor from WM21?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This game is incredibly 
 playable and you will NEVER get bored of it if your a fan. The match length depends on your skill, 
 the single player story changes depending on how well your doing, I've owned this game since the 
 day it came out and the last time I played was last night with 3 of my friends ans we had one match 
 last an hour because we've gotten that good. The gameplay of any game, I think, can never be rated 
 by a reviewer as such because thats whet THEY feel whilst THEY play it.. hence some people hate 
 Halo (yeah they do exist)
  
  GRAPHICS
  Beautiful, don't really think i can say anything else except I've seen screens of 2008 and it's 
 better still but there's still a wait on that one
  
  VFM
  This game is Definitly worth it's salt.. buy it now! it's getting 'old' and so the price is dropping 
 to make it even more worthwhile especially on sites like that BlahDVD. com (does it count as advertising 
 if I don't care about them? I'm just helping readers after all)
  
  AND FINALLY
  My closing statement is going to be a nice short one with a simple message: BUY THIS GAME.. NOW 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is the follow up to 06 and it shows some improvements over it's last version, 
 but it's not without some flaws. First the good details are finally the Xbox has a good wrestling 
 game. The most obvious improvement over it's PS2 counterpart is the graphics which look good if 
 not close to the real life wrestles. The control scheme has been redone to use the right analog 
 stick which makes it easier to pull off grapples and the addition of outside grapples adds to the 
 depth of the game. But there are some things wrong with the game, first with the awful commentary 
 which needs to improve and of course the hit collision is still off and there are still a number 
 of bugs like if you CAW is from a certain city the announcer will say the city twice which is annoying, 
 but most of these problems can be avoided and if you allow yourself sometime with this game you 
 will have a pretty good wrestling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  In the past WWE vs. Raw games, I felt that there wasn't as much control over the wrestlers as I 
 would have liked. In the 2007 version, this game does many things better, but doesn't really bring 
 anything new to the table.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay in this game feels smoother than the past installments, especially with 
 the new grappling move. There are more moves, and you have more control over your fighter. However, 
 sometimes the camera angle gets annoying, as I couldn't always see where I was running.
  
  GRAPHICS: Absolutely the best this game has ever looked, with sweat on the characters and facial 
 expressions.
  
  SOUND: Not anything special, the commentators will repeat some of the same lines more than twice 
 a match, so it gets kind of annoying.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, and I would recommend this to any wrestling fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmohd84
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Last time i recalled playing wrestling game is back on the nintendo 64... It was fun back then.... but 
 some features never change. This is going to be a quick overview of the game and not long...
  
  I want to say that this game is worth getting if you are a wrestling fan. It might not have 
 much value over past games of the series, but if you never played this series before this one is 
 great.
  
  The two feature i really liked about this game that was really different from general wrestling 
 games I know is the locker room and the career mode. The locker room is as it sounds your locker 
 room with your trophies, your own pc, mobile phone, and magazines. You can move around in it. Makes 
 you feel like a real wrestling. Now the jewel of this game that i found most interesting is that 
 it has a story mode. Back at my time of playing wreslting games, It was only consecutive matches 
 till you get to the end and beat the champion for the championship. This game has a STORY! There 
 are cinematics between the games, other wrestlers sending you messages, and you can read your news 
 in the magazines and on the WWE website. You can also chose who your friends, people interefere 
 in the game. A lot more has it in this game, you get challenged by wrestlers and the variets of 
 matches in the game keeps you excited. I would like to add that the game is very well challenging.
 
  
  The disadvantages of this game could have been resolved easily. People complain about the AI of 
 the game, its true but it gives you a chance to get back in the game. The other thing is that once 
 you get beaten up, you cant do anyhting just keep tapping on the controller on the hope that your 
 opponent is stupid enough to keep you for 5 minutes to regain power. This is the real downside 
 of the game. Once you get slammed couple of times, thats about it for you, you just get beaten 
 up again and again and ist hopeless you might as well restart. The pointing system is bad too. 
 You never know who you are going to attack if there are multiple people in the ring (including 
 the refree and your tag team) , there is a pointer but up until now i dont know how to use it. The 
 other two things i hate about the game is the simplistic way of achieving moves, its as simple 
 as pressing analogue stick up or down. Doesnt give you the satisfaction of performing a maneuver. 
 And after being hit, the old bashing the button is getting stupid and i dont believe they still 
 use it. I think this is the stupidest control system created for any video game. Bashing the buttons 
 to get up or unlock from your opponent... hurts your hand and the controller.
  
  Although this game has disadvantages i think i can say its the best wrestling game out there and 
 its kind of revolutionary if you havent been playing wrestling games as long as I did. If you feel 
 like playing wrestling, you wont go wrong. If you hate the genre... dont buy this game.
  
  Note: the loading time in this game is ridiclous made me remember the ps1 days and the advantages 
 of a cartridge over the cd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddenite
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  When you think WWE Smackdown vs Raw you think of a solid wrestling game, correct? Well, this game 
 has changed my train of thought. When I think WWE Smackdown vs Raw , I think confusion and frustration 
 . SVR 2007 has some great innovations. But it's far too black and white for me. The storylines 
 don't branch off in Season Mode, leaving the overall experience very bland. And I've jumped from 
 Smackdown to Raw at least 30 times, is that more than Chris Benoit yet? The GM Mode was also a 
 fantastic idea. I mean, a ratings war! I can't tell you how excited I got when I first saw that. 
 I went and created a slew of WCW Superstars and turned it into WWE vs WCW . It kept me occupied 
 too, until the second year when everything repeats itself. Another tasteless experience. The CAWS 
 are a capital idea, if they could get the clothing to stop looking as if it's painted on. Let's 
 also not forget the constant looping of Michael Cole and Tazz! I won't include JR and King because 
 they actually DO repeat themselves 500 times in one match. But Cole and Tazz? I thought they were 
 supposed to be calling the match, not having a contest to see how many times they can repeat themselves 
 before I throw my controller through the TV screen. Then there's the technical workings of this 
 game. The Artificial Intelligence . The pitch for this game is to live the WWE experience. That's 
 a hoot. Because I had no idea the Big Show was a high-flyer! Then there's the ever-so-lovable fact 
 that every time you try and irish whip someone they automatically reverse it and dash your hopes 
 of victory. Because, try as you might, you can't reverse the damn atomic suplex. They got the interface 
 and graphics right, but the gameplay outright sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  If you are new to the series and enjoy fighting games, theres a good chance that you will like 
 this game. If, however, you have been following the series since the very first SmackDown for Playstation 
 (or even if you own SvR 2006, really) , this game is somewhat of a disappointment.
  
  The Good: SmackDown vs. RAW 2007 delivered on everything the developers claimed it would: a long, 
 detailed story mode with more decisions on the part of the player, the return of the mildly popular 
 GM mode (with a few added features) , CAWs, customizable titles and online play. This latest installment 
 also features a new control style which, although a mite challenging to master if you are accustomed 
 to the old controls, is actually better in the long-run at keeping the game fast paced.
  
  The Neutral: Fewer (nearly) irreversible moves in the game, but they still exist. Fewer methods 
 of garnering up a cheap victory, but they still exist. You will probably experience some of the 
 worlds worst sportsmanship with this game online, but theres nothing the developers can really 
 do to fix that.
  
  Needs to Improve: Game Modes: what limited new matches and features they have added in with the 
 last few installments are hardly worth mentioning. Create-A-PPV mode is also probably one of the 
 most pointless features in the game, ever since they stopped giving ratings to your shows (like 
 they did in SmackDown and SmackDown 2: Know Your Role) . Some superstar stats are just wrong. Create-An-Entrance 
 still has the music glitch from the previous game (where the music cuts off abruptly if your entrance 
 runs on too long [too long being defined by the amount of time it takes the superstar, whose music 
 you are borrowing, to enter] ) . Season mode is still just okay. The storylines were a little more 
 interesting, but there wasnt too much control you could take over the direction of your superstar. 
 Multiplayer story mode is still out. No ECW brand yet.
  
  Even with listing more negatives than positives, SmackDown vs. RAW 2007 isnt really a bad game. 
 It seems that the developers have just gotten somewhat lazy and figure that the game will sell 
 as long as it holds up its pervious standards. Well, sadly, thats probably true, by my recommendation 
 to you is if you have SvR 2006, stick with that and wait for 2008, then 2010, and so on, as the 
 minimal number of updates added each year doesnt seem all that significant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot of great matches like the new money in the bank match and the newely improved 
 table match. The ladder match also had a improvement. Instead of just pushing button and hoping 
 that your opponent doesn't get up from the outside, you have to move the joysticks. You can move 
 the right one to try to reach it with your right hand or the left and try to reach it with your 
 left hand or you can move both joysticks up and try with both hands. If you are too far away then 
 you'll fall off you use both hands. The table matches got a upgrade my by you being able to stack 
 them and a new grapple mode. The graphics in this game are incredible! They look real and the fans 
 look real so it feels like your actually there. And the superstars and the ref sweat sometimes. 
 The new grapple feature was hard to get use to but after a while you can get the hang of it. The 
 way it works is like you get them into a choke position and you want to do a chokeslam, you just 
 click it. If you want to use both hands and pick them up just bring up the joystick. Once you have 
 them up you can carry them around and build momentum and you lose stamina. But the long you hold 
 them the more damage it does to them. And to slam them just simply push the joystick down. Or if 
 you go into the corner you ram them into the post. The season mode lets you play through 7 years 
 instead of one. But it repeats. I would say that is the only down fall to this game. They updated 
 the roster but there were some superstars that could of been on there but wasn't that came in about 
 June but wasn't on there, that's another down fall. So overall it's a great game for big wrestling 
 fans. I have fun playing this game I hope you 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorughfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw has become a WWE game series we have come to love. Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is the 
 best game in the series. The wrestlers are a little better then from SVR 06. Its a game that amazes 
 you all the time. The enterances of the characters are amazing. Its so life like that you feel like 
 you are there in the arena cheering for people like the Undertaker or Shawn Michaels. The gameplay 
 is like most basic WWE games: you pick a superstar or you create one and go through many levels 
 through the year and work your way the the championship. Personally i think they could have put 
 a little more work into it because its the same old stuff from the first SVR. Itd be a lot more 
 fun if you could actually get to write you answers to the characters questions and that leads into 
 actions by other wrestlers. Multiplayer is a lot better. You got enviormental spots, weapons, you 
 can even use the audiance to help. I say to really make the game crazy is to let the character do 
 a move off the titantron like a aieral move or throw someone off or do a superplex off it into 
 tables. It would also be better if you could stack like 4 or 5 tables on each other and get on a 
 ladder and put you and your opponent through them. General Manager mode is pretty good but would 
 be better if you could have a story line to that too and actually create a GM like how you create 
 a superstar. The graphics in the game are amazing. A whole lot better then from 05 or 06. The sound 
 is great, you can blast the music as you are walking down to the ring to kick some ass! Definately 
 buy this game. It has hours and hours of fun and new things are constantly discovered. Smackdown 
 vs Raw 2007 is the best wrestling game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 13, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  this game isnt the best or really good because everything is the same except the graphics and storyline 
 are different. the creation is pretty good except the character still has the squares on their 
 clothes. the storyline sucks a lot i think the best game was here comes the pain which had goldberg 
 and other kooler people , so thats my review of smackdown vs raw 2007 , which was not anything 
 special cuz a lot of the other games were better . now everyone no ' s that this is not the game 
 to get for xbox 360 i dont know maybe it will be better for p s 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanisbored
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of great matches like the new money in the bank match and the newely improved 
 table match. The ladder match also had a improvement. Instead of just pushing button and hoping 
 that your opponent doesn't get up from the outside, you have to move the joysticks. You can move 
 the right one to try to reach it with your right hand or the left and try to reach it with your 
 left hand or you can move both joysticks up and try with both hands. If you are too far away then 
 you'll fall off you use both hands. The table matches got a upgrade my by you being able to stack 
 them and a new grapple mode. The graphics in this game are incredible! They look real and the fans 
 look real so it feels like your actually there. And the superstars and the ref sweat sometimes. 
 The new grapple feature was hard to get use to but after a while you can get the hang of it. The 
 way it works is like you get them into a choke position and you want to do a chokeslam, you just 
 click it. If you want to use both hands and pick them up just bring up the joystick. Once you have 
 them up you can carry them around and build momentum and you lose stamina. But the long you hold 
 them the more damage it does to them. And to slam them just simply push the joystick down. Or if 
 you go into the corner you ram them into the post. The season mode lets you play through 7 years 
 instead of one. But it repeats. I would say that is the only down fall to this game. They updated 
 the roster but there were some superstars that could of been on there but wasn't that came in about 
 June but wasn't on there, that's another down fall. So overall it's a great game for big wrestling 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyface
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 5, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I got SmackDown Vs RAW bundled with my 360 and was not entirely enthralled to be honest, despite 
 having a great fondness for wrestling games ever since playing the commodore 64 game and then various 
 N64 games. However I'd had a bit of a bad experience with later games, having bought Wrestlemania 
 21 and returned it shortly afterwards due to an immense amount of bugs making it mostly unplayable, 
 and so was not entirely convinced that this would be any better.
  
  I gave a try, dragged myself through the create a player section, which I generally like, however 
 the layer system used is a little confusing and the customisability is good but not great, and 
 started my first match, with the instruction manual on my lap so I could peruse the 8 pages of 
 various controls whilst attempting to at least put up a good fight. I was slaughtered. Even against 
 the worst wrestler in the game, other than myself. It was as though the controller pad was sat 
 on the floor and I was watching my character being pummelled whilst twiddling my thumbs and enjoying 
 the show. So I decided never to play the game again, complaining that the controls where far too 
 complicated and the easy setting was far from anything Id ever referred to as easy.
  
  Months past and the game gathered dust until about a week ago, during my final weeks of Uni where 
 I really should be working solidly, I decided to give it another go. And pretty much the same thing 
 happened. I created another character, having deleted the old one in protest, started the career 
 mode and got put up against the largest character in the whole game The Big Show, way to build 
 confidence. Well I lost, but this time I kept going, losing the next 5 or so matches before actually 
 winning one.
  Ive mostly got used to the controls now, but it wasnt easy. The countering system is a bit of 
 a button masher (either that or having the ability to see into the future and have split second 
 timing) , as is the recovering, submitting and various other bits in the game. There are however 
 some brilliant bits, the ultimate control moves are fantastic as are the environmental attacks, 
 there are also some great fun game modes, buried alive, hell in a cell and backstage brawl to name 
 just a few. At times this game is great fun to play and will leave you believing you could take 
 on a real wrestler and have no trouble in defeating him, other times its more like the computer 
 taunting you as it mercilessly beats you to a pulp without giving you an opportunity to defend 
 yourself, believing that the fact you have a controller in your hands is enough of a chance. Its 
 only through my love of my 360 that I kept the controller in my hands instead of hurling it across 
 the room, this was left for other much less important objects. There have been a number of times 
 that Ive turned my 360 off just so I can have a rematch because I was officially robbed of a match 
 and Im not just saying that, there where times when it was me being a bad loser but others that 
 just made no sense.
  
  There are also a number of bugs, which Ive come to expect from THQ games. Random lock ups sometimes 
 happen during loading. Attacks sometime miss due to repositioning of characters in awkward spaces. 
 Attacks that need space to be performed simply float the character across the floor in order to 
 give enough space (not exactly a bug more laziness, surely a short automated dragging sequence 
 could be initiated) . Ladders will also be moved if two are set up too close, even if your on it 
 and trying to reach the belt. I also witnessed two NPCs setting up and taking down ladders for 
 a good few minutes as both where trying to place their ladder under the belt at the same time, 
 shifting the others in the process so requiring repositioning. Continuing with the ladder theme, 
 a character will sometimes perform a move whilst at the bottom of the ladder, magically appearing 
 at the top and executing a very damaging manoeuvre off the top of the ladder. My character was 
 also given two nicknames when announced at the end of a match, which was pretty cool but odd as 
 well. There are others, but I cant remember them at the moment.
  
  All in all this game is great fun to play but can be infuriating, to the point of wishing the game 
 had a face so you could punch it. I really think that THQ should consider testing their games much 
 more thoroughly before release to ensure that all the bugs are ironed out and also run some of 
 the methods of controlling sections by a normal human being as well, just to make sure things make 
 sense or are doable, they could also do with revising there definition of easy a little, so that 
 the more casual player can at least enjoy him or herself without being put off immediately. Lets 
 hope there are some updates on the way to sort out some of the more major problems with the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle_Guts
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is aweome I love the grafphics and the game play. I got this game when it first came out 
 and have been playing it ever since. I have almost completed the game all I need is the legnd trophy 
 and then I am done. I have beem playing games ever since I was 3 years old and haven't seen any 
 better graphicts yet. This game is awesome and that's all their is to say. Also if you dont have 
 the game you should get it because it is very fan and exciting and fun, so that' why you should 
 get the game if you don't have it yet. You can break your oppenet through a table. jump from latter 
 to latter. You gan slame em with a chair, sludgehammer, a trashcan, a fire extiguser and ex. the 
 game is the best so thats the end of my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzaher
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  SmackDown vs. RAW 2007 is one of the best multilayer games on Xbox 360. now let's start with why. 
 first of all, the fun the game brings is immeasurable. If your have inpatient friends, then the 
 game sessions might turn into real figths. many characters, nice graphics, lots of options, sever 
 games to play and more.
  
  it is as nice online as it is at home. the season part of the game is OK, it is not that exciting, 
 basically it is much more fun if you play against real people either online or people around you. 
 now the very very negative thing about the game is the loading time. it is just the slowest loading 
 time on earth which is very annoying. let's say you and your friends are four, this means the game 
 has to go through 6 loading phases ! 1-loading after choosing the players
  2-loading the entrance video of EACH player (in our example there are 4!)
  it loads player one, 
 shows you the video, then loads player 2, and so on.
  3- loading time AFTER the players videos are over !!
  
  i just don't see why this should be 
 happen. Fight Night Round 3 is MUCH more intense from a graphics, and programming point of view 
 and is still MUCH more faster. i guess there are smarter programmers at EA !!
  
  anyways, one of the other bad thing about the game is the way players move, let's say you are facing 
 player one, beating the crap out of him, turning around to beat up player two who is maybe behind, 
 is just annoying. very annoying and sometimes the game does not response well, so you mistakenly 
 hit the referee instead !
  
  other than that, the game is nice. remember, it is a must have if u play online, or if you play 
 with your friends at home. playing against the PC is kind of boring. one more thing i'd like to 
 mention, basically the sound of the crowd could sometimes cover the sound of the commentary. it 
 just becomes very hard to listen to what the commentary is saying. i have a HD TV and i KNOW it 
 is not the problem of my sound system !!
  
  actually i just remembered 2 things, 1 is that if your player is down, you might have to wait A 
 LOT before he is up again ! which gives your opponent lots of time to destroy u !
  lastly , YOU HAVE TO TRY THE LADDER MATCH ! IT IS AMAZING !
  
  enough ! i'm out ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I'm a sucker for wrestling games. Ever since that old Wrestlemania arcade game with Hulk Hogan 
 and The Ultimate Warrior, I've played nearly every wrestling game released on nearly every console 
 there is.
  
  But I don't think this game lives up to it's full potential.
  
  The graphics and sound are really good. The cut scenes in the career mode are awesome (if a little 
 outrageous, but hey - that's wrestling!!!) .
  
  But the game play itself is slow and a litte bit boring. I think the stamina feature gets in the 
 way of the game (I thought the damage meter did that in the previous games???) , and the tap any 
 button to get up when knocked down rarely works. Or if it does, your character decides on his own 
 when he's ready to get up.
  
  I don't think there's been a good release in the Smackdown series since the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAnderson582
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  SVR is a great game. The game play is what you would expect from a good wretling game and there 
 are alot of the new people from the last like Finlay, Bobey Lashley, and even the boggeyman. There 
 is also a new grappling system and some other cool features like you get messeages from people 
 on your cellphone in the game and just cool things that make this better then the last one. I would 
 recamend this game to anyone who like a good fighting game! Alright it seems that i need 100 word 
 to complete this review so how about a say a joke, what do you get when you cross a fork with a 
 hair drarer? A MONKEY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAlabastor10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is definately a wrestling experience you'll never forget.
  
  Graphics- Gorgeous. The graphics have indeed improved over the years and look what it's come down 
 to. The characters are detailed, the entrances have been improved a lot and the storyline is better 
 than i expected
  
  Sound- Here i found two problems with this game. The commentary is horrendous. JR, King, Tazz, 
 and Cole sasy the same thing over and over through time. And also during the story mode the voice-overs 
 are a little off and there aren't any good voices for CAWS (which would be a great improvement 
 for SVR2008) . But the rest is okay.
  
  Gameplay- It seems like only yesterday i was playing with circle as the grapple button. Now since 
 they added this analog control thingy i needed to get used to it. But in about 45 mins i got used 
 to it and was mastering it. Every punch, grapple, and girly slap is innovative and fluid. There 
 are a lot of game modes including my favorite, MONEY IN THE BANK! even though they can add a bit 
 more next time.
  
  Value- What do you expect? It's $60, the average price of a 360 game. But i think that it's worth 
 it. Trust me, you'll be remembering this game at age 80 and making your kids play this game like 
 child labor.
  
  Overall- This is a great game. From the enhanced graphics, innovative controls, new game modes, 
 and characters (including ...... MRRRRRRRRRR.  
 this is a game for people who are new to the genre and to those crazy WWE fans. I reccommend this 
 highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkner_ram77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  This is a purely feel good game that just about anyone can pick up right away and start playing. 
 It has a decent storyline, but that is not a valid reason for getting this game. What I would do 
 is to go to the different game modes and immediately start whooping ass. I love to get a good ol' 
 chair and beat the Great Khali until his eyes bleed. Man I hate that guy. There is a great variety 
 of wrestlers to keep you coming back for more over and over again. On the other hand, multiplayer 
 can be a bit finicky at times and it tends to be near impossible to find a host without a laggy 
 server. Another thing, don't go online unless you are just simply looking to join a match and never 
 hit your opponent. Not because the room is laggy, but because there are some badasses that play 
 the game and could beat you easily with any of the featherweights. All in all, this is a fun game 
 that will offer you several hours of fun gameplay, and even has a few customization features to 
 boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Review: WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2007
  
  Wrestling games come Wrestling games go, but unlike most sports games Wrestling games almost never 
 feel like just a tech upgrade. How will the WWE's first entry on the Xbox 360 fare over the other 
 games in the series, and as the first traditional Wrestling game of the next generation?
  
  Story:
  Each character has their own story, and what makes it more special is that the story 
 never stays the same like it does in real Pro Wrestling, bringing a strange sense of realism (yes 
 I am aware of the oxymoron since stories in wrestling are scripted) to a game making feel like 
 you are stuck in many different wrestling storylines, rather than just one linier story.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are Beautiful, and can actually fool you into thinking you are watching an 
 actual match rather than playing a game. Character models on some of the bigger name wrestlers 
 are spot on perfect like with the Undertaker. However this is not always the case like with other 
 superstars like Chris Benoit whose character model is so off of base from what he looks like that 
 it is distracting, which can throw you off from what the game is trying to achieve, which is amazing 
 considering his character model in WWE Day of Reckoning 2 for the Gamecube was spot on. And this 
 throws you off more when (if you select Smackdown as your starting stable for your create a character) 
 the starting story is you against Benoit, and the Undertaker. But what really steals the day is 
 the crowd, not only do they have good character models, but they react much like a real crowd would, 
 which is cool especially when you take the fight into the crowd, including fan reactions to a wrestler 
 ripping up their sign, or pointing out their signs.
  
  Music:
  The Licensed soundtrack in Smackdown Vs. Raw 2007 is good, and actually does a good job of staying 
 faithful to the WWE license, and themes. The in ring commentary is frantic and actually sounds 
 like the type of commentary that you would expect from a Live WWE Broadcast, Raw has Jerry Lawler, 
 and Jim Ross, and Smackdown has Tazz and the other guy whom annoys me and shall remain nameless, 
 to be quite honest I miss Tazz as a color commentator so it was nice to hear him back if only in 
 video game form, instead of JBL the current Smackdown color commentator. But the rest looking for 
 current color commentator JBL will be disappointed.
  
  Control:
  If you have played the WWE Smackdown series in recent years than you know what to expect from Smackdown 
 Vs. Raw 07 though there are a few new things to discuss like you are able to save your special 
 maneuver until you want to use it which comes in really handy, but each new maneuver is a real 
 improvement for the series and successfully adds new elements of realism to the game for in match 
 options and strategies.
  
  Design:
  The designers spent a lot of time with this game and it shows, the life like characters, fighting 
 that can go anywhere like in the crowd, backstage, and in the parking lot, a special weapon filled 
 section in the crowd, a life like crowd make this the most real Wrestling experience on a home 
 console. . Also the GM mode is still great with tweaks that make the mode a little more interesting 
 and accurate like the ability to sign writers, and assign their stories to a wrestler. But there 
 are a few things I didn't like. Like your create a character absolutely can not compete with the 
 big boys (except for maybe the ladies) and in order to level your character up you have to play 
 the story mode so you can't even get minimal points to level your character up by wrestling other 
 characters at your level, you are thrust up against the best of the WWE instantly if you want to 
 level up and get your characters skills improved which means you are going to take loss, after 
 loss, after loss, before your character will level up to a level that they can compete. I would 
 have much rather had your character start a career in the NWA and earn their way up to one of the 
 WWE Rosters, which would make more sense, since that is often the way thing work in real life, 
 that or recreate the Tough Enough program that was on MTV a few years ago
  
  Over all Wrestling fans should not miss this game, you will be entertained for a very long time, 
 and casual fans should enjoy this one too, but be forewarned your created characters are going 
 to take quite a few losses before they take a win.
  
  Graphics
  8/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  8/10
  
  Fun factor
  9/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
 
  8.6 out of 10.0
  
  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2007:
  
  Pros:
  Great Graphics
  Multiplayer is fun
  Most of the Character models look amazing
  Best looking crowd in a game
 
  
  Cons:
  Some Character Models Do not resemble like their real life counterparts
  Unbalanced start for Created Characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  WOW? i should not use the word WOW on Smackdown vs Raw 07 especially on the Xbox 360 platform... I 
 have to give some credits to this game, because it's the one and only Official WWE game... But too 
 bad that it's not as good as expected..
  
  You see.. this is the problem when there's only one developer whose handling the official sports 
 or entertainment tittles to do it for video games.. Since there aren't any other developers to compete.. they 
 won't pu much effort very year they release it.. HELL.. sometimes they only change the rosters..!!
 
  
  So the question u must be askin before u purchase this game is, Is this a good game? Is it Worth 
 it? and Any changes being made from the last year version and any major changes from the current 
 gen? no worries.. i'll answer them for ya!
  
  Basically.. SVR 07 is not really a realistic wrestling game.. the movements of the wrestlers are 
 not like what you've seen in WWE... and some of the moves the Wrestlers have does not corresponds 
 with the moves that they do in real life...
  
  There are some HOTSPOTS where u can grab your opponents and drag them to certain areas where a 
 minigame will appear.. but sadly.. it will get repetitive some time cuz it's limited.. say.. not every 
 wrestler drag their opponents to the announcer table and smash his face over it over and over again 
 or just choking them with the small TV wire at the announcer table... the conclusion is, there isnt 
 much to do in the HOTSPOTS area.
  
  There arent also alternate costumes to choose for your wrestlers.. only some of them.. like Triple 
 H wearing a Coat..?? i mean.. come on.. i'm sure Triple H won't wear a coat during a match! The alternate 
 costumes are not realistic and actually it looks stupid!
  
  The entrance..? What bout the entrance? It's nice to see your superstars enter the ring everytime... but 
 i think once u've watch it four times onwards.. u might be thinkin of skipping it the next time.. coz 
 their movements will always be the same when they enter the rings.. only the camera angels will 
 change.. and too bad that the Wrestlers don't really resembles their real life counter parts in 
 the next gen version.. the wrestlers don't look as good as in the current gen version even when 
 you create them.. it's not as in depth as in the current gen version.. and talking about counterparts.. have 
 u ever seen Ric Flair with six pecs and firm chest before? Nope? If u havent.. this game will let 
 you have a chance to see it...
  
  SO is it worth the buy? i think you should rent it only.. Coz the season mode is pretty linear and 
 it's not that long.. there's not much new moves for creation of wrestlers too..
  
  If u've played SVR 06 on the PS2 version last year.. you will find that this year's version is pretty 
 similar compared to last year's SVR06.. It's just that this time around you use your right analog 
 stick to do the grapple moves.. and there are quite a number of them actually compared to the current 
 gen version.. there is a normal grapple move.. and a strong grapple moves.. you will understand once 
 you play it.. The different between this year and last year.. is actually the hotspots which i've 
 mention above earlier..
  The difference between the next gen and current gen is the 360 version has more moves.. the graphics 
 are more sharper.. but not as good compared to the current gen version.. and yes.. u can see you wreslers 
 weat this time around.. but iw wonder why John Cena's sweat looks like Batista... it's hard to see 
 Cena sweat heavily in the ring in real life.. so now.. u can see him sweat in the game.... I think 
 YUKES should focus more on the next gen system than current gen...
  
  So if you wanna get this game.. just know that this is not a realistic wrestling game.. where the 
 opponents will reverse your moves all the time, commentators keep saying the same words all over 
 again.. and sometimes it didn't synch quite well on what you do..
  
  So i think you should rent it you've played the last year version.. it's not worth purchasing.. but 
 you can try it for sometime.. and it will get repetitive the longer you play it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsman_12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  A very good fun game im still learning new things now about the game. It all depends how much you 
 study the manual. My learning curve is 30-60 min because matches sometimes take long, and some 
 people pick things up faster. If you have it on easy difficulty its like taking candy from a baby. 
 The new environmental attacks are great too, and when you use your ultiamate control moves you 
 can throw people into turnbuckles and out of the ring. Witch is pretty cool. The re-used commentary 
 is not the best and that is one of only a couple of flaws but i would otherwise say it is a great 
 game. And you should rent of buy it cause its addicting. final word Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Yeah. I think Yuke's is starting to get on the right track. This game is a real time consumer!
 
  
  If you plan to just play a few exhibition games and dont wanna spend all too much time in front 
 of the TV - Then avoid the GM mode.... cause that one my friend is gonna suck you in!!! BIG TIME!
 
  
  GM mode this year around is amazing. You get to draft your own roster for WWF and, there's so much 
 to do and plan that it just simply sucks all free time you got on your hands.
  
  BIG improvement to last years version. BIG improvement. Characters look more real- no more of that 
 plastic-GI-JOE-doll feeling to your gameplay.
  
  The CAW mode is better. The same engine as before (except improved graphics from PS2 version) and 
 all the masks and add-ons actually attach on the face of your wrestler.
  
  But, as all games - this one comes with baggage too...
  
  First off.... the soundtrack.... im 
 no fan of psychotic rock music - please Yuke's - implement a Create Your Own Playlist-mode! (music 
 chosen from your XB360 HDD of course) since the soundtrack sucks...
  
  -the only music I can listen to is the entrance themes of the superstars..
  
  Secondly...... God 
 almighty...... the loading times...!
  It's way tooo sloooooow....
  Takes forever to load ONE SINGLE menu....
  
  BUT BUT BUT.... even though these are some downsides,
 
  it doesn't make up for the whole game - in total, you can overlook these
  minor flaws, since this is a pretty decent game we have here..
  
  Explore it for yourself - 
 im not gonna say anything, since I might give you a bias view of it all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigzta
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I love this game because this game is one in a million meaning the best of the best of the best. 
 people should buy this game cause is has good graphics and the stories are better than the 06 and 
 the 05. This game has history of other past wrestling games it should have its own hall of fame. 
 It should have all the classic wrestlers in the game Smackdown v. s Raw 2008 game like Bam Bam, 
 Owen Hart and many more legens. Isn't it time to make a platnum of all the classic games? I know 
 it should it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Around this time last year, WWE Smackdown vs. RAW 2006 pretty much left me jaw dropped because 
 of how great it looked for a PS2 game. One year later, the Smackdown vs. RAW 2007 TV commercials 
 had the same effect on me, not so much because of the great graphics (it is a 360 game after all) 
 but because of the amazing resemblance of the characters with their real life counterparts. Yes, 
 even more than the previous title in the series. Don't just watch it, live it seemed like the perfect 
 slogan for what was shown in the ad.
  
  Making its first next-gen appearance, Smackdown vs. RAW 2007 is essentially the same game. And 
 I say essentially because the core of the game is what we already know from previous titles, but 
 there are a few innovations. Your unknown wrestler still fights for fame and stats increments, 
 beating on or getting beat on by all those stars you know from TV. The controls are basically the 
 same as well, except for the analog stick grappling (which takes some time getting used to, but 
 it's more intuitive in the end) and some changes to the momentum bar. This time around, the momentum 
 bar has an extra purpose. This bar (located under your character's name) raises or lowers depending 
 on how well you're doing in your current match. If you've been kicking the crap out of your opponent 
 into submission, your momentum is going up. If you're the one being submitted, your momentum goes 
 down. A good way to raise your momentum is to perform a good mix of moves, which gets the crowd 
 going. Do too much of the same thing and your momentum starts going down.
  
  Filling up the momentum bar completely allows you to perform your finishing move, which you can 
 use or store. Storing a finisher has a few advantages: you can use it to steal your opponent's 
 finishing move or taunt, or you can use it to perform different finishing moves yourself (using 
 a table, a chair or a weapon) .
  
  Reversals are a big thing this time around, and they can get fairly annoying at times, to the point 
 where you feel you're completely being cheesed out by your opponent.
  
  You can also interact a lot more with objects around you and your opponent, smashing their heads 
 into the metal steps leading to the rink, trying to strangle them with power cords You can even 
 fight in the middle of the excited crowd and use their silly signs as a weapon.
  
  The storyline in Season Mode spans through both shows, RAW and Smackdown. At a certain point, your 
 wrestler will be forced to compete for the opposite brand. Intrigue, betrayal, a little bit of 
 magic and a sex change are part of the repertoire.
  
  If you're a wrestling fan - and chances are you more than likely are, or you wouldn't be playing 
 this - you will be pleased to know that all those Pay-Per-View shows are present, and depending 
 on the side you're on, you will see Royal Rumble, Armaggedon, No Mercy, Wrestemania, Backlash, 
 Unforgiven, Summer Slam and other events.
  
  Season Mode has also been enhanced with branching storylines that depend on wether you hold the 
 championship belt or not, and even let you play as some of the wrestling stars.
  
  General Manager Mode returns with expanded options, such as roster search filters, hiring better 
 writers for your stars' scripts or sending stars to events for increased popularity. Just like 
 before, you can still hop into any match and wrestle yourself. Challenge Mode is also back, with 
 several matches to play for money or for locker room upgrades. Your locker room can personalized 
 with things you unlock by purchasing. You can have divas' posters on the walls, a pink poodle, 
 a bed, different wallpaper and flooring. You also have a computer where you can check news bits 
 and read emails and voice messages from wrestlers and management. Word of advice, save before you 
 check your email. Sometimes, there will be a challenge waiting for you among the new messages.
 
  
  On a more technical approach, and even though the graphics are fantastic, there are still some 
 issues to complain about. What I first directed my attention was to the hair, because in SvsR 2006, 
 long hair insisted on going through the wrestler's body. It's not as bad, and the hair looks much 
 better this time around, but still stiff and not very lifelike. That actually stopped being an 
 issue once I started noticing the sliding animations, which were particularly evident with the 
 divas. Those moments of standing there doing nothing still happen, but when the characters magically 
 turn while sliding in the same position, it seems a little creepy at first, and then just completely 
 weird.
  
  A hurt character will squirm around in agony for too long of a time. These lengthy animations give 
 you the chance to attack or being attacked several times in a row, depending if you're on the winning 
 or losing side.
  
  And I'm not sure if it's a common glitch or not, but the name of my custom wrestler insisted on 
 not appearing in the entrance sequence most of the time.
  
  The major downside of the game is the loading time. It loads before your entrance sequence, before 
 your opponent's entrance, before the fight, after the fight, and oddly enough, sometimes even before 
 another loading screen. I grew tired of seeing those superstar poses during loading times, as they 
 repeat too often, and those breast implants and popping veins became a bit disturbing way too soon.
 
  
  One thing this Smackdown vs RAW chapter thought me was not to trust hot women in leather wielding 
 fairy wands. Nor men with bulging muscles wearing colorful spandex. Either way, if you ignore the 
 wacky loading and the minor graphic glitches, you will have a blast in the plot twists and turns, 
 frenzied combat and online matches of WWE Smackdown vs. RAW 2007.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=wwevsraw2007 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daewoo2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs raw 2007 is by far the best wrestling game out so far in my opinion. It has clearly 
 surpassed that of the previous wrestling games due to its all new grappling system that gives you 
 a unique variety of moves and abilities assosiated with each superstar. But not only that the graphic 
 models for this game stand out incredibly from its environments and cinematics to its most best 
 part the wrestlers them selfs. They stand out like nothing before in a wrestling game aswell as 
 having the sweat system on there so that after a certain amount of time fighting the wrestlers 
 realy start sweating that really makes it seem real. Each superstar has been drawed and scaled 
 complete accuratly in stance, looks, wrestling moves, appearence and more. There are plenty of wrestlers 
 to choose from like undertaker, Batista, John cena, Kane, Rey mysterio and many more. Including 
 some of the greatest wrestling legends of all time such as Hogan, Bret hart, The rock, mankind 
 and more. l Although have to say the rosters are not the best seen in the smackdown series.
  
  As with the other games in the series there are plenty of match types to choose, from the buried 
 alive match all the way to royal rumble and hell in a cell theres something that everyone enjoys. 
 The season mode is in good shape in this one too thats both lenghy and has a story behind it depending 
 on which wrestler you play as. The season mode also comes with each superstars real life voice 
 which is animated on the models perfectly unlike on other wrestling games where they appear to 
 be out of sink.
  
  Xbox live is also a great experience as you can challenge other players online to see where you 
 stand as a wrestler its very exciting to play espicially in Hell in a cell.
  
  All said this a great wrestling game where in my opinion best in the series for graphics, Season 
 and just plain old kicking ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are good but the gameplay isnt very appealing everything about the game is good except 
 the main thing the FUN! it just isnt very fun well thats how i can only explain it so oh well 100 
 WORDS!? GOD!! BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Just gonna go straight to it.... its wrestling, you know what its about.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Character models are good with body and muscle structure. All the wrestlers look like there real 
 life counter parts as well as walk, talk, and perform just like they do to.
  
  The addition of sweat is a cool feature. The crowd is 3d and while they are not super realistic 
 it does what it does good. Entrance's are ok but the lighting doesn't seem real good, and the ring 
 textures are average at best. The characters look great while the environments suffer. This is 
 why ports just are not any good for gaming.
  
  Environmentally the crowd looks ok and the rest of the environment is bad. Rings, lighting, weapons, 
 it all could've been better.
  
  Graphics are ok at best. Would've been better had it not just been ported.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Outdated 
 rosters, loads of clipping, a stupid control scheme, lame online, need I say more? It had plenty 
 of match types, but 4 player limits online and lag and stuttering frame rates made online multi 
 player a drag, and how many times will you ever have 4 friends over to play?
  
  SOUND: Its average. Music is ok, but same generic voices through the match get boring. Slams sound 
 good but thats it.
  
  VALUE:......... what value? Buying this game for have price is about the only value it has. Lame 
 online, boring gameplay, and glitches and clipping just make it a crappy port worth renting at 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afatoldman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game i kind of knew what to expect but they kind of shocked me especially with 
 the capability to play the match type Money in the Bank. The roster has been updated with new faces 
 such as Umaga and Mark Henry and many more. The graphics are definalty next gen and better than 
 the previous ones. Another new feature is being able to fight in the crowd which is very fun. Another 
 new feature is the Ultimate Control moves which give you complete controll over your moves. This 
 game is just fun. Nice job once again. If there are any questions that need to be asked of just 
 send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Its just kinda boring
  Its fun to play with freinds but the single player modes are just lame.
  The season mode ( career 
 mode) is tacky and weird. plus theres no point on playing it because theres a skip Feature.
  Plus the acheivements are hard to get. General manager mode is boring .
  I like playing with 
 freinds though. and the controls are easy. But if you get knocked down its soo frustrating getting 
 back up if youve been bryised and battered alot.
  Overall Great sound, love the commentary, hate the singular plaer modes, hate the hard to get acheivment 
 butLOOOOOVe playing with other and Fantastic graphics..... im beeing kind now 8.0 outta 10 for 
 me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clayness14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of WWE programming, and I have always made sure that I get the newest WWE game when 
 it comes out. When I got SvR 2007 for the 360 I was pumped... I couldn't wait to play. The looks 
 great, the wrestler models look the best they ever have. The sound is good too... with an interesting 
 mix of rock and hip hop in the soundtrack. The introduction of the analog control and the Total 
 Control Moves brings a nice touch of realism to the game.
  
  The usual modes are there: Exhibition, Main Events, all the Create modes. The season mode this 
 year is a nice change to the short and bland ones from the last few years. You can go multiple 
 seasons, and eventually you will replay some stories over... but it takes a while. The GM mode got 
 a nice overhaul and it is arguably one of the better aspects of this game. You can set up rivalries, 
 hire storyline writers and they even put in the Power 25 rankings from WWE. com.
  
  Now for the drawbacks: With all the new features, it still feels like this game is lacking somewhere. 
 I think it is in the gameplay. While the total control moves are cool and all, it does little to 
 make up for the still bad A. I. The game is still a little too easy even on Legend. THQ and Yukes 
 need to seriously rework the AI system in order to make the game more fun and challenging. The 
 Create a Superstar mode is still the best out there... but I feel like some of the good parts in 
 the PS2 version are missing, and the inability to put custom music in the game takes away from 
 this as well.
  
  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is great for any wrestling fan. If they work on the AI, enhance the Create 
 a Superstar (custom music, NO BLUR LINES) and tweak the grappling system a bit.... then 2008 should 
 be a stellar game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinXan360
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  This is the best WWE game that came out. Its not an awesome game, but its better then the other 
 ones that came out. The game has awesome graphics, the superstars really look alike. I found that 
 rey looks exactly the same as he does in real life. Some of the divas dont look as realistic, but 
 its not bad. I watch Raw, Smackdown, All the ppvs. So I am a big wrestling fan, and this game doesn't 
 dissapoint. For 60$, its kind of a rip off. There aren't that many wrestlers to pick from, and 
 it does get boring kind of fast. The GM mode was better in 2006, as it was alot easier. The new 
 additions for smackdown vs raw 2007 aren't alot, but its still not bad. going into the crowds it 
 preety cool, but its the same thing over and over again. The commentary isn't bad, but it is repeated 
 alot. The story mode, or whatever they call it, is preety good. Overall its not bad, but for 60$ 
 you deserve alot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packersfan7125
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  the online is amazing except for those people who quit early when they get eliminated....... another 
 thing is online playing ranked matches get prepared to be very irritated because no one online 
 gives u the chance to even get up so u must play alot to become good with countering to win ranked 
 mtaches. overall this game was all i expected and more because of all the hot spots you can uncover 
 around the ring. only thing i would say that is bad about the game is the sounds because the announcers 
 say the same thing every match and the fact that for all the old wrestlers u want u need to create 
 them. they should come out with updates to get wrestlers who are not in the game. even if you arent 
 a wrestling fan, but want the 2006 fighting game of the year pick this up. i am the only one of 
 my friends who likes wrestling, but they are all hooked on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murisaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown Vs. Raw 2007 is the latest entry in THQ's long-running series of WWE games that has 
 lasted since it's debut back in the days of the Sony Playstation. Now making it's debut on both 
 the X-Box 360 and on next-generation consoles in general, SVR 2007 features some brand-new additions, 
 along with a few refinements and far superior graphics. The X-Box 360 version also features online 
 support over X-Box Live.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  + New control system is unique and will definitely appeal to fans who desire a more hands-on approach.
 
  + Improved match types and hotspots add more interactivity and variety.
  + All WWE superstars look and feel different thanks to wide move variety and improved weight classes.
 
  - New control system can feel awkward to long-time players, but there is an option to change to 
 the original one.
  - Collision detection is still a bit off in places.
  - AI is still laughably dumb.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  + Incredible WWE superstar models.
  + Great-looking 
 arenas, pyro and lighting effects.
  + Smooth motion-captured animations.
  - Some ugly textures here and there.
  - Some animations still look dated, and some weapon animations 
 lack impact.
  
  SOUND:
  + Surprisingly good voice acting from the WWE superstars.
  + All licensed WWE themes are included.
  + Some decent in-game soound effects.
  - Commentary 
 and crowd noises are still rather weak.
  - Licensed soundtrack gets very repetitive after a couple of hours.
  - Lack of custom soundtracks.
 
  
  VALUE:
  + Career and GM Modes allow for plenty of playthroughs, with a different experience each time.
 
  + All create modes are intact and are as brilliant and in-depth as ever.
  + Brilliant multiplayer support.
  + Number of match options and unlockables will leave you spoilt 
 for choice.
  - Lack of downloadable content and roster updates (which is also fairly out-dated) .
  - X-Box 
 Live support is frequently laggy on slightly weaker connections.
  - GM mode is still too boring and way too easy.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  It may not be a drematic 
 improvement over the previous game, but playing this game on the X-Box 360 does feel a lot more 
 rewarding then playing the PS2 version, simply because it offers more. Greater graphics, X-Box 
 Live support (as long as you have a strong connection) and even the addition of unlockable achievements 
 help add more, although more additions like downloadable content would of made the whole package 
 even better. But if you're an X-Box 360 owner and crave for a wrestling game worth your time and 
 money, this does the job nicely... until the next game, that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamboneForever
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown! Vs Raw 2007 is a small step in the right direction for the Smackdown! franchise, it 
 has not been totally updated since last year's comeback from the first Smackdown! Vs Raw came out 
 in 2004 and pretty much turned the Smackdown! series upside down in a bad way. The newest addition 
 to the franchise gives a tad more to the GM, a little more to the story mode, but the story mode 
 hasn't recovered since the last great Smackdown! game Here Comes The Pain, in which you had a lengthy 
 and fun story mode to run through and the repeats actually didn't happen that often as they unfortunately 
 do in the the last 3 titles from this series.
  
  The SVR 2006 installment introduced a brand new feature with the GM mode which I was hoping would 
 happen for awhile, it's just like any other sports game GM mode, you control Smackdown!, Raw or both 
 and you decide who is on what show and feuds and matches and they even let you trade superstars 
 from one show to the other. This mode got a little upgrade with a whole new feud maker that involves 
 you hiring storyline writer's to gain access to feuds that you can make between 1-4 superstars, but 
 the downfall is that some storylines aren't made for just a one on one feud and would require a 
 tag team or a handicap as 1 superstar would have to take on 2-3 other superstars and another would 
 be the Face/Heel factor, you can't make a fued between 2 faces/heels, altho some were good as there 
 is a couple storylines specifically for cruiserweights and divas and 1 or 2 for the heavyweights 
 and up.
  
  Story mode has not been restored to it's old self yet, but hopefully will in the SVR 2008 addition. The 
 story mode has only a few stories to go through and it repeats as you change shows after a certain 
 amount of time and go through the storyline that you would have gone through if you had selected 
 the opposite show, so you go through all storylines in one season, some are made specifically for 
 title contenders, but other than that it's just the same stories.
  
  The CAW mode has been given a good upgrade as it has a bit more choices than the previous games 
 did and the create-a-entrance has gotten better and takes less time {just like the Day of Reckoning 
 CAE} , you can time your pyro and smoke and whatever else all except for when you come out and the 
 lighting, you can choose, you just can't control it. The Smackdown! series also has creation modes 
 for stables {faction/groups} and belts which are not that bad, but the stable mode effect on gameplay 
 could be better, they could actually have an effect. The move set feature took a decrease in moves 
 as some moves that were there, weren't there anymore and little to no new moves were added, just 
 having moves that you don't normally see in the WWE was a good addition to the move set feature, but 
 they somehow saw fit to take half of it away. Add not subtract, you'll get more of a selection and 
 not the same old moves to choose from.
  
  The two things alot of people including myself wanted is what Raw 2 for the XBOX had and thats 
 custom soundtrack feature and fully customizable WWE superstars and neither were present during 
 the latest installment as it was the first to be on the XBOX 360. You were able to give anyone any 
 kind of theme song from you XBOX's soundtrack feature and you were able to give any superstar any 
 kind of attire, you could even change their bodies, but that was kinda weird so I didn't do that 
 one.
  
  The roster for the Smackdown! series has been outdated for the last 3 games {no thanks to McMahon 
 firing too many damn people or people just leaving, but the firing was more effective as it happened 
 more} . The 360 has downloadable content for games, so why doesn't Yukes use it? Rosters, Attires, CAW 
 items, even new wrestlers with move sets and all. The WWE Legends are a pretty cool feature as well, but 
 they just give us a couple then the take away and replace them, just add Legends to the Legends 
 that were already in there, expand the roster to have more options, but don't add the same superstar 
 just as a alternative persona or identity {Foley} , it's okay to just have one, they used to have 2 
 Kane's, the current and the original with mask and attire, now they were smart and just gave it to 
 Kane as an alternate attire. Speaking of attires they should really stop giving people suits and 
 give them alternate RING attire, some out of ring attires are good, but there's no room for a damn 
 suit in the ring, it won't get used and is a waste of time.
  
  All I know is that this years game is better than the previous 2, but it's still got work to do 
 to surpass what HCTP was and still is and that's the best of the series. Hopefully SVR 2008 will 
 show us what a WWE wrestling game should look, feel, and play like on a next-gen console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is a great game. For starters, the graphics look amazing. These are the bset 
 graphics in a wrestling game ever. Everything looks real. The gameplay is pretty much the same. 
 There is a new grappling system. Instead of executing grapples with a button, the right stick is 
 used. When you use it first, it may seem hard but you will get the hang of it quickly. The controls 
 this year do trasfer over to the 360's controler pretty nicley. The gamplay also runs pretty smoothly 
 as well. Fighting in the crowd has been brought back to the Smackdown series. It took 5 years but 
 they did it. Did yukes deliver big? Not as much as you might think. You can only go to one area 
 and its no really in the crowd. The fans clear out when you get there. You can climb up on this 
 structure but its not really that fun. You can't take any wepons you find in the crowd area in 
 the ring. Its kind of cool that they put that in but its not very good. Hopefully they will improve 
 on that for next year. The season mode is pretty cool. Its lengthy will good voice over. The GM 
 mode is basically the same as last years game. The soundtrack is pretty good. The play by play 
 is okay. Do you ever notice that the people that made the game loves Smackdown. At ever conjoined 
 pay per view, Michel Chol and Tazz are the commetaters. Or when you create an entrace the arena 
 is Smackdown. Also in the locker room there is a Smackdown symbol on the TV. I am a Raw fan. Why 
 do these people favor Smackdown. I hope they change that next year. If you are not a fan of wrestling. 
 You probly won't pick up on everything this game has to offer and you should probaly rent this. 
 But if you are a wrestling fan and want a good, quality game for the 360, you should defintetly 
 get Smackdown vs Raw 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScaryMoviefan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for people who like fighting and wrestling. The Xbox Live is pheonomenal and 
 I like the way you communicate and face off against other people. The Story Mode is easy and you 
 can get very easy achivements for this game like creating a character, championship, tag team championship, 
 stable and winning 50 and 100 games against the computer. This game is great for Xbox Live beginners 
 so they can pick up easy achivements and make great friends. Just ask me! Also the grapichs are 
 great and the new feature that lets you go into the crowd are great and so is interactive objects 
 you can use on opponents. This game is a great wrestling simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordcj91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  After being a fan of wrestling for a long time this has got to be the best game I ever played. 
 Not just in the Wrestling department but as every game. The grappling is hard at first but it grows 
 on you. Graphics just blew me away. The commentating is still suckish but nothing is perfect. I 
 play this game every single day and I never get bored with it. I have only played online a few 
 times but it was extremley fun. This is a solid wrestling game and even though it has some flaws 
 it's easy and fun and in the end that is what really matters........ well that and watching John 
 Cena get tombstone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  SDVR Is a Great Wrestling Game, with updated rosters and conrols. The Analog grapple system is 
 great!!! Also the Stamina System Makes It very realilistic Also The Diffrent Pathes your star can 
 take is awsome. Online Play Is Endless Hours Of Action Here Is the RosterBatista Jillian Hall Rey 
 Mysterio The Big Show Joey Mercury Ric Flair Bobby Lashley John Cena Rob Van Dam The Boogeyman 
 Johnny Nitro Shawn Michaels Booker T Kane Shelton Benjamin Candice Michelle Ken Kennedy Snitsky 
 Carlito Kid Kash Super Crazy Chavo Guerrero Kurt Angle Torrie Wilson Chris Benoit Lance Cade Trevor 
 Murdoch Chris Masters Lita Triple H Daivari Mark Henry Trish Stratus Edge Matt Hardy Umaga Finlay 
 Melina The Undertaker The Great Khali Mickie James Viscera Gregory Helms Paul Burchill Vito Hardcore 
 Holly Psicosis William Regal JBL Randy Orton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonlightsGS
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  As seems to be the case with every next gen title, features are dumped by the wayside to make room 
 for 1080i graphics and 5.1 surround sound. While I by no means would forgo these (the whole reason 
 I bought the X-Box was to compliment my HDTV) , I wasn't expecting to lose out for the privilege.
 
  
  What the game does well, it does very well. Graphics are crisp and sharp, and there's no slowdown 
 to speak of. Although some reviewers complain of clipping during moves, I guess it's something 
 I've grown used to and am not bothered by it. The sound effects are spot on, and there are some 
 moves that are accompanied by their own sound effect now, which is nice. The CAW's look incredible; 
 almost as lifelike as the in-game wrestlers. The matches are fun, especially no-holds barred matches 
 with multiple contestants. The matches feel more realistic than in games past. Wrestlers no longer 
 can store endless amounts of specials, and can actually lose them if the momentum of the match 
 turns against them, which is nice. Also, seeing wrestlers kick out from finishers is something 
 that was unseen in earlier games, and a pleasant change.
  
  However, the pleasantries end there. The new move system, once you get used to it, is generally 
 rather worthless. Even on the easiest levels of difficulty the computer will reverse almost every 
 lock-up you do, essentially forcing you to resort to quick moves and brawling. The two announcing 
 teams are also so unbelievably bad that I couldn't listen to them for more than two matches. They 
 both say the same stuff, as though nobody had enough time to work up a second script. When they're 
 not 5 minutes behind on the match, they're always ready to insult each other with all the voracity 
 of a Catholic nun, or let you know that the WWE superstars are the toughest guys on earth and sacrifice 
 more than anyone in human history. The story mode for the game is the worst in history. There is 
 only 1 years worth of storylines, after that, they just all repeat in a row. If you defended your 
 championship at Wrestlemania, you'll be surprised to learn that Kurt Angle (who apparently jumped 
 ship back from TNA) somehow managed to rob you of your belt, although it's never mentioned how.
 
  
  Creating a wrestler is an equally frustrating task. Although the body modifications look better 
 than ever before, and the faces can be outstanding, your character's wardrobe will be sorely lacking. 
 Whether its the 8 pairs of pants you get to choose from, or the fact that about half the moves 
 from the last Smackdown are missing, your characters come out feeling as though they are always 
 missing a little something. It's almost not even worth it to create them, since they start out 
 weaker than babies, and you either need to play through one year of the General Manager Mode (and 
 win) or play through about 1.5 years of the story mode to get them up to par with HHH or Angle.
 
  
  Even though it's been a long time since I watched wrestling on TV, it was always fun for me to 
 pick up the games and create myself and some other old favorites from games past and go to work 
 winning titles and beating everyone to death. While the game is fun to play with friends, the single-player 
 experience almost seems tacked on, as though they didn't think anyone would notice. If Yuke's would 
 just fix the storyline mode and the CAW section and they'd have a decent game on their hands. Until 
 then, I guess the trend of releasing half-finished next-gen games will continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cg_soldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  when i got it i was happy, i turned on the console started to play and i liked it, finished the 
 season. The next day the happiness was gone i found myself playing the same exact type of matches 
 over and over again. i played GM mode, the create-a- (blank) stuff and the season. after i finished 
 all of them and there was nothing to do. the only i can stay alive with this game is with my friends. MP 
 is always laggy (e. g: a try to get a punch it gets stuck for 5 secs and then it gets stuck again 
 when it was a hair away from his away and took 15 secs 4 him to go down on the mat. I got frustrated 
 and stopped playing. Now i am glad to be addicted to GeOW and Lost Planet. Next up Crackdown and 
 read my review of it Feb. 28 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarplayer6
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  First off i havent played a wrestling game since wrestlemania x8 for gamecube since i just recently 
 had gotten back into wrestling. So i decided to play the demo at first was instantly hooked and 
 then picked it up 3 months later or however long it was. I got the game and loved it i thought 
 season mode was good but could have been better. LIve is good when u play with people in the same 
 country or not overseas, and the hotspots r a good addition as well. I wish there were more legends 
 but hey I guess we'll have to wait for svr 08 well yea thats all for this game. I give it a 9/10 
 since i still play it addictively after 3 months or so after it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAps2SanA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game had me from hello. Well sorta. The demo of this really just gave us a glimpse of what 
 was to come. The controlability you have over the wrestlers surpasses that of previous games. The 
 new sweet spots as I know them, makes the game all the more fun to play. With 20,000 polygons the 
 wrestlers look as real as on TV. If you haven't played this game then your really missing out on 
 a great wrestling game. Take the time to play the Season, GM Mode, or create anything from a PPV 
 to a Wrestler to a WWE Belt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieSlayer55
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, in my opinion Smackdown Vs Raw 2007 is a game that is worth playing. Why? The reason why 
 is because there are tons of unlockables from tons of legends to stuff for your locker room. This 
 game is very fun to play with friends and the season mode is alright. There are some glitches in 
 this game which make me mad which is just with audio they repeat the same thing in the Royal Rumble 
 Match by when the first entry comes out they say this is the Royal Rumble Match entering number 
 one... blah then number two comes out they say the same thing. So there are a couple audio glitches. 
 The graphics are really good and they look somewhat like the real people. The game is worth buying 
 or renting what ever you think from other reviews. Well this game is really fun and I hope you 
 enjoy it also.
  
  8.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  the first thing i love about this game is theres my favorite wrestler..... rey mysterio.... hes soo 
 dreamy.
  the gameplay is realy hard... specialy when its the first time you play any wrestling game..... (man 
 i still got trouble pinning them down)
  The graphics are pretty good lookin (i tought they would of looked better since all the screen shoots 
 looked awsome) .
  the soundstrack is tootaly awsome! the real intro song of each ingame wrestler..... no crapy stuff (stupid 
 for me to say since its a wwe product) but still they could of managed to screw it up.
  now tot alk about the bad side...... THERE IS WAY TOOOOO MANY LOADS!
  and its not short loading 
 time.... its long loadin times! its anoying and can put you out of mood very fast (eventho patience 
 is a virtue) its tottaly gay and well thats the only reason good enought to make anyone hate the 
 game... come on, who wants to stare at oiled up greacy sweaty guys while waiting to play.
  man... it could of been soooo awsome, so well accompliched (ala fight night: round3) but hey thats 
 the only reason why i like more it presedor.
  thank you
  yours truly..... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daw911
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  First I'd just like to mention the amazing graphics of Smackdown vs Raw 2007 on the xbox 360, very 
 detailed features are included such as sweat, blood, movement of the eyes and even various facial 
 expressions!
  
  The most dissapointing thing about this game is no new match types : (. However the gameplay has 
 much improved. Various new hotspots have been added in which you can drag opponents to and use 
 the enviroment as a weapon. Also fighting in the croud is now a possibility, however only one small 
 area is available : (. In this spot you can do numerous moves using baracades speakers and can even 
 jump from a huge railing, also you can steal weapons such as crutches from the croud :D.
  I enjoyed the new analogue grappling system as it gives a more realistic feel, more as though your 
 actually grabbing your opponent :D. Also the new move thing where you toggle analogue sticks to 
 smash their heads agains ringposts for example is a really nice feature. Commentary is still pretty 
 medioka, but not everything can be perfect i guess. Match Types
  Single
  Tag
  Triple Threat
  Fatal Fourway
  Handicap
  Royal Rumble
  
  Main Events -
  Backstage Brawl
 
  Battle Royal
  Buried alive
  Elimination Chamber
  First Blood
  Hardcore
  Hell in a Cell
  Iron Man
  Ladder/Money in the bank
  Last Man Standing
  Special Referee
 
  Steel Cage
  Submission
  Table
  TLC
  
  Although theres no new match types there is a variation of ladder match, which is the money in 
 the bank. Ladder matches are much improved this year, many different things can be done with a 
 ladder, including shelton benjamins famous ramp! Table matches are also better as this time you 
 must have a finishing move to put them through a table, this is more realistic because yo dont 
 see real wwe superstarts ending a table match with just a crappy little move at the start of the 
 match lol. Buried alive match hasn't changed too much, the appearance of the casket area has slightly 
 change but no significant gameplay changes. : (.
  
  Season mode:
  Season mode isn't too bad this year, although we still dont have the 'superstar exclusive storylines'. 
 For example if your kane and your in the story line against the big show, your scared of him :|. 
 &amp; need help from your buddies to help you!. Also the candice michelle story is totally un realistic! 
 GM Mode :
  Same as last time really, but now you have the option to hire a story writer, gets very boring 
 after the first ppv!
  
  Create Modes:
  CAS - This has been majorly improved this year, all clothes look real instead of pained on, and 
 theres a much better choice of clothing. However some of the tattoos have been removed : (. Aslo 
 created superstars cannot be played online if they have a tatooo!!!!!
  
  CAB - Create a belt is awsome this year!! You can now create spinning belts! Also you can now place 
 jewels on the side plates, theres a number of new center plates! :) . CAE - By far the most improved 
 feature on the game, now you can choose when your fireworks come in.. (this would of been a great 
 feature in 2006 for those who wanted to re-make batistas enterance) . Also a number of cameral angles 
 are available, which can be changed any time throughout the enterance.
  
  CAS - Same as always but now you can have partners with the same enterance unlike previous games.
 
  
  Roster:
  Batista The Big Show Bobby Lashley The Boogeyman Booker T Carlito Chavo Guerrero Chris Benoit Chris 
 Masters Daivari2 Edge Finlay1 The Great Khali
  Gregory Helms Hardcore Holly
  JBL Joey Mercury John Cena Johnny Nitro Kane Ken Kennedy Kid Kash Kurt Angle Lance Cade Mark Henry 
 Matt Hardy Mick Foley Paul Burchill
  Psicosis
  Randy Orton Rey Mysterio Ric Flair Rob Van Dam Shawn Michaels Shelton Benjamin Snitsky Super Crazy 
 Trevor Murdoch Triple H Umaga
  The Undertaker Viscera Vito William Regal Divas:
  Candice Michelle Jillian Hall Lita Melina Mickie James Torrie Wilson Trish Stratus Legends:
  
 Bam Bam Bigelow Bret Hart Cactus Jack Dude Love Dusty Rhodes
  Eddie Guerrero
  Hulk Hogan Jerry Lawler Jim Neidhart Mankind Mr. Perfect The Rock Roddy Piper
  Shane McMahon 
 Steve Austin Tazz A few superstars such as viscera, vito and the great khali are NOT playable in 
 season mode. Why!?
  
  Soundtracks this year are very good, I particularly liked Lonely Train by black stone cherry!
 
  
  I reccomend getting this game dispite minor flaws!
  Ty for reading :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW while still having its problems still gives you a couple hours to pass by.
 
  
  Gameplay  Most users will start with the story mode in which you tailor you wrestler (if you chose 
 to create a character) through Smackdown or RAW. They allow for different scenarios giving the 
 game lots of replay value. You got GM mode in when youre the GM of either Smackdown or RAW and 
 you try to beat the other show overall. Its enough to get you thinking about how they deal with 
 things but first timers should not touch this mode. Create Mode allows you to do it all from creating 
 characters, PPV, alliances, belts ect. Fans of the game will spend there majority here and create 
 characters they wish were in the game.
  
  Online  You will hear good and bad things from other reviews about there online mode in this game. 
 For the most part, there both right when they either love it of hate it. Pros to the mode are 
 the fact that you can play anytime with your friends and compete. Created characters and a big 
 selection of match types make it great. Cons of the game are there ranking system that forces 
 you to play a massive amount of matches to get a couple stars. Lag is an issue for some and that 
 is a HUGE problem for those who dont have a good connection.
  
  Overall this game is great and fans of wrestling will go get this like any football fan would get 
 Madden. Achievements points are reasonable enough to get motivate you to get the full 1000 points. 
 If you can looks past the typical glitches this game produces year after year, you have a great 
 time with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidFarren
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  hi there this is a great game for the xbox 360 love it especially the graphics and the new game 
 play system i love that you can just go in to the crowd so that makes it more interesting also 
 it is a good season mode game and a good online game but one of the best things about this game 
 is creating the entrance for your CAWS it is amazing you get to pick when the light pyro and even 
 the name comes in also the create ablet is alot better great game you should buy it there is not 
 much i can really say about it so go out and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devin836
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown v. s. RAW 07 is great but it still has a few problems. Like almost every time you punch 
 you end up hitting the referee. And nearly all the season modes are the same and you can't be the 
 legends on it. Also it needs to let you use more characters in GM mode. Other than that the game 
 is great. The grappling controls make it feel real. Plus it actually looks real when you set up 
 ladders and tables unlike in 05. The only big things that need work are getting the targeting down, 
 and putting more characters in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Smackedown vrs raw was a fun game at first but when it comes down to it it was veary boring. The 
 game itself is really easy to play but the controll switch they had to made to be able to put it 
 on the 360 is to complicated. The season mode is what turned me on in this game. i thought they 
 ahd great storys and fun gameplay. The gm mode made me happy but then when i played it i noticed 
 that it was to technical. You could only give tthe top 4 superstars title shots for ur wwe or world 
 heaveywait title. The grafics were pretty good. It actualy made cena look like cena and taker look 
 like taker. They had good sound and music for this game. So if ur thinking about picking up this 
 game be warned. Smackdown vrs raw 06 might be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattrulz2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  kick ass game. it was amazing! john cena needed to be better and STARTING wwe champion. period. 
 but it was tight i made a chain gang stable on it and i must say we beat umaga so bad he ran out 
 of the xbox! priceless. also umaga suks and i hate him but like he is better than an 83 overall 
 i mean come on. and how come triple H and Kurt angle are high overalls yet still get their asses 
 kicked? i don't really understand that. and the great khali! i loved to actually give him an FU 
 it was off the **** haha. ok another thing. Why r royal rumbles so hard to beat? maybe its just 
 me. i don't no. also general manager mode is soooooo hard! i mean i hate the stupid contract signing 
 deals. I also liked the create a superstar mode. my dude looks like a pretty boy but is like as 
 crazy as like rey mysterio and super crazy put together. he is the bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nom3rcyXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This i think is the best of the series even though online ppl cheat and use the headbutt but o 
 well who cares this game is purely awesome only thing i didnt like were long loading times and 
 press any button rapidly that is really annoying i give this a 10 no problems storline couldve 
 made more sense other then those tiny things this is pretty much the best thing that happened to 
 the wwe games with great graphics and fun and easy gameplay u will get passed the 360 price point 
 even tho the great khali is in this game and will need a lil more expierience to vs him its really 
 fun (although he is a super heavyweight) with extraordinary rosters this is the best wwe game even 
 tho xbox was cursed with bad wrestling games this one is better then the playstation 2's version 
 hich seemed liked the clothes were pasted on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 is the first in the WWE's flagship Smackdown franchise of video games 
 to come to the Xbox 360. I've been a fan of the series for a while, having owned several earlier 
 versions, most recently Smackdown: Here Comes the Pain for PS2. My history with wrestling games 
 goes back farther still, having owned WWF games for Gameboy, NES, SNES, and even popping the occasional 
 quarter in WWF WrestleFest down at the Santa Monica Pier. I was also obsessed with Super Fire Pro 
 Wrestling X Premium on Super Nintendo emulators back in high school.
  
  So I love wrestling games. A lot. But this one kind of blows.
  
  Graphically the game is sharper 
 and more detailed than the PS2 version, but that should be obvious considering the 360 is an HD 
 platform. The actual animations and looks of the characters has changed very little. My favorite 
 movies from previous entries look identical. Also identical are the problems. Long hair still looks 
 absolutely ridiculous, and since my standard created character has long hair, this is an issue 
 for me.
  
  I had problems with the Sound. I turned off the commentary because it was making me mental. All 
 the superstars have recorded voices now from the actual wrestlers, but considering how crippled 
 and boring the story mode felt compared to previous games, I have to assume this is the reason. 
 I'd rather have no recorded voices and a story mode that actually offers a reason to play through 
 it more than once.
  
  The Gameplay is almost identical to previous entries, warts and all. Hit detection is still weird. 
 The AI is still weird. God forbid your tag team partner should actually try to help you when you're 
 about to be pinned. It's still absurdly easy to accidentally beat up your partner or the ref (I 
 can understand a stray punch, but why would I accidentally put my partner in a figure four leglock???) . 
 And for some reason reversals have been turned up to an absurd level. More than 50% of my attempted 
 grapples were reversed every single match, even on the Easiest difficulty.
  
  The create-a-wrestler program is weaker than before. They changed the method by which you add labels 
 and custom designs so it's almost unusable. You also can't use labels or designs on wrestlers you 
 plan on taking to Xbox Live. And TWO DIFFERENT TIMES my character's moves reset to the default 
 moves for NO APPARENT REASON. This is an unforgivable flaw considering how long it takes to find 
 the right move balance.
  
  The Achievements also suck. Win a match as each of the 65+ characters for 10 points? Win 50 matches 
 IN A ROW online? That is just impossible to get without cheating. Not to mention every single time 
 I attempted a match online, it was either too jerky to control or the match just quit before it 
 was over.
  
  Maybe I'm being too harsh on this game because I was looking forward to it so much. You have no 
 idea how many hours I put into the last Smackdown game I owned. The one thing I enjoyed in this 
 game was the Challenge Mode, where you have to win a preset match with preset characters and preset 
 conditions. The enforced variety was a pleasure, exposing me to circumstances I wouldn't have otherwise 
 put myself in.
  
  I can't believe how good the reviews have been on this game. It is by far the most disappointing 
 game I've played on the 360 to date, and yes I'm counting the Burger King games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Outstanding. That's the one word that sticks with me when It comes to Smackdown vs Raw. Graphics: 
 great, Music and sound: very good, Gameplay: superb, Play control: very good. Presentation: Superb. 
 The story mode is awesome, the options in this game will have you playing for months, the roster 
 of wrestlers is staggering. The stamina system is brilliant. Difficulty is perfect. My complaints 
 are small: (1) Play control can get spotty at times when trying to pull off a big move. (2) I wish 
 you could use the Legends in Story mode. (3) Graphically, the hair psysics are not very good on 
 the wrestlers. Bar none, this is a great game that, with some tinkering, could get a perfect score 
 next year. Outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JWGrimey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Although the controls can be hard to get used to, especially if you have moved from the PS2 to 
 the 360 recently (like me) , once you get the hang of it, you are able to get mysterio and kick 
 everyones ass!
  
  The entrances ro the ring are great! Instead of the frst person entering the ring, the second person 
 coming in and the first person dissapears, they stay put. They get the corowd going and everything.
 
  
  Talking about the crowd, they are no longer arcadie looking, flat, pixelated, idiots, they are 
 real people! An what; s more, you can go into the crowd, pick up a fire extinguisher smack your 
 oponent round the head with it, then spray into their face! It's great!
  
  So, when you're in the ring. To cause some damage you don't have to go through the big grapple 
 hold stage, because new in 2007, you can do quick grapple moves. Grab him and do whatever you want! 
 There is another new feature where you can pick your opponent up and choose from a selection of 
 different moves.
  
  However, there is a downside to all of this fun mayhem. Stamina. It runs out as you do bigger moves, 
 and you have to stand there regaining your stamina by holding 'B'.
  
  Finsher moves. Obviously Mysterio's '619' has got to be the best (only an opinion but I'm sure 
 most would agree) , but what is so great about the finsher moves, no matter what you do, you see 
 it from a range of camera cuts, all blurred. Then, for the final smack, you get the great sound 
 effect, like a bullet as they hit the floor.
  
  So, with the graphics, sound effects, entrance scenes and finsher moves you get all of the different 
 game modes. Exhibition, you can just choose whatever you want to do, xbox live, career mode, shop 
 mode, where you can buy new characters, clothing, even loading screens! It supports up to 4 wireless 
 controllers at once.
  
  So for all of that, I gave it 9.1 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Everyone says this game needs a lot more tweaking, but I have to disagree with that. This game is 
 good by any standards and for a first attempt- and the best part of it all... the Xbox has been 
 saved from the bad wrestling games curse. When I played this game I got everything I expected and 
 more. Although it seems like THQ won't be making westling games for the WWE anymore, I'm pretty 
 sure any and every predecessor to this game will be a top-of-the-line wrestling game, and if you 
 have any doubt to that and you're thinking that this isn't going to be true, I need you to prove 
 to me [ not just your opinion, but facts too] that this isn't going to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  This game combines hard-hitting wrestling action with a good drama to it. It's a very good game, 
 i enjoy playing this game when i feel like kicking some butt. The season mode is very good and 
 quite well thought of. The whole being the player thing is really good and i think personally that 
 Yuke's have achieved something with this game.
  
  The graphics of this game are unbelievable. It sets the standard of next-generation wrestling games. 
 The PS2 I had Smackdown vs Raw 2006 and compared to that, this game is awesome. I was fed up of 
 wrestling games due to the fact when you master here comes the pain, you master upto '06.
  
  With the all-new analog control system, it makes the game more difficult and more enjoyable, 
 and if your with a wrestler that you know, you are in control of the moves. It gives you more of 
 a focus on what part of your opponent (s) body you want to focus on, if you know the wrestler inside 
 out, you'll perform certain moves onto the opponent (s) head/Arm or something.
  
  Ok, down to the nittygritty
  
  The Gameplay:
  The gameplay, as i just described leaves you 
 in more control of your wrestler more than any Smackdown / RAW / Any wrestling game to date. You 
 personally can focus on what you want to focus on, and it Really does have something that can get 
 you addicted.
  
  The Graphics:
  The graphics are probably one of the factors that adds the addiction and excitement to the gameplay 
 because they are very good, you see your punches connect, the blood on the ring and the sweat drip 
 down the side of their face. The graphics allow you to feel as if you've achieved something when 
 you hurt your opponent. The Sound:
  As usual top-notch sounds off of a smackdown game. The commentary is more advanced and repeats 
 itself less-often. It's very good because it keeps in-line with what is happening in the ring. 
 And sometimes it's quite entertaining. The commentators are arguing, all of the time. It's good 
 and it feels as if Some Person is commentating your match
  
  The Difficulty:
  The difficulty of the game at first, is quite hard and believe me, when it offers you the tutorials 
 take them, otherwise you will quickly get bored of it by having to do the same things over and 
 over ( I didn't take them; I ended up finding out the moves-system off a friend of mine on Xbox 
 Live )
  Of course you can always go back to watch them, but why waste time. watch them in the first place.
 
  
  My Reccomendation:
  My reccomendation is that if your a wrestling fan with an x360, and wondering whether it's as good 
 as what it used to be on the PS2. Worry no more because it is. Also if your going to get it you 
 will need a bit of patience.
  So i reccomend this game to any wrestling fan, because it is a quality game and worth the money.
 
  
  - X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Amazing player models; Fun gameplay; Tons of content; New gameplay additions make the game 
 more fun; New entrance creator is better than before
  
  Cons: Extremely out of date; Dreadful commentary; Clipping and AI issues still not fixed; Spotty 
 hit detection; GM Mode is still just a good idea not executed very well
  
  WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 is the 8th game in the WWE Smackdown series that originated on the PS1 
 in 2000. 8 games in 6 years. And yet still THQ hasnt fixed problems that have been in the games 
 for years now. While it may be fun, WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 definitely has its problems. And 
 these problems really should have been fixed for Smackdowns next-gen debut.
  
  If there is one thing Smackdown does right, it would be the graphics. For one, the character models 
 looks absolutely amazing. They looked great last year, and they have somehow improved on those. 
 There is a ton of attention to detail, and every character looks absolutely stunning. Well, with 
 a few exceptions. A lot of the less popular wrestlers, like Mark Henry or Paul Burchill have noticeably 
 less detail to their models. But the big names like Triple H, The Undertaker, and Batista look 
 phenomenal. The sweat looks great. (A lot better than the crap EA Sports has in their games) . Some 
 of the animations have also been re-done. Last year some of the animations looked glitchy and unrealistic, 
 but many of them have been cleaned up this year, and it makes the game look even better. The only 
 problem area in the graphics department would be the clipping. This is the kind of thing that really 
 shouldnt be present in next-gen games. Its not bad or very noticeable, but it is unfortunate 
 and is something that should be fixed for next year.
  
  The sound and music in SvR07 is a very mixed bag. The soundtrack is fine (Its not my cup of tea, 
 but I didnt mind it.) A mix of rock and a rap song or two, and you have the soundtrack. It doesnt 
 stick out, but it works. The only song that stands out would be Ghostface Killahs The Champ, 
 which is a really good song. But other than that, it is just your average rock soundtrack. The 
 commentary is dreadful to hear, and will make you wish there wasnt any commentary in the game 
 at all. JR and Jerry Lawler both do a terrible job. Tazz and Michael Cole dont do much better. 
 Its not their fault. They just dont have anything to work with. They hardly have any lines, and 
 you will hear them all before the end of your first match, which makes every match after really 
 annoying, so you (Or at least I did) end up just listening to your own custom soundtracks off of 
 your hard drive. If there were one thing about the sound production that surprised me, it would 
 be the quality of the voice acting by the actual superstars. Almost all of it is well done, and 
 some superstars do a really good job. Ken Kennedy, for instance, does a masterful job and delivers 
 a perfect voice-over. Some of the less experienced superstars, like Bobby Lashley, dont do as 
 good a job. But it is well done, and blows the commentary out of the water.
  
  Those voice-overs are found in the Season Mode, where you will be spending most of your single 
 player experience. The season mode is a lot like it was last year. You play though the storylines 
 (usually the storylines depend on who you choose to play as) but, just as last year, there arent 
 nearly enough story lines for more than 2 playthroughs. And a lot of them are just feuds, where 
 you fight the same superstar over and over, leading to the big finale at a PPV. The main goal here 
 (I guess) is to win the Championship. To do this, you will have to win almost all of your matches. 
 It isnt hard, but this means that you will always get the same storylines, making the season mode 
 way too repetitive. Its fun, but only for the first one or two times. The other main single player 
 mode is the General Manager mode. This is a great idea. You, as the GM, make all of the matches, 
 make all of the feuds with whomever you want, set up PPVs, and basically try to earn more fans 
 than the other show. It sounds like great fun. However, it isnt without problems. For one, keeping 
 all the superstars on your roster can be a pain. When it comes time to renew contracts, you almost 
 never have enough money for everyone you might need. Every character is either a face or a heel 
 (Good guy or bad guy, respectively) . Now, for 2 superstars to have a feud one must be a face and 
 one must be a heel. However, a lot of the time you will realize that almost all of your big stars 
 are faces. And a lot of you lower tier superstars are heels. Popularity is a big thing for superstars 
 in GM Mode. But when you have a big superstar feud with a smaller one, the crowd doesnt stay interested, 
 meaning you lose fans. You can choose to have a superstar change their ways, but this almost always 
 results in that superstar loosing popularity, which again leaves the crowd not liking the feuds 
 they might be in. This makes setting up feuds a real pain. Also, the AI that controls the other 
 show seems to have a few tricks up its sleeve. It will constantly have better shows than you, despite 
 having less charismatic superstars and having random matches with no feuds to link them together. 
 They never seem to run out of money, always being able to keep all of their superstars and almost 
 constantly having specialty matches that cost a lot of money (at least for you) every match. And 
 despite all of those tiring matches, the AI Superstars stamina never seems to drop. All of these 
 things add up to make GM Mode more frustrating than fun. You can play with 2 players, but (sadly) 
 not over Xbox Live, which is something that should definitely be in next years game.
  
  Also returning this year are the creator modes. Create a superstar, title belt, and stable all 
 return this year, and are as good as ever. Even though they havent changed, they have always been 
 great. You could create anybody you might think of with the superstar creator. One feature they 
 could add would be to take your picture with the Xbox Live Vision camera to put yourself in the 
 game. Many other games have done this, and it would be a great feature.
  
  The only new creation option this year would be the entirely re-done entrance creator. Now very 
 in-depth and loaded with options, this creator is much, much better than the previous games. If 
 you have ever played Day of Reckoning 2 on the GC, its basically the same thing. Its a great 
 feature, and it is a welcome addition to the series.
  
  If you are more multiplayer oriented, the Xbox Live option will be great for you. The online works 
 well for the most part. It can be laggy sometimes, but it usually runs just fine. The game uses 
 a lobby system for you to create or join matches, making it easy to find a match you would like 
 to play. But the Xbox Live does have its flaws. If you arent playing with friends, it is very 
 likely you will end up playing someone who uses some kind of cheap tactic or something of that 
 nature. Unblockable moves, hacked created characters, just about anything you could think of. I 
 ended up just playing with my friends because half the time I would end up playing against one 
 of these people. But playing with my friends was great fun. Also fun is the ability to defend a 
 created title online. I only played against my friends, but this is a great idea. And like I said 
 before, GM Mode should be playable with two people online.
  
  There have also been many new gameplay additions this year, most notably the new grapple system. 
 Now you move the right analog stick to perform grapple moves. It might sound cool, but its no 
 different from pressing a button and direction. The ultimate control moves are a great idea. If 
 you did something like a suplex, you could press the right stick forward to throw your opponent 
 on their face, or finish the suplex by pressing the stick down. There a lot of moves like these, 
 and they are a great feature. If they add more of these moves next year, it will be great. Also 
 new is the ability to fight in the crowd. The problem here is that it is always the same area with 
 the same weapons. Its never different, no matter what arena you are playing in. This is disappointing, 
 but it is a good start. Hopefully next year they will expand on this idea.
  
  Smackdown vs. Raw 2007 is a good game. It just has a few problems that really shouldnt be apparent 
 in a next-gen game. The new features are great, but they should fix the year old problems before 
 thinking of new features. If they do that, next years game will be a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julieh0906
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I love this game and I don't know why. The gameplay is easy to pick up and easy to dominate. I 
 love the new control. The graphics are so lifelike. From every tattoo to sweat, they spared no 
 details. My only complaint is the updated rosters, no ECW or even King Booker... oh and some guys 
 left like the new TNA wrestling god, Kurt Angle. The option to edit the wreslters would help to, 
 gimmicks change alot. That would add to replay value. But the Legends make the game even better, 
 brother. I love the GM mode, though if the season mode and GM mode could be combined , this would 
 be a 10!!! Overall a must have for WWE or wrestling fans. Once your Smackdown vs RAW, you're Smackdown 
 vs Raw 4 life!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I really love the single player version of this game. The controls are really nice and the game-play 
 is very smooth. Great career mode and very versatile character creation tools. But the online multiplayer 
 play SUCKS! I have only played a few times because the lag was terrible and the server connection 
 kept getting dropped repeatedly. It is not my connection either. I have a cable modem and can play 
 Gears of War on Line without a hitch. I would rate this game a 9+ if they would fix the online 
 server issue. The main reason I bought the game was to play friends online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tehnubbin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  THQ's Smackdown vs. Raw series has finally come to the 360, and while it is most certainly a welcome 
 change from the previous WWE titles seen on the original Xbox, if you've played any of the previous 
 Smackdown titles on the PS2 or original Playstation, you probably aren't going to be surprised 
 by much. Not to say that's a bad thing... by all means, the Smackdown series is always pretty entertaining. 
 Even if you're not over the moon about the WWE characters in general, the ability to create your 
 own wrestlers and take them through a variety of different modes will keep some people happy. However, 
 as with previous entries in the series, the meat and potatoes here is the Season mode, in which 
 you use either an existing superstar or a created wrestler to participate in a series of stories, 
 leading up to Wrestlemania, and the events beyond. This means that for the aforementioned fans 
 of wrestling in general, the only other options are either multiplayer or GM mode... both of which 
 offer plenty of entertainment without the incredibly lame story modes, but not entertaining enough 
 to warrant a purchase. On the other hand, the fans of the WWE, warts and all, will be super psyched 
 about the new features and all new season mode on top of the already solid multiplayer modes and 
 online features. So what's new about the season mode this year that makes it so great? Well, if 
 you've ever played any of the previous Xbox exclusive WWE titles, let's just say everything. However, 
 if you've ever played any of the previous Smackdown titles, there probably is not a whole lot that 
 puts this title above past efforts. The stories are just as you'd expect from the WWE... whether 
 you take that as a good thing or a bad thing, I leave at your discretion, but upon playing through 
 the mode quite a bit, I will say this... they've done what they set out to do with this mode, for 
 the most part. So what's new about the mode, this time around? For starters, the season continues 
 endlessly, though after you go through each story, you're going to start repeating, ad nauseaum... it's 
 an improvement from last year, as there's definitely more variety and substance, but it's still 
 a bit limiting in ways. There's also the addition of WWE. com, a voice-mail system (complete with 
 real voice-overs) , and the WWE magazine, which are all nice touches, and work relatively well to 
 flesh out storylines, but some of the features feel a bit underutilized at times. I'm not one to 
 give anything away, storywise, so I'll leave you with a word of warning... if you are not even remotely 
 interested in the ludicrous antics of the WWE, this mode will do nothing to change your mind... it's 
 essentially an interactive version of the same schlock the WWE has been grinding out for years. 
 You've been warned.
  
  Moving on, we have a feature that was introduced last year, and seemed like a wonderful starting 
 point that could easily have been a new selling feature... the General Manager mode. Last year, 
 when the feature was added, some complained that it was too bare-bones to really be qualified as 
 anything other than an afterthought. Granted, THQ and Yukes had never really done anything like 
 this with the previous games, so it was forgiveable, but seemed to be a great preview of something 
 that could be an excellent feature in the future... Unfortunately we're likely going to have to 
 wait for another year, or possibly more before that happens. Yes, they have made some minor improvements, 
 like the addition of the Heat and Velocity programs, in which you can build up your created wrestlers 
 stats and popularity to an extent. As well, you can hire writers for the storylines, with which 
 you can then start rivalries. However, none of the story is ever commented on in the News section, 
 nor do you ever see any of it played out in any way, shape, or form. It might not seem that important, 
 but considering that fans will go from liking a story one week to hating it without explanation, 
 it would be nice to know where certain stories went wrong... or to have the stories fleshed out, 
 much like that in the season mode, through the use of WWE. com or even short cut-scenes. One of 
 the problems from last year was that it was extremely difficult to keep your wrestlers happy because 
 they were always losing, wanted a title shot, or just plain unhappy about life on your show. This 
 year, you have the option to turn off the complaining and just worry about beating the other show 
 on the merits of your ability to book better matches... some might call this cheating, but if you 
 check the stats of the COM controlled show, you'll see that their superstars never get injured, 
 are always happy and rarely ever get fatigued, so this can help even the playing field a bit. You 
 can also turn off injuries and have the ability to vacate titles to your hearts content. This can 
 make for some interesting fan changes based on the fact that you now have the ability to compete 
 with the computer and beat it at its own game. You can also affect the outcome of matches manually 
 by going in and fighting them yourselves, which can be extremely helpful if you're looking to up 
 the popularity of a superstar at any given time. The mode can also be played with two people, however, 
 there is no online, for obvious reasons as your goal is to run the show for an entire year, which 
 can take quite a bit of time. Still, if they can find a way to do it, it'd be a welcome addition, 
 for certain.
  
  The rest of the modes are all repeated from previous iterations of the games, like Challenge mode, 
 in which you fight to complete various tasks, like beat Cactus Jack, Mankind and Mick Foley while 
 playing as Dude Love. There's the standard Exhibition modes, and multiplayer functions, as well. 
 Xbox Live is something I haven't had the pleasure of trying yet, so I can't comment on it, however. 
 The create-a-modes are all wonderfully done, as usual, with multitudes of options for creating 
 and customizing your wrestler down to the color of his eyelashes... The create-a-characters also 
 fit in alot better with the real wrestlers this year, which makes for a better all around experience, 
 as you're no longer going to be focusing on how terrible your superstar looks in comparison to 
 that of the real WWE guys. Create an entrance is wonderful, as you have the ability to adjust the 
 pyro timing, change the lighting and pick your moves per each camera change... (ie: stage, ramp, 
 ring) . The only problem with the feature is that, unlock the other Xbox titles, you can no longer 
 use tunes from your hard drive as entrances for you characters. It's a bit of a downer, if you're 
 used to the previous titles, but hopefully an oversight that will be fixed with the next title. 
 The real difference in this title is that they've included a new control system, and while I can 
 appreciate what they were trying to do here, I have to say, I saw no problem with the other controls, 
 and feel they probably could have put more effort into other aspects of the game, rather than redesign 
 the control scheme. What they've done is mapped out the grapples to the analog stick, which works 
 surprisingly well, but isn't exactly more intuitive than the old standby that they've been using 
 since Here Comes the Pain. The only real difference is the use of Ultimate Control moves, in which 
 a player can press down on the analog stick to grapple, then either drag them to a hot spot for 
 environmental attacks, or use them to perform crowd pleasing feats of strength, such as performing 
 the Last Call next to the ropes, and tossing your opponent overtop of them to the concrete below. 
 Unfortunately, there just aren't enough of these in my opinion, and thus you'll get bored using 
 them before you finish the season mode's main story. Graphically, the game looks fantastic on the 
 360, but severe clipping issues tend to cause problems, as you'll often see a larger wrestler like 
 the Undertaker perform a choke on a guy the size of Rey Mysterio and actually put his hand through 
 poor Rey's head... or worse, sometimes he'll use his Jedi mind powers and lift him without actually 
 even touching him. I'd expect this from a PS2 game, but in this generation, and on a console capable 
 of producing some mindblowing graphical feats, I have to say that I'm truly disappointed that they 
 let this slide for another year. Audio is generally solid, with the voice acting getting better 
 and better every year, though there are times where Michael Cole and others can sound a bit stiff... still, 
 nothing too offensive on that front. The music is generic rock and rap, with nothing utterly remarkable, 
 though, as Alex mentioned in his review, Ghostface Killah's The Champ , is a pleasant and welcome 
 change to the usual pop-metal that runs the show most of the time. The sound effects are decent, 
 though again, some of them don't quite sound up to snuff when compared to that of the real thing. 
 The commentary is often irrelevant to the match and when they do comment on something like someone 
 being chokeslammed through the cell, it's usually a good two minutes or so after you've done it.
 
  
  Overall, I'd recommend the game to the hardcore fans of the WWE, as there's enough new here to 
 keep you happy, with the inclusion of the new members of the roster, (though it is a bit outdated, 
 I know) , improved gameplay and some great multiplayer action, along with the standard single-player 
 modes. But as I say, if you're not really into the WWE, you might want to check out your local 
 import shop for some of the Japanese titles that you may have missed over here, as the pickings 
 are slim when it comes to wrestlers on this side of the pacific. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  OK lt me just breeze through the basics. yeah the graphics are sweet and the superstars look realistic 
 and the physics are good. the sound is decent and the commentating sucks (but to its credit their 
 is absolutely no game on earth with good commentating) . the gameplay is fun with a lot of different 
 matches and superstars to pick from. my favorite being money in the bank because of its sheer fun. 
 me and a couple of my friends play money in the bank all the time. it just does not seem to get 
 boring. OK the real reason why i like this game is because it takes me back to the days when i 
 was a WWE fan. when i was a little kid and loved watching The Rock and Stone Cold. Now i get to 
 be The Rock and Rock Bottom everyone. It is kind of fun. It is a cool game to have but you will 
 not be playing it alot especially if you have gears of war. But if you like giving The Peoples 
 Elbow to panzies like Edge i suggest you check out the game.
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  SDvR06 was the first wrestling game that managed to steal my personal award for Best Wrestling 
 Game Ever off of No Mercy for the N64. 07 isn't a massive leap forward for the franchise, but what 
 has improved is a small leap from Yukes, one massive taste of whats to come from the next-gen wrestling 
 giants.
  
  That is, of course, if THQ can keep the liecence.
  
  The main improvement over previous games is the ability to proform a grapple move, without the 
 need to grapple. Using the right stick you flick it up, down left right to proform the appropriate 
 grapple. holling the right sholder button initiates a strong grapple. The grapple button has been 
 replaced with the stamina recover button. Also new is the abilty to use 'hot spots' as a way of 
 wearing down your opponent. But thats about it.
  
  While fans may be split in opinion with regards to new contols, personally I like them. It makes 
 the pace of a match that much quicker and smoother. Other changes were not needed. The use of tables 
 for one has suddenly become uber lame, and only one match has been added, Money In The Bank which 
 is just another type of ladder match with 6 people.
  
  Season mode has beens lightly improved, oferening more stories, comical cut scenes, and varied 
 match times while GM mode is as broken and boring as ever... but at least it's better then 06's.
 
  
  Everything else is the same as 06 with an updated roster thats still out of date.... So in conclustion. 
 Good, but only a slight improvement over 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adawg1500
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Smack down vs. Raw 2007 is slightly different from the rest of its series. Well its different because 
 of the new hot spot in the crowd, Create a wrestler enhancements an much better graphics. This 
 interactive wrestling game has a redefined storyline and a great roster.
  
  
  One thing I think the game needs is a new producing company. THQ does n't always deliver and I 
 think they did, but they do need to do some technical adjustments and enhancements. If the Smack 
 down vs. Raw series continues, they should make each game different than the last years game. 
 
  
  
  
  As a big WWE fan and a fan of wrestling I would love to see the series continue, but it needs to 
 be fixed in many ways. This game is hard to describe because it added some great new things including 
 that new storyline but it feels kind of the same I don't really appreciate the GM mode THQ should 
 really start working with that to make it more interactive and more exciting.
  
  Overall I think THQ put to much effort into it and came out a little short. Although it is a good 
 video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Legendkiller_
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is the newest in the series for the wwe franchise and is the first time wwe games come on 
 a next generation console. I myself am a massive wwe fan i have nearly every collectible there is 
 to collect and i have to admit that THQ have let me and probably other wrestling fans down, with 
 there stupid glitches like when ya nail someone with a chair the commentators will shout stone 
 cold stunner!! The game has improved on things that it didnt need to improve on like the matches 
 taking bra and bikini out to add money in the bank, which is a great match but will take you like 
 a hour to finish. It should of been concentrating on the glitches and should of tried to add more 
 wwe superstars in like the spirit squad but least there is a plus side D generation X are in so 
 THQ for letting me and all other wwe fans down you can SUCK IT!!!!!
  
  
  ~Gameplay~ Good apart from the fact that the glitches are there, the ultimate control moves are 
 a nice touch. 7/10
  
  ~graphics~Amazing on the xbox 360 good on ps2 etc. aswell 360 9/10 ps2 7/10 ~sound~ ok the noises 
 sound right but the only bad thing is is when you here the glitchy commentary 7/10
  
  ~value~ you will get hours of fun out of this so i would say the value is good if you can ignore 
 the glitches 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Cons: repetitive comentary, some minoure conflict problems, not cut scenes on GM mode and avrage 
 loading time, long hair sometimes is a problem during entrences.
  
  Pros: Updated Roster, dynamic season mode, wide range of matches in Exebhition mode, PPV mode, 
 extencive creation modes (creat a title, superstar, entrance PPV) , great graphics on Xbox 360, fantastic 
 entrances.
  
  The newly Wrestling game by THQ has raised the standards of wrestling games on consols. SvR07 beats 
 any previous wrestling game on xbox, beeing RAW2 or Wrestlemania 21, not only because of the real 
 life graphic offered by the 360, but because of the updated roster, great season and GM mode.
 
  
  Exebhition mode offeres many fighting options, ranging from single, tag to the 30 man over the top 
 battle royal, money in the bank and the well know elimination chanmer, just to name a few.
  
  Unlike Wristlemania's 21 seasons mode, SvR07 offers a danamic season, where winning isnt everything. 
 Season mode are divided in chapters, where victories makes the story evolve and expand while losses 
 makes it finish very quickly losing the oportunity to become the number 1 contender or join the 
 royal rumber. in short you make you're own story.
  
  GM mode offers the player the chance to become GM of either RAW or Smackdown. creat mathces according 
 to feudes and make you're road to wrestlemania. unfortunally their are no cut scenes and therfore 
 players are forced to use their imagination.
  
  overall SvR07 is the best wrestling game on the market and with the xbox's 360 graphics, its even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Here we are at last. We have finally seen a decent WWE game come to a Microsoft platform. As you 
 may remember, some of the previous WWE games on Xbox did not perform as good as the WWE SmackDown! 
 series on the PlayStation 2. They just didn't seem to get it right with WWE Raw 2 and WWE WrestleMania 
 21 - it just did not work.
  
  Now, at last we see probably one of the top sports franchises from PlayStation 2 arrive on a Microsoft 
 platform. Yes, at long last a Microsoft platform. The decision to bring this over to Xbox 360 was 
 a good one - we no longer have to worry about any other bad WWE games that haunted us on the original 
 Xbox. Now, bare in mind this game is not only on Xbox 360 - of course it is also on PlayStation 
 2 and PlayStation Portable. Does it being on Xbox 360 make in necessarily a good thing?
  
  Well, we have had a new WWE game come out on PlayStation 2 every year and it has since grown to 
 improve and receive generally decent reviews. Of course this game is identical to the game on PlayStation 
 2 for most parts so generally there should not be a problem. If you have gone and played the games 
 on the PlayStation 2 you are probably more used to that version. Things you need to consider is 
 Will I like the control setups? , Will I prefer it on Xbox 360? and so on. Me, personally I have 
 played the games on PlayStation 2 and seeing as Xbox 360 is now with me, I considered WWE SmackDown! 
 vs. RAW 2007 for it. Despite me more used to a PlayStation 2 WWE game I have had no big problems 
 trying it out on Xbox 360. So, if you have got an Xbox 360 you should hopefully adjust for it if 
 you ever consider to get this game. The control setups are similar across the two platforms. Of 
 course, many of the glitches have made their way over but luckily a lot has been improved, regardless.
 
  
  First things first - the controls. Now, it has changed. In fact, it is probably one of the biggest 
 control changes ever made for this series. I know they tweak the controls around a bit every now 
 and then but in this edition I really do mean they have changed. You will no longer be using the 
 face buttons as you may be used to on PlayStation 2. Instead the right analog stick comes into 
 use a lot. It is all explained in the tutorial movies of the game to make you a bit more comfortable 
 with the controls. Now, I remember buying a new game in the series to find out they have changed 
 a few things and have adjusted in the end. The same goes for this. At first, I always seem to think 
 this is going to be difficult but really, in the end I do get used to it. In fact, this could be 
 considered an improvement since it gives you more control of your superstar. I recall first playing 
 this game and was thinking that I would never get used to this but I did.
  
  Now, if I go back to WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2006 in the future I would probably find it difficult 
 getting to grips with the way the controls work. Anyway, as I mentioned earlier, you can have more 
 control over your superstar. There are many ways which I will go into detail about. First, you 
 have what you call these environmental spots . You can find out where these are located by reading 
 the manual. So, what are these and how do I use these? Simply put, they are a good interaction 
 and add to the realism of a WWE wrestling match. To use an environmental spot you need to get your 
 superstar into a strong grapple and then simply move them using the left thumbstick to the environmental 
 spot you want to go to. In the ring, if you move the opponent to the ropes you will automatically 
 place them a top of them which triggers off the ability to cause them some pretty painful damage 
 to the groin. Ouch. By looking over to the momentum bar you should see an instruction on what to 
 do. In this case, you need move the right thumbstick up and down in time. You cannot keep doing 
 this since your stamina will decrease quite rapidly. It is advisable to keep a close eye on this 
 whenever doing something like this otherwise you'll have no energy left. Other spots include going 
 over by the commentator tables and then being able to strangle your opponent. There is also another 
 on the corner of the ringside where you can do severe damage to your opponents arm. There are a 
 few more of these to find and try out. I generally regard this as a positive new feature and is 
 definitely worthy of inclusion in the next game.
  
  With different superstars come different move sets. There is a good variety of moves to perform 
 in the ring. Now, you have your strikes which cause minor damage and you have your grapples. Grapples 
 can be quite powerful and can sometimes knock your opponent out depending on how weak they have 
 become. You can perform a grapple by walking up to your opponent and then moving the right thumbstick 
 in the desired direction. A different direction will perform a different grapple. Now, if you want 
 to add more powerful grapples simply hold the right bumper button and then move the right thumbstick 
 in the desired direction. These are often very useful but you will not be able to perform some 
 moves on some superstar types. For example, a Cruiserweight will not be able to lift up a Super 
 Heavyweight. So, you need to think carefully on what superstar you can perform your moves on. Also, 
 there are ultimate control moves. With these you can take control of your move. You could be lifting 
 your opponent up and then move to another part of the ring to perform your move. Some ultimate 
 control moves let you lift your opponent up, walk to the edge of the ring and literally chuck them 
 out of the ring causing them a great deal of damage. With ultimate control moves it makes the game 
 feel ever more realistic and I hope this feature continues to expand in the future games.
  
  I am very sure once you could walk into the crowds and fight in a previous game. The feature 
 was removed and now it is back in this game. In this small area there are chairs, a trash can and 
 a fire extinguisher. These can come in handy but you will only be able to use them in that particular 
 area. There are also some spots here that you can interact with which is cool too. This area comes 
 in handy in a hardcore match or first blood match.
  
  All these new features have improved the game but the developers still need to touch up on some 
 stuff that has been present in many of the games. One of these is the wrestler AI system. I find 
 the AI to be particularly annoying in tag team matches. When you pin someone, usually the opponent's 
 partner will come in and attempt to break the pin. Now, to stop them from doing that you can call 
 your partner in to stop them. However, I find this to rarely ever work. The partner will just stand 
 there for a little while and let the other partner break the pin. Why does this have to happen? 
 Also, during a match you need to reverse moves in order to prevent your superstar from getting 
 injured. Now, the reversal system advises you to push the left trigger (for strike attacks) , the 
 right trigger (for grapple attacks) or both at the same time (for finishers) in order to reverse. 
 The tutorial video advises that you only push the correct trigger just before they pull off the 
 move but sometimes it is not possible to tell which move they are about to pull off. I think sticking 
 to the repeated pushing of the triggers works much better. If you ever get knocked down onto the 
 mat you may be required to continuously tap buttons - whether this makes a huge difference I do 
 not know. You will need to get ready for some button mashing when you have locked somebody into 
 a grapple or they have locked you. Depending on who mashes the buttons fastest then you could end 
 up winning or losing.
  
  If you ever decide to play on a different difficulty there are some notable differences in the 
 way your opponents will fight. If you have it on easy then your opponent is less likely to attack 
 and reverse. The harder the difficultly then the more effort the AI will make in reversing near 
 enough ever move and giving you no chance at all. At times you may find yourself getting attacked 
 for a few minutes, defenceless until you finally get back up and strike. There are four main difficulties 
 - Easy, Normal, Hard and Legend. You can go and change the AI options to make some things easier 
 or harder. For example, you may want the AI to grapple you less or reverse strikes more. There 
 is a lot of these options you can choose from and tweak.
  
  One thing that has not really changed much is the match types. Many are present from the previous 
 games but there is not that much new to look forward to. Some matches have been tweaked to make 
 them more realistic and harder to do but nothing too special. A ladder match will require you to 
 grab hold of the belt. You simply could just hang onto it in the other games until it falls down 
 but now you need to find the sweet spot by moving the left or right thumbstick until you find the 
 right spot. Then, you need to hold it there but often you will find the opponent striking back 
 and knocking you off the ladder. Match types from the previous game are back including the Elimination 
 Chamber, where you need to eliminate everyone inside a huge metal chamber. Others include TLC, 
 first blood, royal rumble and much more. Playing these match types are great against the computer 
 but having some friends around makes it even more fun.
  
  There are many modes to play in this game. If you want to jump straight into a match then Exhibition 
 is handy. However, if you want to unlock new arenas, wrestlers and such you will have to complete 
 other modes. Probably the most common of them all is the season mode. Now, season has been present 
 for a long time and is probably what keeps a lot of people playing. Fans of the television shows 
 SmackDown! and RAW will notice some storylines on it. Depending what superstar you choose to enter 
 season you may be on SmackDown! or RAW but during season you get swapped around. Once season has 
 begun you can start earning cash to unlock stuff. If you play on easy you get a small amount but 
 playing on a higher difficulty level earns you more. So, if you decide to play on hard then you 
 will probably end up buying a lot stuff in a shorter time.
  
  The storyline is good but there needs to be more variety. Usually the story will be about a battle 
 between some superstars or an argument about who should deserve the title in the upcoming pay-per-view. 
 On the positive side the superstars speak clearly and hilarious at times. You will be sure to chuckle 
 at some of the quotes they come out with. This is very well done and if you ever use a created 
 superstar in season they also have their own voice too. Thing is you do not have a lot of control 
 on what is going to happen next. The only way to change what is going to happen is my reading a 
 message on the mobile phone when you return to the locker room. Not all messages will allow you 
 to go in a different direction, however. Some of the messages you receive will be your fellow superstars 
 congratulating you, challenging you or it could be a praise from your brand's general manager. 
 The locker room also features a computer where you can keep track of the news related to the storyline. 
 On this computer you will be able to see some statistics. It will tell you how many matches you 
 have won/loss and which superstars you have defeated the most. This was also present in the previous 
 game. The WWE Shop is located on the computer that allows you to buy new stuff. Superstars can 
 be unlocked, move sets for when you create a wrestler, attires, Diva loading screens and more. 
 There is also a Locker Room section that allows you to buy stuff for it. This includes accessories, 
 mats, lighting, posters and things like fish tanks - the stuff you may want to make it feel more 
 personal to you.
  
  Also in the locker room is a magazine that keeps track of news, a belts/trophies case and a table 
 that allows you to choose what loading screens you want to appear and not appear (some loading 
 screens need to be unlocked) . Now, the trophies case will start to fill up as you progress through 
 season and do some challenges. The challenges are located on the bar. Some may be hard and some 
 may be easy. You just got to work out a good tactic for the match. Once you have successfully completed 
 a challenge you earn money too. This time you can jump straight into a challenge without having 
 to set up the match yourself unlike the previous games. Once you complete these challenges you 
 unlock new trophies for your locker room. To the right of the entrance in the locker room is a 
 part where you can change a created superstars attributes to make them more tougher. The more experience 
 points a superstar has then the more impact their moves will have on the opponent.
  
  So, there is a lot of stuff to do in the locker room. Now when you have fully done your tour of 
 it you can continue with your season. Now, there are different ways of playing season. You can 
 play a match using multiplayer, play it on your own or just skip it. This gives you the freedom 
 to skip matches that you just do not feel like playing right now. When you do finish through season 
 you may still be required to play through it again for various reasons such as the Royal Rumble 
 and the achievements.
  
  Creating a wrestler has always been a good touch to the game. In this version you can do pretty 
 much a lot of the stuff you could do in previous games. You can change hair styles, pants, shirts, 
 shoes, socks, kneecaps, hats and just so much more. This is for those with a lot of creativity 
 and those who want to show off their created superstar online. You may just spend hours just tweaking 
 your superstar because of so many options available to you. Once you are done with creating a superstar 
 how about making your very own unique entrance, move sets and such? It doesn't end there.
  
  Now, whenever you are in a match in season or exhibition you will notice the commentators. 
 If you are using a SmackDown! based arena you have Tazz and Michael Cole as the commentators. If 
 you are using a RAW based arena you have Jerry The King Lawyer and Jim Ross as your commentators. 
 Now commentary is a useful addition as it was in the previous games but I have come to find they 
 repeat themselves a lot. He's going for the pin! comes to mind or That's gotta hurt! . Some commentary 
 has been recycled from last year's game and there is some new stuff. There is also a few glitches 
 with the commentary. For example, if you ever play as a woman they seem to refer to her as a man 
 by using him or he in their dialogue. I would really want to see some variety in this for the future 
 games.
  
  Being connected to Xbox Live Gold allows you to play this game with up to three other people. So, 
 that opens up a lot of match types like the Fatal-4-Way and Battle Royal. Many of the match types 
 in single player are present online. Now, if you just want a match every now and then, then you'll 
 probably fit into Player Match which is a unranked mode. No records will be recorded whether you 
 win, lose or drew in a match. However, for hardcore players (and achievement hoggers) you will 
 need to play in Ranked Match which records your wins and losses. It also records other vital information 
 such as your disconnection percentage rate. Naturally, this should be at 0% but if you decide to 
 disconnect from Xbox Live it will go up. The idea of this is to see who disconnects because they 
 lose. As you may know, people who disconnect during a ranked match means that your wins will not 
 go up. Created wrestlers are acceptable too (you can specify if you want a match with created superstars 
 or not) so you can show them off. Being the first WWE game on Xbox 360 means it finally does get 
 the voice support. You can chat with all the players during the setup of a match and of course 
 during it. I played WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2006 a lot online and realised it can be quite laggy 
 at times. Having played the WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 title on Xbox 360 does make it seem like 
 it is less laggy. The online proves to be a great value factor for the game and if you ever see 
 a really cool created superstar why not trade on there?
  
  All in all WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 proves to be a worthy addition to the franchise. Although 
 not a complete breakthrough as 2006 it still continues to provide updated characters, storyline 
 and improvements as expected. This has got to be the most advanced WWE game in terms of the controls. 
 Who knows? Maybe in the next addition things may get more complex than they already are. It's definitely 
 good value since you have the online modes and season to go through. Also, the tough achievements 
 make it worth you keep playing too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The various types of wrestling games that Yukes and THQ have brought forward always show some kind 
 of progressive change to optimize gameplay.
  This installment of WWE games brings a good amount to the table this time around with the use of 
 different control types, interactive hot spots, great looking graphic models, the difference in 
 weight classes and a few more things.
  The one peeve I have is that you can't use custom tracks, which would've possibly immortalized 
 this game, hopefully next time.
  The Create an Entrance mode was done beautifully. I still hold the Create an Entrance mode for 
 Xbox's Raw the best so far. WWE Smackdown! vs. Raw 2007 is a fantastic game. They just need to 
 put more Create a Wrestler accessories (hair, clothes, etc.) and more moves and taunts in the game.
 
  I wanted to make Diamond Dallas Page, but they lacked his taunts and tatoos, oh well, maybe next 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  First off lets start with the game play... Fantastic... it has a nice feel to it but im not a big 
 fan of the quick grapple and the difficulty to strong grapple but i can't complain too much... 
 One an even better note the graphics are amazing even during game play but the enterances are the 
 best to me... season mode needs a little improvement and often becomes boring but creating a superstar 
 has become very in depth which is nice for a change but overall this is the best edition of SVR 
 yet... i cant wait for the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is a great game, but it does have its weaknesses..........
  
  The Good: Good Roster; Excellent player models; great superstar creation, you can now pick a voice 
 for your superstar; many unlockables including wrestling legends such as The Rock and Steve Austin; 
 good story mode; many create modes; nice voice acting; many different arenas and game modes; there 
 is a new area available to fight in
  
  The Bad: the graphics have bad clipping issues; the match announcers are very repetitive; either 
 you cant or it is very hard to find out how to delete things from your created superstar; story 
 mode is a bit short; the controls arent very good, too much pressing buttons repeatedly
  
  If you are a fan of wrestling, then this game will definitely not disappoint you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_loy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay I should start by saying this is a great game. I really enjoyed it, in fact I'm still enjoying 
 it. Graphics: Great, best graphics in a wrestling game to date.
  
  Sound: While the songs were great they do get anoying from time to time. The commentators JR, and 
 King get rather annoying at time to, and they dont seem to know what there talking about. The lack 
 of custom soundtracks hurt this game.
  
  Value: Well... not much to say on this its just great.
  
  My Tilt: Well you may find I'm biased 
 towards liking this game, since I'ce played all the Smackdown and SVR games.
  
  Gameplay: This is the biggest hit for me. While it is great and i love the matches/ controls. I 
 cannot stand some of the problems. Okay me and my brother have XBL accounts so we both made a profile 
 on our XBL account complete with bad ass CAS (witch is another plus for this game) only to find 
 that we could not play together with our CAS's. Also I think that the campaign suffors a bit. I 
 miss the old campaign were i mad the decisions through just about every choice in the game.
  
  Overall : Okay so here we go.
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics:10 (they were great)
  Sound: 8 (custom 
 soundtracks and hearing JR/King say the same thing)
  Value: 8
  Reviewers Tilt: 9
  
  So, Smackdown Vs. Raw 2007 is a good game but its not the greatest game it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I'd say Gamespot was more or less spot on with the latest outing of THQ published WWE licensed 
 wrestling games. First off, let me say the game on the 360 is not Gears of War pretty, but it doesn't 
 dissappoint in the least. Lets just say that the wrestlers look JUST like what they do in real 
 life. If you know what John Cena looks like on Raw, then he will appear that exact same way, down 
 to the common facial expressions and signature taunts such as the You can't see me hand over the 
 face. Or Triple H does the crotch chop of DX fame and so on.
  
  As the wrestlers come out of the locker room with their trademark entrances (which can be mercifully 
 turned off, as they are THE EXACT SAME every time) , they look like they are fresh from the shower, 
 clean and dry. After the match... well, it looked like they ARE in the shower, soaking wet with 
 sweat, or worse, their own blood. Among other graphical improvements are a whole lot of various 
 signs that the crowd holds, a trademark of live WWE shows. Also, the crowd are all 3 dimensional 
 models, NOT carboard cutouts themselves. This is isn't the most major breakthrough but adds a bit 
 more to the atmosphere. Other little graphical details like ripping out TV monitors from the announcers 
 table involves lots of sparks and weapons break after a few hits.
  
  The sound itself is underwhelming. Sure, the voice acting is ok, but it's downright corny at times 
 and cliched. The wrestlers DO lend their voices to their characters, but it is usually some of 
 the less well known wrestlers (which isn't a bad thing) , but this means they are probably less 
 charismatic, and it shows in their voices. The announcers do a pretty decent job when doing generic 
 announcing, but after 15 minutes of a long match, there's a very high chance that good Old JR will 
 have repeated himself at least 3 times with the same line, although there are a whole load of lines 
 that he never said before. The music is a bunch of licensed Emo-Core-Rock and a few rap songs thrown 
 in for good measure. If you know the Official Theme Song of PPV X that is played on Raw or Smackdown, 
 then you know the type of music I speak of. Some of it is pretty good, some of it is just generic.
 
  
  The game itself hasn't changed much since the very first Smackdown game back on the Playstation 
 1. You have a standard strike attack, run, running attack and bunch of grapples depending on which 
 way you move the right joystick. If you use the Right Button you can use a strong grapple for more 
 damage and a more impressive move (by the way, Strength affects your overall damage, not just the 
 power of the move) . You can also pick your opponent up in the air for a total control move where 
 you can then decide his fate in many different ways from just that position. Sometimes it's just 
 a huge earth shattering body slam, sometimes a military press over head and your opponent flopping 
 to the ground over the top ropes. Also, attacks work on downed opponents whether they are a stomp, 
 punches to the head, various submissions or limb damaging attacks. Being stunned on a turnbuckle 
 or on the ropes is also not a good place to find yourself on the end of the punishment wagon. Of 
 course high flying attacks are still available.
  
  You can do other less than legal moves like pull out weapons from under the ring (this doesn't 
 count in Hardcore, TLC or other matches that aren't straight up wrestling) . Also, you can smash 
 people on the announcers table as I said before, and rip off the cover of the turnbuckle to bash 
 your opponents head into it and make them bleed. Also various moves like the Undertakers kick to 
 the face, or a bulldog face slam cause your opponent to bleed. Attacks that occur outside of the 
 two wrestlers grappling usually involve a mini game, whether escaping a move, or punching your 
 opponent 10 times on the turnbuckle or slamming their heads on the railing near the fans.
  
  However, this game is very VERY VERY frustrating and hard at times. Even on Easy, your opponent 
 can counter you many times in a row, or sometimes not once in a match. You better get good at counter 
 attacks to succeed at Hard and Legend difficulty. Also some of the AI (or Human opponents online) 
 can abuse moves that deny you the ability to get up sometimes. And the targeting system in this 
 game is atrocious. If you are clearly targeting your opponent and the ref gets in the way, chances 
 are you will grab him. The targeting only gets worse once you get into 4 man and 6 man tornado 
 matches or the Royal Rumble. Also the Ladder Match is really hard to win, everything has to be 
 in the exact right position or you'll never grab it. I know that they were going for a more realistic 
 match here and so it wasn't so short like in previous games, but I played for 30 minutes in one 
 match before I could grab the belt... on EASY.
  
  The Season mode is interesting and allows you to unlock wrestlers like the Rock or Jerry the King 
 Lawler or Hulk Hogan, but I wouldn't bother playing the season again to see a new storyline, as 
 you won't. And the storyline doesn't have the flair and fan involvement (I. E. you) as a real wrestling 
 feud.
  
  On the other hand, create a wrestler is quite robust, as is create a title belt and create a stable. 
 In fact, you can defend your own belt online for achievements. Personally one round through the 
 Season and one through General Manager was all I was able to milk from the game for about 15ish 
 hours. The other few hours came from trying each of the exhibition matches and others with friends. 
 Xbox live provides a lot of potential for competition against other humans if that is your thing 
 (and the only way to get all of the achievements) .
  
  Probably my two biggest problems with the game is :
  1.) The lack of some of the newer wrestlers 
 and that the roster is quite out of date. Randy Orton is not on Smackdown now, but Raw. The Highlanders 
 and Crime Tyme are missing in general. Stuff like that. I guess if you aren't a die hard fan like 
 I used to be years ago, it's something you can overlook.
  2.) INCREDIBLE LOADING TIMES!!!!!!! Even in something as simple as bringing up a different menu 
 takes a loading screen for 5 seconds. It's very aggrivating at times
  
  Anyone looking for a good wrestling game should check it out (especially WWE fans) , providing you 
 can overlook some of the targeting issues, horrible loading times, cheap reversals from your opponent 
 and the out of date roster.
  
  Good :
  + Excellent graphics
  + Amazing create a wrestler mode
  + A staggering amount of match types and options
  + Each 
 type of grapple attack outside of the ring is a neat mini game
  
  Bad :
  - Horrible targeting, especially in more than 2 player matches
  - Outdated roster
  - Cheap 
 AI and reversals are very difficult in the heat of battle
  - TONS OF LOADING SCREENS!!!!!!! argggg!!!!! *rips hair out* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limp_bizkit2k7
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown Vs Raw 2007 is one of those games that can have its frustrating moments, and can 
 have very very exciting moments.
  
  The Career Mode is very simple to use, but if you are new to the game, i wouldnt try the mode just 
 yet, as it can get difficult to cope, the GM mode is much better for new users, as you dont have 
 to wrestle at all, although the game is about you playing as your favourite superstar, people tend 
 to chose to be the manager.
  
  Create Modes are very good, creating your own WWE Title is ok, but not the best, the Create a superstar 
 is always my favourite, especially making a WWE Diva that looks like Pamela Andersonn.... hmm
  
  The commentary is a major dissapointment, at first, its clever and very well dialogued, but 
 as time goes on you think to yourself hes just said that so many times.... and Tazz isnt on SmackDown, 
 which proves the lack of roster up to date... ness?
  
  Overall a good game, good graphics, good animation, could to some tweeking for Smackdown vs Raw 
 2008, which isnt even in development, but it probably will in April 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox823
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  BEEN THERE DONE THAT SMACKDOWN VS RAW IS NOT THAT GOOD THE SEASON MODE SUCKS YOU ALREADY KNOW WHATS 
 GOING TO HAPPEN IT IS SO OBVIOUS AND WHATS UP WITH THE LOAD TIMES EVERY MENU YOU GO TO THERE IS 
 A LOAD SCREEN
  AND THE ONLINE PLAY IS SOUR FOR EXAMPLE IF YOU ARE BEATING THE HELL OUT YOUR OPPNENT THEY COULD 
 JUST LEAVE THE MATCH AND THE RECORD WONT BE SAVED THIS GAME ALSO HAVE A FEW GLITCHS MY RECORD WERE 
 GREAT THEN ONE DAY I PLAY AND MY RECORDS WENT UPSIDE DOWN
  AT TIMES THIS GAME GETS FUSTRATING IF YOU BY THIS GAME PLEASE RENT FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Great Job Yuke!!!! Not since WrestleFest for the Arcade, have enjoyed another wrestling game until 
 now. I tried past wrestling games for the X-Box and PS2, which all stunk in my opinion. I rented 
 them 1st to try them out, before I would buy them. I almost have given up hope. Reasons to buy 
 this one:
  Graphics
  Very Fun Great Camera Work (makes you feel at time that your part of something big)
  Sound (great 
 sound effects and voice overs)
  Controls are good (but not great)
  Story Mode
  Different Match Types
  Player vs Player vs Com, etc Would I like to see in the next WWE game:
 
  More Classic Wrestlers (Andre, Warrior, Powers of Pain, etc..) Perfect Controls
  Deeper Story Mode I cant comment on the On-line, because I have not tried that out yet. So I am 
 giving it a 94, because the controls sometimes are off. Anybody that was a fan of the 4-player 
 WrestleFest, remember that the game had simple controls (which led to button mashing, oh well) 
 decent 2D graphics and was a blast to play. It is really cool that finally a real great wrestling 
 game has been made. I would like to see THQ make wrestlers not available in this version, downloadable. 
 Hope the next version has more classic wrestlers. Great Job Yuke!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omus101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly good even though the new grapple system will take a while to get used 
 to. The ultimate control moves are just plain fun. There are still some flaws like stamina draining 
 too fast, but other than that it's too fun to let go of. But you'll forget about that when your 
 in the crowd area which is fully stalked with weapons and tables. It has a lot of legends including: Eddie 
 Guerrero, Bret Hart, 4 faces of Mick Foley, The Rock, Stone Cold Steve Austin, and many many more. If 
 you are a wrestling fan or just looking for something new, you should definitely buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlieLFCFan91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2007
  
  When I first was attracted to this game in August I heard about a new analog grappling system and 
 I was worried I wouldn't be able to pick it up due to the fact I was so used to the one button 
 grappling that I used since Smackdown 1. But when I played it after about 3 matches it was so simple 
 and made the game more fun.
  
  The roster for the game is very decent. ECW wrestlers not called RVD, Big Show or Lashley are not 
 in (Sandman, Sabu etc.) But it still is big and satisfying. The legends are great and are one of 
 the main reasons I get the game every year, old favourites like Mr Perfect, Rowdy Roddy Piper, 
 Jerry Lawler and Hulk Hogan join the new style legends like Steve Austin, The Rock and the 3 faces 
 of Foley (four if you include the one on the normal roster) .
  
  The season mode hasn't changed much and the thing that it lacks is a point once you have unlocked 
 all arenas and legends. Its value does go down. But they also have a WWE PPV mode (basic but fun) 
 aswell as an improved GM mode which is good for short periods. These modes are all welcome and 
 the create modes like Create a Stable and Create an Entrance are fun to do aswell as the usual 
 great Create a Superstar mode.
  
  The ultimate control moves and environmental grapples are added this year and when I saw that this 
 was gonna be in I thought the grappling would be so hard. But it smoothly all goes along with both 
 analog sticks and once you are used to it, you are on fire.
  
  Those are the main positives in the game, now for the small but annoying negatives, (mainly glitches) . 
 My version of the game doesn't have the glitches involving the commentators mentioning the wrong 
 wrestlers and moves but the tag team entrance glitch and occasion belt glitch I do get occasionly. 
 It doesn't majorly affect the game but you do feel THQ and Yukes rushed this part.
  
  Overall, yet another great Smackdown game and a great Xbox 360 debut 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Simply put it plays alot like last years game. Although they changed up the grappling. Now you 
 use the right thumbstick instead of a button to do your grapples. It doesn't change it up all that 
 much but it does feel more realistic. If your playing a one on one much the game plays superb, 
 the problem comes when more than one person is in the ring. They will do some stupid stuff alot. 
 The elimination chamber shows this off quite a bit. When your outside of the ring in this match 
 all they will do is irish whip you and climb the cage. Even the super heaveywheights will do this.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The player models are very nice and detailed, if you take a look at john cena or kurt angle they 
 look identical to there real life counterparts. The problem comes with the animations, they don't 
 look all that hot, there reused from last year.
  
  Sound:
  The voice acting is well doen and the moves and strikes sound pretty good. Although just like always 
 the announcing sucks. They reuse the same lines over and over. It get's really annoying.
  
  Value:
  There is alot to do in this game. You have a season mode which has enough lengh to keep 
 you happy. The GM mode is back and with more stuff to do. There are a ton of match types and online 
 play that works well, but is a little slow.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is alot of fun to be had. The match types are varied and interesting, Thankfully they 
 took out the bra and panties match which was just boring as hell. Overall:
  Overall if you liked past smackdown games your going to like smackdown vs Raw 2007. If your looking 
 for something that totally reinvents the series this isn't it. But it's deffinitially worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conqueror569
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is extremel good, the grapples, the multiplayer, the matches, etc... the only 
 thing is that there aren&acute; t too many wrestlers :/. I think you should really at least rent 
 it because it is a very good game to play and it has a very long lasting appeal. Some of the features 
 are to create a character which is good, create entrance that at the first you may not understand 
 but then it gets easy, create a championship thatis fun and well understandeable and then it has 
 create a stable whit is ok. The only thing I dont like about multiplayer on xbox live is that everyone 
 uses created superstars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Kev
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, where should i start, this is one of the best games on the xbox 360 because, firstly, the 
 gameplay on smackdown vs raw 2007 has been reinvented and been made brilliant, from ultimate control 
 moves to using the anolog sticks to help find a sweet spot as your trying undo a money in the bank 
 suitcase, you really feel you are in the game. secondly, the graphics and the sound are really 
 great, the songs on the game are really good and make you sing along to them even if you dont know 
 the words properly and the crowd make sounds to every single move you make, the graphics are amazing, 
 every single wrestler looks very very similar to their real life counterparts and the enviroment 
 look brilliant aswell, from the ring to the parking lot, and finally, this game is just real plain 
 fun and had me playing it for hours, i didnt even watch real life wwe wrestling before i bought 
 this game but this game was so good that i started becoming a fan of wwe instantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs RAW 2007 is one of the most longest franchise while 2007 isn't much different from 
 the previous one and it still has some bugs and problems but it definatley lives up the hype.
 
  
  -------------
  Graphics:
  -------------
  
  What you can expect from the 360? The Graphics are amazing. Specially that cool new sweat feature 
 that just have been recently added (only in the 360 version.) The textures are very clear, the 
 tattoos are awesome and the character models are very life like. The crowd is much improved and 
 the arena is amazingly very well deatailed. On a few occasions the animation could be a little 
 weird but its hardly noticeable.
  
  -------------
  Gameplay:
  -------------
  
  The grapple system has been changed a little this time, hard for old smackdown players but slowly 
 you'll get the hang of it, A Superstar could have used some more moves though. The new hot-spots 
 feature is great and works perectly with the new analogue moves system. Drag your opponent to a 
 place and use a variety of different moves. Another fun thing is that you can take the fight into 
 the crowd now.
  
  The bad things about the gameplay is that the collision problems still remain, some issues like 
 you can't keep the CPU superstar down or harder difficulty levels makes it almost impossible to 
 perform the Eddie Guerrero's Frog Splash, you know small glitches like that.
  
  -------------
  Sound:
  -------------
  
  The main menu sound tracks are great, last year 
 had some really crappy tunes but this time this hole has been filled up, in season mode the wrestler 
 voice overs are great and very real. Although the commentry is the same as last year except a few 
 new lines from each side (RAW and Smackdown.)
  
  -------------
  Value:
  -------------
  
  Just like any Smackdown game or any other sports game you can play it for 
 hours and hours and you won't get bored. The 20+ season mode story lines should be more then enough 
 for a start.
  
  The smacdown franchise still continues in a solid behaviour and this like the previous ones should 
 not be missed.
  
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  Difference between 360 and PS2
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  
  + Amazing Sweat Feature / No Sweat on PS2
  + DX loading 
 screen on 360 / No DX loading screen.
  + Sounds are balanced on 360 version / Sounds are not balanced on PS2 (eg: referee 1 2 3 crowd 
 sound)
  + CAWS are very well deatiled on 360 / PS2 CAWS suck.
  
  Well i think there was no need to discuss the differences you might already know 'em. Anyway the 
 final word is that you should get this game if you have been a fan of the previous or if you want 
 to get a decent sports game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelCain
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with the graphics. They are amazing! Theres lie 3 story modes each are long lasting 
 and can be different each time through. Or it can be completely differnt, lets say you were RAW 
 first. You beat it then go to Smackdown! It should be way different. This is a great multiplayer 
 game. My friends and I played this for like 6 hours straight. This might sound weird but I dont 
 like wrestling On TV, its fake. But on a video game its not, you are controlling the person. I 
 mean tell me whats not fun about throwing Finlay off a huge cage and him breaking all his bones. 
 ( I hate Finlay) Or better yet you can creat about anything going from Move Set, Character, Champion 
 Belt, entrance, and so on. Don't miss Smackdown vs. RAW 2007, its worth the steep price of 60 dollars. 
 Trust me it'll pay off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaquisMurph
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Well about this games the graphics are pretty good, very clear and the game is very well made, 
 i mean i am not much of a wrestling fan but it grows on you but there are some annoying stuff about 
 it like the loading jezzz it loads a lot in this games like every five minutes and why does it 
 take so long for them to get up i mean i can kill my finger taping the button for them to get up 
 then if they get up they get knocked down and you got to do it all over again. I mean all ya got 
 to do is keep the dude on the ground and beat the hell out of him when he is down and ya win. the 
 good thing about it is creating your own person and your own entrance plus the locker room is nice 
 too, make it the way ya want to. Plus you have alot of moves to choose from for your own person. 
 All and All if your a wrestling fan get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Well, wrestling games are starting to look like a yearly thing now. So a year later and THQ and 
 Yukes are back on the job.
  This game is probably the best since WWF No Mercy for the 64. The gameplay is just fun. I never had 
 so much joy out of smashing a chair over someone's head. The stamina system is very annoying at 
 times, but makes for a more competitive match. You can always turn it off anyway. There are dozens 
 of matches to choose from, and a lot of superstars as well. The storyline is much longer this time 
 around and changes with each win and loss. You'll find there are many different paths to follow.
 
  The graphics are clearly the best ever put into a wrestling game. The entrances are so well done, 
 and even the crowd is convincingly real. Whenever blood is shed, it's not just in one space. The 
 blood spreads through out time. I found it pretty stupid that the after match cutscene clears all 
 blood ever shed.
  The sound is great too, with all the actual entrance songs, and the crowd is very active.
  If 
 you like WWE, this is a must buy. If you like wrestling, you'll want to rent it. Otherwise, wait 
 for whenever they decide to drop TNA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  As somebody who has been a fan of wrestling games historically, the verdict of WWF/E titles on 
 the XBox has been depressingly terrible. The RAW titles were abysmal and WrestleMania 21, alas, 
 was even worse. The controls were terrible, the games were not enjoyable, and the A. I overcame 
 shoddy programming with cheap logic. The Nintendo64 gems the games, certainly, were not.
  
  The Playstation always had the superior titles as the Smackdown games were ALWAYS better than RAW. 
 Not usually but ALWAYS. And it seldom was even close. THQ, blessedly, has decided to bring the 
 Smackdown titles to the XBox360 at last. And the result is, admittedly, a mixed bag. The graphics 
 are really good. The characters look very much like their real-life counterparts, save for the 
 creepy as can be plastic-looking skin. I've yet to see a game really pull off realistic-looking 
 humans and this game keeps that streak very much alive. And the audio is actually improved a lot. 
 The voice acting no longer sounds like it was recorded in an echo chamber. Your created character 
 ALSO has voice-over (mine, for whatever reason, sounded just like Rob Van Dam) .
  
  The new control scheme is much improved. Overall analog control is pretty decent. There is also 
 a lack of the incredibly cheap reversals that was the hallmark of prior XBox wrestling titles. 
 The matches can be fun. Well, outside of the ladder match variations. Ladder matches, which in 
 wrestling are amongst the most entertaining match varities in the industry, are tedious slogs here. 
 True, using analog sticks to try and loosen up the belt/suitcase is preferrable to the old button-mash 
 fest, but the matches themselves tend to be quite bad. I'm not sure anything can be done to really 
 improve the issues.
  
  The storylines are decent. WWE storylines tend to be crap in real life, so Emmy-winning prose here 
 is not expected and it is not delivered. They aren't BAD per se, but great, they most assuredly 
 are not. Online play is rather good with lack of lag. The only downside is, of course, the people 
 who actually play on XBox Live, but you can't blame THQ due to poor upbringing of users.
  
  Create-a-Wrestler mode is, as always, really in-depth --- but I would like to see a larger roster 
 of moves. Not that there is a lack of moves, but more is always better and you could always use 
 moves that the WWE guys don't use as a general rule. Your ability to completely develop your entrance 
 is a cool touch. Even being able to determine your camera angles is beautiful.
  
  One of my favorite modes --- seriously --- last year was the GM Mode. This year's mode seems to 
 be much worse. The concept of hiring writers to develop specific storylines is decent enough (I 
 also assume it's not really far off from reality) , but I miss last year's automatic storylines 
 when you put two guys in matches for a week or two straight. Trying to shoehorn guys into pre-determined 
 storylines just isn't as much as fun as the organic storylines you could develop last year. I would 
 like a nice amalgamation of the two, with a default system like last year with the ability to hire 
 writers to improve specific storylines here and there.
  
  Smackdown v RAW 2007 is a solid title. It's not as good as the old Nintendo64 classics that nobody 
 has been able to touch since those days, but it's rather good for a modern wrestling title and, 
 obviously, a massive improvement over Rumble Roses. One thing that THQ would be wise to look into 
 is the ability to add in additional characters or moves via XBLA in the future. I doubt they can 
 now, but in the future, it'd be a terrific idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BardokOdin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, the first time I played this game I just got mad and turned it off. A few days 
 later I picked it up again and began to understand the control scheme. After you figure out the 
 controls, it's smooth sailing from there. At first I thought the new grapple system sucked, but 
 then I began to understand it better and everything actually worked better in my opinion. The graphics 
 are pretty good and the voices-overs are alright but not that great. The music is alright and has 
 a few fairly recognizable bands. It does get frustrating whenever you try countering or reversing 
 moves. I cant tell you how many times I've gotten angry because i sit there and hit the counter 
 button and it doesn't work. Other then that this is a fairly decent game, if you take the time 
 to learn it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmulisha808
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  the graphics in this game is the best ive seen so far in a wrestling game. but this game suffers 
 from frequent loading screens. there are loading screens for loading screens. on average it takes 
 about 5 minutes or it feels like an hour just to play a match... depending on the match. it loads 
 every entrance and then it loads another screen with information. sometimes it gets frustrating. 
 if your not patient then dont buy this game. the multiplayer on xbox live is okay... sometimes 
 you cant even find a match since there are very little people playing the game online. the career 
 mode is what you would expect from other wwe games. the create modes are very in depth and extensive. 
 the graphics are the best i have seen so far in a wwe game. the sound could have been better though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d500elite
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 07 is the best WWE game out at the moment, the one player game is pretty good 
 and you can play for about a year with every wrestler, there are plenty of hidden characters to 
 unlock and loads of bonuses, the multi player is a little bit of a pain as ppl like cheat by making 
 there superstars super heavy weight and look like feather weights but just make your wrestlers 
 the same way in create a wrestler at its fine or you can use a normal one otherwise the game is 
 great and trading your created superstars for some one else's is good there is allot to do and 
 you shouldn't get board.
  
  D500 Elite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canucksfan72
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  This game is horrible.... god forbid you get knocked down vs Kurt Angle he will put submission 
 one after another on you then the whole time you tap a button that seems to not do anything... 
 then he pins you with your health in light yellow and wins .... you cant get up once he starts... 
 also a ladder match I used a finisher 4 times and got the guy out of the ring he gets up just as 
 soon as I grab the belt and then he pushes me off and gets it ..... this game is horrible.... i 
 rented it and well i returned it for my money back... and i scratched the **** out of the cd befor 
 i returned it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldbergfan1110
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw is a very good wrestling game. They have enhanced all their creation modes which 
 include create a superstar create a belt and create a ppv. The ultimate control system is a very 
 good edition but it doesnt really change the controls very drastically at all. The game features 
 enviromental hotspots such as throwing your oppenent into the crowd. They also have ways of brutally 
 beating down your oppenent. Such as straddling them on the top ring rope, choking them with monitor 
 cables, slamming their heads into the steel steps. The online mode is a very good but the game can 
 have connection issues at time which can be irritating at times. The roster was a dissapointment 
 because i expected so many more wrestlers and most of the roster wasen't honsetly there. They either 
 didn't have them or they had wrestlers who aren't even in WWE anymore. Wrestlers such as Daivari 
 , The Great Khali and Paul Burchill and Hardcore Holly. Most wrestlers were missing included the 
 Spirit Squad, Londan and Kendrick, Ashley, and Tatanka and also Jeff Hardy. These additions would 
 have pushed the game even further. Johnny Nitro is the intercontinental champion but Jeffy Hardy 
 is the champion since hes not even in the game. Tag champs are Big Show and Kane when they should 
 be Orton and Edge. These small things do add up after a while. There is a announcer glich in the 
 game. I made a character in the game and he would say from Long Island, New York from New York 
 and then the name of my character. The story mode didnt have that much dept. You could beat smackdown 
 in maybe 6-8 hours its not a very deep season mode so you should be able to beat it within the 
 day you get it or maybe take about maybe 2 days at a max to beat it the unlockables are very simple 
 to get considering you don't have to do much but win every match you can possible win and that 
 helps you get hidden legends and arenas. The final issue with the game is that the reversalfest 
 exists still. I try hitting my strong grapples and the other guy counters before im even able to 
 do any moves and its just sort of anoying have to deal with that after awhile. Overall Smackdown 
 Vs Raw is a terrific wrestling game and is a game that any WWE would enjoy or even just wrestling 
 fans in general. overall i'll give Smackdown vs Raw 2007 a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madditude
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  On first glance the game looks great, especially when the last wrestling game you played was Here 
 Comes the Pain. The problems arise when you, thinking you are a half decent gamer forgoe the tutorial 
 and dive right into playing. Big Mistake! The new control scheme is without a shadow of a doubt 
 complicated at first, but once you get to grips with it, you'll find it really does offer more 
 control and more fluid matches. Once you get a handle of it, you'll be flying and will likely discover 
 medium is too easy a level and aim for hard. The new control scheme will take you a little time 
 to get used too and will likely make you put the game down in frustration many a time before you 
 get it, so i offer the advice to not get too frustrated, because you will eventually get it. The 
 game play itself is very good, with many of the Main Event matches reaching their full potential 
 such as the ladder, money in the bank and hardcore matches (thank s to the new interactive surroundings) . 
 Others such as the casket, cage and backlot brawl are far from appealing and you will likely find 
 yourself, like me, repeatedly going to the same matches. The table match and the tlc matches are 
 possibly the two biggest let downs. While both are entertaining, the ability to drive your opponent 
 through the table with any move has been eliminated, with everyone having to rely on a set finisher 
 through the table or tossing them on top of it for a poor looking diving move. The tlc match is 
 still fun but the ladder variation has been eliminated for reasons beyound my comprehension since 
 I've never seen a pinning tlc match in the real thing. Hell in the Cell, First Blood, Battle Royal 
 are also decent but receive little or no new additions to their basic premise.
  As for commentary, it can get a little long winded, with JR regularly divulging personal feeling 
 and such but as a whole it's decent and a definite improvement. The range of superstars is also 
 quite impressive, with over 50 in all. These include the obvious top billers of the day Triple 
 H, Edge, Orton etc... to legends such as Bret Hart and Hulk Hogan. Most are fun to use, especially 
 when playing as a heel, but I found myself soon tired of using the same old wrestlers and quickly 
 found myself using the CAW mode. Other problems lie in the roster's lack of recent additions such 
 as the Spirti Squad, Ashely Massaro, the Hooliganz etc... whilst still containing the likes of 
 Psicosis, who hasnt been seen on TV since July. Whats even more annoying is seeing some of these 
 superstars on the Smackdown and Raw opening videos, which feels a little like a slap on the face. 
 Challenges are also new to me and so I am unsure how they were in svr2006. I find them okay but 
 far from enthralling. They do not feel like real challenges, with many opponents seemingly up for 
 you, and not covering you when given the opprtunity. Some are enjoyable and make you feel like 
 you've accomplished something, while others such as the Taker v Orton Hell in the Cell is virtually 
 a squash match, once you know a few moves. Create a Wrestler is back and is both good and bad for 
 different reasons. On one hand you have a severely limited options in regard to variations. All 
 clothes are offered the same poor patterns, which consists of a couple of flags, polka dots, camouflage 
 and other useless variations. Also many of the moves unused or disliked by the WWE seem to have 
 been gotten rid of. While these may not be needed for new WWE stars, it can have a negative affect 
 on creating stars from the likes of TNA and classic ECW. On the other side you do get almost complete 
 control and many wrestlers outfits can be created with a little hard work and ingenuity to virtual 
 perfection. The pre-made movesets also offer you a ready made AJ Styles template that can be made 
 perfect with just a couple of tweaks. The new move set system is also clever, albeit porrly implemented. 
 Many light heavyweights can and often use luchador like moves, yet the game doesnt allow them to 
 use them. The obvious solution would be to lower them to crusierweights, which at first might seem 
 clever, but it soon becomes a huge burden. Those under the lightheavyweight mark are then unable 
 to even lift the likes of Chris Benoit, not even being able to kick them, depending on their weight, 
 until having a finisher. In the end the sacrifice of a few interesting moves is not worth the inability 
 to do any powerful moves on anyone over 240lbs and you will likely forgoe it, in order to have 
 useful combatant. Now onto the most important part. The Season mode. First of all it is a far cry 
 from the desired open ending, freedom style play, with decisions on your end few and far between. 
 You begin on either show at a set even. On Raw you will begin a feud with the Big Show, over his 
 unfair treatment of little guys. While simplistic as a real superstar, a brand new CAW will last 
 little or no time at all, and will quickly be pinned by the Show. The formula goes from there, 
 with it typically ending with you and Show in a steel cage, where he'll beat you senseless. From 
 there, the storyline picks up a little and gives you a slightly better chance of survival, pitting 
 you against the likes of Angle, who will also likely beat you, despite your best efforts. Smackdown 
 also begins a little higher up than you'd expect with a you getting in among a feud between Taker 
 and Benoit. This is also extremely hard to win, although the PPV match can be won with a little 
 guile. The biggest problems with the Season mode lie in it's repetition and the refusal to allow 
 you to be both a winner and a non-title holder. First of all you'll end up wanting to lose and 
 occassionally purposely doing so in order to get something new thrown your way. This is especially 
 true, when taking part in lenghty storylines. The title seems to be always being thrown at you, 
 and personally i dislike holding it. The storylines are often very thin and pointless, with the 
 same result occurring no matter what. Also if you feel you are about to lose and it's a singles 
 match, you can just get disqualified and retain the title, and the storylines will call it a win. 
 Whats even worse is, even when you're being extremely careful to not get a title shot, you will 
 anyway, with the formula being 4 wins and a PPV enough to grant you a title shot. All in all, you'll 
 grow weary of the Season rather quickly but will continue playing, if only to enhand your CAW's 
 attributes.
  
  I am unable to review the GM mode since i have yet to play it and so will just say that i have 
 high hopes, as it sounds like a good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddyk14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs. raw is by far the best wrestling game i have every played. This tops all of those 
 good ones like wrestlemania and no mercy. Lets start out with the season mode. There are tons of 
 different stories, and there are consequances or rewards for winning matches. I love the cut seens 
 in this game, and I think it's great how you are givin chances to go different paths in this mode. 
 The manager mode is pretty fun too. Compete as either smackdown or raw to see who is the dominate 
 show. In addition to these modes, the choices of mathces are insane. You have hell in a cell, buried 
 alive, hardcore, first blood, and tons more. Oh and the ladder matches are insanely fun, actually 
 requiring alot of strategy to allow you to make it all the way up the ladder to grab the prize. 
 Also, did i mention the online and the crowd fighting. Yes this game not only has an interactive 
 crowd feature, allowing you to jump over the barricade in to the stands, but there are online matches 
 which completely entail all the gameplay and detail of the single player experience. At least rent 
 this game. Just give it a chance and it will blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time fan of the Smackdown series, and I was anxiously awaiting when the game would make 
 the next-gen jump. That time is now. Smackdown vs Raw for the XBOX360 enhances the visuals and 
 adds some great replay-ability with the achievments, but it still has some flaws... most noticably 
 in the actual gameplay mechanics.
  
  As I mentioned, the graphics are really pretty. Never before has digital sweat on Hulk Hogan's 
 pectorals looked so good. The hours and hours of quality voicework is also a very big bonus.
  
  The game goes wrong where it worked beautifully before. The game designers wanted to change 
 a few things this time around, most noticibly the grapple system. Grappling no longer is activated 
 with the O button, like it was on the Playstation 2, but instead activated with the right thumb 
 stick. This feels very gimmicky, and doesn't give the controlled feel like they were going for.
 
  
  Another thing that goes wrong with grappling: even on the easiest setting, the AI will counter 
 your grapples 4 out of 5 times. And while it's easy to counter strikes, countering grapples is 
 much more difficult, making this game frusterating in that you see your opponent throw you around 
 all over the mat, but you aren't able to do the same to him.
  
  Overall, Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is a great game, and totally worth picking up or at least renting. 
 The graphics are amazing, and the season mode is fun and well-done. The AI seems a little unfair 
 at times, but that can be easily overlooked by true fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I have played every WWF/WWE/WCW game out there and this one is easily the best. With unlockable 
 characters like The Hart Foundation, Hulk Hogan, Hot Rod, Rock, Stone Cold, and more! The career 
 mode isnt that bad and the GM mode is pretty cool. The graphics are amazing and announcers arent 
 as bad as before. If you are a WWE fan then this is a must game for you!
  
  Graphics - 9
  Character models are so good its eerie. Fighters start to sweat during the match. Very well done
 
  
  Sound - 8
  All the entrance music and better commentary. Value - 8
  Hidden fighters should keep you busy playing for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vw_Magnum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Let's get to the point shall we? No Smackdown vs Raw 2006 was bla bla bla , I'm not a professional 
 reviewer or somethin'. What ever, this game is pretty great. The wrestling has basically improved. 
 Although, the fact that you control your moves by flickin' the right stick doesn't really add anything. 
 It's actually better the way it was before. When you need to execute a fast move you always end 
 up movin' the stick to the right. Therefore you use the same moves way too often.
  
  GM Mode is good enough. Season Mode, on the other hand, sucks. Create a Wrestler is as bad as it's 
 always been. I don't really care about makin my own superstar , they always end up lookin' dumb 
 anyway. It's a lot more fun playin' as Kurt Angle. Good thing he's in the game.
  
  Anyway, I think WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2007 gets kinda boring after a while. But that's just because 
 I have like five of the previous games. Smackdown 2007 isn't a huge improvement over last years 
 game. Only buy it if you're a WWE geek or if you don't already own a wrestling game. Oh, and one 
 more thing... the commentators sucks. They get real repetitive, annoying and they don't know what 
 tha hell is goin' on in the ring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 1.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of wrestling. Although playing Pro Wrestling (NES) was kinda fun back 
 in the day, and kinda funny now, wrestling games have gone from mediocre to disgustingly bad. Over 
 the years, its gotten more and more obvious that its totally fake. Someone a long time ago decided 
 that women love romantic stories and made soap-operas. Then someone else thought if they added 
 some kind of seemingly manly sport with a soap-opera-ish story, then you'd have a show for men. 
 That person should have been committed to an insane asylum and locked up forever. Because now we 
 have to endure the likes of WWE Smackdown! vs. RAW 2007... ok, not everyone has to endure it. Just 
 the suckers who rented it, and the ultimate unfortunate suckers that bought it.
  
  This game sports a huge roster of wrestlers, including todays stars and yester-years' legends. 
 You also have the option of creating your own muscle-bound, brain-dead wrestler, with all the tweaking 
 you can think of. Usually in a game, this is a good thing. But not in WWE SVR 2007. Most of the 
 wrestlers are butt-ugly, even the female ones. And on top of that, you have this new control scheme 
 that totally makes the game unplayable. So, your wrestlers are guaranteed to exhibit ultimate ugliness: 
 ugly in motion as well as in appearance.
  
  While you are being tortured with your ugly wrestler, the CPU decides to join in for a totally 
 frustrating experience. That's right... no matter whether you have the game set on easy or whatever 
 the highest difficulty setting is, the CPU will beat you to a bloddy pulp while you fumble through 
 the controls trying to figure out how to pull off a move. ANY move, other than punching and kicking. 
 True fact: I have YET to win a match against the CPU... on EASY. The CPU is relentless, and it 
 has a sense of humor too. It'll have you down several times before it finally decides to put you 
 out of your misery. And it really likes pulling off the wrestlers' signature moves. Pay attention 
 to those times, because the only times you'll see those moves executed is when the CPU is doing 
 it to you. Multiple times in the same match. And some of the wrestlers' signature moves leave you 
 wondering why this game isn't rated M instead of T . Especially Viscera... I don't think a 300+ 
 pound man laying on top of another man (who is half dead and can't move at this point) and humping 
 him (literally... I'm not exaggerating) is appropriate for teens. Just another example of why not 
 to touch this game... ever. Let it fade out of the video game scene like 99.99999...% of wrestling 
 games do. Pro Wrestling is still alive and kickin'. Play that if you want a laugh... and a wrestler 
 you can actually control and win with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haphasto
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing WWF/WWE Smackdown since Just Bring It, back in 2001. Ever since then i've been 
 hooked on the games. So to continue my tradition, I of course bought SVR2007, with high anticipations. 
 But I ended up rather disapointed.
  
  Graphics 9/10 This is probably the best characteristic of the game. It does look good on the 360. 
 The lighting is very well done, the wrestlers themselves look great and realistic. The arena's 
 are fairly well done. And the crowd looks somewhat realistic. The only problems I have with the 
 graphics, is when the hair goes inside the character, almost as if they were like a ghost, and 
 some of the backstage areas look rather bland. Also the locker room is not very pretty either. 
 But overall the graphics do look pretty sweet, and I can't wait to see what next years looks like, 
 when they actually focus on next gen.
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  This is where I find myself at a loss for words. I did not have fun with this years version. Everything 
 seemed so stiff, and rehashed. And the new grappling system aggrivated the hell out of me. The 
 old grappling system worked very well, and I have no idea why they decided to change it. The old 
 saying goes Why fix something that isn't broken? One thing I kind of liked about this years grappling 
 system though, is the interactive moves, and you sort of control what move your wrestler is about 
 to pull off. Most of the time it works pretty well, but it seems like your stamina gets drained 
 so fast, that it's not worth messing around with. Hopefully they can improve on this next year.
 
  
  Another disapointment was season mode. One of the things I love so much in the past about the Smackdown! 
 games was the season mode. Last year is when they started to get off track with it. I used to love 
 the season mode when you actually were able to control how events played out, and could sort of 
 make up your own story in the WWE universe. But now they have completely done away with that, and 
 put you in a cut and dry season mode, where the story is set on a track. You have pretty much no 
 way of controlling how the season ends up. Your wrestler is in a mapped out story, and all you 
 do is fight the wrestlers that just happen to make their appearences in the story. I couldn't even 
 go through one season without getting sick and tired of it.
  
  One thing that the game does very well, is online. It's set up very well, and runs very smooth 
 over XBL. You can join ranked matches, non ranked matches, private matches, title bouts, and even 
 bring your own created character online. It's very funny to see what some of the people over XBL 
 come up with for their created characters. One problem with the online mode though, is lack of 
 match types. And i'm talking about ONE in particular. That is elimination chamber. I honestly bought 
 this game so I could play Elimination Chamber over XBL with some of my friends back home. That 
 was our absolute favorite match type to play back in the day when we would use the 4-controller 
 port for the PS2. So I was obviously very dissapointed to find out that we wouldn't be able to 
 play our favorite match type over XBL.
  
  Sound 8/10
  The sound is pretty good. I like the soundtrack alot. The wrestlers have good voice overs. The 
 entrances are very well done, but once again they dropped the ball on the commentary. It's horrindous, 
 and repetitive, and it's what keeps the sound score from getting a higher point.
  
  Replayability 8/10
  There is alot to do in Smackdown Vs. Raw 2007, just like there is in any 
 Smackdown game! There are tons of unlockables, tons of achievements, both for XBL, and the game 
 itself. You could spend alot of time creating your own neat characters. If you're a huge wrestling 
 fan, i'm sure the season mode is somewhat engaging. I havn't tried out GM mode yet on this years 
 version, but there is always that. And of course there is online. If you love WWE you will most 
 likely enjoy this game. If you just like the games, like myself, you will probably be disapointed 
 with this years version compared to the past editions. There is still alot to keep you busy, and 
 by no means is it a bad game, it's just a downgrade from the years past it seems.
  
  Overall I give WWE Smackdown! vs. Raw 2007 a 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mm_casino
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  the more i play this game, the more i hate it. i thought i was finally going to get a quality wrestling 
 game for an MS console and at first thats what it was. after playing it from launch ive grown to 
 hate this damn game. its either to easy or to ridiculous. there is no balance. sliders are useless. 
 the cpu reverses everything and wont let you get up once it gets you down until its tired of beating 
 you down. this game turns into nothing but a button mashing game.
  
  we say: 8.1
  you say: 8.8
  they say: 8.1
  
  I say: overrated and another disappointment.
  
  AKI WHERE 
 ARE YOU? long live no mercy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FraserAlexander
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Here's what you already know from other reviews; it's clippy, there are too many load screens, 
 story sucks.
  
  Here what I haven't seen anyone write yet; This game is Slow! The first time you create a wrestler 
 and get him in the season mode you'll notice that his can will be on the mat in no time and stay 
 there WAAAAY too long. The recovery time is out of whack. The fatigue element is about right, it 
 could have been a little more forgiving though. The window of time to pull of reversals is too 
 short, especially since many moves are lightning fast (and look rediculous) while others are slow 
 and labourous (even though the actual move may only be a jab) Another grip is the moves and the 
 way you pull them off. The glorious right thumbstick isn't necessary because it's not dynamic. 
 There are always only four directions to choose from in a grapple so why even bother with it... also 
 the directions aren't constant, ie 'up isn't always up' ... think of NBA 2K7 and the dunking, the 
 manual says 'left is flashy dunk' but that's only if you are moving right (which it failed to mention) 
 and the same is true here... The game is some minor league fun, don't get me wrong, but not a purchase, 
 and I'll probably return it early as a rental. One thing i can't stress enough is the overall slowness. 
 It's SLOW, once i was lying on the mat for over a minute!!!! wasn't pinned bc/ tag mate kept elbow 
 dropping. Also don't creat anything but a heavy guy because first season match is Big show and 
 he'll kill you if you're not huge. peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThumbsUpMaster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  WWE SmackDown! vs Raw 2007 marks the first WWE game of the SmackDown vs Raw franchise to appear 
 on a Microsoft console. Previous WWE titles on the Xbox, most notable, Wrestlemania 21, (*cough* 
 flop *cough*) , suffered issues such as it's online service not working, bad AI, shallow gameplay, 
 etc. THQ decided to change that by moving the Sony exclusive SmackDown franchise, or SmackDown 
 VS Raw franchise nowadays, to the Xbox 360.
  
  GamePlay: WWE SvR 07 has the same look and feel from previous SmackDown vs Raw titles which really 
 didn't come to a surprise. THQ threw in a new control system where, basically, you move you right 
 analog stick up, down, left, or right to perform a grapple move. The x button is used for strikes 
 and the b button is used to regain stamina. The rest of the control scheme is pretty much the same 
 from the PS2 games. Y is to run, RT (R2) is to counter grapples, you know the drill. The new controls 
 take time to get used to. I've grown to like them. It wasn't really a necessary move but fits the 
 Xbox 360 control well and I can live with it. One bad thing about it is you need to press [back] 
 to change targets. Ok, you move your superstar with the left analog stick. That means you have 
 to move you right thumb all the way to the other side of the controller which is a real pain because, 
 sometimes, I accidentally hit the Xbox Guide button.. which doesn't automatically pause the game 
 so I get screwed sometimes. So get used to standing still and changing targets... If you hate it 
 you can always change it back to the classic layout on options.
  
  The features in SvR 07 don't live up to Here Comes the Pain. I wonder why THQ took out Create-a-Animation 
 and backstage arenas.. those were fun. I guess they're trying to make the series more realistic 
 .... pssh.. Whatever. As long as the game is fun that's fine with me.
  
  I don't wanna go a lot into General Manager Mode, because, quite frankly, I try to pretend it's 
 not even there because its so boring. I guess it's worth the achievement points.
  
  One new match type was added in this game. The match that Edge won first and all the haters booed 
 him because of it, The Money in the Bank match. It's basically a 6-man ladder match and the Title 
 belt you usually see hanging above the ring is replace with a suitcase. You can lean a ladder on 
 another ladder and do that cool move Shelton Benjamin did. And that's pretty much it. But I still 
 question... why no Hardcore Time Limit?! grrrrr...
  
  Creat-a-Mode: Create a Superstar is basically the same from 2006. I didn't see any improvements 
 here. Create-an Entrance's tedious load times from SvR 06 are gone in this years game. Create-a-Stable... 
 same thing.
  
  Graphics: Yep, they're graphics alright! Obviously you'll see an improvement from previous PS2 
 titles.
  
  Sound: Hmmmm.... where do I start? Maybe at the repetitive comentary? How commentary is cut off 
 during matches when you reverse a move or perform a special move? Oh, yeah. And I need to e-mail 
 THQ or something. When I'm Edge, how the hell does JR know I'm gonna do the spear when I'm just 
 setting up for it. It's like this:
  
  *Edge is in spear position* JR says bah gawd what a spear! Yeah... so is JR psychic now or something?
 
  
  [All problems I mentioned above are in 2006 too but THQ is still too lazy to fix them. Except this 
 year, commentary also cuts off during cut-scenes in season mode.]
  
  The soundtrack definitely beats last years Wannabe gangster songs but I still find myself streaming 
 music from my PC.
  .
  Voice over on season mode is amazing. I acknowledge the fact that THQ put a lot of work into voice 
 over this year. Some of the superstars are great actors; it almost feels like your watching a WWE 
 event. Between storylines, superstars might even send you voice messages on your PDA.
  
  Value: If you have a PlayStation 2, save yourself some money and buy the PS2 version from Walmart. 
 There is no sign of next gen in this title. Probably the main thing that keeps me playing this 
 game is the achievements. Need.... all... achievements...
  
  Tilt: Probably one of the best things about this game is the online matches. Xbox Live is, obviously, 
 a better structure.... let me rephrase that... a WAY better structure than PS2's online service. 
 If you know other wrestling fans that own this game and have Xbox Live, give it a go.
  
  WWE SmackDown vs Raw 2007 is an good wrestling game that'll have a WWE fan play for hours but it's 
 still not a dynamic improvement from past WWE titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyBhoy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is the latest addition to the successful smackdown series, it's also the 
 first game in the series released on a nex gen console. If your an Xbox gamer through and through 
 smackdown vs Raw 2007 will be a great wrestling game compared to other's that were on the Xbox. 
 However I have played the series from it's Playstation day's and will be comparing it to other 
 smackdown games not Raw or Wrestlemainia 21.
  
  The Graphics are impressive, the detail is fantastic and the animation is a lot smoother than previous 
 games. Also lighting, sweat and clothing effects are detailed and look great. Not to mention the 
 wrestlers themselves who have excellent detail in their face and muscle textures. There isn't much 
 wrong with graphics a part from the fact that the Xbox 360 could be pushed further and there's 
 still some clipping which needs to be addressed.
  
  The Gameplay has been tinkered with again to produce the new analogue control system, ultimate 
 grapple moves and hotspots which are all fine and work well in creating an authentic wrestling 
 experience, however it's the old glitches and AI problems that return to bog down the gameplay. 
 The AI is once again far to easy to overcome in matches and causes Comp controlled wrestlers to 
 do odd things like, picking or stomping the opponent after hitting a finisher on them, standing 
 around watching as someone climbs the ladder and wins the money in the bank match also when you 
 call for help in a tag match your AI controlled partner can do the opposite of what you asked or 
 do nothing at all. The season mode is not very flexible and lock's you into storylines, which are 
 entertaining but begin to repeat themselves rapidly. I prefer the season mode to go back the flexible 
 system that was in HCTP. I've not really played GM mode that much but it's not that improved, you 
 can turn off the injures which makes it a bit easier but the systems still a bit boring. The create 
 PPV is kind of pointless, why dont they add the audience rating system that was in Smackdown 2 
 so that you an judge your PPV's on ratings and maybe compete for the best PPV with your mates.
 
  
  The creation mode is pretty average because THQ have removed some of the hair part's and clothing 
 variations that were in the 2006 game. I found it much easier to create wrestlers like Goldberg 
 &amp; Sting or miscellaneous characters like Tifa or Ryu in the 2006 create mode.
  
  The game sound is both good and bad, as the voice acting, mat sounds and the new grunting sounds 
 are all very good. However the commentary is almost the exact same as it was in 2006 and the music 
 tracks theyve for the game SUCK in my opinion, also there isn't many tracks in the game so even 
 if you liked the music it starts to get repetitive.
  
  The game doesn't have that much to unlock or trophies to win, most of the unlockables can be purchased 
 by collecting money in season or winning at PPV's in season. There's only three or four optional 
 trophies to be won, I prefer it when there's more. The unlockable legends are all cool except The 
 King who was a filler legend.
  
  Overall Smackdown vs Raw 2007 brings some better gameplay and graphic's the series on the 360, 
 however the issues which plagued the game on PS2 still remain but I'll still recommend it to any 
 wrestling fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo2k14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games of november 2006 the graphic are jus brilliant evrybody looks 
 like evrybody the gameplay is amazin the season mode is in depth but i hav 2 admit that season 
 mode is better wit a created wrestler because then u can better with him/her and make them into 
 a star whereas if u are somebody like kane or triple H u wnt b able to make them better n they 
 wil hav the normal type of story but wit created wrestler there is much more to it. the sound is 
 amazin the wrestlers sound as they should do n the music is rite up 2 date the bad thing about 
 the game is that theyve left some stars out whereas CM Punk is not in the game wat is up with that. this 
 isnt worth &pound;50 cos no game is worth 50 pounds but i would say if u get this for &pound;40 
 or cheaper u will hav made urself a bargain. create a wrestler mode is gd cos the game is in depth 
 wen u create sum1 n evrything u can do with people is brill. this game is truly amazing n even 
 if u dont like wrestlin games n u fancy buyin this game then u made a wise choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariohead4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Ok the game is good. The story mode i thought was alright this time and the hot spots are an added 
 extra. Most of the grabbling system is fab along with the never ending reversal system........... But 
 the amount of glitches in the game are just shock for 1 when a tag team comes down the anouncer 
 only introduces 1 of the characters and the amount of times wen im in a match jim, tazz, king and 
 micheal are all talking about a different character who is not even in the match.
  
  So people u have been warned, there are a load of glitches in thid game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeSweet
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  another run of the mill wwe game.
  
  you think by now they would let you do more than just fight people.
  yeah you get to chose who 
 you get to fight sometimes and who you want to team up with and at one point you get to pick what 
 type of match you wanna do. but come on this game is so repetitive.
  
  i did like the graphics in this game. but that was pretty much all i can think of that actually 
 impressed me.
  
  the parts of the game i didnt like was the fact that there were so many god damn loading screens. 
 game play is the same thing over and over again. and the story line is just the same thing as it 
 has always been. become a superstar and rise to the top and defend your title. i mean i know there 
 really isnt that much you can do in games like these but you could at least try too.
  
  if you want to play this game but you are not a big wwe fan i would say rent it and save yourself 
 40 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kxno
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best wrestling games up to date.
  It has a good story mode, nice exhibition mode. And a good GM mode this time.
  Story mod is good. 
 But you do change brands a lot in it. And its all voiced. So that's good. And their are a lot of 
 them to chose from.
  GM mode this time is much better. This time you can turn injury off. So like your opponent GM. 
 You can put on a HIAC match every night and no one gets hurts. Yea, that's the one thing they still 
 didn't fix. The opponents stars never get hurt or their moral never goes down. But, you can turn 
 it all off. So that's good.
  Matches are awesome. Most stars have their finisher. And MITB ladder match is awesome. Now you 
 can do what Benjamin did of the ladder. Its freaking awesome. The match takes about 30-40 minutes 
 to finish. I always come so close. But Kurt, Rey, Or Benoit steal it away from me. The AI is good. 
 The new system takes some time to get used to. But ones you get it. You wont want to go back to 
 the old one. The Ultimate controls moves are one of the best things. Their is nothing like chocking 
 Cena with a cord and that smashing his head on the steel stems about ten times.
  So if you like wrestling, you like combat games, you just like to fight a little or you like to 
 put some time into your games. This game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksoulhunter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is essentially the best since No Mercy and HCTP, but there are certain issues that i 
 thought should of been handled.
  *Divas have ridiculous restrictions which makes the anything can happen in the WWE statement null 
 and void.
  
  *Game tends to freeze occasionally, not too bad though
  
  *Commentary is often disrupted, like in the middle of a line, They start saying something else 
 just because you either lock a sub or reverse a move.
  
  *Certain superstars in particular Londrick and SS were excluded despite that they are leading tag 
 teams.
  
  * Did they include jeff's entrance?
  
  *certain moves are missing
  
  *AI is somewhat retarded.
  
  *Match ratings on GM mode are based on Superstars in the match, 
 not the length or quality of the match.
  
  There are other bugs or things missing but those are the ones that bother me the most. Overall 
 though this game offers a great experience.
  *Roster is more up to date compared to last year's game.
  
  *Graphics are amazing
  
  * 
 Gm mode includes options to turn off fatigue and Morale as well as a Power 25
  
  *Season has some well interesting storylines
  
  *DX is in the game
  
  *Matchs are more 
 fluent
  
  *Heat and velocity make it easier to raise pop for Caws.
  
  *able to edit superstars ovr in season.
  
  Overall a great game i definantly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon_leader3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  They have improved a lot of things in this one. Some of the flaws in this game are ones that have 
 been around the beginning of the series, and have become a bit more noticeable. Such as wrestlers 
 going through thing and weapons going through things. They are also using some of the same animations 
 from the older Smackdowns, but the have added some new ones. The gameplay has tremendously improved, 
 how ever there are some things that just don't make sense such as being Kane and picking the Big 
 Show up for a chokeslam and being able to walk around with him. The new control scheme works great 
 for me but if its not working for you than just change the control type in the options menu. Otherwise 
 almost everything else works amazing, except for they lied a little about season mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game because I had not played a wresling game for a while. I started playing it and 
 the graphics are....... pretty bad. Its like the made the game without even trying to give it good 
 graphics.
  
  I would definitely not recommend anyone to buy this, unless you really like wrestling then you 
 should first rent it and then if you like ti you can buy it. Whoever buys this game will definitely 
 get ripped off. The gameplay is not bad, its actually a pretty entertaining game but it takes to 
 long to figure out how to play. There are not many moves you can do unless you press like 20 buttons 
 to do a combo.... so this game pretty much sucks.... in graphics and the way the controls are set 
 up.
  
  Best thing to do is: rent it first, if you like the **** game then go ahead and buy it, but I rather 
 use $60 on a better game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  We hear people say it all the time: Wrestling isn't what it used to be. Lots of things have changed 
 since the heyday of the WWF back in the 80's. But, as much as the TV shows change to focus more 
 on the Entertainment than the Wrestling, the videogames derived from the franchise have constantly 
 evolved throughout the years.
  
  This year's offering, WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007, is the first game in the long running franchise 
 to be featured on next-generation consoles, namely the XBox 360. This would mean that publisher 
 THQ and developer Yuke's would have had to put more time and energy into this game, right? Well... 
 not quite.
  
  What they have done is introduce a new grapple mechanic, which now allows you to perform normal 
 and strong grapples using the right thumbstick and bumper. Naturally, with ever new innovation 
 comes an adaptation period. For those who were used to the face buttons, this will take some conditioning 
 on your part, but, when you've passed that part, the new grapple feature works very, very well. 
 The counter system, however, is broken. When you play the game on Beginner or Easy, you will be 
 able to counter every move the computer controlled wrestlers throw at you... but as soon as you 
 reach the Hard skill level, the counters magically stop working for you, especially if you're using 
 a created Superstar. This becomes very frustrating in the long run.
  
  The same gameplay modes return this year. I will now go into detail of what each one consists of.
 
  
  Season mode lets you play through 2 complete seasons of WWE television. Last year, you could only 
 play through one, so that's good news. You can select any WWE Superstar, or even your own created 
 one, to play through the different storylines. You can choose between Raw or SmackDown, unless 
 your created wrestler is already associated to a brand. By the way, the season mode is still the 
 best way to get your skill points to boost up your created superstar's overall rating.
  The stories are ok, at best. The biggest problem here is that they use some Superstars in situations 
 you'd never find them in on regular WWE programming. This might go unnoticed to the casual WWE 
 fan, but for the hardcore fan, it can come off as really corny and dumb. But, in the end, the way 
 each storyline pans out is still pretty good and well done.
  
  GM mode has been beefed up since last year and looks a bit better, although harder to navigate 
 through the basic features. You'll start off by choosing your brand and your roster: you can take 
 the original roster or go with the draft and pick up the Superstars you want. Then, you're on your 
 way.
  You book the matches for your shows, since this year you have the option to book matches for Heat 
 (Raw) and Velocity (SmackDown) , or your pay per views in the calendar screen. Booking matches is 
 very easy, as you select any Superstar on your roster and put them in any match you want. One difference 
 needs to be noted here: the title matches.
  If you want a Superstar to compete for the title, he or she needs to be a Contender. You can check 
 who is in contention for a certain title when you book the match. Although this may sound like 
 a good idea at first, it can become somewhat annoying, especially when you want to book matches 
 with a lot of Superstars. If one of them is not in contention for the title you're putting up, 
 the game won't let you add him to the match. This is really frustrating and doesn't reflect real 
 WWE programming.
  
  Let's get into gameplay now. You'll find every pay-per-view event here in the game, as usual, and 
 they are very well represented. The match types remain pretty much the same, for the exception 
 of the Ladder &amp; Tables matches, which have been tweaked up. In a Ladder match, instead of just 
 grabbing the ladder and climbing it to unhook the belt and win, you need to put both of your thumbsticks 
 in the correct position and hold them there until your belt meter depletes. As for the Tables match, 
 you need to make your opponent groggy and then grapple him and drag him to the table. You then 
 place him on the table and ram him into it. These tweaks are a refreshing welcome to the game and 
 makes it a lot harder to win these types of matches.
  
  New to this year's game is the hotspots. You can now take the fight into the crowd, on the announcer's 
 tables, on the stairs, and so on. There are a couple of hotspots strewn about the arena and to 
 access them, you'll need to grapple your opponent and drag him there. This will activate a cutscene 
 where you'll be asked to execute a series of actions on your controller to bash your opponent's 
 head on the table, the stairs or the ring post, throw him into the barricade, rip a sign out of 
 a fan's hands and rip it up, and so on. This is a great addition to the game and makes you feel 
 like you're really in a WWE program. Aside from the new grapple controls, this is the best new 
 addition to the game.
  
  Again this year, you can Create A Superstar, Entrance, Moveset, Belt and Stable. The Create a Superstar 
 is as beefed up as ever and, once again, works very well. You have tons of options to conceive 
 your Superstar. Once again, the menu system has been modified here, but not for the best. It took 
 me some time to find everything, like the layer list.
  The Create an Entrance has been hugely ameliorated on since last year. You can completely create 
 your entrance from scratch, with different camera angles, lighting effects, pyro, and so on. There 
 are still some problems with the camera angles at times, where the camera will go nuts and show 
 you 3 different angles in 2 seconds, but besides that, it's still very solid.
  The Create a Moveset &amp; Stable are relatively the same as last year's. The Create a Belt now 
 allows you to create spinner belts, like John Cena's Champ one. Aside from that, it's pretty much 
 the same as last year's.
  
  As I have stated earlier, this is the first foray onto the next-generation for the SmackDown franchise. 
 Naturally, the Superstars look better than ever, with a likeness that is remarkably stunning. Sweat 
 will build on your Superstar as the match progresses, and you'll even see it fly off when the Superstar 
 gets hit. Each pay-per-view has it's own look, based upon last year's TV offerings. The audience 
 still looks pretty bad, even up close.
  
  As good as some of the new features in this game might sound, some old bugs and glitches remain 
 and come back to haunt the gamer. The clipping is still very present here and that's very disappointing, 
 especially since this is a next-gen game. You'd expect that on the PlayStation 2, but not on the 
 360. The clipping gets so bad at times that it's almost laughable.
  The roster is inaccurate and contains some Superstars that shouldn't even be in there, like Kurt 
 Angle (who's moved on to TNA) , JBL (who is one of the voices behind SmackDown's broadcast team) 
 and Trish Stratus (now retired) . Some others are missing, like the Spirit Squad, Jeff Hardy, Paul 
 London &amp; Brian Kendrick, just to name a few. It's comprehensible that the roster is usually 
 completed 4-5 months before the game comes out, but this is just ridiculous, especially in the 
 Spirit Squad's case. They had a huge part to play in the DX reunion and are completely absent from 
 the game. The Legends list this year is a bit off also. For example, you'll find Dude Love, Cactus 
 Jack &amp; Mankind in there, so my question is: why? Also, Tazz is there... once again, why? I 
 am happy they put Eddie Guerrero there though.
  
  Online is very present in this installment and, overall, it works very well. Up to 4 people at 
 a time can play in an online match, in any of the match categories available in single player. 
 You also have a choice of arenas and pay-per-views at your disposal. You can even bring your own 
 created belt online and put it up for grabs, which is pretty cool. Another great feature is the 
 Trade a Superstar one, where you can send your created Superstar to your friends, and they can 
 do the same.
  XBox Live allows for easy matchmaking and is ideal for the online presented in the game. It's a 
 nice change of pace from the broken PlayStation 2 online capabilities. There is still some lag 
 at some times, but this is a very rare occurrence.
  
  The voice work is pretty good, aside from the commentating. The teams of Jim Ross &amp; Jerry Lawler 
 / Tazz &amp; Michael Cole are back, and they are worse than ever, especially Lawler &amp; Ross. 
 A lot of the commentating has been recycled from last year's game, especially during a match. Sometimes, 
 they will repeat the same thing 2-3 times in a row, which can become very annoying.
  The music is great. Artists like Godsmack, Young Buck &amp; Three Days Grace perform some great 
 songs and add to the feeling of the game. You can even add those songs to your entrance. The entrance 
 themes for the Superstars are very accurate this time around, which is a nice change of pace.
 
  The overall sound in the game is what you'd expect while watching a WWE show. New this year is 
 the grunts and groans that the Superstars let out when they are hit or have a powerful move put 
 on them.
  
  I've touched a bit on the graphics earlier, but I'll just add here that the cutscenes look absolutely 
 fantastic. The brand new camera angles they use make the game feel almost cinematic, which is a 
 brilliant touch. The Superstar entrances are pretty accurate, aside from a couple of exceptions.
 
  
  If this would've been a game for the PlayStation 2, it would've been a great game. But this is 
 an XBox 360 game, and it does leave a sour taste in my mouth. Aside from the new grapple system 
 and the addition of the hotspots, there isn't much innovation here, and at times, it feels like 
 a very nice looking PS2 game, glitches and all. This could've been an excellent wrestling game, 
 a real next-gen one, but sadly, it isn't. Better luck next year, I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  As xbox fanboys know, MS hasn't had a great deal of success with wrestling titles on the previous 
 console. Luckily the people at THQ decided to help them with that and bring the best current series 
 of wrestling games to the 360 (SDvsRaw) .
  
  Like most wrestling games, it has it's flaws of course, most notably if you are a wrestling fan 
 are the dated rosters. There is the possiblity that THQ could offer updated rosters via Live, but 
 that hasn't been officially announced yet, so I wouldn't hold my breath. The story lines are similar 
 fare as to what you would expect to see on any Monday or Friday night, with the exceptions of a 
 lot less T&amp; A (did they forget the market that wrestling goes to ? :P)
  
  Gameplay - Overall good and simple. A lot of the clutter of other games has been taken care of 
 and no more needs for 12 buttons to pull off a move. The ultimate control moves and hotspots are 
 a bit more difficult to pull off, but solid all round.
  
  Graphics - Can anyone explain to me why wrestling games will always have clipping? Afterall, with 
 as many wrestlers that have long hair, you would have figured that it might be something they work 
 on. Most hair models STILL look like paper and travel through your outfits and character. And depending 
 on the size of the characters working together (or against eachother) you can see some almost funny 
 clipping during the match as they interact. Asidee from that though the models look great, and 
 if they could fix the clipping and hair...
  
  Sound - The voice acting is actually decent, again similar to the quality you would find on the 
 WWE broadcasts (yes some of them are really bad, but they are wrestlers...) Odd though is the fact 
 that you can't use your own music on the soundtrack, or even for your CAWS.... maybe they can patch 
 that later....
  
  Value - If you are a wrestling fan, at least give it a rent, although you will probably end up 
 buying it. If not... I probably wouldn't recomend it
  
  RATING - Teens and up! Parents, it is your responsibility to know what your child it playing... take 
 responsibility, do not require the goverment to do it and strip rights from all of us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DV619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Now i'm not good at this whole writing long reviews thing but i will say this, this game ROCKS!!! 
 Much like the last game, you pick from about 60 different stars as well as create up to 30 created 
 wrestlers. the modes from the last game return (GM mode, season, ect.) with the addition of the 
 new and improved locker room. now, insted of just using the arrows to move the screen were you 
 want to go, you move an unseen charecter who is supposed to be you . also new this year is the 
 Money in the bank ladder match. the new ladder controls add depth and are a real improvement from 
 the climb the ladder and press o . Also new is the new right-stick grapple. it's easy once you 
 get the hang of it and it's hard to explain. the collision detection is better this time around 
 and you still sometimes get the feeling that you are just gliding around the ring. The new fighting 
 area in the crowd is good, but it would be better if you could bring the wepons out of the area 
 and into the ring. The new interaction points are also a good touch. the season mode is longer 
 and has more decisions for you to make than last years. The X-box version looks slightly better, 
 but both verions look great. all in all the new bonuses mor than make up for the few flaws, but 
 this still isnt the perfect wrestling game. THQ has done a good job this year and i hope they continue 
 to do a good job for years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  this game is highly addictive, i recoomend it to every wrestling fan, the create-a-wrestler mode 
 allows you to create endless amount of wrestlers even if they're from TNA. Online has voice support 
 and tag team, but can only support up to 4 players so matches exceeding that are out of the picture 
 online. it has the new money in the bank match, more legends and more commentary. there is also 
 a season mode which isn't different from the previous smackdown vs raw (2006) but is still there 
 and is good. game's main highlight is the online play. there's also unlockables (belts, legends, 
 movesets, entrances, attire, etc.) entrances are superb especially on hd, if you have a standard 
 crt, then upgrade to get the games true beauty. overall this game has minor issues for example 
 commentary (they mix up edge with triple h, mix up where the character was really born and his/her 
 name, etc.) this game is HIGHLY ADDICTIVE so go check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Being a wrestling fan since the late 80s, I always look forward to the next great wrestling title 
 to hit my system of choice. I remember fondly those great N64 days of WCW and then WWE titles that 
 raised the bar for sports entertainment games. In recent years, we've been given the Smackdown 
 series, which has progressively tried to bring back the magic of those N64 classics, and has done 
 fairly well in that regard. This time around however, the occasion is a little more special. Not 
 only is this the first time the series would reach the next generation of consoles, but it would 
 be the first time that a GOOD wrestling game actually showed up on an XBox console. Although its 
 great to see a proven franchise such as Smackdown! vs Raw on Microsofts new system, I just can't 
 help but feel like this game is a PS2 game on steriods.
  
  Once again, its great to see this series finally come to the XBox. The past few WWE games were 
 horiible, to say the least, and a multiplatform version of the best game possible was the way to 
 go in the first place. If you've played the past PS2 versions, then you already know what to expect 
 from this game. You'll get a ton of wrestlers to choose from, a story mode, a GM mode, some creation 
 modes, and lots of options for match types and such. The Smackdown series has always had these 
 things, and every year you get minor improvements that only make the experience more enjoyable.
 
  
  The season mode allows you to choose a wrestler and take him through a series of WWE storylines 
 that include matches, interviews, interruptions, and backstabbings. All in a days work in the WWE. 
 The whole thing plays out pretty well though, and besides the hit or miss voice acting, you'll 
 find yourself playing through again with another wrestler just to see some storyline options you 
 may have missed out on.
  The create modes are just as expansive as ever. You can literally spend hours here creating your 
 own wrestling stars, entrances, belts, and stables. The GM mode is definitely more for the type 
 of people who like play management sims. Its a good diversion from the regular season, and can 
 be quite addictive once you get going with it.
  
  Although the control of the game is a little different, it really doesn't cause the gameplay to 
 be any different. Instead of using buttons this time around for grapple manuevers, you now use 
 the right stick. This will take some getting used to, but it becomes second nature after a while. 
 All in all, it doesn't make the game any better or worse than it already was.
  
  Although I like this game, I feel as though there are some things that should be addressed that 
 keep this game from being the next gen classic that it should have been. Although I don't rule 
 this out as a possibility for the future, there seems to be no option for downloadable content. 
 In the world of professional wrestling, things are constantly changing. This game should have updates 
 every now and then that can help reflect some of these changes in game. For instance, Booker T 
 is now referred to as King Booker. This is a very popular heel persona right now, and it would 
 have been nice to have some type of update to make the proper changes. Plus, with the rise of downloadable 
 content, new wrestlers could be downloaded to add to the roster. This is a feature that should 
 have been added, but wasn't and cause the game to be stuck in the last generation because of it.
 
  
  Another thing that bothers me about this game are the graphics. Yes, these are the best models 
 from any wrestling game to date. However, that's not saying much. Some of them, like HHH, look 
 good, but then you have some others, like John Cena that look down right awful and scary. But sure, 
 most of them look good, but come on, this is the next gen of gaming. They should look better than 
 good. They should look fantastic. All in all, the graphics give me the impression that the games 
 assets were lifted from the PS2 version and given an extra coat of polish and passed off as next 
 gen graphics. And after seeing what Fight Night Round 3 does on the 360, I have to believe that 
 more could have been done here.
  
  Basically, if you are a 360 owner, and are looking for an excellent wrestling title, then you have 
 no choice but to go for this game. The Smackdown vs. Raw series has always develivered to its fan 
 base and that will continue on the 360. If you are on the fence about whether to fork out the extra 
 cash for this one or the PS2 game, then think of it this way: If you want a game with slightly 
 better graphics, achievements, and better online play, then you want the 360 version. Otherwise, 
 save yourself some gas money and wait for the real next gen of wrestling to hopefully come out 
 next year.
  
  What I like: Smackdown! vs. Raw is finally on an Xbox! No more crappy wrestling games! Plays just 
 like the PS2 game but with slightly better graphics.
  
  What I don't like: Plays just like the PS2 game but with slightly better graphics. Doesn't take 
 advantage of the potential of Xbox Live Marketplace and downloadable content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs RAW '07 is the newest Smackdown game by Yuke's and THQ and it's the first to be 
 released on the next-gen systems. Yuke's has added some improvements to '07 but there are still 
 issues with computer AI, clipping, and hit detection. These problems were in past Smackdown games 
 and some of them seem worse in this title. The roster is also fairly out of date.
  
  Even with these gameplay issues '07 for the most part plays like '06. You've still got create-a-superstar, 
 create-a-champship, create-a-PPV, create-a-move set, create-a-entrance, GM mode, all the popular 
 match types, a momentum bar, stamina bar, and you can damage different areas of the body... head, 
 torso, legs, and arms. The main thing that will take some getting use to is using the 360 controller 
 and using the new analog stick grapple system. After you've gotten use to the controller setup 
 you will have no problem winning matches and having fun.
  
  To do grapples in '07 you use the right analog stick, if you move the stick in the up, down, right, 
 or left positions you will perform a grapple move. If you hold down the right bumper and then move 
 the stick you will do a strong grapple move. You can also do what's called ultimate control moves. 
 While in a grapple press down on the right analog stick and small window will pop up and give you 
 instructions on what do. This window also comes up when you activate a enviromental hot spot which 
 I will cover next.
  
  Another new feature and probably my favorite is enviromental hot spots. These are areas around 
 the ring where you can use the enviroment to inflict damage to your opponent. All you do is perform 
 a grapple on your opponent and then move them to the hot spot like the stairs by the ring. The 
 view will then change and a window will be displayed that will give you instructions on how to 
 start smashing your opponent's head into the stairs, I never get tired of doing that.
  
  Also new in this game is the ability to fight in the crowd. You can irish whip your opponent over 
 the security railing and into a small area filled with weapons and some hot spots. You can also 
 grab signs that the fans are holding and either hold them up or rip them up. It's a cool feature 
 that I really only use in hardcore matches. I'm more of a clean wrestler and like to keep the action 
 in or very close to the ring.
  
  Other new features include the ability to double stack tables, lean a ladder up to a set up ladder 
 and run up it, and now to win a ladder match you will have to position your left or right analog 
 stick in the sweet spot to drain a meter that is shaped like the belt, first to drain the meter 
 wins. While draining the belt meter there is a grip meter which is really your stamina and it will 
 deplete. When it's empty you let go of the belt, you then need to let the meter recharge before 
 grabbing the again.
  
  Those are the main improvments which are pretty good improvements but the things that bring the 
 gameplay down are these issues that keep on showing up in every new Smackdown game. The computer 
 AI for your tag partner is crap, when you go for a pin or submission move he or she will just stand 
 there and do nothing while your opponents tag partner is flying into the ring to stop you. Tag 
 matches feel like handicap matches for the most part. The hit detection for when your opponent 
 is on the mat has problems. These problems usually show up when you are trying to hit them in the 
 legs with your boot. I've also encountered problems while doing moves off of the top rope, even 
 though my opponent didn't reverse my move and he or she was in range I didn't connect. The last 
 place I encoutered problems was when trying to hit my opponent that was laying on the ground outside 
 of the ring but still inside of the cell in the hell in the cell match. I was just wasting stamina 
 trying to hit them, I almost never connected.
  
  As far as graphics go, for the most part they look good. The wrestlers are very detailed and they 
 will accumlate sweat as the match goes on. But there is alot of clipping issues and some animation 
 issues. Hair and title belts will clip into the wrestlers body and while in the ring the wrestlers 
 boots will clip through the ring canvas. There are also some teleporting issues that will come 
 up every now and then while doing moves.
  
  Sound is ok, all of the entrance songs sound great. Most of the color commentary from JR, King, 
 Cole, and Tazz are reused, the voice work for when a superstar takes damage just doesn't sound 
 right to me, and the sound effects for when you hit another superstar or the ring canvas sound 
 flat. Most of the voice work for the cutscenes during season mode are done well.
  
  If you enjoyed Smackdown vs RAW '06 you will probably enjoy '07. There are just a few small issues 
 that keep this game from being a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the Smackdown vs Raw from 2006, then you definately will be familiar with the 
 gameplay and flow of this game. The graphics however, have been overhauled and look stunning. The 
 entrances for the superstars are my absolute favorite part of the game. The graphics in the ring 
 have also been touched up and look really nice in HD. The Create An Entrance mode has also been 
 overhauled to be much easier. The idea of being allowed to add in the pyro, nameplate, screen effect, 
 and camera angles all by the press of a different button is very innovative and makes Create An 
 Entrance actually fun rather than irritating like lastyear's. The hotspots around the ring are 
 a nice bonus added into this game to make certain matches much more fun (First Blood, Hardcore, 
 Last Man Standing, etc) . The few negative things I have found so far are few and far between but 
 I will document them for you to read now: the Money In The Bank match can be really stupid because, 
 unless its just me, when you grab the briefcase and find the sweet spot, the meter on the case 
 doesn't go down no matter what you do. The Stables can be very frustrating because the only Trio 
 Entrance options are MNM, nWo or DX (with female) , making many of your three man stables look stupid. 
 In GM Mode, the Power 25 rankings will COMPLETELY ruin many of the rivalries that you have going 
 before a PPV.
  
  Despite some of the negatives, over the game is fun to play and the storymode can be very addicting, 
 as you feel like you are actually watching an episode of Raw (yes, Smackdown sucks!) . I recommend 
 this game to any wrestling fan, except those poor suckers who actually bought a PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGslayer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the first wrestling game i have played since to first smackdown for ps1. Honestly wrestling 
 games got lame. This wrestling game though has changed my thoughts about the genre, This almost 
 has a simplistic control layout similar to the N64 games (ya know the best wrestling games) There 
 are plenty of moves match types wrestlers slider options and online play. A cool feature online 
 is the trade a wrestler feature you can swap your created wrestlers with other people to get your 
 favorite wrestler from the past and other wrestling shows. Season mode is fun and will hold you 
 over for a little while unlocking legends areanas attires more moves and some Diva screens. Overall 
 the game is fun and addicting, but there are minor bugs that will annoy you real quick like ladder 
 match glitches where an opponent with the special can be on the ground and press LB and instantly 
 appear on the top of the ladder suplexing you off. But you can do the same to them so it evens 
 out. I would recomend this game to wrestling fans mostly, but non wrestling fans will find this 
 fun and entertaining as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  For years Xbox gamers haven't had a good wrestling game. While PS2 has Smackdown and Gamecube had 
 Day of reckoning, the Xbox fans were stuck with crappy titles like Raw and Wrestlmania 21. That's 
 all changed as THQ has put the Sony exclusive WWE game on the Xbox too.
  
  If you know the PS2 franchise well, the control system is totally reworked. The right control stick 
 now controls grapples. Tilt it in any direction to put your opponent in a grapple. And by holding 
 RB you can put your opponent in a stronger grapple. The Y button is run, X is attack, B is stamina 
 rebuild and A is action (such as exit the ring, pick up weapon etc.) The Left and Right Triggers 
 are reversals and LB is your finishing move. This all feels much better than previous Smackdown's 
 and is what the series needed to give it new life.
  
  There are a few modes to trawl through. Season mode puts you in a role of a Superstar. You go by, 
 playing your part in storylines and you even get to make key choices in the story. There is also 
 a General Manager mode in which you make match and rivalry choices to help boost rating. And, of 
 course, is the usual Exhibition mode.
  
  The graphics in this game is pretty good. The wrestlers are in detail and the crowd even looks 
 good (for a crowd that is) .
  
  The lifespan is also pretty big. You can unlock legendary superstars and customise your locker 
 room and created characters. There is also Challenge mode in which you need to do certain tasks 
 in matches. And theres online mode.
  
  Overall, this game is a great addition to the series. If you are a fan of the series or the television 
 series, this is a must buy. The new control system works very well. If you haven't played a wrestling 
 game before, this is the perfect time to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DX_101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  It has good graphics, loads of character chocies, and you can almost do anything on it that has to 
 do with wrestling. This game is so kool you think your T. V would explode!!!!! If you are a relly 
 good wrestling fan you will love this game you probaly won't be able to put the controller down! It's 
 awsome this is a has to be a got to have get game for wrestling fans and gamers. So if your a gamer 
 looking for a good game that has good graphics and has blood and wrestling then you will have to 
 get this game. IT'S AWSOME!!!!!!!!! Just get it and you'll end up loving it so just buy the f***ing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakboy15
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Ok WWE 07 was a game i pre-order I really was looking forward to this game, but now that i own 
 it I'm really bored of it.
  
  Gameplay:
  The new environmental hotspots are pretty cool, but after they get a little dull. The the new ladder 
 controllers are a good make-over from previous
  games. The ultimate controlles are nice but theres only a few number of moves to make them great. 
 Weapons play similar to previous games with a couple a change to some like the tables, you can 
 now perform finishers with tables to slam your opponent threw the table.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics look good on the 360 of course but you can still see the choppy lines of the wrestlers 
 from the far. The character models are really improve facial features, and body skins. Some of 
 the voice overs your bad, and all-most all are not the real wrestler.
  
  Al:
  The Al is really easy I had no problem with beat the storyline in 2 hours on legend. AI is pretty 
 hard to fight against but, after a while they be come predictable. The challenges are mad easy 
 and awfully stupid. Plus the story mode is too short.
  
  Modes:
  There is a lot of variety of matches but ony one new match (Money In The Bank) . Some matches are 
 missing like: I Quit, Triple Threat Tornado Tags, Prison Match, and Casket. Theres in a good number 
 a create modes: Create-A-Wrestlers, Entrance, Stable, PPV, Champion Belt. Gm mode is back a with 
 a new paint job, and some new options but its still boring and dull.
  
  Problems &amp; Achievements:
  Every games has its problem WWE 07 has some too. Most problems 
 in this game is with the create features that make this features a little nerv-racking. First, 
 in create-a-wrestle there a glitches were if your change your outfit it changes your move list 
 which can get a really annoying. The announcer says your home town more then once. In create-a-entrance 
 the advance entrance skips your character wearing his/her title to the ring. The Referee gets in 
 the ways (alot) . and much more. Achievements are simple and most are repeats just on a different 
 level theres really no variety.
  
  Online: The online itself is the only reason why I'm keeping this game. It dosen't lag much, you 
 can use CAW online and CAC too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheQuesoMan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  ... Gamespot, in my opinion, hit the spot on their review. A great game, plagued by the faults of 
 its predecessors.
  
  PROS: - Great looking characters - Natural feeling analog grapple stick - Awesome presentation 
 - Added total control moments - Decent soundtrack and VOs
  
  CONS: - CAW graphics - Linear, short Season mode - Some brain-dead AI moments
  
  All-in-all, 
 SvR 2007 is a good package. THQ and Yuke's finally work together in making a worthwhile XBOX wrestling 
 game.
  
  My real only on-going beef with the series now is... what happen to the never-ending Season mode?
 
  
  I remember on Shut Your Mouth, back on the PS2, when I could get so much replayability on its Season 
 mode. Then, after Here Come The Pain, the Season mode fell into a linear, short (though interesting) 
 pit of gayness. It would make my day to see a story-driven, never-ending Season mode; if SvR 2007 
 had one, I would consider it the (almost) perfect package. That's the thing that keeps the players 
 coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of hype behind it and didnt deliver as much as we expected it would. The game 
 still has an array of matches and a good lineup of wrestlers. The season mode is pretty long and 
 has some entertaining moments but it also has some ridiculous ones as well. What brings this game 
 down the most is the little glitches in the game that build up. For example created wrestlers dont 
 have their correct hometown announced and their belt dissapears in the ramp sequence. The create-a-wrestler 
 protion seems alright but ive seen a better selection in WM XIX. The plus of this one is that you 
 can layer many amounts clothing/face paint. The online feature is ok and i run into reoccuring 
 lag from time to time. Although the game has its share of drawbacks, it still doent shadow how 
 fun the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ftbllguy195
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  If youve played 06 for ps2 you should know your way around this game. They made several improvements 
 and the new control system , although hard to get at first, is really nice when you get used to 
 it. Graphics of wrestlers are great, although some items and people dont look as good. They toned 
 down the sound of the ring but it still sounds fine to me. Thew new money in the bank ladder match 
 is amazing. Soundtrack is also surprisingly good. So for all of you that had 06 for ps2 and enjoyed 
 you will definitely enjoy this 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShellShocker42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  By its self, SvR2007 is a good game. But it has many small things that just kills it. Like the 
 actions, it looks like theyre trying to tell us that its scripted. Also the voice acting isnt the 
 best in the world yet. But the new control scheme is actually a great addition to the game. Also 
 the create factors are more free and looks less painted on. But it feels more limited and there 
 are less items. But looking beside that. This game gives a great presentation. The soundtrack is 
 WAY better than last years. Also the way you can move around your locker in the FP perspective. 
 Its all great, and this wrestling game is a great addition to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  Another year, another Smackdown vs Raw game.
  And this time on the 360.
  Does the Xbox finally have a good wrestling game?
  Yeah. It does. A very good wrestling game 
 at that.
  
  They've shaken things up a bit with the addition of using the right analogue stick for grapples, 
 and various interactive hot spots placed around the arena. But by and large it's the same wrestling 
 game from last year, which is by no means a bad thing.
  
  Season mode and gm mode seem largely unchanged, again not a bad thing - and theres plenty of unlockables 
 to be found. The addition of achievements give more reason to play too, if your into gamerpoints.
 
  
  The create-a-wrestler this year i think is better and it's actually somewhat easy to make wrestlers 
 that appear as good as the actual wwe superstars found in the game. Certain accessories, such as 
 horns, appear less card boardish also. On that note, the graphics are better then ever - with little 
 details such as characters sweating. Perhaps it's not as noticable, however I don't think created 
 wrestlers do sweat, which while not a big deal is kind of a disapointment. If you've loved the 
 past few games, theres no real good reason to not pick this up. It's as good and in someways better 
 then previous entries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdna514
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Loading Review......
  
  I have been addicted to wrestling games since Pro Wrestling on NES. I loved the N64 games by THQ, 
 and really havent found a more FUN game since. Lately its Grapics this and that. I don't care about 
 graphics, I really care about FUN.
  
  So here is the latest installment, Smackdown Vs Raw 2007. With implementation of the new grapple 
 system and some pretty sweet graphics this is probably the best that has come out since the N64 
 days. But thats still not saying much about SvR2007. Loading...... When will this be avoided? This 
 totally takes the steam out the fun of playing. Loading Intro..... Loading next intro..... loading 
 match..... Then you get to a screen that shows the ring but to my surprise, it was still loading. 
 Then you win the match, and it loads your celebration in the ring. I loved the seamless days.
 
  
  The graphics are intense, the vibe in the arenas is electric and the moves are well rendered and 
 mapped. I love the audience reactions, and really thought that the Voice over is probably the most 
 talkative and non repeating for the most part at first. Then it just starts to get over the top.
 
  
  So I have to say Wrestling games in general REALLY have seen better days. The genre is so wrapped 
 up in the world of WWE that there really isnt any room for original wrestling games, such as MDickie's 
 Wrestling Mpire, which in my opinion is the most FUN I have had playing wrestling games period 
 (graphics are dated but when you get over that the gameplay is re-playable for quite a while) .
 
  
  So SvR2007 definatly has a lot of the elements that can make a great game, which are all standard 
 though, but it really ends up falling flat because of the outrageous loadtime between everything. 
 Maybe at some point these knuckleheads will come up with a good way to prebuffer the matches a 
 bit after the first match. I really feel strongly in such a NEXT GEN world that Loading can be 
 fairly quick.
  
  LOADING...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EA_GUY
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  At first you will notice the player models but when you start your match you will notice that this 
 game is full of weird animations and tons of clipping. Expect for the new ultimate controls and 
 hot spots this years game feels like an updated version of last years game for the ps2. Table matches 
 and ladder matches are improved this year by making both of these matches more realistic. The one 
 and only new match type this year is the money in the bank ladder match which is just a ladder 
 match with six people in the ring at once at first this match is fun but after a couple of matches 
 it loses it fun factor unless you go online or have a couple of friends play with you. There isnt 
 a lot new with the season and gm mode expect for a couple of tweaks and minor upgrades. Also the 
 create a wrestler and all other create of modes arent different except for a couple of new designs 
 and options. This game is just missing something and falls short to the standard of the Smackdown! 
 series from THQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allen775
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  first off i luv wwe games was looking forward to this game for months on end then when i finally 
 get it i see the rosters are as always horribly outdated with very little hope of a roster update 
 download how hard can that be... and the most annoying thing about the game besides having load 
 times virtually on every screen is the gm mode glitch u wrestle a match on raw and afterwards it 
 doesnt count and they award the win on a totally different match... not to mention in season freezes 
 .... overall mediocre.... guys lay on the mat for what seems like forever.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Yes. THQ has finally given Xbox 360 owners a decent WWE game of their own. Raw was crap. Raw 2 
 was crap. Wrestlemania 21 was considered one of the worst games of all time (check Wikipedia) . 
 But now a WWE game has no longer brought shame to 360 owners for once.
  There is one notable addition tothis game and that is the grappling system where when grappling 
 an opponent, you can use the right joystick to perform from a selection of moves. Sometimes, you 
 can even control the arm movement (if you move joystick up, arm goes up) .
  Apart from that their is an updated roster, complete with the famous DX tag team and Boogeyman 
 among others. The graphics are obviously improved, but the sound could use some work. Every match 
 you play you will hear the commentators say the same exact thing. The way they talk also seems 
 childish expecially when this game is played by teens and male adults. And for once I would like 
 a wrestling game where one wreslters arm isn't going 'in' the opponents face, but that is just 
 a minor problem.
  In conclusion, this game is a must play for all wrestling fans, depsite some minor problems that 
 should hardly bother you at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  WWE: Smackdown vs. Raw has finally come to the XBOX 360. This seemed like rockstar news for fans 
 of the WWE. Howrever, as gamers, we should feel dissapointed.
  
  The game obviously looks better on the 360. The graphics are finally in HD. The problem is however 
 that it's the same graphics engine that we've had for so long. The character models look fleshed 
 out and more detailed yes, but you can still see the same flaws that you've seen previous versions 
 of the game. The engine still uses the same move animations, which is getting rather boring. The 
 game has some of the top talent in the WWE including some legends. The bad part about the roster 
 is that we have 4 versions of mick foley. This is lazy development. Another problem with the roster 
 is that its out of date. However that is a good thing, since now a days the WWE is actually lacking 
 talent, the game has Kurt Angle.
  
  The games sound design isn't bad. The sound track is fairly decent, and the WWE superstars lend 
 their voices here again. The match commentary however, is simply copy and paste from last years 
 game.
  
  The game features all match types found in the WWE, and sports over 40 stories in season mode. 
 The season mode obviously gives the game high replay value, however, it gets boring fast. Once 
 you fully grasp the new game controls, you'll feel that not much has truly changed. The AI is still 
 broken, and the superstars themselves don't fight like their TV personas.
  
  The game also sports a franchise mode called GM mode. Minor new features here don't do it justice, 
 as you still don't have full control over who wins or looses matches. It still seems half assed.
 
  
  The CAW mode is great as usual. You have some new items to add, and if you're new, it could take 
 a while to create the superstar you want. Vets, and pros of the series, will feel right at home.
 
  
  Overall, the game isn't bad. If you've played last years rendition, you really have no need to 
 check this one out. If you're a die hard fan though, pick it up, and beat the snot out of the McMahon 
 brats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Well, it seems Ive been waiting forever to get a descent wrestling game on Xbox. And finally I 
 got one on the 360. Id have to say it's a lot better than descent though! In fact, this is the 
 best wrestling title to date and Ive been a fan of these games for a long time. (Even before the 
 sweet WcW vs NWO for Nintendo 64!) This has all the modes Ive always wanted. (The only one missing 
 is the inferno match! I want that!) The season mode is the best so far. Its just like watching 
 the show on tv. (of course it's just as goofy far as story line and getting robbed of your title) 
 The graphics are what really makes it believable. From head to toe, the wrestlers look great. The 
 sweat really adds and extra depth to the characters. I dont seem to find collision detection a 
 big deal. Its a big improvement, not perfect, but compared to any wrestling game before... I thought 
 it was good. The new control system rocks. Why didnt anyone think of this before? It really helps 
 to put you in the game. The create a wrestler is more in depth with lots to choose from, but I 
 still felt it was missing a few things to create wrestlers from earlier years. The biggest flaw 
 is the commentary. I dont know whats up with that, but at least it doesnt affect anything that 
 you do in the ring. If you can ignore it like I can, it wont bother you. The flaws include: saying 
 a wrong name, calling wrong moves, and simply not knowing whats going on in the ring. The voice 
 overs are great, but that darn commentary! I also felt that they had to many new wrestlers that 
 no one cares about. Id take some more legends in a heartbeat! (such as Ultimate Warrior, Newage 
 Outlaws, Sting, Goldberg, Andre, Animal, Hawk, and X pac just to have the full DX back!) Overall, 
 prepare for the best WWE game youll ever play. If you have a little wrestling in you, buy this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalaneta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this one short, but simple: WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw 2007 for the Xbox 360 is a 
 great wrestling game that no wrestling fan should find hard to enjoy. And after all, at least now 
 there's a good wrestling experience on a Microsoft console! The new analog stick controls are awesome. 
 While you may hate them at first, they will eventually grow on you, as they will take quite a bit 
 of time getting used to. After you do, you'll learn to love the new system and consider the old 
 four button system ancient, which is really is anyway. The season mode is also great as always, 
 with a great variety of storylines. While some of them may be silly, most are up to the quality 
 of storylines you'd see on WWE TV today. I also thought it was cool how the season mode no longer 
 goes by dates, but will begin at a new time of the year for every superstar you select. Unfortunately, 
 the GM mode still feels very stale to me. I found myself getting bored with it within a half hour, 
 which was the same exact way I felt last year. I guess it could be enjoyed if you're into a lot 
 of text menus, but I found it hard to find anything about the GM mode enjoyable. As far as I'm 
 concerned, they're really going to need to remove the kayfabe of wrestling and find someway of 
 doing things other than having non-stop text menus for this mode to ever become enjoyable. The 
 online functions are just as good as last year, and really remain unchanged. You can still just 
 jump right into a match or start a private one, and the ability to defend your created titles is 
 still there. The online mode is still a blast to play.
  
  All the create modes are still great as well. With each mode remaining basically the same (meaning 
 only minor upgrades) besides the Create-An-Entrance, which has seen a massive overhaul, the create 
 modes are still worth buying the game for alone this year. In the end, despite a lot of the bugs 
 and minor goofs from last year not being fixed this year, if you're a wrestling fan, you'll have 
 absolutely no problem enjoying this game, or at least getting a great deal of fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Its a great game no doubt about it. Hotspots make the game great but when you do moves with the 
 Analog system its not like I expected. Theres only a few choices of Analog System moves that you 
 will see alot of wrestlers have but its still tons of fun. Hotspots are great. In hell in a cell 
 you can smash or move side to side your opponents head, in crowd slam his head against guard rail, 
 choke with cord, and much more. As you play the game you will feal that the roster is really updated 
 and tons of fun to play. Lader matches are great fun now. But somewhat difficult to find the sweet 
 spot. Table matches are still boring but harder now since you have to have a Finisher stored and 
 get you opponent a limb damage. Money in the bank is great but to hard to win. Out of 6 times I 
 played I only won once so depending on which difficulty you play on this may vary. Caws now look 
 like the wrestlers but the tattoos not so much. If you want the tatoos to look like the wrestlers 
 you have to change the transparency. If you are a person looking to amaze your friends with gammer 
 points and achivements this is for you as some of those achievements take a while to complete and 
 some just plain hard. This is a great game but it feels like something is missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueSonic_0909
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Still the same old problems that hasn't been improved, but once again we can only hope for the 
 next game. Things can only get better (apperently) . Still need to tweak a few major problems and 
 the series will be back to its best. Season mode has got a bit more longer and enjoyable, C-A-W 
 has stepped up a gear on the 360 version, the only real letdown was the animations seem to be dragging 
 still! The only hope that this game seems to be a ps2 engine made game, and that I belive that 
 the series will kick of in fine fashion next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benh316
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Let me first just say that although I was hesitant to purchase this game, even with playing the 
 demo, that I am glad I did. Now, I will also make just a few opening comments and then I will get 
 into each mode and all of the perks and downfalls of the game. WWE SVR 2007's best features would 
 definately go to it's vast amount of match types as well as its season mode. The value and lasting 
 appeal of the game is definately tripled if not more because there is such depth to both. On the 
 other hand, the General Manager mode is not for everyone, but it can be enjoyable and it does add 
 a unique mode that will entice many players to at least venture out of their exhibition mayhem 
 to explore. Lastly, the Create Modes are very appealing between all of the CAW you can do as well 
 as Stables, Entrances, and editing already made WWE superstars. Essentially, the game delivers 
 in many aspects that will keep all true WWE and wrestling fans occupied for many weeks to come. 
 Exhibition Mode
  *The Good - A vast array of match types, the ability to control wwe championships as well as custom 
 championships, as well as a large roster of past and present superstars to further prolong the 
 enjoyment
  *The Bad - The Hell in the Cell and the Elimination Chamber especially could have had better gameplay 
 to make it as enjoyable as it is to watch and more realistic (without glitches)
  
  Season Mode
  *The Good - The ability to make choices to decide your superstars fate in and out 
 of the ring, an interesting storyline with some decent fueds, and a fairly long lasting appeal
 
  *The Bad - Can sometimes feel tedious with all of the tag matches and singles matches and not 
 too much of a wide variety. And if you are trying to unlock Legendary superstars, it can become 
 more of a burden earlier on than fun
  
  General Manager Mode
  *The Good - Offers a unique approach to WWE that will offer many more hours of gameplay (different 
 gameplay) that could definately improve on the value and lasting appeal of the game for anyone 
 who has such an appreciation for it. It also has a very interesting morale, feud, as well as injury 
 system that only adds to the realism.
  *The Bad - Sometimes tedious with the budget balancing, and often you will find yourself wondering 
 why certain storylines for fueds won't work between superstars that could cause only heartache. 
 Create Modes
  *The Good - Expands even further upon CAW and other variations of creation than previous games 
 and truly shines as a next generation system with the ability to view your changes with entrances 
 and appearances as they happen rather than having to preview it afterwards. It obviously also offers 
 many more hours of gameplay and fun for buyers
  *The Bad - There isn't much wrong with the Create Modes but there could always be some improvements 
 and WWE SVR 2007 is no exception. But I'll leave that as a to each his (or her) own Gameplay, Graphics, 
 Sound
  *The Good and Bad- The graphics are a mixture of both old and new generation gaming, which I would 
 surmise is natural for a transition game. However, the sweating, blood, and facial expressions 
 make it all the more enjoyable when laying the smackdown on your opponents. As for the entrances, 
 they are very accurate even for the legend superstars and the sound is truly immersive although 
 I have yet to experience it in surround sound with all it's 360 potential. Lastly, the gameplay 
 is very difficult to transition to, especially if you have played all the different WWE games of 
 the past and it could take a couple of days to a week for this to happen, but once you do, you 
 begin to fully appreciate all that the game developers have done to make it immersive and realistic 
 as well as fair and balanced (not like Fox News though) . I have heard complaints about the difficulty 
 and reversal system of the CPU opponents, but there is no argument because in the options, you 
 can adjust both. Yes, I said you can adjust the reversal system!!! And it is done quite well to 
 be perfectly honest.
  
  Closing Comments:
  -I could go on forever about all of the various match types, what they have to offer, and what 
 could be improved, but I will leave that to the player to decide. There is plenty to offer here 
 for any wrestling fan and 360 owner that makes it a must buy. I have been a wrestling fan for most 
 of my life and as an old fashioned gamer, it pleases me so to see that wrestling games have so 
 much to offer to the fans. This game is highly addictive and immersive and although not for everyone, 
 for wrestling fans it will offer exactly the proper transition they need to next generation gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistOfFaith2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  see the game is good but the friggin game glitches keep the game from reaching its 10 rate score. see 
 thg and yukes wat ever u want to say has improved over the years majorly this is good but as they 
 got better they started to lag on everything and add more good stuff but they also had added the 
 bugs glitches which put the game to a 8.1 i give the game a fair score of 9.0 which it deserves 
 i dont know wat u think about the game but im givin credit were credit is do to yukes. see this 
 is what a true wwe lover and fan would do they work have their expiring by the second lives makin 
 games for spoiled and rich brats to out into their grimey hands! see this pisses me off would u 
 be happy if there was no game what then we would all be wondering what if they made a smackdown 
 series of games wouldent that rock. So give them some credit on what they do becuase what if u were 
 the creators of the game and listen to all the freakin negativity on a nearly perfect game! So all 
 u haters get a life im srry to say that but dont rant and rave about the entrances movesets and 
 gameplay deal with it and be happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly-Dosage
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a great wrestling fan but I enjoy the game for sure. This time around the reversal system 
 is a stoppable force for CPU to use and win in matches. With or without timing it appears that 
 the CPU can reverse all. Like a match with Viscera where he reversed just 9 of my finshers and 
 dragged the match out for 30 mins. The feel of the game does match the show but the commentary 
 for the match wears on you quickly. With the same match you'll hear the catch phrase over and over 
 again. The graphics are top notch and the isn't bad, for instance you can hear the effect and reactions 
 from hits landed on the wrestler even though they all sound the same. The story feels a bit canned 
 where you win or lose a match it doesn't affect the story mode much. The GM mode is my fav because 
 I'm into simulations and it gets into the weeds a bit with writers, fatigue (I'm fatigue felon, 
 first this I turn on in NBA 2k7 or Madden :) , injuries (turn that on too in sports games) , trading 
 and such. Overall, after spend some time with the game there was a hint on screen about reversals, 
 try to reverse before they make the move (it may have been in the manual I've might have overlooked 
 it) . It's helped some but the CPU still turns it on strong with some of the so so wrestlers. The 
 gameplay feels a bit awkward with the two button press to irish whip someone intot he ropes or 
 to conduct a strong grapple when the L3 &amp; R3 click is unused, why not put it there? Or here's 
 a crazy idea, let us map it! Maybe in the furture we'll have that technology but until then we 
 can only dream...... CAN YOU SMELL WHA THE DD IS PLAYING?! Lata on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogman666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Although there are some very noticeable glitches like going through the steel cage in hell in the 
 cell by being thrown out side and the door is still locked and sometimes the AI make the game a 
 lil to easy in tag matches from almost getting stuck at the foot of his partner from time to time. 
 The gpx is totally polished they are not perfect but almost. Season mode lasts alot longer Ive 
 only played the role of champion so it may have been cut shorter I guess I'll find out next time.... 
 The game is a must for any wrestling fan and a must try for those who don't evan watch because 
 the gameplay is very enjoyable As far as the legends in the game is a good choice but once again 
 they botched it with having 4 versions of Mick Foley which I know he is one of the best but they 
 could have taken a further step back and put Billy Graham or Gorilla Monsoon to name a few I could 
 name so many that Id like to see more then the same guy dressed in different gear but my voice 
 is a small voice and that's my 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1989uk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is essential for fans of the Smackdown series, although I still think that WWF Smackdown: 
 Know Your Role will always be the greatest Smackdown, this definitely comes quite close. I love 
 the new grappling system with the Right Analog, and the Ultimate Control moves are a welcome addition 
 to the series. The GM Mode is definitely better with the a newer interface. The only problems I 
 have with this game is the fact that the Season Mode is still a bit lacking, it's just not really 
 that fun and as you go through it you just feel like your doing the same thing over and over again 
 and it gets VERY boring VERY fast. But I definitely would recommend this game to anyone who knows 
 and loves the Smackdown series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Pretty basic oldschool wrestling. Not similar to the eariler smackdown's arcade style 
 - this one features slower paced combat. The fighting isn't very next gen and there are tons of 
 features missing from this one than in previous installments. But it's the only wrestling game 
 for 360 so far .
  
  Graphics - The characters look pretty good , the hair is still the same thing as last gen hair. 
 There are collisions with other objects that don't interact right.
  
  Sound - Announcers have a little more to say but they still repeat alot
  
  Value - Online play 
 is where the fun is at
  
  Good Tilt - features original booker t and classic wwf guys - has full screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is definetly is better than other years most noticable is the grapics game play is also 
 better. The best improvement from last year is the voice over tell put a lot of time in this and 
 to tell the truth they did a really good job at it too. so the only thing wrong with this game 
 is the gm mode not much of an improvement from last years version though in this you get a top 
 25 list you can make a storyline so the only thing left is you walk around the arena and when a 
 match is going on you can go out and change the match if you want and at any time you can add matches 
 the superstars can come up to you and complain and demned things now that would make gm mode perfect 
 right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2007 is a really good game. A fun new control system. It has much more realism. 
 And for the first time, it provides a challenge. But for every good game comes the bad. First of 
 all, the visuals look spectacular, but have some really fuzzy edges. Second, this game has some 
 of the worst sound ever. The commentaries are from last year, excluding the new superstar's stuff. 
 The crowd sounds like when you make a whispering noise to cheer on yourself (who hasn't done that 
 at least once) And most guys don't even sound like themselves. As for season mode, it is ridiculously 
 overrated. 10 years my ass. I completed it in a day. And it only lasted a half season on each show. 
 The storylines are stupid. Like Candace turning Johnny Nitro in to a diva. As for GM Mode, it is 
 still overrated. It is all menus. And for unlockables, 4 foleys, no half-mask kane, Hulk Hogan, 
 and Shane McMahon. This game is way less than I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alljoemama92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  this game has every thing a wrestling game should have the hot spots going out by the fans it rules 
 and online for x-box live seals the deal if your a fan of wrestling rent it buy it gust play it 
 and you will like it all the charters to are nice the never anding story mod and how detailed story 
 mode is it's gest the ultimate wrestling game by far and sence i have to have a 100 words ill talk 
 abot it some more the crazy ladder move that shelten does any body can do its funy geting ugen 
 to do it and the legens are sweet shane omac is finely back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  The latest installment of THQ's WWE games comes out very impressively with the best in-ring graphics 
 ever. 2007 boasts more matches, more features, a better season mode, and an improved GM (general 
 manager) mode.
  
  Gameplay is much like 2006 for the PS2, if you just change the control style. I find the new style 
 a bit cumbersome, only because I'm so used to 2006's style. You have the same basic movements like 
 grappling, striking, submission, and finishers. There are also some new things in '07 that are 
 really cool like being able to fight into the crowds of people like you've seen on real WWE broadcasting. 
 This adds another element to the game that makes it more like the television show and allows the 
 player to do more things in and out of the ring. The thing that struck me most about 2007 is the 
 season mode. Many will remember on 2006 you played one year and at the end of that year you played 
 in Wrestlemania for the title of which ever brand you were on and that was the end of the game. 
 It kind of brings up the point of why even to try to get the championship in the first place if 
 you can't do anything with it. However, in 2007, you can actually earn the title early on and defend 
 it, which I love doing. It's really no fun being champion if you can't defend it. And of course, 
 there are some major twists in '07's storyline which makes it interesting, and much like the television 
 show. Most of the game's matches are from 2006, and it adds one new one: money in the bank . Basically 
 it's a ladder match with a briefcase overhead with a contract in it which allows the bearer to 
 sign himself a WWE/World Heavyweight title at any one time over the period of a year. Innovative, 
 yes. Is it needed? Not really. And of course the player can unlock legends like Hulk Hogan, Bam 
 Bam Bigelow, Dusty Rhodes, Roddy Piper, and several others. 2007 is easily the best wrestling game 
 to date on any console.
  
  Graphics are incredible. While the entrances look amazing, in game will astound you. Highly impressive 
 representations such as visible sweat on the wrestlers or all the blood after a chair-shot. Much 
 has been put into the game's visuals. Unfortunately, most of the visuals are identical to 2006, 
 so it probably won't last too long. Finishers are accompanied by a camera that gets right up into 
 the action and makes them look painful. Aside from in-game, the cut scenes are incredible. Characters 
 will actually raise their eyebrows in quizzical manners, and I think I even saw someone flex his 
 pectorals. Cutscenes are done very nicely and like how the camera feels like someone is holding 
 it because it jerks sometimes with movement, again making it more like the show itself.
  
  Sound is bitter-sweet. Let me begin with the sweet by saying the VO is wonderful for the wrestlers. 
 During cutscenes they sound just like WWE programming would, and even some voicemails are verbal. 
 The entrance music is all there for layman and legend alike, and I happen to love the fact that 
 they have the DX music there as well. The bitter part of this is most of the commentary is recycled 
 from 2006. Not that those men did a poor job, it's just I was kind of hoping for some new commentary. 
 Maybe they'll change it in Smackdown! vs. Raw 2008. Overall sound rocks.
  
  Like it's predecessors 2007 has great replay value. With numerous match types and numerous other 
 ways to edit them further makes it great. You also have a number of unlockable items such as statues, 
 stand-up figures, and many other things for your locker room. The season mode spans three years 
 on a brand and offers new twists and new friends and enemies. The GM mode will keep you busy and 
 they've added a PPV mode, which allows you to create your own pay-per-view event. There's plenty 
 to do in 2007.
  
  Tilt is great. If you are a WWE fan in any way then Smackdown! vs. Raw 2007 is the game for you. 
 Despite the fact that 2007 is much like 2006, it is still a great WWE game in its own right. Don't 
 sell it short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJSTARFIGHTER10
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome . I played the game at my friend's house . I think that GM Mode needs to be 
 more modified . Season Mode is awesome but Here Comes The Pain's season is sweeter. But GM Mode 
 is only good when you cheat to play it. THQ needs to focus on GM mode. Best in the series . You 
 have to play this game. It is non stop action. It is mostly reccomended. It is a fact. Buy this 
 game if you have a local gamestop near you . I just hope they get a Game Guide online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  It is a solid wrestling game. There isn't much to complain about when playing this game. SVR 2007 
 didn't make drastic changes from previous Smackdown games and I wouldn't say that is a bad thing, 
 but a few more things could have been done.
  For the first time since Smackdown: Just Bring It, you can go into the crowd area for a fight. 
 Except this time around, there is more to do than just hit eachother aimlessly. You can use the 
 environmental grapples (a nice new feature i must say) to your advantage and throw your opponent 
 around a little. However, i still crave more backstage activity which has seemed to be lacking 
 since Smackdown: HCTP. All you get for backstage is a Parking Lot brawl and Bar Brawl. It would 
 be nice to have a fight in the boiler room, a locker room, or even Mr. McMahon's office like some 
 previous additions had. The change in controls i like. Switching the grapple over to the analog 
 is good because it seems as if any sports game is doing that with their 'shot stick'. Why not use 
 it for grapples in wrestling games.
  As for graphics, it seems as if there were more work needed to be done. The stage area looked virtually 
 the same as it did in SvR 2006 for PS2. The player models weren't significantly better either. 
 The Sound seemed to have taken a step back. Last year it seemed as if there were more emotions 
 put into the voiceovers. This year it sound like reading off a cue card again. And the commentators 
 have had no changes as you get the same dialog from them this year as well.
  I am uncertain whether buying this is a good idea or not. But it certainly is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtMMMbop_basic
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of the (few?) who only owned an XBox. Therefore, any wrestling game fans know that I pretty 
 much had no reasonable choice for a good wrestling game. The XBox, it seemed, was cursed to only 
 get poor representations of WWE action. Like others I was pleased to learn the often-praised Smackdown 
 series would be going multiplatform - not only that, but it would be going to a next gen console. 
 So imagine my shock when, rather than finally getting a good wrestling game, the curse is still 
 as strong as ever!
  
  This game is hard. Not hard as in challenging, hard as in frustrating and cheap. The A. I. in this 
 game, combined with an extremely slow button-mashing recovery system, can lead to some insanely 
 frustrating gameplay. By the same token, it can also lead to some overly simple matches that you 
 win in a heartbeat. That's the main problem with this game - it's either simple or near impossible, 
 and regardless of which scenario you get, it's just not much fun.
  
  The game looks good and has lots of bells and whistles as far as match types, but the audio doesn't 
 compliment the video. Strange audio levels plague this game throughout. Watch a victory celebration 
 - the ring announcer is screamingly loud, the commentators are barely above a whisper, and the 
 crowd is too quiet despite cheering wildly, and the music sounds overdubbed like an afterthought. 
 I'm BEGGING someone to get the ring announcers to announce people like they are actually in the 
 arena (Lillian Garcia sucks as usual) , and put a bit of echo on the entrance themes so they don't 
 sound like the music is being played in someone's room on a stereo rather than in front of an arena 
 of 20,000 people.
  
  The play control is simply broken. I can admire a Fight Night-esque approach of map everything 
 to the other stick, but when the A. I. is so bad that they reverse literally 9 out of 10 moves you 
 try to pull off in the strong grapple, it doesn't matter how innovative of an approach they take. 
 They do offer A. I. modifier sliders in the options to let you tweak how often they reverse depending 
 on situation, but lowering those even to the lowest setting doesn't do much to help. On the defensive? 
 Button-mashing is the order of the day here, and even then if you're down don't expect your guy 
 to get off the mat anytime soon. One knockdown punch at the beginning of the match can lead to 
 repeated striking/grappling attacks that are extremely difficult to reverse, and cause the CPU 
 to attain a nearly insurmountable lead right off the bat. There is no sense of balance here whatsoever.
 
  
  If a developer is going to use a twitch-based reversal system, they need to take a lesson from 
 Giant Gram 2000 (import Dreamcast game) and have it so the reversal takes place where it would 
 logically during the move animation, not when they go to grab you in the first place. Example: 
 if your opponent grabs you for a body slam, you reverse it before he even has a hold of you to 
 pick you up. The proper way to do it would be to hit the reversal button when he has you up over 
 his shoulder, so if your reversal is successful you slide over him and land behind him.
  
  Besides the awful gameplay, the devleopers of this game still can't grasp the simple concept that 
 when you have a game with shoddy control, it doesn't help the fun factor to constantly throw players 
 into 2-on-1 matches where the problems I mentioned above are doubled. Just a frustraing, I-want-to-put-this-on-Ebay-now 
 experience.
  
  The loading screens are a complete disaster. You can not do anything in this game without a loading 
 screen popping up - even backing out of a menu can cause a lengthy load time. According to most 
 people the loading is much improved over previous Smackdown games. If that's the case, I'd hate 
 to see last year's game, because this year's game is really, really bad with loading.
  
  Once again, a 360 game blows the perfect opportunity for custom soundtracks, in this case to be 
 used for entrance music. What is it with the lack of custom soundtracks in 360 games? I know you 
 can play music while playing the game, but that doesn't actually integrate it into the game itself 
 like the 2k5 games or the XBox versions of GTA3/VC/San Andreas. If I want to hear music while playing 
 I'll turn off the in-game music and turn on my stereo.
  
  A definite rental for fans. Everyone else, wait until next year and hope that Yukes stops being 
 lazy and Madden-esque. 
  
  Three personal nitpicks not fit for the main review:
  
  1. Pretty much every character in the game has their correct music... except Daivari. So much for 
 my immediate idea to make a Hassan CAW. Lame.
  
  2. Not being able to change the attributes for default wrestlers is a pretty annoying decision 
 as well... why do I have the feeling WWE stepped in there? No no no, we don't want someone putting 
 Triple H down to a ranking of 60 or whatever. What sucks about this is people like Umaga, who have 
 been established as a top-tier force, are stuck with near Snitsky-like ratings.
  
  3. The weight classifications are a decent way to ensure Rey Mysterio isn't slamming Viscera, but 
 there is only one wrestler in the game (Great Khali) at the highest level. I have no idea why Big 
 Show and Viscera, who both weigh more and are nearly as tall, are at the next classification down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhounshell
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Basicly WWE Smackdown vs raw 2007 is an improvement over lastyears title
  
  adding more Fetures Better Graphics a New Grapleing System and more unlockables than you can shake 
 a stick at this game is fun overall and is a verrry solid and enjoyable game the thing that stands 
 out the most here is is the 3faces of foley is finally Included and thats awsome anyways the infighting 
 crowd area is fun theres tons of ways to mame your enemy and thats good Backstage Brawls Kinda 
 suck this year Theres not enough varity in this mode to really keep ya coming back now on to the 
 pros n cons of this game
  
  PROS Good Graphics Easyer way to Unlock Legends Not forced to do challenge mode
  
  Cons Bad 
 Storylines Glitches Not so fun Grapleing System Long Loadingtimes
  
  anyways I Can recommend this title to anywrestling fan with a PS2 - Xbox360-PSP Cause this game 
 is just to fun to Pass Up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow218
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  yea there was a few thing that i dint like but its was good all-in-all i think it was a great game 
 but there could have been some but improvements snd stuff so bascially i think like the superstars 
 could be better like more ofthem and stuff and the matches omg there r a few good ones butthen 
 they took out the 3way tag thing forthe ladder that got me ticked i was like omg thats my favorite 
 but any ways all in all i think its a great game and i cant wait for the next one good job guys 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southernzombie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2007 is an excellent improvement on wrestling games as far as Xbox goes, 
 but it isn't that much of an improvement on wrestling games in general. The new grappling system 
 is an excellent addition and actually works quite well. The new total control moves and hotspots 
 are also a welcome addition. There are still a few collision detection glitches, but they don't 
 take much from the actual gameplay. The Create a Superstar mode is highly detailed so you can make 
 your character as detailed or as weird as you like. I would like to have seen SvR make use of the 
 Xbox Vision Camera and let you put yourself in the game. Maybe next year! The only real problem 
 is that like most wrestling games SvR tends to get boring fast playing by yourself, and if you're 
 better than everyone around you playing with your friends doesn't offer much relief. Thankfully, 
 there is online support so you can start your rise to the top of the WWE!! All in all this is a 
 great game, however there is still plenty that can be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarac2003
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  We all loved the idea of the GM modes, CAW modes, and season modes in RvS 06, so Raw Vs. Smackdown 
 07 should be better. NOPE !!! its the same modes. On the 360 with HD, the game looks grand and 
 it feels like you actually watching the WWE. The gameplay has changed completely, we now use the 
 analog stick to grapple. The gameplay also has hot spots, where you can use the stick, for an example, 
 to smash your opponet's head into the steel steps over and over before your stamina runs out. The 
 Season mode is a whole new story to go through, but the commentary hasn't changed at all, making 
 it still lame. The CAW creation has really improved, but I felt that they really limited us on 
 our creations. My guy looks better than ever. The entrance mode is more faster because you don't 
 have to go through 600 loading screens to find ones you like to match with your guy. You can also 
 choose when and where your fireworks are going to go off, which is really cool, especially if you 
 want a cool guy on X-Box Live. Speaking of X-Box Live, you can challenge X-BoX live members to 
 a match or two, which really expands the WWE game to a whole new level. GM mode has not changed 
 at all, except that you have to do it to get infinity EXP points for your CAW. I felt there should 
 have been more wrestlers in this game, don't get me wrong there are allot, but with the power of 
 the 360, they could have done better. 07 is still a great game, but it could have been better . 
 This game is definitely a must buy for all wrestling fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbulletpr00fix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  hey there iam a big wwe fan it is a great sport and now you can paly the games on the 360. i have 
 only had this game for 2 days and im loving it. i like season mode and gm mode the same season features 
 a bit of depth. gm mode has more depth then 2006. the features this yearin gm mode are hire writer 
 and create better rivalriers and now you can set for how long ypu want rivalries. but still the 
 down fall is to contune a rivalry you need to have the same persons in a rivalry in the same match 
 but i always have th magers ringside. also most of the good rivaklrys involve a diva.
  
  the caw this year is not as good as last year not as much stuff but im still able to make my oroginal 
 wrestler. now the create an entrance has improved the fire works are deatailed.
  
  now with the graphics some of the wrestlers faces are done well some just look like ****. the sweat 
 is really cool the blood has improved. there are multiple hotspots.
  
  overall i give this game 9and half smckdowns out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vjanulewicz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The newest wrestling game and the best all in one. SmackDown vs RAW is the BEST game for any wrestling 
 fan or any gamer that loves to fight. With a improved CAW mode and a even better control scheme, 
 this years edition is with out a shadow of a doubt a must have for the wrestling fan in your life. 
 The season is incredible so far and the graphics are AMAZING! Best game of the season. So if you 
 are looking for the most amazing wrestling game (and have a 360) dont go out and get Raw 2 or WrestleMania 
 21 for the Xbox because SmackDown vs RAW 2007 is where the action is at! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebigmike2003
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, but it suffers from alot of what made svr2006 not as good. Such as when a person 
 is hitting your partner with a move/special you can't stop it. Also the collision detection is 
 as bad as it's been in the past. The thing that brings it down is that it looks so good the graphics 
 are great, but it feels so outdated it feels like ur playing an old wrestling game. On a better 
 note it's still a pretty good game. There is still some some fun to be had with this title. Hopefully 
 they fix these problems in the future. If you enjoyed SVR &amp; SVR2006 you will enjoy this it's 
 pretty much the same game with better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsoliveira
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I love wrestling since 2004, this game is the best I ever played!
  I have other games like: WWE Smackdown! Shut Your Mouth, WWE Day of Reckoning, WWE Day of Reckoning 
 2, WWE Smackdown! Here Comes the Pain, WWE Smackdown vs. Raw, WWE Smackdown vs. Raw 2006.
  I think wrestling games are awesome because I am a big fan of wrestling.
  I know a lot of superstars 
 on the World Wrestling Entertaiment: Eddie Guerrero, Hulk Hogan, Bret Hart, Jimmy Superfly Snuka, 
 John Cena, Batista, Triple H, HBK Shawn Michaels, Mark Henry, etc.
  I would love to be a wrestler, but I think it's dangerous for our health, because you need to train 
 professionaly and to be careful.
  I guess this game made me realize what wrestling is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theone86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  With all the hype of being the first great wrestling game on a Microsoft system, SVR 07 had a lot 
 of potential to rocket the series to new heights. The game fell short, however, due to a few nagging 
 problems and some overlooked issues. Let me just first say that the game is terrifically fun. The 
 new ultimate control moves and interactive hotspots are great additons. There are a few oversights 
 here, though. First, the selection of new weapons is not as diverse as originally promised. Most 
 matches are still limited to chairs and sledgehammers, and selection in hardcore matches is still 
 far short of what the title implies. The new control system works out well for the most part. The 
 counters are reminiscent of the day of Reckoning series and suffer from some sensitivity problems. 
 These issues aren't as noticable as others. If you had no problems with counters on DOR, you'll 
 have no problemes here. The other thing with the new move system is it takes away one move option 
 in most situations, and the new UCM's could've been integrated into a button system just as easily. 
 The other flaw is that changing targets has now been mapped to the back button, and this is a uncomfortable 
 position for something you're going to have to be doing constantly and quickly. The problems that 
 have plagued the series for years now are back, sadly. Collision detection is still plagued, A. I. 
 is still flawed, and the roster is more out of date than any Smackdown game to date. These are 
 things that keep popping up every single game, and you would think THQ would take the time to fix 
 them after so long. The create modes are improved in most areas. Create an entrance has gotten 
 a much needed overhaul and the created wrestlers look much closer to the actual wrestlers. Create 
 a pay-per-view and championship modes have remained pretty constant, with a few new parts added 
 in. Create a wrestler has a lot of new parts, but has had many others omitted. There is no reason 
 to leave out parts that have been in the series for years. Create a moveset follows the same pattern 
 of omission. Some moves won't be missed, others have replacements that come close, and others are 
 just inexplicably absent. Again, there is no reason to omit content such as this. Online play is 
 improved, but still lacking. Downloadable content, such as new wrestlers, would've been a big plus. 
 Most created wrestlers can't be taken online due to restrictions. GM mode has some slight tweaks. 
 I find it a little more enjoyable this year, but still a footnote to all the other features the 
 game has to offer. This year's story mode is improved, but not as deep as promised. We were led 
 to believe that you could play multiple years in a row and challenge for different championships, 
 reminiscent of Shut Your Mouth. Instead it feels like a slightly more expansive version of last 
 year's. The sound is average. Some sounds of slams and hits aren't as impactful as would be expected. 
 The game's soundtrack features a mix of mainstream rap and rock artists. Appearances by artists 
 such as Three Days Grace and Ghostface Killah offer some new choices, but the soundtrack will still 
 get repetitive very fast. Inclusion of custom soundtracks would've been a nice choice, and it's 
 omissoin is a disappointment. All in all, the game is what you would expect. Some new features 
 are a nice touch, but not all that inventive. Some noticable oversights and omissions are a disappointment, 
 but not enough to completely ruin the experience. The game itself is just as fun as every other 
 entry, but fails to move forward and deliver that exceptional game that wrestling fans have been 
 waiting so long for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  First off The new anolog system controls are a great addition it dose feel like you have more control. 
 Graphics have never looked so real in a wrestiling game at points I actually thought that it was 
 real video that they taped for the game but it was still in the game. Season mode is the best out 
 of all them in any of them even surpassing shut your mouth and Here comes the pain. The create 
 a superstar has improved alot this year and the create a entrance has also improved alot and I 
 mean alot. Some flaws in all the games still has'nt ben fixed. But they are easy to look over and 
 create a championship is also better then in psast years by a lon shot and it is overall just a 
 great game and I think This game has finnaly passed Smackdown shut your mouth. That is saying ALOT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_c_dead_people
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  Here it is, the next and best official wwe game. Playing this game made me feel as if I was right 
 in the crowd watching the match, it is that realistic. The Graphics are excellent from sweat actually 
 showing on the wrestlers to spectacular pyro tech and lighting effects in their entrances. The 
 sound is superb too with each wrestler having the voice of their real life counter parts and their 
 proper music too. You are also met with a stunning amount of match types and variations of them, 
 totaling literally hundreds of different matches. And along with the tons of superstars, from current 
 wwe champion John Cena to legends like the late Eddie Guerrero, you can literally recreate nearly 
 any match you have seen. Then there are the other modes. Season mode puts you in the boots of the 
 wrestler of your choice through a full season with events that can be determined by the choices 
 you make. GM mode puts you as the General Manager to try and get your shows ratings high by putting 
 on interesting matches, and putting on promotions like one of your superstars invading the other 
 show. But you have to watch out because tactics like that could backfire and your show will be 
 the one losing the ratings. GM mode works best in two player, with one player trying to get Smackdown 
 ratings high while the other tries to boost RAWs.
  
  The create a wrestler mode works well with your created wrestler having the same quality looks 
 as any other character in the game. You can also create your own title belt to go with the wrestler 
 you created.
  
  In fact the game only loses points on two facts:
  1. The controls are complicated and it will take a while for newbies to get used to them.
  
 
  and 2. Where have the sexy diva matches gone??
  
  All in all Smackdown vs Raw is an excellent game that will apply to wrestling fans aswell as non 
 fans. In fact if you get only one game for christmas, ensure its this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Im not happy right now with this game.. the CAW is just about the same as last years ps2 CAW. That 
 dumb ass crotch block is stil in the game and its a shame that its still there. it takes away from 
 what you can do in the mode. The Hair in the game has gotten even worse. As powerful as the 360 
 is you cant even shape the hair to your liking. The new set up is dumb. The Gameplay is good but 
 it seem slow.. It feels more real though. The moves are not the same as last year.. it seems like 
 you have less moves to use. The sweat works well. Commentary is still stupid. GM mode is better.. 
 Overall I think this game is not the best it could have been. I dont know how a game has been worked 
 on for this long and is full of all these match types and modes but still feel like its not done. 
 its a crazy feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  With Smackdown Vs. Raw's new entrance into the world of Xbox, This game is looking better then 
 ever. But we can do that all day if we want.... praise it I mean, let's go take a bite.
  
  Gameplay: Better then ever, you get into the game more then ever now with the new control ....... 
 well, not exactly new, more like remapped controls. New reversal systems make the game better as 
 well. You can use pretty much ANYTHING as a weapon.... no seriously. Ropes, Turnbuckle, inside 
 the ring, outside the ring, over the ring, ... everything.
  
  Presentation: This is better then ever on the 360. Graphics, textures are all here and looking 
 good. We all know.... well, if you had a PS2 and played the other games, ... you know that Gameplay 
 was never a problem. The storymode's presentation is good too. What they did was they put the characters 
 a little over the top then there real like counterparts. For example, Taker does ALOT more things 
 with lights and stuff. He even make the lights explode while Benoit was standing under them.... 
 effects we're beautiful as well.
  
  Sound: With sound.... it's hard to do with a wresling game. But it all good in this game. I hooked 
 it up to my sound system and ....... I swear it's like the show. You really couldn't tell the diference.
 
  
  Create a Wrestlier. We all know.... well, if you played this game before, The CAW is where it's 
 at. This year's CAW, at first looks like something new,.... but then you see it's VERY simular 
 to last years CAW.... and that's not a bad thing. Last year's CAW was fastastic. The new Textures 
 makes the game very nice. In the last game, I wore a black coat, NOW, I wear a black leather coat. 
 The Create a Entrance is BETTER!!! Now, you can control when your Piro goes off. The only problem 
 is, you can't control the duration.
  
  The game overall is fantastic, it does have it's flaws .... load time isn't as long as they we're 
 saying.... .. the game is actually very good. Not sure what they we're talking about with animation 
 either... These days, people are just so damn picky that they can't see a good game when it comes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunex_cena
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Season Mode: It has alot too keep you busy, however the most important thing is realism... i hope 
 that next year the United States and Intercontinental titles could be defended.
  
  GM Mode: It is genuine! But i suggest you choose one brand to control as a glitch has been found 
 by means of controlling both brands.
  
  CAW Mode: Updated parts and improving each year. I hope that next year the scale of the CAW (frame 
 caption) will be terminated and turned into a pose like the other superstars, also i liked the 
 fast infinite attributes of last year, this one takes way too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saldogg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that I own every Smackdown game to date, and an a big fan of the 
 WWE. However, being completely critical, this game was a little bit of a let down. I expected big 
 things seeing how much SVR06 improved on the previous game, but 07 doesnt have that leap in quality 
 that 06 did.
  
  Gameplay: I LOVE the joystick grapples. I feel like they're a great step in the right direction 
 for this series. But there are just so many stupid glitches that should not exist. When trying 
 to pin Trish with Mickie James, the announcers should NOT say HE could have HIM here. but they 
 do anyway. Also, the wrestlers oversell the moves a lot. A simple body slam may keep your superstar 
 down for 7-8 seconds allowing your opponent to hit 2 or 3 more free moves on you. The reversal 
 system is refined and works out great, but there's so many little things that shouldn't have been 
 wrong in the game but are.
  
  Graphics: Well, some of the superstar models look fantastic. On the other hand, Edge and Carlito, 
 two of Raw's biggest stars look kind of off. They also decided to give just about everyone a 6-pack. 
 Umaga Ric Flair and Big Show have 6 packs. The graphics are good, but again, they could have been 
 better. It's all about the little touches Yukes!
  
  Sound: The crowd is almost silent, no custom entrance themes, lazy lazy LAZY! I know PS2 owners 
 cant have custom entrances, but don't make us suffer for that. I would have made this even lower 
 but the wrestling sounds pretty good, with good sound effects with tables, ladders and other weapons.
 
  
  Value: A couple of plays through season mode, an improved (albeit not by much) GM mode and a much 
 wider selection of online matches should keep fans busy for a long time. Create modes return, but 
 seem downgraded except for create an entrance which is MUCH improved. Theres a lot of gameplay 
 to be had with this one.
  
  Tilt: Being the WWE fan that I am, this was my most anticipated title of the year. It did let me 
 down just a little, but i will still be playing the hell out of it till the next WWE game. Fans 
 of the series and fans of the WWE will enjoy the game, but will also notice its many faults. Luckily 
 it does enough things right to keep the fans into it. Now Yukes, we promise we'll buy SVR08, but 
 please PLEASE give us new superstars in the Marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk_knight_200
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  The new ultimate control is pretty cool, the new controller scheme is going to take a little getting 
 used to (especially for veterans of the series) , it is defiantly cool though (and the veterans like 
 my self will see great benefits from the controller overhaul) . There is a huge jump in graphics 
 it is truly amazing. There is a little bit of new match option, but they took out fulfill your 
 fantasy match (which disappointed me) other then that awesome game. Less loading times YAY finally 
 especially when youre in caw, they did a really good job with the game. Few minor bugs, other 
 then that it is one of the best in the series!!!! I have all the others in the series and this 
 is defiantly a great addition to the series, voice acting is great and the graphics will leave 
 you in awe, especially when you look at the undertakers entrance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of WWE or just a fan of wrestling this is a game for you. This is a great wrestling 
 game I'm not sure I can say It's the best wrestling game on planet Earth But I think that it's 
 the best wrestling game right now until the next year and the year after that and so on. The graphics 
 look better on the XBox 360. There is a sweat feature in the game it's when your superstarts sweat 
 I guess it's pretty cool if you like to see sweaty guys. Also you can tear up signs which I do 
 all the time. Get weapons from the fans (Although on TV I see no fan giving weapons to the wrestlers) 
 Y'know they should have it where you can beat up the fans too that would be cool. If you watched 
 WWE then you know what I'm talking about. I see wrestlers beat up the fans all the time. Also great 
 stuff for the Create a Superstar. I'm just gonna stick to my old guy that I named JJ Also try the 
 season, I give this game a thumbs up!
  
  P. S. I just got the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  smackdown vs raw 07 on xbox 360 i've been playing this quite a bit im a little disapointed in the 
 game no spirt squard i hate them but would have like to have seen them in it and no king booker 
 but its booker t oh yeah no brian kendrick or paul london or even ashley. khali, umaga are brilliant 
 glad there in it johnny nitro one of my favs. gregory helms is just brilliant with his shinning 
 wizard totally love that move. the matches are awesome the new control system is hard to learn 
 at first but when you first start the game it gives you 3 videos on how to play it which is cool. 
 the divas are good weakest diva on the game is candice rated at 52 trish has the highest rated 
 at about 68 but mickie james is my fav to play as. im so glad they put the DX entrance in really 
 happy about that. gm mode is better then ever you have to control heat and raw and the other way 
 round for smackdown also hire your own writers to make the show even better for you this is the 
 best part in the game i think i enjoyed it in 06 but this one is even better. the ps2 version graphics 
 wise still looks like smackdown vs raw 06 but xbox 360 graphics are the best on there of course. 
 the blood looks better on there aswell so im really happy about that. oh and the commetry isnt 
 to bad there is parts that are from smackdown vs raw 06. overall its a brilliant game best wwe 
 game yet but im a little disapointed but still from me its a must buy i have to say i can play 
 this for hours i totally love wwe games and its one to go out and buy. the crowd are just brilliant 
 really make the sounds like ric flair's wooo and even he says it the crowd also count with the 
 ref 1, 2, 3, which is great. theres alot to do gm mode season have a play aroud on single and all 
 that i paid &pound;44.99 i cant keep off the game its that good xbox 360 just rules im so happy 
 its on here and finally xbox get a brilliant wrestling game while all the other wwe ones have been 
 rubbish but this one is a must get. what are you waiting for buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Here's a real treat for all you WWE fans. When the demo of this was released a few month back, 
 i was pleasantly suprised with pretty much everything about it!
  The visuals on this game are pretty breath-taking for a wrestling game. Every wrestler looks very 
 detailed and the new analogue control system is a nice new addition i feel. It basically means 
 each character has alot more moves than previous versions of the game.
  Commentary is also pretty good in this version too, very colourful with the occasional cheesey 
 joke, feels alot like watchin it on TV
  Season mode is also fantastic. Great storylines with real wrestler voice-overs makes it feel very 
 real.
  Many legends to be unlocked also which gives you somethin to aim for!
  Many game modes also from old school 1 on 1 to the all new money in the bank match adds to the 
 fun.
  Essential buy for any wrestling fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayboy06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing.... the graphics are amazing due to the power of the xbox 360. The new crowd 
 area deffinatley makes the gameplay better and more enjoyable the one thing about it though is 
 that weapons can not come out of the crowd area. The new environmental hotspots are great like the 
 monitor cable used to strangle your opponent by the announce table. Season mode has improved quite 
 alot the storylines have improved and you dont get stuck on one rivalry for 4months its just a 
 few matches then the big match to settle it at a ppv. Create an entrance has also improved alot 
 been able to controll when the fireworks go off on the preview. Create a belt has abit more depth 
 to it now and the option of making a spinner belt not just a regular belt is good. Create a wrestler 
 has got alot more options and again more depth to it alot more detail and clothes. Create a moveset 
 is the same as last year with the exception of a few new moves and choosing your ultimate control 
 move. The new feature the ultimate control system allows you to do what you want with your opponent 
 like the chokeslam you can pick them up work around with them in the air and send them out of the 
 ring/through table/off hell in a cell ect.... the rosters have updated but not alot as the game 
 was been made before july they could not add in the new superstars or returning superstars eg/ 
 jeff hardy.1 new match type the money in the bank which is abit of a dissapointment because their 
 should be more match types like the i quit match or backstage area which has been removed from 
 the 2007 version but over all this game is the best xbox 360 game ive played so far so i would 
 recommmend you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Ok first things first, this not a bad game, its just plagued by little things that can bring the 
 game down, and this game primarily, is the same as last years, if not a little better. But, it 
 still is not the best smackdown game ever made
  
  Well lets start with the basic controls and gameplay mechanics. At first you may be confused on 
 how to actually control your superstar, but tutorial vids are there to help (you should have watched 
 them at the beginning, but anyway)
  the new controls are very nicely done, they feel great and the new hotspots are also a worthy addition 
 to a match of any calibre, however, your CAW might no benefit from this, i will elaborate on that 
 later. but gameplay wise i would say its fairly solid, i still can have fun in a singles match 
 now and then, due to the fact of the new ultimate control moves, which allow you to lay the smackdown 
 anywhere you want, whether is onto the turnbuckle, or onto a table. Season mode this year has had 
 an improvement, and so has the locker room. The locker room has two stories, and you can now walk 
 around the locker room to activate certain spots such as your computer ect., customization is still 
 high here too. Now season mode, well i must admit, being only two days into it, i have not seen 
 it to its fullest potential, but i know its good so far, my CAW has not said much so far, and there 
 aren't many scene's, mainly voice messages from various superstars. GM mode is back and slightly 
 better than ever, its HUD is a little crowded, but you can get used it fairly quickly, hiring scriptwriters 
 in and choosing story-lines from those scriptwriters may seem cool, but you soon realize its just 
 a fancy rivalry between superstars, but overall its still as fun as hell, i probably spend most 
 of my time in this mode. But, there is BIG AI problems that plague the game throughout
  
  With all that gameplay aside, the game still has problems, one of which is the sound, its not very 
 well built lets just say that, the mat seems very quiet for a wrestling game, and the crowd noises 
 whilst being realistic can really hog most of the other sounds in the game, the commentary is an 
 exact port over last years game with a few new lines for new superstars and hotspots, but these 
 sound completely different for the current recordings, so they're easy to spot, and it becomes 
 very repetitive very quickly. If that wasn't all, there are missing sounds too, when attacking 
 someone who has a weapon, no sound is made, same goes for run attacking some one in the back, however 
 there are still some good sound effects, but with some missing ones, its hard to compensate. but 
 the soundtrack this ear is very, very good, less rap more rock (hurray)
  
  Moving on to graphics, they're very nice, well made models, the superstars all look great (well 
 most, there are some glaring ugly ducklings) and you do get a sense that you are fighting these 
 superstars, the sweat system is minor but actually very good, so is the new blood texture, but yet 
 again there are some niggles, viscera for example, his hands go right through his body, i guess 
 they couldn't of said your not in cause your too fat so they put him the best they could, oh and 
 of course there is teleporting moves, for example no matter where you are in the ring a triple 
 H knee drop will always be in the center of the ring.
  
  But now lets talk match types and create modes. This year, there is a new match... the money in 
 the bank match, well what can i say this is fundamentally a six man ladder match, nothing more 
 nothing less, and a bad one at that, since the AI is still a klutz, its just a technological mess, 
 but im guessing with other players it would be ok, but the AI makes a mess of it, i was able to 
 do some really cool stuff in this match, but i could do the exact same in a ladder match. Speaking 
 of ladder, the ladder matches AND table matches have been improved, in a Ladder match, you can 
 now slant another ladder on the current one and run up it like a scolded dog, you can also set 
 it up sideways in the corner as well as setting it up vertically, grabbing the belt is also a much 
 more tense experience, in a table match you can double stack these baby's, the match mechanic is 
 also different, you must get your opponent in the red and then use a finisher on the table, now 
 this is not just a finisher your superstar has, it also other various moves like a superplex onto 
 double stacked tables, so you can end this match in a variety of ways, however you might not be 
 able to end it the you want to, for example, you may want to finish it with a shooting star press, 
 but no it HAS be a crappy bodysplash, so you might say, oh well lets do a TLC match instead TLC 
 fans prepare to be disappointed, there is only one ladder and one table......*Gob smacked* this 
 a major bummer, in fact it was ordered from major bummer himself, seeing as new features for these 
 weapons are designed for two, this sucks, no gruesome double stacking tables, no running up ladders 
 ect. Oh well you cant win 'em all...*sigh* no you really cant with the smackdown games.
  
  Moving on, the backstage brawls this year are ended with a KO, just as well since these matches 
 are terrible, they're just goofball matches, not to be taken seriously, they are very un-hardcore, 
 and it may not come as a surprise that i am a big hardcore fan, and my hardcore belly is not satisfied, 
 the bar brawl is just boring and the parking lot lacks imagination, oh except fora huge drop from 
 the fire trucks cherry picker, ha ha, that was cool. Did someone say hardcore... no.. must of been 
 the wind, well that definitely went through Corey Ledesma's mind (sorry corey your the only one 
 i can think of, and you said that when the fans don't like some feature of the game you cringe, 
 well i hope you cringe on this one) the hardcore matches this year suck just as bad, chairs, chairs 
 oh and more chairs, oh and what was the other one?..... oh yeah a CHAIR!, ok ok, there's sledgehammers 
 as well, originally, light tubes were going to be in the game, but not any more, there is however 
 a crowd area, that boasts a table, a trashcan (YES!) , a fire extinguisher, some crowd weapons, 
 environmental grapples oh and some chairs, now chairs would be ok if they hadn't removes the motion 
 captured chair shots, but they have, and when you do get one magically, the chair just glitches 
 up, now this crowd area is pretty cool, but far too cramped, and it forces the question: why can't 
 i have all of this in the ring , answer... there is none, its been 4-3 games now since the trashcan 
 and table made it into the ring in a hardcore match and they are dieing for a return. Trust me 
 the list goes on, heres a quick rundown, the HIAC are still the same, the EC has a weird glass 
 smashing effect that sounds like electricity, and the buried alive match still fails to look like 
 the original buried alive match, and i noticed my moves changed whilst i was playing it
  
  Now, the create modes, the CAS this year is superb, better textures, bump mapped muscles and things 
 dont tend to look painted on anymore, your CAW's finally look like superstars... well almost, they 
 cant sweat, so they look a bit strange, but too strange. Downside, crotch blurring, ah yes the 
 famous and pointless crotch blurring, the thing that disables you from making very good tights, 
 overall the CAS this year is good, maybe a few more hairstyles would sell it over for me but hey, 
 im good.
  
  Create a move set this year is almost identical, but as i said earlier, the new controls make a 
 glaring flaw IMO, you can only have TWO custom grappling styles, not three, instead the third spot 
 is for clean or dirty, something that was reserved as the CIRCLE button last year, that said you 
 can still assign a ultimate control move to it. Downside, you cant assign every move, for instance, 
 some wrestlers can throw their opponent onto the barricade, some just smash their head into the 
 barricade, now you can't choose which one you want, i believe you are forced, determined by your 
 stance (someone told me this)
  
  Now over to the big gun, Create an entrance, woo wee, this is a good improvement, if you have played 
 the Day of reckoning games on the GC, you will be pleased you have got something very similar, 
 you can assign the moves, the lighting, the fireworks and screen effects as usual all while seeing 
 it on the screen, but if you press this little goldmine of a button called preview you can time 
 the screen effects the fire works and camera positions seamlessly, a huge creative plus!
  
  And create a belt, and create a stable are just good, though the created belts are still not handled 
 well, its all good stuff
  
  Just a few more glitches, your hometown's get read really strangely, from houston, Texas..... FROM 
 TEXAS!!! as you can see that is strange, also i can confim it but there seems to be a belt glitch, 
 where once used a created entrance the belt you CAW is holding does not where it, just as well 
 seeing as the belts look terrible.
  
  If you have been reading this, than thank you for your time, its much appreciated. Overall, this 
 just feels like smackdown vs raw 2006 June addition, you may think the score is harsh, but its 
 the cold hard truth, but if you are new to the smackdown series, then you are going to love this 
 game, but if you are like me, and have stuck through every one thick and thin, than you can pretty 
 much expect everything here 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
