-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/wwesmackdownvsraw2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive array of different moves.
 Great-looking superstars and arenas.
 Robust creation tools, including new create-a-finisher.
 Solid single-player modes.
 Lots of different match types.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak sound effects lessen the impact.
 Lag hampers online matches.
 Characters maneuver somewhat clumsily.
 Occasional clipping and animation issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 734 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Yuke's
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 9, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 successfully returns to the fundamentals of realistic WWE action and impressive 
 creation tools. 

  In the WWE, it's not uncommon for seemingly vanquished superstars to return at random, handing 
 out fresh beatdowns and earning back their former glory. After a disappointing showing last year, 
 THQ's long-running SmackDown vs. Raw series has returned to the ring, having spent the year slimming 
 down and focusing on its core strengths. The work has paid off: a lot of extraneous elements have 
 been removed, the creation toolset is better than ever, and there are two modes that offer satisfying 
 single-player arcs. Though it is still hampered by a number of lingering issues, WWE SmackDown 
 vs. Raw 2009 manages to recapture some of the glory of its younger years.  

           Mark Henry looks on with... what is that, sadness? Jealousy? Boredom?      

  The most 
 notable improvements are in the single-player realm. The lackluster 24/7 mode has been ditched 
 in favor of a lengthy Career mode and the scripted Road to Wrestlemania. In the Career mode, you 
 choose a superstar (existing or created) and enter a bracket to make a bid for the title belt. 
 Each bracket has five opponents including the current champion, and you'll have to earn stars by 
 winning matches in order to get a shot at the title. You win up to five stars for each match by 
 earning points in three areas: match results, technical, and excitement. These categories encourage 
 you to get into the WWE superstar mindset by rewarding you for both pummeling and mocking your 
 opponent. At the end of each match your attributes will increase and your health will replenish 
 based on how the match went -- no micromanagement here. You'll also earn amusing awards for things 
 like striking your opponent 35 times or breaking a barbed-wire-wrapped plank over his or her back. 
 It only takes a handful of successful matches to earn you a title shot, which is great because 
 it keeps your career moving along at a good clip. This action-packed Career mode is the perfect 
 complement to the Create A Superstar mode, and winning belt after belt as you bulk up your created 
 character is satisfying and fun.  

  The other single-player mode, Road to Wrestlemania, features six unique story arcs that let you 
 play as WWE superstars like The Undertaker or John Cena and defeat numerous foes (and a few nemeses) 
 on your quest for Wrestlemania glory. Matches are interspersed with story scenes packed with typical 
 WWE action and voiced by actual WWE superstars, so fans of outrageous melodrama will be well pleased. 
 In keeping with traditional SmackDown vs. Raw strengths, the superstar models, entrances, and arenas 
 are all excellent. While the character animations are good (despite occasional clipping problems) , 
 the wrestlers still lack fluidity when maneuvering around the ring. This feels like a result of 
 staying too true to the source material: though WWE wrestlers do often move slowly, it's not very 
 exciting to actually plod around the ring in a video game. The audio only further detracts from 
 the excitement factor. Four-hundred-pound men hit the mat with all the impact of a child shutting 
 a car door, and the strongest punches sound like a raw chicken breast being dropped on the floor. 
 It dampens the supposedly hard-hitting action, and while the once-dismal announcers from years 
 past have been improved quite a bit, the sound design is in serious need of a shot in the arm. 

  Despite how it may sound, the action is indeed hard-hitting. It's easy to perform powerful moves 
 using the analog stick and a few buttons, and the breadth of things you can do in and out of the 
 ring is impressive. From removing the turnbuckle cover to slamming your opponent through a burning 
 table, there's no shortage of satisfying ways to deal damage. Specific match types have their own 
 nasty additions, from rubbing your opponent's face against the elimination chamber to the powerful 
 hot tag, which allows a tag team partner to build up momentum so that, when tagged in, he or she 
 will get the quicktime chance to unleash two unblockable attacks followed by a finisher. Enabling 
 such a wide variety of moves is one of SmackDown vs. Raw 2009's chief strengths. Like previous 
 games in the series, it too relies on relative position to increase your repertoire, and your wrestler 
 is still prone to miscues as a result. However, missing a move because you aren't quite in the 
 correct position is less frustrating than missing one because your opponent is in an uninterruptible 
 animation. This usually crops up in matches with three or more players, when one player is performing 
 a move on another. In these realistic-to-a-fault situations you get a good feeling for just how 
 exciting it is to stand passively aside while other wrestlers battle it out.  

  In addition to the Career and Road to Wrestlemania modes, the competent AI and unique wrestler 
 abilities make playing single-player much more appealing in SmackDown vs. Raw 2009. No longer content 
 to stand around drooling, computer opponents will actively attack you, tag their partners (you 
 included) , and use environmental elements reasonably well. Though the Road to Wrestlemania and 
 early stages of the Career mode will seem easy to experienced players, it won't feel like you're 
 playing against brainless apes. Last year's fighting style system has been removed, and in its 
 place are unique wrestler abilities that existing superstars have and created superstars can earn. 
 The effects range from attribute boosts (able to remove belt in ladder match faster) to enhanced 
 abilities (can regenerate a small amount of health) . While these abilities aren't particularly 
 powerful, they can come in handy during tight matches.  

           Kelly Kelly smacks the spit outta Victoria's mouth.      

  While you might not have 
 tight matches against the computer, you are sure to find tough competition online. You can use 
 SmackDown, Raw, ECW or created superstars as you face off in ranked or unranked play in any of 
 the match types that support one to four players (six-man matches and royal rumbles only available 
 locally) . Against tougher players, any miscues due to bad position, odd animation, or the semi-frequent 
 lag are likely to cost you dearly, and once your opponent has you on the ropes you'll be hard-pressed 
 to reverse your way out of it. The best new online feature in WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 is the 
 WWE Highlight Reel. Anyone can capture clips from their matches, edit them together using the robust 
 toolset, and then upload their clip or screenshots for all to view and rate. Those willing to invest 
 some time will be able to create some pretty excellent stuff, as evidenced by the existing image 
 of Freddy fighting Jason in a flaming ring and video of Obama giving McCain the Rock Bottom.  

 
  Of course, these hilarious videos wouldn't be possible without the still-impressive Create A Superstar 
 tool. Once again, with a little time and patience, you can create almost anyone you like, from 
 famous celebrities to hideous abominations. You can then customize your character's move set to 
 craft their fighting style, choreograph their ring entrance, and even create a finisher to decide 
 how he or she (or it) will finish opponents off. The Create A Finisher tool allows you choose from 
 a huge list of move parts and chain up to 10 of them together to create a finisher as quick and 
 brutal or as long and painful as you want. You'll get a constantly updating preview of the move 
 while you design it so you can easily tweak it to your liking. It's really fun just to experiment 
 with all the different move combinations, and this feature really rounds off a formidable suite 
 of customization tools.  

  WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 benefits greatly by restraining its scope. You can still edit rosters 
 in Career mode, but other than that the menu-heavy GM mode has been fully dropped. The result is 
 a game completely focused on action, and on letting you customize and record that action. While 
 some elements still need improvement, SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 is ultimately successful because it 
 embraces the dramatic fights and outrageous showmanship that are the heart and soul of the WWE. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: enViable
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  Ok I've been playing the WWE series since Attitude the first Smackdown back on the PSX and I've 
 always been a fan despite them finding the best feature of each game and removing it for the next 
 installment (2 player career being the biggest one) however as the games progress the games get 
 a little prettier but the system gets more and more ridiculous.
  
  There's no good difficulty settings whatsoever. If you have it on normal mode you won't have to 
 plug your controller in. The computer will stand idly by without fighting back and you will enjoy 
 beating Kane with Ashley however if you switch to legend mode then you will just be eaten up by 
 a world of constant reversales and stressful, unrealistic damage counters. You can beat your opponent 
 senseless with weapons and pedigrees alike just to find they will reverse your next move with ease 
 or stay down for less than 5 seconds despite having red body, blood everywhere and most of their 
 limbs broken. At least with the old WWE Attitude, once they were dead... they were dead.
  
  The multiplayer is just a total joke. The whole tagline suggests a massive 2player co-operative 
 system... wrong. There is ONE 2player career mode which lasts less than an hour... and that's it. 
 All you can do is crappy little exhibitions and if you want to play online together your going 
 to require 2 xboxs, 2 games and 2 TVs... HA
  
  The physics still have nasty flaws, heads through ropes, no weight limitations, characters floating 
 in midair to hit their target, falling 20 ft off ladders only to forward roll and stand back up 
 in the blink of an eye...
  
  The updates are expensive, the unlockables are a total waste of time (Tony, a copy of Randy Orton, 
 DX pants? Who the hell cares about them) , the online system is trash and the wrestlers aren't even 
 up to date, not even close. I mean... where's Christian?
  
  This game is fun for a few hours, then you just realise you've been duped. Just rent it, you can 
 finish all the game has to offer in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazzop
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:28 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2008 was an extremely horrible game, we all know that, but now, Yukes has taken 
 one giant step towards atrocity. Every time we get a new Smackdown vs Raw game, the graphics get 
 better and better and definitely more realistic, however, the graphics are probably the best thing 
 about this game. The sound hasn't been improved since the last game, most of the sound effects 
 are recycled and the in-game music is nu metal and mainly new popular bands that some may be familiar 
 with. The look of the game is also recycled e. g most of the animations for moves are still the 
 exact same. The create a wrestler mode is also the same, but this isn't a complaint because the 
 CAW mode in svr 08 was fantastic. The create a finisher is non linear, you have quite a bit of 
 customization options to choose from and create any finisher of what you want. So everything before 
 you step inside the squared circle is fantastic, but when the bell rings, the game does some things 
 horribly. The controls are pathetic excuses for a wrestling game compared to a game such as WCW/nWo 
 Revenge on the Nintendo 64, also you have to press extremely awkward button combinations to execute 
 simple moves e. g to run you press the LB buttton along with the left stick, whereas in the early 
 Smackdown games, you just pressed triangle and a direction. The controls are the main reason why 
 i hate the game simply because other wrestling games have been able to execute their control scheme 
 much more accurately towards simplicity. Overall, i do not recommend playing this game whatsoever 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codered95
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  this one has been the best wrestling game yet. i can't wait for 2010 to come out so i can see the 
 roasters and if they have any new modes. like it would be could if they made a mode were u can 
 control ur superstar and go around the stadium and talk to people or attack ur enimies. like if 
 u were hhh and u wanted to go to atack randy and other stuff. now that would defently not be a 
 waist of money. i would get smackdown vrs raw 2010 for the xbox 360 in a heart beat. i wonder wat 
 legends of wrestlmania is like. if you now please tell me because i want to know if it is a waist 
 of time or not. and by the way u can cath me on xbox live as Umasked Rambo95. but please let me 
 know wat legends is like and maybe i'll vrs u somedayin it. but i will defently beat u guys on it 
 i hope because i don't know wat u guys are like but i always beat my brothers. oh and i call STONE 
 COLD STEVE AUSTON!!!!!! i mean it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtix123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is (if not) the best SVR game in the series. The game is basically like the old smackdown 
 games except there are a few improvements on the game. Now you could do improve tag teams now since 
 you could do more moves in the game, plus, tag teams finishers!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Speeking of finisher, 
 now you could create a finisher in the game. I think this is the best feature i ever had in the 
 game, you could create crazy @ss finishers with more and more moves in your finisher, i created 
 a lot of finishers, a whole lot. They also add this new gametype called "Inferno match." I did'nt 
 care for this game type that much, but you could atleast burn your opponent in the fire by dragging 
 your Left Joystick by strong grappling, you have to get to 300 degrees before you drag your opponent, 
 you also have to put him red to, it was alright though. Not only that the inferno match is in the 
 game, now you get the good old matches like in the other games, steel cage, hell in a cell, elimination 
 chamber (they need to fix the turnbuckle glitch) , ladder match, money in the bank match, backstage 
 brawl (with new backstage areas, awesome) , and a lot of matches that will last you a long time. 
 It also has the best roster in a SVR Game, it has over 60 guys in the game with new improve Caws. 
 Caws (Create a Wrestler) is just so fun to do guys! You could let your guy were whatever you want 
 your guy to wear, you could make over hundreds of CAWS. You could make your Experience up by doing 
 the Career mode, along with new abilities with your guy. Speeking of Career mode. This is the only 
 thing that was'nt that good since you have to pick the matches (boring, huh!) and you have (yes 
 i mean it) no cutscenes in the career mode, sadly, but the abilites to your guy will keep it up, 
 atleast, you only have to pick 6 abilities to your guy. The Road to Wrestlemania mode is the best 
 thing this game ever offer, and yes it has cutscenes. The only guys in the road to wrestlemania 
 storylines (only) are Triple H, CM Punk, Chris Jericho, John cena, Undertaker (the best storyline 
 of all) , then Batista and Rey mysterio tag team storyline, with CO-OP Play, but no online CO-OP. 
 I have to say that's fun since you could get amount of achievements by their, and theirs only 14 
 achievements in the game, lol. Oh, speeking of the online play. I did'nt like it really since theirs 
 a lot of lag online, but if you get the right person (nice person) with no lag and all, then its 
 pretty fun, but still did'nt like it.
  
  All i have to say is get this game and it will last you a long time you WWE Fans. Thanks for reading 
 my review on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avishkar14
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Well, SVR 09 is not any pathbreaking game. However, there are some interesting features in this 
 game which really draws the attention of the SVR fans. 
  
  To start off, the Road to WM mode is simply amazing. You get to play 6 different Roads to WM of 
 different WWE superstars. Each Road to WM will approximately take you 3-4 hours to complete and 
 is just plain fun! This is definitely the best feature of this game and perhaps, the series.
  
  Another interesting feature of this game is the several bonuses which you can unlock during 
 the Road to WM mode. This makes playing the Road to WM game mode even more fun as you can even 
 unlock superstars at the end of a superstar's Road to WM.
  
  Graphics and gameplay remain more or less the same as SVR 07 and SVR 08, most probably because 
 the same engine has been used.
  
  Career mode has been disappointing this time. With a killer Road to WM feature, an interesting 
 career mode would have really boosted the ratings of this game but that wasn't the case.
  
  Overall, I would say that although this game is not something extra-ordinary, every SVR fan should 
 try it out and play it because it definitely is a lot of fun. I would recommend you'll to first 
 rent it and if you guys like it, then you'll can always go to the store and purchase it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLPyPuH
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  The SmackDown! franchise is one of very high prestige. For over ten years, Wrestling's favourite 
 sim series has evolved, and on its path, has had ups and downs. SvR '08, for example, was a poor 
 game. The lack of longevity and a decently sized roster made it pretty disappointing. 
  On an example of the ups, however, is the latest addition to the series. SmackDown vs Raw 2009 
 is the best grappler since Here Comes The Pain, which was way back in 2003. This year's edition 
 is one that resolves the problems with last year's game; A huge roster this time, plus many new 
 modes to keep us entertained. We have a revamped Tag Team Match, the first ever appearance of an 
 Inferno match in a videogame, Career Mode, and so many more. The main game mode is Road To Wrestlemania, 
 which features 6 different storylines, designed for their respective wrestler. The stories are 
 short, but sweet, and stick true to the character throughout. This story mode is also the best 
 we've seen since HCTP. 
  The graphics are very impressive, once again, although we still have the occassional clipping faults, 
 which have been reduced since last year. 
  The sound is reasonable - commentary is improved by far, yet still has flaws here and there. Unfortunately, 
 though, the sound of a powerslam isn't quite as "oofah" as it should be.
  Gameplay is same old, same old, for an avid wrestling game fan. Whilst with a few new tweaks, many 
 returning players will instantly recognise the same mechanics from previous games.
  So far, so good. But there's one thing about this game that really puts me off it, and takes a 
 good 0.5 from the scoring system; Difficulty. 
  I'm not sure if difficulty is the correct term, seeing as there practically is none. I play the 
 game on Legend difficulty (the hardest of the four) and still plow through matches with ease. It 
 annoys me that I can't enjoy a challenging match without playing online, in which case I'm bombarded 
 with noobs that repeat a diving elbow from the top rope. I'd love to see a Madden NFL 09-style 
 'adaptive skill level' system, but knowing THQ, I'm pretty sure it'd be half-assed and completely 
 unhelpful. 
  I hate to end a review on such a bad note but it's just as the game is; You'll enjoy playing it 
 until you get bored of winning so easily. And even if you want some more content, for the Xbox 
 360 edition in particular, THQ have botched up the DLC aswell, with the downloadable addition being 
 over 2 months late now. Will we ever see the DLC? Will we ever see a challenging SvR game? Hopefully, 
 because soon enough, boredom will come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatimmajid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  To be fair to WWE2009 I have to project some light on the previous releases, WWE 2008, management 
 mode 24/7 is very disappointing and very linear no matter what your answer is the result is one. 
 Very tediously repetitive ultimately if you are not a fan you are going to hate the game! 
  
  WWE2009 got fixed and you have a career mode which brings the whole game to one point, wrestle 
 and win with a little bit of feuds between the stars. 
  
  The playing mechanism got improved and menus and such got tweaked to be game theme related. Animation 
 dramatically been enhanced and movement got a lot smoother. One improvise feature was create your 
 own finisher, it a fun option to play with creating your own signature. It's a great fun if you 
 got a friend one on one hardcore is my all time favorite. 
  
  The game is for sure not appealing to all tastes so if you liked WWE2008 you are going to appreciate 
 the effort in the 2009, and if you never played it before, I recommend that you rent it or borrow 
 it from a friend! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone, and thank you for reading. Today's topic is the game, "Smackdown vs Raw 2009." 
 The game wasn't really looked forward by many people, but for the people who have been playing 
 these games ever since they came out they looked forward to it. I'm one of thoughs people, and 
 Its sad to say that this game is the worst so far out of the series. I mean you would think that 
 a game would get better the older it gets, or the more experience the people who make it get. Anyways 
 time for THE LIST!!
  
  Graphics: Alright, when I first saw the game at my house in the console and running I was just 
 astounished. They look horrible, I mean they just look bad. Sure, they have the same crappy blood 
 affects, but come on the people in this game have gotten ten times worse. Its so hard to get through 
 a dang match having to look at a person that looks like a PS 1 model. Even the fireworks look bad, 
 and thats saying something considering the fact that in the past they haven't been that bad. Overall 
 graphics get a 6 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay: The controls in the game are the same as the past 08 version, which I want to say is 
 ten thousand times better. OK, the vibrations in this game are laking a lot! Now when you throw 
 some one into a ring post you get nothing, and from what I can tell sometimes when you throw the 
 people across the ring there is nothing either. A big thing that I saw was that the 1 2 3 doesn't 
 come on the screen anymore that made me mad. Still a lot of glitches in the game, but there has 
 always been glitches. Overall gameplay gets a 7.5 out of 10. The other story lines are alright, 
 but nothing to get excited about.
  
  Overall: OK, this is sad to say, but just don't buy or rent this game its just bad. I like to some 
 degree, but that is because I'm a fan of the series. So, if you are a fan of the series go try 
 it, but don't say I didn't warn you. SO yeah this game gets my lowest score to date a 6.5 out of 
 10. MC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therockkratos
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  ACTUALLY THIS IS THE BEST WRESTLING GAME, THE GAME HAS A GOOD GRAPHIC NICE MOVE BUT YOU NEED TO 
 PUT MORE ORIGINAL MOVE FOR EACH PLAYER LIKE SVR 2006 OR THE FIRST SVR. THE ANOTHER GOOD THING IS 
 THE CREATE A FINISHER IT IS VERY NICE I HAVE ALWAYS DREAM TO MAKE MY OWN FINISHER THAT IS A GOOD 
 IDEA. THE EFFECT WHEN WE DO A FINISHER IS VERY GREAT, YOU MUST RE ADD THE STEAL YOUR OPPONENT FINISHER 
 MOVE WITH ALL CHARACTERS THE GAME WILL BETTER ASPECT. GREAT JOB DONE WELL. THE ROAD TO WRESTLE 
 MANIA IS SOMETHING NEW AND WOW VERY GOOD MODE GOOD THINKING I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE AN INTRO MOVIE 
 AT THE BEGINNING OF THE GAME AND THINK TO PUT THE CHALLENGE MODE LIKE THE PREVIOUS OPUS. GO FURTHER 
 YOU HAVE GOOD IDEA BUT THINK MORE ABOUT MOVE AND ORIGINALITY, I' VE SORED IT 10 BECAUSE IT IS MY 
 PREFER GAME HOPE THE NEXT ONE WILL BE MORE COMPLETE AND ALL CHARACTER WITH ALL TO ALL THEIR ORIGINAL 
 MOVE NOT WITH SOME MOVE LIKE THE REAL CHARACTERS DON'T DO. MAKE YOUR BEST TO PUT THE GAME AT HIS 
 BEST LEVEL. THE CREATE A CHARACTER IS VERY GOOD AND COMPLETE THIS MODE IS AT HIS TOP LEVEL AND 
 THE ONLINE MODE IS VERY ATTRACTIVE WITH GREAT IDEA. I SPENT ALL OF MY TIME ON IT. YOU DONE WELL 
 JUST CONTINUE IN THE RIGHT WAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trendkiller88
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played SvR 06-08, you know exactly what to expect. Same formula, same moves, same 
 everything. Let's start with the basic gameplay. THQ has changed a few of the animations around 
 for various aspects of the game. For instance, when you break through the roof of the Hell in a 
 Cell, your character will grab onto the frame with one hand, and then he will swing until he is 
 almost horizontal and then fall to the mat. Yes, that's right... they have finally changed the animation 
 that has been in the game since Smackdown 2 on the PS1. There are a few other notable changes to 
 basic gameplay, but I'm not going to go into detail each one. The roster is somewhat decent and 
 for the most part, up to date. They removed GM mode this year, which imo was a mistake. I enjoyed 
 managing my own brand, signing the talent, and booking the matches. So, if you're a big fan of 
 GM mode, you will be disappointed immediately. Road to Wrestlemania mode is a nice addition, however 
 it just simply isn't long enough considering that there are only 4-5 single competitors and one 
 tag team (Rey and Batista) that have a storyline. I will be keeping an eye on future installments, 
 because this feature could very well be the best thing this game has to offer. The Inferno match 
 really isn't that exciting. In fact, it's actually kind of dull. Again, hopefully future installments 
 will make this match live up to it's potential. And finally, we have the Create-A-Finisher mode. 
 This is actually pretty cool, but not all of the animations blend smoothly together. Aside from 
 the few things I listed, it's all the same. I advise you to wait until the price drops to around 
 $30-$40 before making a purchase. That's all for now, kids. Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chacarron11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Aaahh, wrestling, sweaty guys beating each other. Its pure simplicity. And it is AWESOME to make 
 someone bleed with a chairshot to the face!!!
  This game, to say the least, is ARCADE. You go in, beat your opponent up, pin him/her, and woo. 
 Good job, Young Ranger.
  There are a few other match types, like ladder or steel cage, and even inferno. These are pretty 
 long matches, and if you put it on a high difficulty, you'd better get comfy.
  The inferno is something you don't play. You wait until your mates come over and want to see it.
 
  The commentary is okay, but even if its a 1v1, they say something like "they hit their opponents 
 hard with that larriet." And, if you put someone through an announce table, or throw someone off 
 the top of the Hell in a Cell, the commentary is quite early. But, its always a pleasure to hear 
 JR say something about a Slobberknocker after you give someone the GTS.
  Create a Superstar is always fun. You can give your guy a mohawk, no pupils, scars... you can even 
 make your Diva wear only her bra and panties. You can create move sets, and finishers... its pretty 
 cool.
  All in all, its pretty fun, but it would've been better with more depth and a more thorough Career 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich1115
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Even though there are somethings that aren't all that great about the game, the one thing i've 
 been waiting for , for some odd years is the Create-A-Finisher extra... As soon as I popped the 
 game into my 360, that was the very first thing I started doing, I made my own finisher and it 
 looked very realistic. Some pros about the game: Create A Finisher, Better Graphics, Tag Team has 
 improved, Create An Entrance looks better also, Cool titles to get in Career Mode, you can do different 
 tournaments with friends and family (like the King of the Ring, the Beat the Clock challenge, etc) . 
 Some Cons: Inferno match is not all its cracked up to be, Road To Wrestlemania isn't as bad as 
 last years but its still pretty bad, some of the extra things you can get aren't all that great. 
 All in all, the game is pretty decent, I really enjoyed it especially mixing my Created Superstar 
 with my Created Finishers. I give this game 4.5 stars out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5iveO
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:22 am PT
Review:  WWe Smackdown vs Raw 2009 is an all round great game with some new added touches.
  The Create-a-Wrestler, finisher and entrance are perfect and you will find yourself there for quite 
 some time if you want the perfect wrestler, theres that much to choose from!
  
  You can also add your own theme music to the game from your xbox hard-drive which is real handy 
 if you want to create past wwf/wwe stars, in my case Jake ' The Snake ' Roberts.
  
  The graphics and animations look crisp and sharp, only problem I found was when leaving the ring 
 and wrestling at ringside, you seem to have an unusual camera angle which cannot be changed.
  
  I was really disapointed with the Career mode which has no storyline whatsoever, its basically 
 just pick your path and wrestle each superstar, making sure you earn enough stars (range from 1 
 to 5) to become the No#1 Contender and then challenge for the title.
  But besides that This is a great game and any true WWe will love it, I recommend renting first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  this game is good, but not great. it improved on last years game vastly, but its still like a recycled 
 game from 08.
  
  this game is fun, all these new characters are good and all, but u wont use all of em, so dont 
 get all crazy saying" it has over 60 characters". u will probably use 30 of em at the most
  
  this game is good, u can finally throw someone into the steel steps, u can run up the steel 
 steps, new fireworks are ok. finally a good soundtrack.
  
  now for RTWM: its ok, each one is 13 weeks, the story's are ok and all, not nothing to be excited 
 about
  
  probably the best part about RTWM is that u get achievement points for finishing em, thats about 
 it
  
  some unlockables come from RTWM, the rest can be found in the cheat codes
  
  hornswoggle can be used, but only to take out he shelille for finaly
  
  pretty much it:
  
 
  PROS:
  
  Graphics
  
  Achievement points are easy
  
  feels fun, tag team match is better
  
  inferno match is ok
  
  CONS:
  
  recycled for 
 the past 2 years
  
  rtwm is not exciting
  
  they got rid of the games best mode: GM mode
  
  oh yea, and lastly, the difficulty on legendary 
 is harder this year, which makes the game better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  In with the old, and in with the new.
  
  While it is traditional for games to keep what works and throw out what does not, SVR09 remains 
 almost unchanged from SVR08. Graphics have received slight upgrade and the menus have changed, 
 but the same collision flaws, poor move design, clunky controls, and often annoying and repetitive 
 audio remain. All previous modes and matches return with the only new addition being the inferno 
 match. While this sounds exciting and "fresh" the result is a typical match in which you fight 
 until the flames are a certain heat and then drag your opponent to the flames, setting them a blaze.
 
  
  One of the major changes is the Road to Wrestlemania feature, which allows you to take John Cena, 
 HHH, CM Punk, Chris Jericho, the Undertaker, and the tag team of Rey Mysterio and Batista through 
 the weekly soap opera that is the WWE on the ultimate quest for glory - the WWE championship. These 
 individualized story lines take about an hour to complete and convey the overdrawn and outlandish 
 (Santino Zombie? Really?) storylines of the WWE, and are a surprisingly entertaining way to experience 
 this game. My one gripe is that there are only 6 different story lines, and, although they have 
 branching paths, you're likely to only go through them again for 
 
  
  If you don't feel particularly fond of any of the superstars, you can take any superstar including 
 a created one of your own on the career mode, which lets you pick a title path and fight your way 
 to number one contendership and, ultimately, win the gold. This mode is interesting in that your 
 superstar upgrades depending on how you play. If you taunt a lot, your character will gain charisma 
 points and open up special abilities, such as the ability to steal your opponents taunt, crushing 
 their momentum in the process. Use enough weapons and your characters harcore stats increase. The 
 problem is that you are not able to choose your special abilites or change them. Once you hit the 
 limit (6) you will not be able to unlock any more and you cannot change the ones that you have. 
 This is extremely frustrating, especially if you spent hours creating the perfect wrestler, only 
 to get him stuck with crappy attributes and abilities. It is also disappointing that in a game 
 that touts tag team innovation, there is no co-op tag team path, whether online or off.
  
  The robust creation modes make a triumphant return, complete with create-a-wrestler, create-a-stable, 
 create-a-moveset, create-an-entrance, create-a-title, and the all new create-a-finisher, which 
 allows you to give any wrestler, created or original, a new finishing move to "pwn" their opponents. 
 This mode shows a lot of promise, but the lack of choice in moves combined with the inability to 
 choose positioning for move execution shoots down what could've been.
  
  SVR09 is a good game that had potential to be great. I would be forgiving of the annual missteps 
 that creep into each iteration if there was something new and innovating each time around. The 
 problem is that there is not enough new content to warrant the same issues every year. Road to 
 Wresltemania is a great feature, but the lack of depth and quantity combined with not even an iota 
 of DLC mares the experience. Career mode is enjoyable, but there was not enough thought put into 
 it to make it a worthwhile investment of time. Tag Team co-op is a shell of what it should be in 
 a game that's touted as the "ultimate tag team experience." In the end, SVR09 packs a bunch, but 
 ultimately ends up on its back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 111111114111111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  After having played the game for a couple of weeks, I finally feel in a position to review the 
 game. After many people felt let down by last years grappler, smackdown vs raw 2009 had been promised 
 to be a much better game and it delivered to some degree.
  
  As always in a smackdown game, there are many match types on offer in the game that will have hardcore 
 fans playing for hours. And with the addition of the much requested inferno match and a number 
 of unlockable match types, more fun is to be had here. When you finally pick one of the many match 
 types and press play match the entrances will start to play. Although alot of the entrances in 
 the game that have been redone are good, THQ and Yukes have been somewhat lazy in some of the entrance 
 animations and have recycled some from last years game. But still are realistic and capture the 
 WWE entrances just like in real life. When this is done and you finally step into the ring, the 
 diffrences start to show. Alot of tweaking has been done in the game this year, although the system 
 is pretty much the same, the game runs alot smoother and the improvements made add to the realism 
 of the game, the AI has improved and you now get some competitive matches on the occasion although 
 experienced games may still find them easy, but still its harder than last years branless zombies. 
 the moves you pull off feel more realistic although you still have to listen to the inadequate 
 commentry from the likes of JR and King, Cole and Coach and the ECW team of Taz and Styles. A nice 
 touch added to the game this year is a signature move system. When a finisher is available it can 
 be stored as a signature if you wish and can be used later in the match, also more fighting styles 
 have been added and each superstar has six in total and they are many fighting abilities in the 
 game. For example the submission one lets a wreslter to beable to make the opponent tap to a regular 
 submission hold if they have the submission fighting style. If they havent, then only a submission 
 finisher can finish off the opponent. 
  
  After last years disapointing 24/7 mode. The mode has been totally scrapped and replaced by the 
 road to wresltemania mode. Although many may have been disapointed that only seven wrestlers are 
 playable in this mode and create a superstars cannot be used. The characters in which you can play 
 have a 3 month period leading up to wrestlemania and feature in depth storylines specifically written 
 for the character you wish to play as. Depending on your choices in your road to wrestlemania changes 
 the path you take. Although the mode is very in depth due to the short length of eahc persons road 
 to wrestlemania, you may find yourself having finished all the stories after a week or so and maybe 
 fans may have been open to a little longer in the RTW with the sacrifice of the in depth stories 
 and settled for a longer story with numerous paths for your favourite wrestler to take. But fear 
 not, when you have finished all the stories there is still a lot in the game you can do.
  
  Create a superstar is back as always and is better than ever. Some work has been done to make some 
 parts 3D with some additional parts to choose from. Although very similar to last years create 
 a superstar, it get the thumbs up from me.
  
  After having created your superstar, and customised his entrance you can opt to create a finisher 
 for your created wrestler or create a new finisher for an existing superstar in create a superstar 
 mode. For a 1st attempt the mode is very good and although you can create every move possible as 
 said. You can spend hours creating a finisher from the 500+ animations. Although created finishers 
 can only be done from your opponent standing facing you groggy, the mode has a lot of potential 
 for the future where other positions could be available and I'm sure creating submission moves 
 would really excite wrestling fans. The mode though is impressive. 
  
  Even after doing all that there is still the career mode option which replaces the recent GM mode. 
 You can take any superstar or created wrestler through this mode where you rise through the ranks 
 and win every WWE championship possible, as well as unlocking bonuses along the way. When the mode 
 starts you start with a 36 overall which improves after each match, say your superstar pulls a 
 string of submission moves, his submission stat will improve considerably, should he go hardcore 
 and use a range of weapons in the match, his hardcore stat will increase more. Almost all your 
 sats will recieve an increase big or small after each match. Also in this mode your created wrestler 
 can earn fighting abilities as they are no longer given them. You will unlock these along the way.
 
  
  New to this years game also is the roster editor, which enables you to switch the brands of superstar 
 in exhibition, change heel or faces and belts.
  
  Then last but not least is the all impressive highlight reel, I know what you may be thinking, 
 Jericho hasnt brought his show back, this is a feature that enables you to save clips from matches 
 and edit them in this mode. Put clip together, change camera angles, or save still images, its 
 your call.
  
  If thats not enough then there is a number of downloadable content available soon which features 
 new superstars and attires for wrestlers in the game, and od course you can always test your skills 
 on line via Xbox live.
  
  Overall smackdown vs raw 2009 is a much better game than last years effort and there is so much 
 for you to do that its impossible to get bored. And although theres still a lot of improvements 
 that can be made, the game is heading very nicely in the right directions.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Sound: 7.5
  
  Value: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedRose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, i have to say, i've finally found a video game i'm great at off the bat, i've created an 
 awesome wrestler that actually looks some what real, i have an easy time creating effective and 
 awesome looking finishers and entrances. All the new features are worth looking into and exploring 
 all the more. And its great to play with ur mates for awesome royal rumble action, better than 
 the others in this series so far. the range of wrestlemania wrestlers could be better but the ones 
 chosen are excellent to play as. Overall a good game for both male and female fans. You could spend 
 absolutely hours just creatign loads of different characters. finishers and entrances its just 
 fun. Alot of the stupid hairstyles and outfits have been cut leaving good choices for whatever 
 type of wrestler u want. And if ur a girl and u want to create and play as a diva u'll have no 
 problems what so ever. The button configuration is easier to understand that the ps2. It is easy 
 to play for seasoned WWE fans, but its also a great starting game for those new to the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Alex_92
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This smackdown vs raw 09 has to be the best in the series. They are starting to get new ideas for 
 there games now as the like 06 and 07 were very simulor GOOD THINGS
  
  New types of matches eg inferno match and the gunlet match which u have to unlock.
  
  the road 
 to wrestlemaina is by far the best thing they have done for years.
  
  more wrestlers to choose from and there is unlockable iteams for some of the wrestles eg hornswoggle 
 as a manger
  
  Bad things the game still lackes the reveal buttons and is very easy to revease if u are online 
 OVERALL
  
  it is worth buying and will get hours and hours of fun playing. 
  
  |WWE VS TNA 
  
  both games are good but i would have to say that sackdown vs raw is the better 
 game but smackdown will have to produce a better game this next year because tna could and should 
 be the better game cant wait for the new legends of wrestlemaina to come out is will be brill because 
 u can mingle both games together 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for so long for this game to come out and now that it has, i rented it and played 
 it. Honestly, i thought it would be better. First, let me be the first one to tell you that Road 
 to Wrestlemania, the new story mode, is not that interesting and it gets boring after a while. 
 My favorite character to play as was probably chris jericho or triple h. The darn annoying glitches 
 are back and they're still as annoying. The gameplay really gets on your nerves cuz of the controls. 
 They should really switch up the controls because the gameplay varies on that. The new matchs are 
 pretty cool like the inferno matches. The Backstage brawls are lame and they suck. You could do 
 more things in the brawls in SVR 2008. So those sucked. There's a lot more characters but not enough. 
 A lot of the new superstars aren't on this game and i thought they would be. They switched up some 
 of the entrance themes to superstars and it sounds wierd. They don't give enough options for creation 
 mode and i expected more from Create-a-finisher. I didn't really like it and i thought it would 
 be incredible. The graphics improved and career mode sucks this time around. multiplayer is pretty 
 fun but still not there. Just rent it and see for yourself and i don't think that it will be the 
 best christmas present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  In the WWE, it's not uncommon for seemingly vanquished superstars to return at random, handing 
 out fresh beatdowns and earning back their former glory. After a disappointing showing last year, 
 THQ's long-running SmackDown vs. Raw series has returned to the ring, having spent the year slimming 
 down and focusing on its core strengths. The work has paid off: a lot of extraneous elements have 
 been removed, the creation toolset is better than ever, and there are two modes that offer satisfying 
 single-player arcs. Though it is still hampered by a number of lingering issues, WWE SmackDown 
 vs. Raw 2009 manages to recapture some of the glory of its younger years. 
  
  The most notable improvements are in the single-player realm. The lackluster 24/7 mode has been 
 ditched in favor of a lengthy Career mode and the scripted Road to Wrestlemania. In the Career 
 mode, you choose a superstar (existing or created) and enter a bracket to make a bid for the title 
 belt. Each bracket has five opponents including the current champion, and you'll have to earn stars 
 by winning matches in order to get a shot at the title. You win up to five stars for each match 
 by earning points in three areas: match results, technical, and excitement. These categories encourage 
 you to get into the WWE superstar mindset by rewarding you for both pummeling and mocking your 
 opponent. At the end of each match your attributes will increase and your health will replenish 
 based on how the match went -- no micromanagement here. You'll also earn amusing awards for things 
 like striking your opponent 35 times or breaking a barbed-wire-wrapped plank over his or her back. 
 It only takes a handful of successful matches to earn you a title shot, which is great because 
 it keeps your career moving along at a good clip. This action-packed Career mode is the perfect 
 complement to the Create A Superstar mode, and winning belt after belt as you bulk up your created 
 character is satisfying and fun. 
  
  The other single-player mode, Road to Wrestlemania, features six unique story arcs that let you 
 play as WWE superstars like The Undertaker or John Cena and defeat numerous foes (and a few nemeses) 
 on your quest for Wrestlemania glory. Matches are interspersed with story scenes packed with typical 
 WWE action and voiced by actual WWE superstars, so fans of outrageous melodrama will be well pleased. 
 In keeping with traditional SmackDown vs. Raw strengths, the superstar models, entrances, and arenas 
 are all excellent. While the character animations are good (despite occasional clipping problems) , 
 the wrestlers still lack fluidity when maneuvering around the ring. This feels like a result of 
 staying too true to the source material: though WWE wrestlers do often move slowly, it's not very 
 exciting to actually plod around the ring in a video game. The audio only further detracts from 
 the excitement factor. Four-hundred-pound men hit the mat with all the impact of a child shutting 
 a car door, and the strongest punches sound like a raw chicken breast being dropped on the floor. 
 It dampens the supposedly hard-hitting action, and while the once-dismal announcers from years 
 past have been improved quite a bit, the sound design is in serious need of a shot in the arm. 
 
  
  Despite how it may sound, the action is indeed hard-hitting. It's easy to perform powerful moves 
 using the analog stick and a few buttons, and the breadth of things you can do in and out of the 
 ring is impressive. From removing the turnbuckle cover to slamming your opponent through a burning 
 table, there's no shortage of satisfying ways to deal damage. Specific match types have their own 
 nasty additions, from rubbing your opponent's face against the elimination chamber to the powerful 
 hot tag, which allows a tag team partner to build up momentum so that, when tagged in, he or she 
 will get the quicktime chance to unleash two unblockable attacks followed by a finisher. Enabling 
 such a wide variety of moves is one of SmackDown vs. Raw 2009's chief strengths. Like previous 
 games in the series, it too relies on relative position to increase your repertoire, and your wrestler 
 is still prone to miscues as a result. However, missing a move because you aren't quite in the 
 correct position is less frustrating than missing one because your opponent is in an uninterruptible 
 animation. This usually crops up in matches with three or more players, when one player is performing 
 a move on another. In these realistic-to-a-fault situations you get a good feeling for just how 
 exciting it is to stand passively aside while other wrestlers battle it out. 
  
  In addition to the Career and Road to Wrestlemania modes, the competent AI and unique wrestler 
 abilities make playing single-player much more appealing in SmackDown vs. Raw 2009. No longer content 
 to stand around drooling, computer opponents will actively attack you, tag their partners (you 
 included) , and use environmental elements reasonably well. Though the Road to Wrestlemania and 
 early stages of the Career mode will seem easy to experienced players, it won't feel like you're 
 playing against brainless apes. Last year's fighting style system has been removed, and in its 
 place are unique wrestler abilities that existing superstars have and created superstars can earn. 
 The effects range from attribute boosts (able to remove belt in ladder match faster) to enhanced 
 abilities (can regenerate a small amount of health) . While these abilities aren't particularly 
 powerful, they can come in handy during tight matches. 
  
  While you might not have tight matches against the computer, you are sure to find tough competition 
 online. You can use SmackDown, Raw, ECW or created superstars as you face off in ranked or unranked 
 play in any of the match types that support one to four players (six-man matches and royal rumbles 
 only available locally) . Against tougher players, any miscues due to bad position, odd animation, 
 or the semi-frequent lag are likely to cost you dearly, and once your opponent has you on the ropes 
 you'll be hard-pressed to reverse your way out of it. The best new online feature in WWE SmackDown 
 vs. Raw 2009 is the WWE Highlight Reel. Anyone can capture clips from their matches, edit them 
 together using the robust toolset, and then upload their clip or screenshots for all to view and 
 rate. Those willing to invest some time will be able to create some pretty excellent stuff, as 
 evidenced by the existing image of Freddy fighting Jason in a flaming ring and video of Obama giving 
 McCain the Rock Bottom. 
  
  Of course, these hilarious videos wouldn't be possible without the still-impressive Create A Superstar 
 tool. Once again, with a little time and patience, you can create almost anyone you like, from 
 famous celebrities to hideous abominations. You can then customize your character's move set to 
 craft their fighting style, choreograph their ring entrance, and even create a finisher to decide 
 how he or she (or it) will finish opponents off. The Create A Finisher tool allows you choose from 
 a huge list of move parts and chain up to 10 of them together to create a finisher as quick and 
 brutal or as long and painful as you want. You'll get a constantly updating preview of the move 
 while you design it so you can easily tweak it to your liking. It's really fun just to experiment 
 with all the different move combinations, and this feature really rounds off a formidable suite 
 of customization tools. 
  
  WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 benefits greatly by restraining its scope. You can still edit rosters 
 in Career mode, but other than that the menu-heavy GM mode has been fully dropped. The result is 
 a game completely focused on action, and on letting you customize and record that action. While 
 some elements still need improvement, SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 is ultimately successful because it 
 embraces the dramatic fights and outrageous showmanship that are the heart and soul of the WWE. 
 
  
  9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  For wrestling fans, 2008 will go down as the year Chris Jericho carried an entire show on his shoulders, 
 Mike Adamle stumbled his way to the top and thus proving that talent is nary rewarded, Edge went 
 to hell and nobody raised any questions, the year everyone but jokesters forgot that a wrestler 
 killed his family and himself the previous year, and the year TNA made absolutely no progress in 
 their struggle to be anything but a second-rate WWE knockoff (a mentality that has carried over 
 into their video game!)
  
  My heart fills with trepidation every time a new Smackdown game is announced, hyped, released and 
 left to disappoint the (approximately) one million wrestling fans who pick up a copy. It seems 
 that for the past couple years, developer Yukes and publisher THQ seem to focus their efforts on 
 developing shoddy gimmick matches, game-breaking mechanics and a half-hearted single player story 
 mode, instead of correcting the game's numerous existing flaws. The 2009 edition seemed poised 
 to follow in those exact footsteps, with the entire PR being focused on an elaborate new Tag Team 
 gameplay system and the addition of the "Inferno Match", a gimmick match that comes to us about 
 ten years too late from when an inferno match was last considered relevant. (If we're looking to 
 the past for our new match ideas, how about War Games? I'm just saying)
  
  Well, to the surprise of no one, the Inferno match is another lame duck gimmick that you'll probably 
 never touch again after playing it once, except in the instance that your friends come over and 
 want to see it for themselves and thus annoy you.
  
  However, what will be a surprise to everyone is how well the rest of the game turned out. By and 
 large, almost everything that has been promised in this year's game delivers, which is certainly 
 a shocking revelation in my mind. They even silenced a few issues that I was thinking about complaining 
 about; like how in previous games, there only seemed to be two different difficulty settings, "Gillberg" 
 and "opponents that instantaneously counter every maneuver you throw at them." By default, that'll 
 still be the casebut if you explore the options menu, you'll discover an elaborate new menu screen 
 comprising of slider bars that enable you to dictate how frequently the AI counters any type of 
 move, how easy it'll be for you to pull off counters, and several other options. I can't state 
 enough how grateful I am to see these options present in a wrestling game. Thanks THQ!
  
  And thanks THQ for the new and improved Tag Team mechanics. I know it seems absolutely baffling 
 for a WWE game to put so much emphasis on Tag Team gameplay when the WWE itself shows complete 
 negligence to said wrestling style, but consider me surprised as I can't think of another wrestling 
 game to do Tag matches so well! It didn't occur to me until recently that Tag matches in wrestling 
 games are always broken messes where one partner does all the work, the AI is dimwitted and it's 
 almost impossible to score a victory. Because of such, players would only play tornado tag matches 
 or battle royales when more than two people were involved. Here, the man sitting on the apron has 
 plenty to do, but is limited in that cheating will lower the momentum bar that both partners now 
 share. Double team moves are easier to pull off and now the partner can rally the crowd to get 
 his partner in trouble to pull off the ever-popular "hot tag", where if executed, he'll come in 
 with full momentum and knock down all of his opponents. On top of that, the AI is now (mostly) 
 reliable and will either try to break pinfalls or protect your attempts at a victory. Suddenly, 
 tag matches have developed a unique ebb and flow, becoming fun to play and have gone from the least 
 occurring match type to see online to the most popular.
  
  Speaking of onlinethe online service has made a small leap forward. Before I could almost never 
 start a new online sessionnow I can! The netcode for Smackdown vs. Raw this year has at least 
 improved that muchbut at the same time, it seems that there's at least a full second's worth of 
 lag to hamper your experience. Well, I guess it's an improvement, but a franchise as popular as 
 the Smackdown series should be able to afford the best online support money can buy. Somebody's 
 college dorm room Counter-Strike server shouldn't be outperforming one of servers of one of the 
 largest game publishers in the country.
  
  Otherwise, the gameplay mechanics are by and large, the same as they've been the last few years. 
 I've finally grown to accept the right analog stick as the means to pull off grapple attacks, which 
 feel more intuitive here than in past games, where certain directions would result in a lengthy, 
 canned animation of your wrestler locking up before executing a move. Certain wrestling moves are 
 interactive, where your wrestler will pull off different attacks from say, a headlock, based on 
 what you press with the stick. You don't need to know much about the game to get by, but at the 
 same time, I found myself being surprised by what new abilities I didn't know about and stumbled 
 across from experimentation, like chop battles in the corner or a good guy's ability to fire up 
 after sustaining enough abuse. The game has a considerable amount of depth to study, and most characters 
 feel unique and true to their real life personas. Rey Mysterio can bounce off the ropes with ease 
 while Randy Orton can grab the ropes for a pinfall.
  
  Another new and much appreciated addition is the new campaign mode, Road to Wrestlemania. Gone 
 is the General Manager or 24/7 mode of past games that left you to manage all kinds of stats that 
 were anything but realistic and can best be described as Some Horribly Intentioned Tragedy of gameplay. 
 Here, there's no micromanagement, instead you pick one of six storylines (John Cena, Triple H, 
 Chris Jericho, CM Punk, Undertaker and a two player-optional mode with Batista and Rey Mysterio) 
 and play through a linear series of cutscenes and matches. While many little girls are going to 
 be upset that Jeff Hardy isn't in the mix, much less whoever you the reader's favorite wrestler 
 might be, that shouldn't matter because most of the campaigns wind up being very entertaining. 
 The stories are creative in their own way, in part because you'll most likely never see them work 
 on actual television, like a wrestler forming his own country or Tommy Dreamer winning a match. 
 There are several nice little touches too, like the announcers talking about the present storyline 
 to not make you feel like you're just playing regular exhibition matches, and optional side goals 
 such as "put your opponent through a table" or "make your opponent bleed" (you know, the kind of 
 things that would only make sense to a wrestling fan) which allow you to unlock bonus content, 
 they help make this mode feel a bit special.
  
  And for those that absolutely must have a single player mode that lets them play as Festus, why 
 there's something for you too. Career mode lets you pick a wrestler, created or otherwise, strips 
 him of all his stats so that he has the strength, speed and charisma of a koala, and lets you fight 
 a series of choice opponents in order to win assorted championship titles. Your performance in 
 each match will affect what stats and special abilities your character develops; use a lot of power 
 moves and your character's strength rating improves and so forth. The idea is nice in theory but 
 I always hate games where the only way to improve a wrestler's toughness or health rating is to 
 get beat up. Likewise, the game wants you to use your created wrestler in this mode, because the 
 game gives you no alternative for improving his or her stats to anything beyond jobber. Any wrestler 
 you create will, by default, be a weakling and the only way to fix that is to go through this otherwise 
 lengthy process. This presents quite an issue for fans that like to create twenty or thirty wrestlers, 
 be it their creation or otherwise. THQ has promised a fix for this in January.
  
  At the end of the day, it's still a Smackdown game, albeit the most improved Smackdown game in 
 several years. If you haven't gotten sick of the Smackdown engine (we've all complained about the 
 clipping issues in the past, but you sit down with 3DStudioMax and try to create 300 move animations, 
 and then find a way to make them match 50 different wrestler body-sizes and then you can talk) 
 and you're not a Fire Pro Wrestling elitist who harps on everything THQ has thrown out since No 
 Mercy, then you'll be quite pleased with Smackdown vs. Raw 2009. No, it's not perfect, but if the 
 perfect wrestling game were to ever come out, we'd never have a need to buy the next yearly installment 
 that promises us the world and gives us Snitsky. What is here is strong enough to make the plunge, 
 and for what its worth, it makes the TNA Impact game look stale in comparison.
  
  Pros : The wrestler creation tools are strong as always. You have a ton of possible clothing and 
 attack choices for your wrestler, and plenty of ways to tweak their entrance. New for 2009 is the 
 Create a Finisher option, which while not being exceptionally versatile (you're choosing from a 
 list of canned animations) , can still be a tad interesting if you tinker with it. The roster doesn't 
 feel too dated, as while there are a number of wrestlers that have long since been fired, almost 
 all of the current big stars are accounted for. THQ promises downloadable content in the future.
 
  
  Cons : The Miz looks like an alien child. Commentary as a whole is still terrible in all regards. 
 Some of the voicework sounds like it was done in a log cabin in the French Alps. In-game dynamic 
 advertisingI don't mind it when it relates to wrestling-related ads like merchandise, but I'm 
 already sick of seeing the HMV logo splattered at various locations. No legends, as there's going 
 to be an All Legends wrestling game in March.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamatics
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I would like to advise that this game in no way shape or form was ever Finished. Noticing in how 
 many of the mechanics had various glitches or Flaws. When Fixing the so called targeting interface 
 THQ and the test team neglected to show its response in tornado style tag matches and in various 
 situations in other matches in which you have no control over who you want to fight in the match 
 its all Decided based on distance from the target. another extravagant flaw can be detected with 
 the Camera Cuts which don't freeze the time for the other players trying to fight each other so 
 for any instance in which you are trying to block a dive move while the Camera cuts (Also online 
 this can not be shut off) you will then be forced to guess upon when the impact will happen or 
 hope in misses. I do not warrant anyone new to play online in this game due to the fact that nearly 
 everyone is abusing some glitch say around 98 percent of the Xbox360 Community who abuse the Strikes 
 on CAF to collectively create damage or as my Girl Friend Likes to say "Create a Beat-down". Beyond 
 most of the flaws which are too difficult to mention......... Um Yeah Brawler Combo..... I Implore 
 to you to buy this game but oh HECK NO TO ONLINE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  WWE smackdown v raw 2009 is the next installment into the long line of WWE games made from THQ. 
 And this year's game promises to be a very exciting andengaging game compared to Smackdown v Raw 
 2008. SVR 09 has a mode called Road to WrestleMania which is new to the series. It focuses on a 
 character's storyline on his pathway to WrestleMania XXIV. Although there are only a few characters 
 usable for this mode. They are Batista/Rey mysterio, John Cena, CM Punk, Chris Jericho, Triple H 
 and Undertaker. During the player's storyline, there are bonuses to be unlocked when fulfilling 
 conditions during matches. Such bonuses include costumes, new characters, tag team entrances, new 
 music and much more. The storyline are interesting such as Triple H's storyline where it mainly 
 is about Triple H choosing between DX or Evolution. The storylines are not so long as it can be 
 completed in 2 hours or so for each Character. Next is the career mode. You have to choose a character 
 and follow his path to winning all championship in the WWE universe. I wont elaborate too much 
 of this career as those who have played previous games would be familiar.
  
  Controls are easy to use and you would be a expert in performing combos and tricks in bringing 
 down enemies after a few matches. The camera is not so good in the game. It sometimes move in a 
 position where it would be hard to see your opponent. Fans feel alive and would react to your actions 
 and movements. Entrances of the superstars are actually not what the real-life superstars do. In 
 the game, they would do totally different actions and movements. Their voices also doesnt feel 
 original. You can also create your character from scratch and edit him. There are plenty of options 
 in designing him and you can, after creating him, create an entrance set for him and set the movie 
 logo and song. Then you can create a finisher move for him. There are plenty of finishers to choose 
 from and they range. So you will be spending some time on your created character. You can also 
 edit the entrance and song for the existing superstars and Tag-team partners. You can also create 
 a new tag-team of your choice and set their tag-team move, tag-team finishers and entrance set.
 
  
  There is also a new match type called Inferno match. Flames will be burning aroung the ring and 
 the temperature will increase if you are hitting your opponent. Once the temperature is high enough, 
 you will have to toss your opponent at the flames to win the match. The defeated player will have 
 his butt set in flames. Characters such as Jericho, Big-Show and more that were not in SVR 08 are 
 in SVR 09 although some like R-Truth and Kung Fu Naki aren't in this game.
  
  Nevertheless, this game is a great game and is a must have for WWE fans.
  There isnt a 24/7 mode (which 
 sucked) and is replaced by Road to Wrestlemania which is a lot times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halobro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Unlike its many predecessors, Smackdown vs. Raw 2009 brings a great experience that will leave 
 you glued to the many superstars all day long. 
  Smackdown vs Raw 2009 is a step up from Smackdown vs Raw 2008 although differences are subtle, 
 more match types are offered like the, wait for it, INFERNO MATCH, and the useless extra of specialties 
 introduced in Smackdown vs Raw 2008 such as dirty, weapons and powerhouse have rightfully been 
 tossed out the McMahon window. Instead replaced with a store bar for signiture moves that proves 
 useful in competative online play. 
  
  The graphics are of slight improvement but is it worth being bombarded with all the match statistics 
 for wrestlers, that's for you decide. Personally I find it a useless extra. 
  
  Everyone knows that recent wrestling games consist of three things for the single gamer. Exhibition 
 mode, Career mode and GM mode. However THQ have decided to take out GM mode in Smackdown vs Raw 
 2009, personally I think that takes appeal away from the game but some critics thought that GM 
 mode in 2008 was a waste of time and the acheivement not worth it. So whether it was a good choice 
 is a 50/50. 
  
  The exhibition mode remains consistent with all the favourites like elimination chamber, extreme 
 rules, (re-appearance from ECW by the way) , Battle royal, Royal Rumble and the highly awaited INFERNO 
 MATCH. With well over 50 match types there will definitely be something to keep you glued to the 
 screen.
  
  The career mode has been turned on its head and cracked in two. Now there is the, Career mode, 
 and the Road to Wrestlemania mode. Career mode is much alike Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 which will 
 keep the fans happy but to the 9 year old John Cena fans who begged their parents for this title 
 there is a much shorter mode with a richer storyline which also proves to be a winner for the old 
 fans and the new. 
  
  The multiplayer mode is great, I haven't dwelled too far into it but when you enter the abyss there 
 is no going back, ladies and gentlemen there are some serious tough cookies so finesse your skill 
 before entering the ring with some 9 year old with an anonymous gamertag who more than loves John 
 Cena. I'm a fanatic for this franchise but he was "The Champ". A cheap joke for the Cena fans out 
 there. Never thing you're "The Animal" because someone on the other line is a bigger one and will 
 counter you silly and force you into an inevitable submission with the unpredictable but oh so 
 charming new feature, Chris Jericho. 
  
  There are more positives like freedom of creation but that's nothing new. And a negative could 
 be the occasional lag in online gaming, but that's expected if you're playing ber fans in the 
 US and UK (most are)
  
  This is my first review, it's really brief so be nice 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luhanmeng
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Legends, Legends What up with that? Luhanmeng says
  bring it on back can't have the new without the old the classy, the wizards, the gourgeous, the 
 bird
  the freebirds, the fabulous, the butchers, the killer,
  the von erich, the fujis, etc etc etc if I left them out
  I still would want to see them on the 
 game come on people give me a hell yeah. A few issues were noticed right away we all that have 
 played this game but it is a decent pick for the holiday or any other time I mean really though 
 if the issue is ya need alittle more money to change these quirks rate issues etc I think you have 
 a vast enough audience that are willing willing to pay extra to get the best you can throw at them 
 bring it on I say bring it on fellas
  no holds barred falls count everywhere can you dig it. but in defense of the makers its been an 
 every year thing 
  and there are deadlines and they can be ugly so in that respect good stuff I'll most likely play 
 it as long as my xbox
  allows ha ha that was not even funny it's true it's true 
  Kurt Angle holla at ya boy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingspanky30
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I was hooked on Smack Down when it first came out on the PS1. You could play through a game back 
 then with out it getting old. WWE SmackDown Vs. Raw 2009 has brought back that feeling to me. The 
 Road to Wrestle Mania is a good addition to the series as the 24/7 thing of years past just plain 
 sucked. The create mode is more indepth this time around but is missing creat a championchip. I 
 just bought a 50 inch plasma HDTV and this game looks stunning. The sound is ok and would be better 
 if the song you use from your HDD for an intro was not so muffeled. Create a finisher good and 
 shoul have you making a devastatting one in no time. This is the first game in the series that has 
 not left me feeling cheated out of my money since HCTP. I just hope that with the DLC they give 
 us an updated roster and more RTWM srories. I was looking forward to play as R. Trueth and some 
 legends but as far as the legends go I will have to wait untill Legends Of Wrestle Mania drops 
 in March. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juvenal123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game on Black Friday and I wasn't disappointed at all. The game is so far the best 
 from SvR games. The road to wrestlemania scenario is great. The best so far that I've played is 
 Chris Jericho's storyline. I don't want to get into detail but his is the only one worth playing 
 first. Punk's comes second. I haven't played the others but i heard there not so well. I'm currently 
 playing Cena's storyline and its kind of cheesy. 
  
  Basically the road to wrestlemania starts in the beginning of January to of course wrestlemania. 
 Along the way you'll unlock some stuff. Career mode is bland but its the only way to make your 
 created wrestler stronger. Takes a while though. 
  
  The controls are the same as last years game. The picture is great as well for audio. The only 
 bad thing about the game is the camera angle's the game gives when your outside the ring. 
  
  New matches are added of course. A huge A+ is the create your own move. Its limited but extremely 
 fun to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefeet619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  the only thing i have to complain about is the create a finisher. it is a good feature and ever 
 thing. but you can only create a ground finisher. it would be better if you could make a running 
 finisher, or a turnbuckle finisher, or even a jumping off the turnbuckle finisher. what else would 
 be cool is if you could create a weapon finisher. it is still a good feature and i have alot of 
 fun with it, but it could be better. this is still an awesome game i love this game and will still 
 play this game until the next one comes out. the road to wrestle mania is cool but the stories 
 are short. and you can't have your created superstar on it. the Carrier mode is cool i like it 
 alot. there is not much about this game that's wrong. in the next wwe smackdoen vs raw i hope you 
 can have a story line were your dude can talk and it is vary long to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steffl3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The latest edition into the Smackdown vs Raw series is defiantly the best in the series, the new 
 editions are spectacular. There are a number of pros and cons though. The Road to Wrestlemania 
 mode (RTWM) was definatly one of my new favorites, because it was about as realistic as putting 
 yourself in the shoes of the WWE Superstar of your unfortunatly limited choice. Some of the stories 
 were highly intriguing, I personally enjoyed Triple H's even though I'm not his biggest fan, but 
 some were just absolutly stupid, the Undertakers was just completly far fetched, but I won't spoil 
 it just in case you may enjoy it. Career mode would have been funner had it not made leveling up 
 your Created superstar an absolute HEADACHE, I mean really should it take 4 hours to get to lvl 
 70? CAW mode is the same as the past 2 years games, I really wish they'd put some improvenment 
 in that section. Also fans of the Create a Title and the Crowd fighting areas are out of luck, 
 because unless we get some DLC, they have been canned. Highlight reel is definatly a new fun feature, 
 but trade a CAW was taken out to put Highlight reel in its place, which I found quite stupid since 
 I enjoyed collecting and seeing everyone elses wrestlers. The soundtrack is amazingly good, the 
 roster is also quite good, DLC will be adding Evan Bourne I know and a lot of other stuff like 
 Kane's masked costume.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Just wanted to say a few things about smackdown vs raw 2009, firstly when the hell are gamespot 
 going to review this game? by the time it gets a review (if it gets a review) it probs be time for 
 smackdown vs raw 2010, its hard ro figure out.
  
  Its a good fun as always, am a big wrestling fan have been for about 13 years, but as i get older 
 the thrill as it were is starting to fade a tad, no mercy on n64 and smackdown 2 on PS1 were great 
 games, this game is lots of fun but man, why take away 2 player carrer mode? this been a problem 
 for years now, i said to my mate jam "soon dude there be a 2 player carrer mode, i , believe" i 
 was wasted at the time, but that was just over 7 years ago, ive aged since then, and my will and 
 enthusiasm for life has diminished some what, i now pay tax's and hate my routine life to a destructive 
 edge.
  
  Anyway, i no the voice acting cut scenes make it hard to do for a long period of time, but back 
 then ad play the game with friends for like the whole year, till the next sequal, this smackdown 
 09 game is much shorter, thats my main gripe with it, i cant understand lack of 2 player in carrer 
 mode, i know i going on but christ is it really that hard? i dont mind occasional repeated cut 
 scenes, just give me something to do long term! 
  
  Its worth getting, but without friends (who get wwe) to play smackdown with, you wont last till 
 next november, its not a single player game in the long run, and the inferno match? just give me 
 more back stages please! (thats a sarcastic statement) not take them away, and bring back just 2 
 or 3 areas to brawl in.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHH34
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  I love Smackdown Vs. Raw games. I really do, but I was disappointed that Smackdown Vs. Raw 2009 
 joined the ranks of those games in series that take away features and add new, not better, features 
 that are completely unrelated.
  
  WHY NO GM MODE!? The least they could have done is add the previous game's GM mode with the new 
 roster and no improvements. Instead, I'm left with an inferno match that I haven't even bothered 
 myself with playing, CAF, and Road to Wrestlemania.
  
  Road to Wrestlemania is pretty cool with unlockables as you fulfill certain bonus objectives during 
 matches. Yet, the hype of a co-op storyline fell to, quite literally, A co-op storyline, meaning 
 just one. Wow, I can play as Rey Mysterio and Batista for 2 days, but after that I have to fly 
 solo with the other 5 dudes. Still, Road to Wrestlemania is pretty good, pretty pretty good. 
 
  
  Why do I give this an 8.0? Career Mode is lame. Road to Wrestlemania is okay. Create-A-Finisher 
 established a strong foundation. There's no GM mode. The game's easy as butt unless you put it 
 on legend difficulty (Then, it's only slightly easy for pros like me, and the opponent will just 
 counter until it's ANNOYING as balls) . The new tag team improvements are noticeable.
  
  It boils down to a few good weeks of Road to Wrestlemania and Career Mode with a created superstar 
 if you can put up with it and get enjoyment out of improving your superstar's attributes. Also, 
 if you have Xbox Live (which I don't yet) , it's probably fun to get some non-A. I. competition along 
 with downloadable content. As for me, I enjoy the local multiplayer, and hey, if you're like me, 
 and you buy all these games, selling previous versions as you go, you just have to get the game. 
 Just don't expect bra and panties matches, GM mode, Torrie Wilson, Goldust, funny balls, realistic 
 competition, or anything that really used to make the WWE good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova856
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Ever since SvR 2006, THQ and Yukes have been using the same sucessful formua to their yearly SvR 
 games, adding new content each year but never focuses on fixing their problems such as AI, cliping 
 and etc. Well, after Svr's 07 and 08, SvR 09 finally is a game with reasonable, smart AI.
  
  In a tag match, the AI actually runs out to help you as soon as you use you finisher or signature 
 move! All the upgrades for the tag team matches are welcomed new additions to game and helps intensify 
 the game better than before. 
  
  The new Road To WrestleMainia is by far one the best aspects of the game, letting you choose the 
 path of 6 wrestlers (one is two wreslers in a coop story) and unlike 08's story, this is actually 
 a interesting mode that sucks you into the story as to see what happens next. It would be even 
 more interesting if there are more wrestlers you can use for Road To Wrestlemainia as DLC but I 
 can't confirm that for now. 
  
  The CAW experience gets better as you can now create your own finsiher! This feature can help create 
 some nice, crazy finishers for your CAW but the possiblities are not absolute but it should not 
 be too much of a problem to many. 
  
  The roster goes big as up to more than 60 wrestlers + CAW. This is to make up for last year's roster 
 lack. There are still wrestlers in the game who'vs been dropped before the game came out and are 
 in the game, but as least we dont have to worry about new wrestlers coming AFTER the game's release 
 to not be in the game, as THQ promises to DLC wrestlers to keep the roster updated and add events 
 into the game that are occuring the TV show as well. For the first time since Here Comes The Pain, 
 this smackdown game does not include ledgens as they will be in the upcoming 'Ledgens Of Wrestlemainia" 
 game as this is also the first Smackdown game to have not included "The Rock".
  
  Some old problems still remain such as title belts cliping with the wrestler and etc, although 
 the load time has indeed impressed me on how fast it finishes after each entrance. Also, some people 
 may be bothered by the fact that it feels just like last year's game. Well, even though it's a 
 sport-entertainment video game, it's still a sport game and it's not easy to change the formula 
 for one.
  
  For my closing comments, SvR 2009 does help bring THQ back up to their feet after being dropped 
 down by last year's game but is still in need for improvements if it ever wants to become revolutionary 
 like No Mercy.
  
  Grahpics: 9.0
  The grahpics are still impressive as you can see the sweat and blood clearly on the superstars 
 alothough some of the mid-contenders could use a little more time in the looks department
  
  Sound: 8.5
  Some of the soundtrack in this game fits well, along with some of the wrestlers 
 theme on the playlist. Also, you just gotta love the fact that you can actually skip the song you 
 don't like in the playlist
  
  Controls: 8.0
  Besides the new abilities in tag team matches, wrestlers walk, fight, and play just like last years 
 game, but is that really.... a bad thing?
  
  Gameplay: 7.8
  Road To Wrestlemaina is a blessing of a good story and CAF and Highlight Reel is awesome but career 
 mode could be better and if you played previous games, there's not much else new you can look to 
 till DLC starts coming
  
  Replay value: 8.0
  This is a great game to have when your friends come and pound each other till kingdom come and 
 the DLC can also help the game stay more fresh. 
  
  My score is an 8.5 for this game
  
  My question is: Do YOU want to play The Game???
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redders1989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  So, it's another SmackDown! game, and it's safe to say so far, I have enjoyed playing once again.
 
  
  Whilst I've yet to fully go through all the modes of the game, I can still discuss some of the 
 features I have had the chance to play. Firstly, the "Road to Wrestlemania".
  
  This is the breath of fresh air I was on about. After some mediocre storylines in recent years, 
 it's finally good to see some unique storylines for individual characters. Yes, there are only 
 6 storylines and yes, it doesn't take long to complete them all either and almost everything is 
 unlocked by this mode, but this mode re-freshes the series for me - normally I would only play 
 as The Undertaker or a CAW of myself, but this mode makes you play some of the other characters 
 - and I must say I thoroughly enjoyed it, playing as CM Punk or Chris Jericho.
  
  They've tried to capture the feel of the TV shows too - just the odd little bits that make this 
 mode feel better than the past career modes we've had - such as the "proper" (so to speak) re-caps 
 of past weeks action and the "all rights reserved" ending. Plus, it's better to hear the commentators 
 say "CM Punk went extreme on Elijah Burke last week!" rather than "he was extreme on Elijah Burke!" 
 "Yeah, and Elijah will be looking for revenge on that superstar tonight!".
  
  The commentary too in matches - at long last I now know when I have lengthy fights, they're not 
 going to repeat the same things over and over again. I don't know about you but I got sick of hearing 
 how "Edge screwed over the fans" on more than one occasion in a match which, on some occasions, 
 never even involved him! It focuses more on the action in the ring - ala real life. And not just 
 the finishers, like they did in the past, you'll even get the "what a devastating clothesline!" 
 occasionally. That's the best bit too - they've made those kind of comments occasional, so it's 
 not after every move you'll hear "there's a clothesline! There's a punch! There's a low blow, DQ 
 him ref!", it is every so often, although sometimes it can get quiet if nothing spectacular happens.
 
  
  Commentary also gets a boost in over-the-top-rope matches - such as over-the-top-rope and Royal 
 Rumble. How exactly? Well let's say poor ol' Matt Hardy just got eliminated from the Royal Rumble:
 
  
  SvR 2008: "The match is over for that particular superstar!"
  SvR 2009: "Hardy's out! Matt Hardy has been eliminated!"
  
  See? Just little changes they've 
 made and it's for the better. Just like wrestlers now more realistic when entering the Rumble - 
 whilst Rey will run down to the ring, Kane will now walk down the entrance. Also for the tiny adds, 
 superstars being able to get into the ring via the ring steps is great - although it looks odd 
 for Khali to run up the steps as is the only motion to do on them. One added feature they have 
 stuck in that I'm not too keen on is the "camera angles" when outside the ring (this doesn't happen 
 in every match, but if you don't have the game yet, when you do, make a one-on-one match and go 
 outside the ring, you'll see what I mean) . Whilst I understand it's an attempt to try and make 
 you feel as if you're watching a match through the cameramen around the ring (if they stayed in 
 stationary positions) , it does get annoying - if I want to Irish Whip someone in a certain direction, 
 I'll thrown them a different way from what I want to if I'm on the edge of a camera angle changing 
 position, which gets irritating sometimes.
  
  I've yet to play the Inferno Match, and therefore will refrain from comment until I have done so.
 
  
  I have, however, had a look at the Create A Finisher mode, and whilst it is a great feature to 
 have, it can be lacking at times. For example, I wanted to have my character use Shelton Benjamin's 
 finisher (I think) from 2004 (again, I think) . When I couldn't find what I was looking for on the 
 proper list, I thought I'd try and make it myself. Nuh huh, I give it a go, but it just looks stupid. 
 So instead, I give myself a different move instead, a spontaneous one off the top of my head - 
 and it couldn't be any more unrealistic. It involves picking up my opponent into a DVD position, 
 before dropping them gut-first onto my knee, before picking them up again in a reverse DVD, then 
 again gut-first into the knee, DVD again to drop gut-first into the knee before one final time 
 in the DVD position, but this time spinning them out F-5 style into an unprettier. No wonder I 
 chose the name "Chaos Theory" for it.
  
  Other than that, it just feels the same as all the predecessors - yes, it's because most of it 
 works, but I still can't figure why some parts of the game haven't been fixed. For example, miracle 
 movements still happen in the game - if Cena wants to do his Five Knuckle Shuffle, his opponent 
 on the floor will magically move into the right place - why can't it be done in the position that 
 the opponent is already laying down in? Let's not forget that Day of Reckoning, for the Gamecube 
 for goodness sakes, allowed people to do the People's Elbow even if the opponent's feet were pointing 
 directly to a turnbuckle! I mean if the player wishes to have it perfectly in position, it could 
 be an added little challenge to position the opponent right.
  
  My second, and probably most biggest annoyance, is entrances. Now, don't get me wrong - with a 
 taste for good music, I love nothing better to watch these guys (and ladies) walk down to the ring 
 with a good theme song - but seriously, the WWE had the new HD set for RAW, ECW and SD! 10 MONTHS 
 before the game came out, and what way do 95% of the superstars come out from?
  
  The left. The entrance way to the stage is on the right.
  
  They added a load of tiny extras 
 this year, so why couldn't they sort out that one little feature? (I refuse to call it an error 
 as it isn't, it's just something that needed to be altered) . Also, why does Mr. Kennedy................ 
 Kennedy, still use his "old" yelling? He hasn't done that in about two years, his yell is more 
 aggressive now. Speaking of which, his music on the game has the old yell! It's been the aggressive 
 yell in real life!
  
  (OK, now I'm just being REAL picky, I know, but I'm just sayin'... haha, my own little Hurrapop 
 there.)
  
  As of right now, this is about all I'm valid of making my opinion for, as I have yet to try out 
 the rest of the game, therefore I may update this at a later date with more opinions on other parts 
 of the game that I try out, but until then, that's me done for this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkluvgames
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I have had WWF No Mercy, SVR, SVR06, SVR07, SVR08, but frm the looks of it this one is gonna be 
 the best Wrestling game ever, and by the way TNA HAS NOTHIN' ON THIS ONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Every year 
 I have gotten every game but this one still has me hyped up! When I saw some of the reviews and 
 how some people gave it 5.5. and 6.0 and 7.0 let me tell you, You're so wrong! Look at where we 
 came from when we had a huge disappointment from SmackDown .vs. RAW 2008 last year, now that deserved 
 a 5.0 , but I still play it. All of our favorite superstars are in it like Batista, John Cena, Randy 
 Orton, Rey Mysterio, Edge, Triple H, and more, the only thing that I don't like about is that they 
 don't have WWE Legends like; The Rock, Stone Cold Steve Austin, Hulk Hogan, Rowdy Roddy Piper, 
 and Eddie Guerrero (RIP) . But, that' just one thing that we lost, but now we have Highlight Reel, 
 Create-A-Finisher, and a way better gameplay, graphics and CAWS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoss-The-Boss
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  (if looking for a quick rating, proceed to the last paragraph)
  
  Ok.. some things are good, some are bad. I had this game pre-ordered because of the hype for it, 
 which i must agree with andyt2k, it didn't live up to it. I was expecting some kind of a story-line 
 mode where you pick 2 wrestlers and go for the gold, trying to defend it at pay per views along 
 the way. But the glory was cut short, story mode is limited to 6 different wrestlers (which you 
 can't keep the storyline and change the wrestlers in it) , with one being the tag team (Batista 
 and Mysterio) . all in all, story mode lacked.. big time.
  
  They're are some nice features you can play with. For instance, you can edit the rosters to change 
 who belongs to what brand. Unfortunately, this means nothing. You can do it to create your own 
 little alliances against friends and what not, but changing a person from RAW to ECW doesn't do 
 anything, just a feature. Its like changing your shirt from red to blue.
  
  Career mode pissed me off to no end. Apparently you have to go through this to obtain skills to 
 your created wrestler. While it starts off easy, it get incredibly hard if you don't know how to 
 reverse to well, not to mention that anytime you try to grapple or strike, it gets reversed itself, 
 making the mode horrible, even on easy. If you don't finish it or try to start a new career, hoping 
 you can keep stacking your skills from the last one, u can't. you must finish it, otherwise your 
 character loses the points. I must say, this mode is the sole reason I scored this game so low.
 
  
  Career mode gives you a nice feel to make you earn your create a wrestlers attributes. Good idea, 
 but not. If your into the series, then playing this mode will be cool for your character, that's 
 about it. Its creates a huge problem because if you wanted to build up a number of created wrestlers 
 points, you'd have to go through career mode every time, which could be either slow paced, or boring. 
 So.. if you wanted to make your own wrestlers, and put them on a brand by themselves (like me) , 
 it takes a long process, and frankly, i don't think anyone's going to want to do that, not to mention 
 that is gets steadily harder the farther you get. So if your not good at reversing, your stuck. 
 To make matters worse, if you delete your career before finishing it, your attributes are lost.
 
  
  Legends are non existent. Rock, Stone cold, Bret Hart, or any other guy who shaped the franchise 
 is not here. They have there entrances available, but not them. So you have to create them yourself 
 or get it online if someone else made them. Just because a game is going to be separate for them 
 doesn't mean you should exclude the best of the best. I used them more then our modern warriors 
 in the ring. 
  
  Last, and probably least, the highlight reel. Some new feature in which you can take screen shots 
 from matches and make a video out of it. Once again however, there is a catch. You can't mixed 
 scenes from different matches, and you can't make it into a video for a wrestler to use as an entrance. 
 Final verdict: Useless.
  
  Conclusion:
  Graphics**: Solid, best in series
  Gameplay**: Easy to use basic controls, advanced are ok, forcing you to reverse all the time on 
 hard hurts the game
  Loading times**: still there, but cut in half
  Story-mode**: good in depth story, but lacks ability to change wrestlers and use someone else
 
  Career mode**: good idea but gets boring quick, too hard to level up your wrestlers
  Create features**: attribute gains is bad going through career mode every time
  
  Overall: 
 5.5 Good wrestling game if your not interested in other modes, and only exhibition. Misleading 
 hype about your partner is the one you can trust.. if they used that for the point system, i believe 
 the game could have gone somewhere. I hate the loading screens on it, but im going back to SVR 
 07, that game seemed to get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Road to wrestlemania is a great feature, though i must warn you, CM Punk's isnt that good. Undertakers 
 is unigue.
  the graphics are great, the commentary has finally been changed and the gameplay is solid
  
 
  highlight reel is a good idea but kind of pointless, if you could make it your entrance video 
 it would be great, the create a finisher move is very innovative and works smooth, one flaw is 
 that some moves are limited to what you can do, but all together it is a very good feature, career 
 mode isnt very fun and takes a while to get your attributes up. the unlockables are cool. hornswoggle 
 is in the game and i was skeptical but when i used him i was shocked. the roster is better but 
 why is jimmy wang yang in it? also, this game was supposed to be the tag team title but there are 
 limited tag teams, what about the highlanders and why are trevor murdoch and lance cade teamed 
 up still? no deuce and domino?
  you will have to make mix match teams.
  
  alltogether a great game, way better than last year, i suggest you get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanwahl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  smackdown vs raw 2009 is amazingly addictive. online is great but slow. The character creation 
 is about the same as last years which means its amazing. The loading can get annoying at times 
 but doesnt really take away from the gameplay. 
  
  one of the best new modes is the rode to wrestle mania in which you can be seven of the characters. 
 Each one has a different story and each is strangely compelling you will want to continue playing 
 just to see what happens next.
  
  Sadly you can no longer trade superstars online which was a big downer. career mode is uninteresting 
 but the only way in which u can level up your created character which will become more of a job 
 than having fun.
  
  Overall smackdown vs raw gets a nine out of ten. If u dont want to buy it u must rent it or borrow 
 it from a friend. this game is a must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  After last years control issues I was skeptical about this game. Fortunately they fixed the controls 
 and made it really easy to play this game. As with all previous titles the roster is somewhat dated. 
 The cheesy story that's the same for any wrestler is gone as is the GM mode (no loss there) . These 
 have beeen replaced by a road to Wrestlemania path which offers a story for 7 wrestlers (Triple 
 H, Batista and Rey Mysterio, Jericho, Undertaker, CM Punk, John Cena,) There's also a career mode 
 which you can use any wrestler in even a DIVA! This is a path where you are put in a bracket and 
 must win and score enough points to move on to a number 1 contenders match then you challenge for 
 the title and then move on to another title bracket until you win them all. Its cool to use the 
 divas but silly once they are done with the women's belt and move into the other brackets. Until 
 you complete the career mode you cant edit superstars stats Supposedly they are going to fix this 
 in January 2009. As a whole the game is fun the controls are easy utilizing the sticks and bumpers 
 mostly. I haven't seen any glitches like being unable to put people through tables like last year. 
 The tag team double team moves are slightly hard to pull off but not too bad. They have leaned 
 up the matches and removed some stuff from last years. The create a superstar mode is the same 
 as it has been the last 3 years. This version allows you to create a finishing move which is pretty 
 cool. If you are a WWE fan get this game its good. My biggest gripe is they seem to keep slimming 
 things down each year. There are no custom load screens and no legends this year. Its still not 
 quite as good as the 2007 game was. It's a step back in the right direction though. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercypoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I only recently bought my xbox 360, so this is the first SvR that I've played since 2006. Keep 
 that in mind.
  
  The graphics in this game are fairly decent. Textures are smooth, superstar faces are almost dead 
 on, and a lot of the animations are great. However, it is fairly disappointing that a lot of animations 
 from 2006 (or perhaps earlier) are still being recycled in this game. Further, collision detection 
 is still less than stellar -- you would think that, if you suplex a superstar in the direct vicinity 
 of a table, they would break the table...
  
  The new modes of play are interesting, though there's really nothing to get overly-excited about. 
 CAW, while good, still feels somewhat limited, and the create-a-finisher mode leaves a lot to be 
 desired.
  
  And, of course, Ladder matches still go on for far too long and become annoyingly tedious over 
 time.
  
  However, if you're a fan of the WWE, you'll find a lot of good stuff in this game. The pacing for 
 matches feels more realistic, without detracting from the arcade-ishly fun moments. The roster 
 is nothing to scoff at, either. 
  
  When it comes right down to it, it's a wrestling game. If you like wrestling games, you'll find 
 a lot to like in SvR 2009. If you generally don't like these kinds of games, this version will 
 more than likely do nothing to convince you otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt2k
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  It pains me to give a Raw vs Smackdown game a bad review but I have to because I was lied to. All 
 the reviews, previews and adverts tell you is it's all about the tag teams, tag tag tag that's 
 all you hear, so I thought, fantastic a tag story mode.
  
  Yeh there's a tag story mode, for Batista and Rey...... that's it.
  
  If you don't want to 
 go Rey and Batista, tough luck, they are the only ones you can go for co-op story mode, this is 
 completely misleading because at no point have I seen it mentioned that the co-op mode is limited 
 to that one team. I was looking forward to trying different combinations of teams and going through 
 with the people I like, Rey and Batista are ok, but I want to have the option to go other people, 
 especially as this wasn't just an added feature of the game but actually seems to be focus of it.
 
  
  Basically the same as the other games with a few small changes I'd have waited until the price 
 dropped before buying it if I knew all this tag hype was a load of rubbish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desi-jaat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Granted I only bought this game yesterday, granted I havent played it for more than 4-5 hours. 
 But any fans of this genre would quickly identify that once you played it a bit , you would have 
 a good idea about the games new innovations and shortcomings. 
  
  I have been following the SVR series since they the Here Comes The Pain series from playstation. 
 And truly speaking I always believed that SVR 2007 has been the best game in the series so far. 
 As I said everyone has their own opinions and some would have preffered SVR 2008 over the previous 
 version (why I dont know) .
  
  SVR 2009 , has some good features , Road To Wrestlemania is an innovative addition (although I 
 played out CM Punk storyline, and it kinda sucked) and there are some good new match types which 
 will always increase the replay factor. I only played SVR 2008 once for 20 minutes or so and then 
 threw it in the bin so I dont know how the graphics of this game matchup to that , but fans of 
 SVR 2007 would have mixed opinion on this . Where as I prefered some of the charachter models in 
 this game over the previous one (and my roommate didnt !!) I hate the way finishers are shown in 
 this game. In SVR 2007 the game would go in a really cool slow motion double recap mode when you 
 execute your finisher, in SVR 2009 , in submission the screen go red otherwise the glass breaks.... the 
 glass.. huh??? Wierd !!!!!
  
  Gameplay is a little bit different from SVR 2007, the biggest gripe I had about SVR 2009 as compared 
 to 2007 was the stamina meter. if you dont remember SVR 2007 had a stamina meter which would continue 
 to decrease if you dont let your wrestlers rest for a few seconds in between moves.. here in 2009 
 you can keep your wrestler running like your very own Energizer bunny !! They go on and on and 
 on.... I always though stamina meter introduced a realistic element in the gameplay and changed 
 the way you play the power guys (with low stamina) to more agile guys (with more stamina) . In 2009 
 that is sorely lacking ( eg.. during the CM Punk's RTW , he faces Big Daddy V and that monster, 
 without any stamina meter to worry about, doesnt let up !! )
  
  If you have played SVR series before, than you will feel that the game in normal mode is really 
 easy, I had to start out on a leagend difficulty level to get some stiff competition . But I understand, 
 for a new fan at normal difficulty you can just pick up the controller and kick anyones ass.
  
  Well as for my last thoughts. I always thought what this series needed was to improve on some 
 areas from SVR 2007, instead they overhauled everything and gave us a subpar game in SVR 2008. 
 With SVR 2009 they are climbing that mountain again, For those burnt by SVR 2008 I say give SVR 
 2009 a shot its deinately a step up. For the fans of SVR 2007 have an open mind. I did, and I have 
 enjoyed the game. With all its small quirks , it is still a satisfying game play for any fan of 
 this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknad13
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  i love wwe ( the real one ) but i couldn't help my self to see those superstars that i love looks 
 crappy in the game every year. the first thing that piss me off so bad is the superstars selecting 
 menu i hoped they solve this matter but not a chance every year i have to tolerate this thing , 
 why the hell they use superstars animated photos instead of the real ones they look awful and ugly 
 for example cm punk looks like a super gay teenager and beth pheonix looks like a guy , really 
 why and what's wrong with you yukes or activision or whatever the developers is i just want to 
 why the don't use real photos in the select screen just like tna impact , so what , you don't wanna 
 pay money to superstars or don't have license to use real ones , and second the game play i never 
 like it i don't know why but they just like terminator crappy buggy for example you can suplex 
 mark henry with kelly kelly ! and finaly roster , super old . thats it i'm done just give me your 
 opinions about selection menu , i hope kozlov beat the hell out of triple h at survivor series 
 and cena lose to jericho byeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vamp_lestat999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Improve graphics but other than that its not the best of the series my first complain and i dont 
 know if am the only one that this bother them but for a game that has 2009 and came out in 2008 
 its pretty out dated, out dated in a sense that the roster while it has a lot of characters they 
 left out some key characters like for example vladimir kozlov , primo colon 1 half of the world 
 tag team champions, ted dibiase, manu and the list goes on but then again u "hell they cant put 
 them all" but then u see uselless characters like tony and masked man and its just pointless. Going 
 on to the cruiserweight championship that title belt doesnt even exist anymore not like the Divas 
 title which does exist and is missing in the game and talking about titles ECW belt is outdated 
 in its desing also. Maybe you dont see anything bad with it but for a game that sells it self like 
 2009 is more like early 2008 to me. Going on to the rest of the game nothing has chaged much from 
 the previous version i do loved the new roster editor they added and the Road to Wrestlemania feature 
 is much better than playing the whole career mode to unlock all the features of the game i do applaud 
 them for that. All in all I dont think is worth the money if youre not a die hard fan but if you 
 are youre gonna buy it and play it anyway just like me and this review wont make a difference in 
 your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here we go again, another year, another SvR game. Wait a minute, is this 2008 or 1998, I'm 
 confused. Smackdown vs Raw 09 is a perfect example of how developers like to simply cash in a steady 
 check, sort of like Madden, you get the picture. I really want to like this game, but it's clearly 
 unpolished in a rush to make the deadline. This is the same game we've been playing for the last 
 10 years! Same canned animations, slighty updated player models and attire, same stupid moves for 
 all the wrestlers, same ugly crowds, same slippery sliding animations, ect. It's sloppy and unforgiving 
 when players still warp to different animations, or when Rey Mysterio can still body slam The Great 
 Khali! It's even worse when the game looks flat out dull, washed out and very unpolished, sometimes 
 I think I'm playing a ps2 game. There are a couple of positives, like the somewhat updated roster 
 and the new Road to Wrestlemania. But gone are the GM and Season modes. I'll probably get bashed 
 by a bunch of 16 year olds who are loyal to this Franchise and I know it's just a game, but damn, 
 THQ makes millions of dollars off these games. I know they can implement the foot plant technology 
 that other sports games have and I know they can have codes where a Rey Mysterio cannot body slam 
 a Mark Henry. I know THQ have the resources to assign each wrestlers specific grapples and movements 
 and I know THQ can implent better camera angles or at least have the option to choose one. Smackdown 
 vs Raw 09 is a clone to 08. In summary SvR 09 is not a bad game, it's awful. When there is no competition, 
 this is what you get, another rehashed game that will appeal to 12 year olds. This Franchise will 
 not get better, even when the PS4 rolls around, we will be playing the same exact prehistoric game. 
 It's a shame and disgrace to all WWE fans around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillab10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Last years less than ok SvR 2008 has been remade into a new game. Reduced load time, sharper graphics, 
 smoother attacks, and it's almost 100% customizable. You can keep your roster up to date wSith 
 the My WWE feature, you can change them from ECW to Smackdwn to RAW, and should Vince ever utter 
 the words "You're Fiiiiiiired" to one of your superstars in real life, you can change them to a 
 free agent as if they don't even work for WWE on the game! 
  
  The Create Modes have been improved as well. Your CAWs are more detailed and life-like than ever. 
 The create a move set feature has a few new little segments. Tag Team Finisher and Signature Move. 
 TT Finisher is as it sounds. Signature Move is an attack you can use with a stored momentum bar.
 
  
  When you fill up the momentum bar you can use your stronger finisher. If it's about to run out, 
 you can store it to use a less powerful Signature move that you can use at any time to give your 
 momentum a nice little boost and put a damp on your opponents momentum.
  
  The Tag team play is perfection. Finally the illegal man has more purpose than just preventing 
 the opponent's partner from breaking the tag. They can help build up momentum from the sidelines 
 and get a Hot Tag ready for when you're in a pinch. 
  
  Back to CAWs. Have you ever found your self putting one superstar through career mode to pump him 
 up to overall 100 so you can clone him whenever you make a new CAW so you don't ever have to touch 
 career mode again? Well never to fear, for a patch is near. This patch, which is set to be released 
 by January 2009, will allow you to fully customize your CAWs abilities so you don't have to go 
 through Career mode over and over and over again. 
  
  There's also some down loadable content in the works scheduled to release on the same day as the 
 patch that will include new superstars and new material to use on your created finishers and created 
 superstars. 
  
  Overall this game is near flawless. I'm sure there's plenty I didn't cover, I just figured I'd 
 touch on some of the aspects that fans of this series would really enjoy and be more concerned 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniacZombie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The Madden of "sports entertainment" is here with the 09 installment of Smackdown v Raw. 
  
  This is a solid addition, with a small learning curve for the veterans of the franchise. Some 
 minor alterations to the controls but for the most part, if you've played this game before, youll 
 be able to dive right into the chair welding fun.
  
  The focus of the additions have focused on tag team action. The double team moves and tag team 
 gameplay has been greatly improved to mimic the 'real life' counterpart. Hot tags, ref distractions 
 and double team moves make your team about as accurate as tag teams have been.
  
  The graphics are a slight improvement with some of the same old commentary that has been in the 
 game for years now, with some additions. The upgrades to adapt to the changes in the wrestlers 
 over the past year are decent. (i. e Ortons punt kick)
  
  Overall its not a groundbreaking experience, but for a wrestling fan, its a great addition. Just 
 make sure you smack Miz around once for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  From a technical standpoint, the graphics are at a glance, amazing in this game as they should 
 be. The player models are for the most part, accurate. There are a few visual glitches every now 
 and then, including a rather annoying one where if a person has the champion belt over their shoulders 
 it appears about three feet above it and not resting on the shoulder itself, and the same goes 
 for most superstars' hair when the hair goes beyond the neck.
  
  It is a disappointment that GM mode has been taken out instead of improved, as well as the lack 
 of a story mode for the other characters. The story for Road to Wrestlemania will always be the 
 same unless you make the extremely limited choice, in which case you will only be fighting a slightly 
 different character.
  
  The gameplay itself is rather interesting. I certainly prefer to play wrestling games on a PS2 
 controller, and THQ doesn't make me feel like they did a great job. There are times where I feel 
 like the controls are extremely awkward.
  
  Overall, this is a game that I am glad I played and it shall be sent back to Gamefly in a matter 
 of one or two days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eehlert
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to what many reviewers and players claimed, SvR 2008 was a good wrestling game with several 
 innovations and features. So, when I found out that SvR 2009 was in the works, I looked forward 
 to the improvements on good features and the exclusion of bad features and flaws found in 2008. 
 And SvR 2009 did, for the most part, meet my expectations.
  
  The Good: 
  - Create a Finisher: This feature was LONG overdue, and although it was a bit lacking, it did basically 
 deliver as promised. CaF resembles the Create a Taunt feature in previous WWE iterations in that 
 it borrows bits and pieces of already existing moves and allows you to patch them together. The 
 good news about this is that you can't put any random number of moves together since motions are 
 "linked" to other motions (sort of like "If... Then" statements in computer programming) , so moves 
 flow smoothly and look realistic and convincing. The bad news is that the selection is limited 
 to mostly generic finishers like powerbombs, DDTs, suplexes, and a few other odds and ends and 
 most of the motions that make them up, so you won't be able to make ANY move imaginable, but you 
 CAN make MANY. Created finisher are also sadly limited to front groggy-orientated execution, meaning 
 that you can't make high flying or ground based submissions (or any form of submission, for that 
 matter) , but the creator does include a few motions that put you behind the foe. Overall, this 
 feature is still very good, and the ability to name it whatever you want OR choose an name from 
 a decent list (choosing a name instead of a custom one allows the announcers to say the name of 
 the move) is also pretty neat.
  
  - Downloadable Content: Another overdue feature that will help alleviate the problem of an ever-changing 
 roster of superstars and gimmicks. Although no new wrestlers are available for download as far 
 as I know (I don't have my 360 connected to the internet) , the ability for wrestlers to be downloaded 
 and added to the game through means other than Create a Superstar shows much promise.
  
  - Create a Superstar: The main function of the SvR game series (even when it was just Smackdown!) , 
 in my opinion, is the ability to create your own Superstars and have them go toe to toe with real 
 Superstars. Like ever new edition of SvR, CaS is improved in some way, shape, or form, and in SvR 
 2009 CaS got a graphical makeover. Many of the old, familiar parts are there, but many new ones 
 were include (check out the hats and other accessories for some fun!) , and most of them have transitioned 
 from painted-on 2D items to full 3D meshes, making outfits look more realistic than ever. The actual 
 wrestler models look more realistic than ever before, with some of the template faces for moth 
 males and females being terrifyingly realistic. They also look more fluid and lifelike and less 
 like the rigid, wooden mannequins of the past.
  The other two aspects of CaS, Create a Moveset and Entrance, are practically identical to their 
 respect forms in the 2008 edition, with the inclusion of some new moves and motions, to supplement 
 the new additions to the roster, and the removal of some others (Chris Benoit's signature moves 
 and motions particular) . However, since these aspects of CaS were not bad in the 2008 edition, 
 they are not any worse in 2009.
  
  - The Actual Superstars: I still refer to them as wrestlers. SvR 2009 and past iterations refer 
 to them as Superstars. WWE is currently attempting to rebrand them as just "entertainers." Regardless 
 of what you want to call the graphical representations of real people (or unreal if you like to 
 be creative in CaS) , the Superstars look better than ever (with the exception of a few outliers, 
 but you can't with 'em all, eh?) . Their models and meshes, textures, faces, and animations all 
 look better than any other SvR game. While some clipping issues still exist, and some old moves 
 from a few of the very first editions of the SvR series (back when it was just Smackdown!) are 
 still as wooden and awkward-looking as ever, most of animations look as authentic as the real thing. 
 The only real complaint I have with the Superstar graphics in SvR 2009 is the obviousness of the 
 amount of work the Superstar designers put into the most popular Superstars (John Cena, Triple 
 H, Batista, etc) and the lack of effort put into lesser-knowns (without his signature outfit and 
 swagger I wouldn't have even known the Miz in SvR was supposed to be the REAL Miz in WWE. How's 
 THAT for a reality check?! Lawl.) .
  
  - The matches: SvR 2009's focus was famously on tag team wrestling, and it really did deliver as 
 promised. Gone is the one-on-one with occasional switching and double teaming nature of tag matches 
 in past SvR iterations and, in its place, is a system that makes tag teams actual function and 
 feel like TEAMS. New to SvR 2009, each tag teams shares a momentum meter, meaning that all of your 
 progress in whooping tail on one Superstar won't be basically lost once they tag in their partner. 
 To prevent one team from getting an irreversible advantage in momentum over the other, partners 
 on the apron can taunt (by cheering on their partners or ridiculing them, depending on their alignment) 
 to help generate momentum and also build up for a "hot tag." A hot tag is basically what happens 
 in real WWE when one wrestler is getting beat up, eventually manages to crawl to their corner and 
 get the tag, and their partner bull rushes in and steamrolls the other team. Hot tags are not guaranteed 
 comebacks, however, as you must quickly hit a button that appears on screen (what button you must 
 hit is random) in order to connect with the "steamroll" I mentioned before. Miss the button and 
 you will lose all of your momentum. Hit the button and you will continue and, by the third hit, 
 you will have full momentum and can execute your finisher, thus completing a 180 turn on the match. 
 Also included are tag team finishers, which allow premade teams to work together to finish off 
 their opponents. Lastly, several new cooperative mechanics have been included such as the partner 
 on the apron distracting the ref to allow for something illegal, the partner holding the opponent 
 to allow the other to pummel them, and the partner pulling down on the ropes when the opponent 
 is irish whipped into their side of the ring, thus causing the opponent to tumble out in classic 
 WWE style.
  
  The Bad:
  - Removal of GM mode and Create a Championship: Missing from SvR are two features, one that I loved 
 and one that I rarely used. GM mode was, in opinion, the wrestling fan's fantasy football. I rarely 
 actually played the matches I set up (with the exception of a few for my unhappy superstars who 
 lose even when they are 3 on 1 against the weakest Diva on the roster) , but I enjoyed the strategy 
 and ability to create feuds (lifelike or otherwise) , turn Superstars face or heel, and many of 
 the other aspects of GM mode. While there were several annoying aspects to GM mode that I couldn't 
 wait to see gone (such as the need to train them daily and other irritating micromanagement activities) , 
 I felt that Yuke's should have improved upon the mode as a whole rather than tossing it out to 
 make room for other features. Some of the features of GM mode were rolled into My WWE (switching 
 brands, heel/face turns, and assigning championships) but the meat-and-potatoes of it are gone.
 
  Create a Championship is also gone. I could have cared less, since I only used the CaC feature 
 to complete a few achievements and unlock stuff in SvR 2008, but many people enjoyed this feature 
 and will most likely be upset to see it gone.
  
  - Road to Wrestlemania/Career Mode (story mode) : Yuke's took the old story mode of SvR 2008 and 
 split it in half. The first half, Road to Wrestlemania, is the story-oriented half but is severely 
 limited in two ways. First, it is not available to create Superstars, which are the main focus 
 of the SvR series in my opinion. Secondly, only a handful of Superstars can take the Road to Wrestlemania 
 (the big guns, aka John Cena, Cm Punk, etc) and, while SvR 2009 advertised the ability to play 
 story mode coop, only one tag team is able available to do it (Batista and Mysterio) . All of your 
 created/download superstars and the rest of the roster must settle with Career mode, which is devoid 
 of annoying features of story mode in 2008 but also devoid of a story. There are no cutscenes or 
 anything else in career mode - just the wrestler you choose beating up a few opponents, becoming 
 #1 contender, winning a title, and moving onto another championship path. It is within career mode 
 where your created Superstars gain their abilities, where your actions in the ring are the sole 
 contributors to your attributes (the same as the ones in 2008) and abilities. The good news here 
 is that you can basically nurture and grow your superstar and watch him (I believe Divas are basically 
 eye candy in this edition as well) evolve, but the bad news is that it's very difficult to build 
 the exact superstar you want until you have learned how to "unlock" each Superstar ability. So 
 if you perform a lot of reversals in matches, your technical attribute will increase, and if you 
 taunt a lot, your charisma will increase. This brings me to the next bad aspect of the game.
  
  - Superstar abilities: Gone is the superstar abilities of 2008 (Showman, Dirty, Hardcore, High 
 Flyer, etc) , which allowed for several and varying in-ring strategies for each Superstar and made 
 them each feel unique and real, and in its place is up to six slots for each Superstar to have 
 an ability similar to those in 2008. Abilities in 2009 are basically single aspects include in 
 each superstar ability of 2008, such as the ability to break out of submission holds via "lock 
 pick" (which was exclusive to Submission Superstars) , the ability to get full momentum when you 
 start bleeding (which Hardcore superstars had) and the ability to perform a possum pin (which was 
 part of the High Flyer's arsenal) . This is both good and bad, good in that is allows for a nearly 
 endless amount of ability configurations, and the bad in that it ended up blending the Superstars 
 back into mold of past SvR iterations and made each one less unique than they were in SvR 2008.
 
  Superstar abilities for created Superstars are earned through various achievements through Career 
 mode and CANNOT be assigned upon creation. You will also not learn HOW to gain a certain ability 
 until you've unlocked it on a created Superstar already. This means that you may need to go through 
 career mode on a few "dummy" created Superstars in order to unlock and learn how to gain all of 
 the abilities before you can actually create the exact superstar you want.
  
  In summary, SvR 2009 is a good wrestling game. It has all of the matches and features you have 
 come to expect from a WWE SvR video game (with the exception of the lost features I previously 
 mentioned) . I had not played the game through its entirety as of yet, so there may be plenty I 
 missed. And don't let the bad parts of the game deter you from buying it. Just don't expect it 
 to be the "Halo 3 of WWE." And also keep in mind that Svr 2010 will most likely be out by this 
 time next year.
  
  
  
  Note: I apologize for any spelling errors 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboid665
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this game having already buying every WWE Smackdown game since WWE Smackdown on PS1 all those 
 years ago and thought with all the promised extras that this version would be fantastic, I was 
 however very VERY disappointed! To make is easier to read here are my grievances:
  
  1: The "Innovative user interface that lets you design the most devastating finisher ever" is extremely 
 poor, only allowing you to perform finishers from the front, no from behind, Ariel or submission 
 moves, and all end with a finisher that is performed by a known wwe superstar anyway!
  
  2: "New Inferno Match" is pretty much a normal match where you cant leave the ring with a pathetic 
 fire (if you can call it that) round the edge of the ring, with the match ending by throwing you 
 opponent out of the ring, basically a battle royal match with a sad fire effect!
  
  3: No effort has been made to make new entrance moves; all are the same animations that were used 
 for the last 3 years.
  
  4. The same can be said for the moves by the created superstar and many other wwe wrestlers.
 
  
  5: The "Tag Team Explosion" is horrible. The only extra that has been added is the hot tag, which 
 gets very old very quickly, and I've only bothered to do it twice! 
  
  6: When in a match against more than one person you find yourself for example Irish whipping you 
 opponent into the ropes waiting to perform a move on the rebound and find your character suddenly 
 looks the other way to face the other opponent! Regardless of where he is!
  
  7: When you leave the ring and try and wrestle on the floor outside the camera fixes to an almost 
 Resident Evil type camera angle which is absolutely horrendous! You cannot see a thing! While trying 
 to throw you opponent onto the announcer table, which has always been one of my favourite things 
 to do, you cannot see where to throw them! I can see what the developers tried to do here, to try 
 and replicate the realism of a scared cameraman in the corner but as far as user friendly goes, 
 it fails, big time!
  
  8: "The Road to Wrestlemania" is an absolute joke! A couple of wrestlers supplying their voice 
 for a half-assed attempt at a storyline. Out of the 12 pay-per-views their are in a wrestling year, 
 only 3 are shown! Upon playing one of these terrible storeys you find yourself half way in thinking 
 to yourself "what am I doing?" and begs the question, is there anything worth unlocking at the 
 end of this? And to answer that question, NO there isnt!
  9: The game itself is terribly out of date. WWE has come on allot since, for example: 
  
  The 
 Cruiserweight Championship hasn't been used since March 08 and for some reason is featured in the 
 game!
  The ECW Title is the old version
  No Diva Championship Belt even though this was introduced in June 08! Surely the developers and 
 the WWE have some correspondence with each other and could inform THQ what will be happening
  CM Punk still on ECW even though he was drafted to raw in June 08
  Superstars such as Chuck Palumbo, 
 Jimmy Wang Yang, Paul London etc barely even feature on WWE anymore
  Brian Kendrick is now called THE Brian Kendrick since July 08 yet he still remains Brian Kendrick 
 in the game
  
  10: "The Highlight Reel" is pointless and is a feature, i'm sure, put in just to boost sales. It 
 would be a good feature if you could record your best bits and make a compilation video that your 
 created wrestler could use as his entrance video, but that idea will probaly never materialize, 
 and we will be stuck with the boring WWE logo for ever!
  11: The Career Mode is tremendously boring and repetitive, basically just an extension of the exhibition 
 mode, without any interesting storylines, just match after match after match against the same people. 
 The great thing about WWE Smackdown Vs Raw 2008 was that the career mode saw your created superstar 
 start off at the bottom and work his way to the top, in 2009 there is nothing that comes close!
 
  
  In Conclusion WWE Smackdown Vs Raw 2009 was no where near worth the wait and the exposure prior 
 to its release. The entrances and creation areas are out dated and overused, its NEW features are 
 absolutely nothing to get excited about and is a game better suited to have been released a year 
 ago! In short WWE Smackdown Vs Raw 2009 barely qualifies for an expansion pack for its predecessor 
 and nowhere near deserves the price tag that accompanied it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkened_skys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I only just got this game and have played it for about two hours and i can already tell the improvements 
 that have been made. The graphics are much better and a lot sharper then in previous games. The 
 Road to Wrestlemania mode is huge improvement over the 24/7 mode because while it may not be very 
 long but the story changes depending on which character on you choose and the storyline is plausible. 
 There is also a coop story mode for the first time ever which i have not yet played but I am looking 
 forward to as the tag team matches have had lots of new features added to them making them new 
 and exciting rather then boring and tedious like before. The amount of different match types is 
 huge and you will never want for choice. The roster has been improved but is not fully up-to-date 
 unfortunately. This game is much better then the previous one in the series and is a must buy for 
 any wrestling fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netapp14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  See aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee 
 aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee aboveSee above 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
