-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Blades
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/xblades/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Diverse combat with lots of unlockable moves.
 Impressive visuals.
 Huge bosses and lots of enemy types.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive environments.
 Some battles are too one-dimensional.
 Boss fights take too long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Gaijin
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Feb 6, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
X-Blades never achieves the excellence that its varied combat and pretty visuals promise. 

  X-Blades comes so close to being a great action game. It encompasses most of the elements that 
 you would demand from the best games in the genre: diverse combat with tons of unlockable moves, 
 impressive visuals that optimally frame the frantic fights, and a long quest with plenty of creepy 
 monsters and gigantic boss encounters. But for every step forward that X-Blades takes on the road 
 to action nirvana, it takes another step in the opposite direction. The depth of combat is too 
 often compromised as hundreds of enemies flood the screen, the striking visuals lose their luster 
 as repetitive environments make things predictable, and the boss battles are wars of attrition 
 rather than tests of skill. However, despite the games problems, it's still a fun action romp. 
 But what could have been a thrilling, vicious battle against dark forces becomes an all-too-predictable 
 foray into senseless hacking and slashing.  

           Ayumi's special attacks leave little to the imagination.      

  Ayumi is your typical 
 treasure-hunting heroine except for one major visual distinction: She is not wearing any pants. 
 As you run through the crumbling ruins on your quest to rectify the wrongs that you have caused, 
 you will be staring at her unclothed backside, wondering why she decided to fight a horde of angry 
 creatures without durable fabric protecting her from their vicious attacks. You will have to play 
 through the entire game to unlock a pair of form-fitting pants, so leave your modesty at the temple 
 entrance if you want to guide Ayumi through these haunted ruins. The story is largely forgettable, 
 chronicling Ayumi's quest to drive off the dark side that she has unleashed onto the world.  

 
  The frantic combat will make you forget about the scantily clad protagonist for a little while. 
 You have three attack types at your disposal -- melee, guns, and magic -- and you'll obtain plenty 
 of unlockable moves and combos throughout the adventure. You can mow through the early enemies 
 with little more than your titular blades, but most of your foes require a more thoughtful approach 
 to dispose of them. Elemental attacks are your main tool, letting you quench the heat of a fire 
 creature with an icy blast or neutralize a dark baddie with a burst of pure light energy. Given 
 that multiple types of enemies will fill the screen, you'll have to smartly switch between different 
 attack types to survive, creating dizzying encounters that require raw button-mashing prowess with 
 clever magical use.  

  The problem is that many of these battles lack the sophistication needed to push this complex combat 
 system to its full potential. Levels are often overrun with so many enemies that it's all you can 
 do to spam with your swords, toss in the occasional area attack, and hope that your merciless pursuers 
 relent for just one moment. X-Blades all too frequently relies on this mechanic, and though it 
 can't completely destroy the deep combat system, it does lessen the impact, making duels far more 
 repetitive than they should be. You won't have to deal with an abundance of enemies during boss 
 duels, but these too come with their own set of problems. Bosses are generally immune to every 
 type of attack except for one from a specific element. Once you figure out their weaknesses, you'll 
 simply need to continually pepper the bosses from afar while you easily avoid their weak attacks. 
 These battles creep towards frustration because of the sheer endurance needed to complete them, 
 but they are predominantly forgettable and uninspired.  

           That's a lot of legs for one battle.      

  There are two different types of levels 
 in X-Blades: boss battles and normal enemy encounters. Each time you enter a new stage, the passage 
 to the next area is walled off and a life bar appears onscreen. As enemies flood the screen, you 
 have to dispose of your foes until their life bar fully depletes, leaving you free to catch your 
 breath for a moment. Depending on the type and number of enemies, these stages can be either exciting 
 or monotonous, and the game never seems to strike a balance between how many enemies it has onscreen 
 and how much strategy you need to exert. When the enemies are removed, you're free to collect the 
 scattered loot, which lets you unlock more moves. However, the adventuring aspect is so simplified 
 that this act also becomes repetitive after a few levels. Gathering items requires you to smash 
 every breakable object in sight, so you'll dutifully destroy old vases and dusty statues, without 
 any interesting platforming or exploration.  

  The visuals in X-Blades are quite effective. The environments, though confined, are finely detailed 
 and make the broken ruins of this abandoned temple feel quite realistic. The enemies come in a 
 variety of creepy forms, from minidinosaurs that chomp relentlessly at your naked backside to armored 
 spiders that fling dark magic from across the screen. The lighting is particularly noteworthy. 
 The ruins will light up with every magical strike you unleash, torches will flicker realistically 
 on walls, and the shadows created due to the sun and other light sources behave like they should. 
 Like every other aspect of X-Blades, though, the good elements are always countered by something 
 bad, and the graphics are no exception. As well designed as the environments are, you'll never 
 make it out of these darn ruins. Every level looks exactly the same, which sucks the life out of 
 your journey. There is also one design decision that could cause physical discomfort. The camera 
 during cutscenes has a mind of its own, floating across the environment and rapidly zooming around 
 characters with jarring quickness, making it difficult to focus on the events. It's a shame that 
 there aren't more memorable environments because the visuals are mostly top-notch.  

  X-Blades is a competent action game, but it lacks the fine touch that could have made it something 
 special. It just cannot seem to make the most of its solid backbone. The diverse combat is too 
 often made one-dimensional, the impressive visuals lack variety, and the imposing bosses are pushovers. 
 Nevertheless, there is undeniable fun in vanquishing a horde of unholy enemies, and with two endings 
 and a few unlockables, there is plenty of value for those who thrive on disposing of dark forces. 
 Ayumi may not know how to fully dress herself, but at least she can tear through her foes in style, 
 and if you can forgive the repetitive environments and sometimes-shallow battles, this can be fun 
 for a while.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FF_fan2004
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:30 am PT
Review:  After hearing reviews of how bad this game was, it certainly wasn't enough to prevent me from buying 
 this load of tripe. Not even the man from the Unskippable series could stop me.
  The first thing that appealed to me as a gamer/anime/geek girl was the idea of a female protagonist. 
 That and also because I bought the game for really cheap down in HMV yesterday.
  The question asked should not beWhat is wrong with the game" instead it should be "What is right 
 with it?" The answer... absolutely nothing at all!
  What this game, Ninja Gaiden II and God of War have in common is hack-and-slash plus blood. What 
 it doesn't have is functioning controls. I hate NG II because of the legendary difficulty on easy 
 and beyond horrible cameras, but at least the controls on the game was well handled and responsive. 
 
  The dumb blond so-called heroine is no more than some well... dumb blond that wears some skimpy 
 outfit, that makes you wonder whether she's actually a treasure hunter; and not some backstreet, 
 two-penny prostitute with only a single brain cell that has loads of neurons barely attached to 
 it just for functioning.
  On first impression, the opening had terrible voice acting that makes you wonder what was the point 
 of having voices in the first place if they are not going to say anything; other than pointless 
 "oohs" and "ahhs" in cut-scene. What are the "developers" trying to make? Porn? With all the "oohs" 
 and "ahhs" it may as well be but with "clothes" on.
  The camera is atrocious, worst than NG II. The difficulty is just as bad as each other, that it 
 makes Dynasty Warriors Gundam seem like child's play (even though it was on easy) . 
  The problem with hack-and-slash games like this is that there are no skills required to slash your 
 way through enemies which makes skill development very redundant indeed. I could carry on criticizing 
 how bad this game truly is but it is the tip of the iceberg. From bad controls, gameplay, right 
 down to the terrible voice acting (or lack thereof) , to the so-called "soundtrack" if you can even 
 call it that.
  In the end I am very disappointed, but unfortunately I have a duty as a gamer girl to "try" complete 
 this piece of excrement and flog it off as soon as I can. And I still haven't even finished Ninja 
 Gaiden II on easy level... There are better games to play out there, so if you are reading this 
 heed all warnings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game tried too hard. It should have just been happy to be a regular arena fighter as that 
 is essentially what it is. The graphics are decent, the monsters are decent, the fighting is decent. 
 Everything else is pretty weak. Is there a story? Where is the story? I was halfway through the 
 game when I realized I still didn't know what I supposed to be fighting for.
  
  The whole game is played basically the same. Enter new area, kill everyone in the area, loot the 
 area, leave the area. Button mashing is the name of the game as sometimes there is so many enemies 
 that it feels like you could almost turn the channel and watch TV while whaling on the controller 
 and still come through to the end of the battle somehow.
  
  Also the game is pandering. What is she wearing anyway? Dental floss and cotton swabs? What better 
 armor to fight the vulgar hordes in? It makes you question our beautiful heroine's judgment and 
 certainly her brainpower to have gone off to battle dressed for bed.
  
  Combat in this game can be pretty fun but gets stale pretty quick in the game. There is the potential 
 for a lot of change ups but you just don't seem to use them or really need them much. It seems 
 like this game is unfinished somehow. It is sad, because the visual aspect of the game is pretty 
 exceptional.
  
  I think this game would be classified as a near miss. Tweak the environments, beef up the story, 
 fine tune the combat and it could be a very good game. As it is, not so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  X-Blades is one of those games that could have used a few more months of development before its 
 release. X-Blades isn't a bad game, its just one of those you'll probably quickly forget. 
  
  It does stand apart from other hack and slash type games since its combat feels more open and 
 your attacks don't always seem to be the same over and over. Using magic thrown into the combat, 
 the fighting can be intense and very fun, though its always clear the map of all enemies to move 
 on to the next area. Each area you go into has a red bar which you must lower by killing all the 
 spawning creatures. After some time, you'll feel like you've seen it all... which you will.
  
  Controls. This is what really killed the game. Most of the time, the controls respond, but 
 for some of the important moves, its as if the game doesn't realize that its being played. In some 
 key areas, where timing is very important, the most simple of task is near impossible to pull off. 
 It doesn't ruin the game much, but one would wish they'd change out how you pull off some moves.
 
  
  The story, if the game has one, involves the classic battle of light and dark. And thats as far 
 as it goes. There is a story mixed somewhere in there, if one truly pays attention, but skipping 
 the beautiful cut scenes really doesn't take away from the game. 
  
  This is a typical hack and slash, with anime style graphics and gamplay thrown in. Its a great 
 game for a one time play, but it'll quickly be lost in the tide of everything else out there. Regardless, 
 it does deserve that one time try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is just not that good. All it would take is ONE look at the TITLE and you will know how 
 bad the game is.
  
  Sure, it gives a few kicks right off the bat and the game looks good (what games DON'T look good 
 on the PS3 and 360 these days) but it's just another run of the mill hack and slash game.
  
  I am sure there is going to be a cadre of people who really like this game. I can understand 
 that, but it's not for me.
  
  I hope I sell TONS of this game but I am not going to sincerely recommend it to any of my customers. 
 It has no real story to speak of, the heroine is bland and forgettable.
  
  The music is actually pretty cool but because it's involved with this pretty plain game, is forgettable 
 as well.
  
  I am not saying this game is AWFUL, it's just not good. Conan was a better game. Ninja Gaiden II 
 is a better game. Devil May Cry 4 is a better game. For us PS3 owners, the new God of War will 
 hopefully be better than this game.
  
  There are plenty of other games on the Xbox 360 that will fill this itch and are OUTSTANDING. This 
 game is not among them. The 360 still has the best selection of good action games but this game 
 is not among them.
  
  Don't buy this game before you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:18 am PT
Review:  Hack 'n Slash games are meant to relax the player with simple, fast, mindless action. They are 
 the junk food equivalent of video games. You can't eat fillet mignon every day; occasionally we 
 want a greasy whopper. X-Blades doesn't fall into that category, though it has all the markings 
 of "junk". What we get is grease and two large buns without the patty. Gameplay is non-existent, 
 controls are unrefined and levels are nothing more than large arenas, which make the whole experience 
 about as fun as watching something cute and cuddly get run over by a car. Simply put: X-Blades 
 sucks.
  
  
  WHY ISN'T THE MAIN CHARACTER NAKED? 
  
  No, seriously, why isn't she? She wears the smallest thong ever consumed by a pair of cheeks, jiggles 
 like her bra is merely "painted" on and we see her from the most perverse angles, so it's only 
 fair that we ask. Removing some needless "textures" would have saved on valuable processing power 
 Besides, the game's official wallpapers clearly have the heroine posing topless, so why tease us 
 with strings when we know developers have uncensored material lying around somewhere. 
  
  To say the game is designed with male interests in mind in an understatement. The protagonist is 
 the personification of every male dream. She's blonde, flaky, bountiful, endowed, jiggly, has awesome 
 tats (that's TATS) , wears the coolest pumps and has not one or two, but three pony tails! All she 
 needs are glow-sticks (her swords are shiny so close enough) . Even the name is insinuating: "X"-Blades. 
 If we ever see two more sequels I wonder what the third installment will be called 
  
  The game is single-handedly setting us back ten years in terms of video game chauvinism, but I 
 digress. The sad part: there's more to say about the character's look than gameplay. 
  
  Having watched the first two cutscenes I was expecting a title with the gameplay refinement of 
 Dead or Alive -- the stiff, unresponsive kind with needless animation and little-to-no depth but 
 with enough basics to make it a bearable experience. X-Blades first impressions are deviously misleading. 
 The game has smooth controls. The main character, whose name eludes me for some reason, runs around 
 slashing various monsters with her two swords. Action is surprisingly responsive, which doesn't 
 say much because it's also surprisingly bad. I honestly felt like turning the game off every time 
 I mustered enough willpower to play this shameless attempt to squeeze out sales through sex. 
 
  
  In a nutshell, you fight annoying bosses while being swarmed by annoying enemies. When you don't 
 fight bosses you're simply swarmed by annoying enemies. Players are dumped in a pit and monsters 
 appear out of nowhere and keep respawning until they are all dead. Apparently your blonde bombshell 
 is a treasure hunter, but you wouldn't know it by playing the insanely unoriginal and uninspired 
 solo missions because there is absolutely no treasure hunting anywhere. There's a lot of button 
 mashing, and a lot of running around half-naked, even an occasional pickup while you run around 
 half-naked, but no treasure hunting whatsoever. And even if the game would have "attempted" to 
 give us some exploration (because it doesn't) , there isn't enough gameplay depth to do anything 
 beyond pressing a single button. The character has no moves besides basic slashing, a whimsical 
 dash-forward, a few spells and pistol shots. 
  
  Gun action is too weak to be effective against anything but the peskiest of enemies and magic acts 
 as nothing more than a reprieve from the drudgery of slashing waves of identical enemies in each 
 level. Using swords refills a magic meter, so gameplay pretty much unfolds as follows: slash, slash, 
 slash, magic, rinse and repeat to insanity.
  
  
  SOUTHPEAK MENTALITY: THE SMALLER THE THONG, THE BIGGER THE SALES
  
  Levels are large square 
 pits. Monsters appear out of thin air. They are bad. You have to kill them. While you kill them 
 you sometimes break a pot. Sometimes you break a vase. On occasion you stumble upon a piece of 
 artifact. The artifacts are carefully hidden behind rocks. Sometimes they are hidden in plain view 
 on a cobblestone platform. There are also doors. The doors don't open. You have to kill all the 
 monsters in each level to open them. Entering the door ends the level. In sum, very ex ci ting.
 
  
  Gameplay is so shallow and levels are so flat and pointless each stage could have taken place on 
 a giant gym matt with no walls and the outcome would have been the same: me ripping my hair out 
 for having to endure this crap. On a few occasions TopWare (or Gaijin -- seems nobody wants to 
 take full blame for this wreck) has players interacting with levels. In such cases we can look 
 forward to being locked in a room with retracting spikes or running through empty corridors with 
 large guillotines. 
  
  In the room with spikes I was expecting some sort of puzzle or switch to press in order to escape. 
 Stupid me; all you have to do is NOTHING! You wait for five minutes, occasionally healing (you 
 can buy heals and spells with soul-credits) , until a cutscene puts an end to the misery that is 
 TopWare and Gaijin's combined creative prowess. The spiky room locks you up and sends waves of 
 floor spikes from one end to the other. The spikes speed up with each pass. Then the spikes start 
 to wave from the opposite direction, also speeding up. Then the entire floor gets spiky with a 
 single safe patch. The patch moves. You have to move into the safe patch. The speed increases. 
 Then once that cycle is over, guess what? It's starts all over again! Yippee!
  
  Don't mind the bad gameplay; your character's derriere is a statement on its own: Lara Croft, here 
 I come! Sorry, I actually wish that was the case. No, the true statement is an obviously crass 
 attempt to swindle horny teen males into getting the game. Your main character even insinuatingly 
 bends forward when she runs. The thong is but a bull's eye. Nice, TopWare/Gaijin, nice. Too bad 
 your levels aren't as inviting as your sexbomb. 
  
  Ok, onto the plot
  
  
  EWW, STICKY 
  
  The heroine finds an artifact, and despite the warnings of its guardian that 
 touching the object will unleash doom and darkness upon her, and that he will have to kill her 
 if she defies him, the blonde still touches it, and gets her hand all sticky (insert blonde joke 
 here) . "Ah-yah as if, like, I'm gonna listen to some tiger-looking thang", she probably wondered. 
 "I'm pretty, and boys like me because of my perfectly pear-shaped body and my three pony tails. 
 I can do anything", she justified. So with her spoiled high school brat mentality the dumb blonde 
 does as she pleases, and all the teenage boys are like "Rock on, babe! Kill those thangs, kill!! 
 Oh, run babe, run!!!" Cue in heavy metal music, and you get X-Blades. 
  
  But before you wonder if watching a hot anime babe is worth the uninspired game design, know that 
 the X-Blades is also loaded with insanely frustrating gameplay. Your character can lock onto enemies 
 to make them easier to nail (no pun intended) , but there's one little problem: the lock-on system 
 is completely out of the player's control -- it's as crappy as the rest of the game. Ayumi (fine, 
 she has a name) locks on to whomever your camera is facing. And since the cameraman has the attention 
 span of what the developers hope is the target audience, players end up aiming at targets that 
 aren't in front them, like enemies behind walls, ruins or mountains. In fact, Ayumi prefers to 
 target anything out of her reach. This makes fighting bosses a living hell since all levels are 
 peppered with respawning enemies. 
  
  As you off enemies Ayumi fills up a magic meter that lets her pull off some rather impressive moves. 
 Too bad levels are so insipid they turn fighting into a chore. Players can literally start stages 
 and accumulate the required body count to move on without moving from the character's starting 
 position! Just load into a level, wait, and as soon as you are surrounded start pounding the attack 
 button, occasionally unleashing an earthquake spell. In the process players can string pointless 
 combos. 
  
  The responsive controls are only skin deep (who would have thought) . For some reason Ayumi sometimes 
 fails to double-jump and destructible objects occasionally don't want to break, no matter how close 
 and how much you swing at them. An acrobatic move can be performed by pressing forward twice and 
 jump, but even that seems random. The move is required to pass a guillotine hallway so get ready 
 to die countless times trying to execute this elementary skill. Your character will also jump for 
 no apparent reason near rocks and walls.
  
  In the end Ayumi is always swarmed by annoying enemies, she always runs around in boring levels, 
 and she always bends over to compensate for the horrible gameplay mechanics (so you can imagine 
 how much bending over she must do) . The only redeeming quality in this mess is the music. The game 
 features some nice heavy and techno tunes and a cool main menu song. The rest is forgettable. 
 
  
  
  SUMMARY 
  
  Avoid. Don't justify this suck. If you do, I'll find you
  
  
  GRAPHICS 45
  Uninspired levels. Ayumi looks great but levels could have easily been replaced 
 with a large gym matt and the experience would have been the same.
  
  GAMEPLAY 35
  Read above The game also suffers from a horrible lock on system, bad camera and annoying enemies. 
 No goals, you just fight until enemies stop respawning.
  
  PRODUCTION 40
  Nice cutscenes, however few, but calling the heroine a "treasure hunter" only exposes the fact 
 that this game has no depth whatsoever.
  
  SOUND 60
  Nice music. Techno and Heavy Metal feels out of place in the bad fantasy settings. Lack of sound 
 effects because of pathetic level details.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 30
  A few extras and upgrades might entice some to play more than a few hours, but if you last until 
 the end, you need to get a life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Victor122982
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, basically the classification says it. Just plain fun. First of all, id like to say that the 
 game is definitely underrated. Obvliously everybody are rating the game so low due the fact that 
 it lacks any story and everyone is demanding on games with decent stories but this isnt right. 
 When did we get so picky? Do you all forget the nintendo and sega genesis era? Best games bck then 
 Super Mario, Sonic, Contra, Golden axe et. c. had no stories at all! It was just pure fun to play 
 them because of their gameplay, I believe a gameplay makes a good game not the story. Now dont 
 get me wrong it isnt like the game has no story at all, that would be lame as hell it does have 
 a story just not as solid as you want it to be. Graphics on the other hand are I think pretty nice 
 in my opinion. Very colourful. 
  Now things that I dont like about it are... stage/leves are kinda small and cant really explore 
 much. The chick that you play with looks kinda cute in a way but would have been alot better if 
 they gave us an option to change characters. Sometimes you slash and cut so many creatures at the 
 same time you have no idea whats going on and the AI sucks pretty much I guess they are just programmed 
 to go at you and stay there just for a count. But these are just minor issues and shouldt affect 
 the game score id have given it more just it isnt my kinda game but i enjoyed it alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpalmucci
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The game was great. It's got not much of a story line but the graphics are nice. The game was sort 
 of easy even on hard mode and now i'm currently on pro so ill see how this goes. its basically 
 a hack and slash with spells and gun shots mixed in. most of the enemies u can kill with normal 
 attacks and some u have to kill with specific moves. The only real problems i see with it is in 
 some levels there's a bright red glow in the background and everywhere and a little sort of glitch 
 which makes u float over enemies and gets u stuck there for awhile sometimes. The controls for 
 the game are very easy to get used to. The very nice thing i've seen is the guide in the book that 
 helps you lots. Achievements are very fast to get. The game should last around under 10 hours depending 
 on how you play, once i beat normal twice beating hard only took under 5 hours. The 2 costumes you 
 unlock after beating it are nice, and yea its a very nicely made game that's fun to play if u like 
 hack and slash games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kissmetvieve
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  The cover of the box is great and all. The game starts off with you beating up some silly looking 
 characters. After that you just go places with no real purpose. After the first level of lush gardens 
 scenery, I ended up in some beach side hell place.... what sense did that make?
  
  I am so sick of XBOX having mostly shooters. The only good action adventure game on the platform 
 is Ninja Gaiden II or TombRaider Underworld. I just want to play a game where the character can 
 swim, fight (hundreds of combos) , can climb walls, can jump high... you know.
  
  This just doesn't do it for me. This game is so pointless. Kameo was better than this. I didn't 
 like Kameo either. Well, I guess it is back to playing Assassin's Creed or something else. 
  
  This game is actually a beat em up game! You know the kind not worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  X blades is nothing more than a pretty heroine. It does have nice looking areas and decent details. 
 However, the game does little to keep you interested and mostly leaves you frustrated. The story 
 is almost non existence and doesn't really make sense. It doesn't pull you in enough to keep you 
 interested in playing the game. The game consists of going from room to room and fighting hordes 
 of enemies in each room. The way the enemies are structured is nothing but frustrating. In many 
 rooms there is a sub boss type enemy you need to destroy, but the hordes of enemies that respawn 
 until the boos is dead start to get annoying as you strive to your goal. Ayumi is armed with a 
 set of dual swords and a set of guns which you can upgrade by finding artifacts throughout the 
 dungeon. She can also learn several spells by collecting orbs from those she kills. The problem 
 is the aiming mechanic is automatic so you often may want to target a boss enemy with a spell but 
 she will target another instead. The movement is very fast but does not work with the environments. 
 I fell to death several times because I couldn't time a jump or move slow enough on a tricky ledge. 
 The combat gets boring and frustrating as there's no real reward for doing it. You end up going 
 through each area twice, once during the day, then once at night. You'll be very familiar with 
 the place by the games end. I would say rent it if you must or wait for the price to go down. If 
 you are expecting anything other than fighting of thousands of the same enemies you won't find 
 it here. 
  
  One thing I did like was that this games instruction manual provided a mini guide that told you 
 how to kill each enemy and the bosses. I didn't make it easier but it was helpful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this one really short and simple.
  
  Game is a grind. And not just gameplay-wise, its the same monsters, same locations and same means 
 of killing. It just feels like the creators had an attidude along the lines of "oh, who cares about 
 the storyline (or lack there of) and boring gameplay, put a half-dressed anime girl on the cover 
 of this game and make her the main character, and the game will sell just fine..." I really dont 
 have a problem with main characters design (at all) , but that and a fairly good visual is all that 
 this game has to offer.
  
  + Good graphics and visuals
  + Original main character design
  + Game is NOT a resource hog and runs well
  + Gameplay is 
 actually fun (for the first 10 - 20 minutes)
  
  - It took me 2 hours to realise that there is, in fact, a storyline...
  - GGRRRIIIIINNNNDDD
 
  - Locations repeat, and there is very few of them
  - Unbalanced difficulty (especially with different bosses)
  - Same monster over and over and 
 ov....
  - Gameplay gets dull after 20 minutes
  - Lack of weapons \ excess of abilities
  - Incredibly bad voice acting (i really mean it)
  - Repetitive music
  
  This would make a 
 great level by level arcade game, but even for an action game (thats SUPPOSED to be very fast-paced 
 and even mildly grind-ish) it feels incomplete. It just lacks in almost every way a game in 2009 
 could lack, while still managing to stay above the "very bad game" line. The action may not get 
 as dull if you play 10-20 minutes a day, in which case you might even have enough patience to finish 
 the game. Its ultimately up to you if you want to buy the game, rent it, or stay away from it all 
 together, this review just states the obvious... 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
