-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Men: The Official Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/xmenmovie3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three unique, playable X-Men.
 Some key celebrity voice talent.
 A few nice visual touches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Brain-dead beat-'em-up gameplay with no enjoyable combos or special moves.
 Lousy cutscene work.
 Disjointed, poorly presented storyline.
 A number of irritating bugs and glitches.
 360 version's graphics are decidedly underwhelming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.6, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 881 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Z-Axis, Ltd.
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: May 16, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
X-Men: The Official Game is officially a lame action-game cash-in on the upcoming movie. 

  The lousy movie-licensed game genre claims another victim in X-Men: The Official Game. Based 
 loosely in-between the stories of the second and third films, X-Men is a completely unremarkable 
 beat-'em-up (with a few boilerplate shooter elements tossed into the mix) that feels just haphazard 
 enough to likely have been rushed through development to get it onto store shelves ahead of the 
 film. It's not that it's entirely broken, mind you, but X-Men's missions are entirely generic and 
 devoid of captivating content, and there are enough annoying little glitches and other obnoxious 
 things prevalent throughout to give the game that thrown-together feel.  

          The X-Men are back! Well... a select few of them, anyway.     

  X-Men seems to follow 
 the basic plot concepts of the  X-Men  movies, but it centers its focus around three of the heroes: 
 Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Iceman. Whether this was a deliberate choice, or a direct response 
 to which of the film's actors Activision could actually get to reprise their roles for the game 
 (Hugh Jackman, Alan Cumming, and Shawn Ashmore are indeed in the game) , we'll likely never know, 
 but Nightcrawler's inclusion is specifcally to explain why he's not in the new movie. For what 
 it's worth, Jackman, Cumming, and Ashmore all do serviceable jobs voicing the characters, as does 
 Patrick Stewart, who returns to voice act Professor X. Unfortunately, the remaining cast is mostly 
 made up of soundalikes, and none of them are particularly good.  

  By centering on these three characters and setting up the mission structure as the game does, you're 
 left with a fairly disjointed sense of where the story is going. For instance, early on in the 
 game, all three characters go through quick training sequences to get you familiar with how they 
 work. The next mission is a return to Alkali Lake (the site of Jean Grey's tragic demise at the 
 end of the second film) to recapture parts of the Cerebro machine taken by General Stryker. You 
 start off as Nightcrawler, and are given the option later on to play either as Wolverine or Nightcrawler 
 for another section. Once you've made your pick, you're stuck with that character for the duration 
 of his missions during this chapter (which can go up to around three or four in a row, at times) . 
 Only after you've completed it can you switch over to the other available character. Not to mention 
 that Iceman just disappears during this whole section and we don't join up with him until significantly 
 later, in a completely new scenario that's given next to no plot exposition. It's not that a game 
 of this type has to be some kind of brilliant work of fiction to succeed, but X-Men tells its story 
 in such a perplexing and disconcerting way that it's difficult to care much about what's going 
 on.  

  Each of the three playable characters fights a little differently from the other. Wolverine obviously 
 has his Adamantium claws, as well as a rage ability that gives him some particularly brutal moves; 
 Nightcrawler can teleport to any area within his visual range, as well as use his teleporting abilities 
 in combat to pull off more acrobatic moves and transport himself to a "shadow realm" to regenerate 
 his health (an ability we're not sure he ever had before this game) ; and finally, Iceman perpetually 
 rides on an icy surfboard, flying through the air while shooting his ice beam and ice projectiles, 
 and inexplicably regenerating his health (an ability we're  positive  he didn't have before this 
 game) . The Iceman missions are almost more like rail shooters, since you're near-constantly in 
 motion, floating about various areas and sometimes navigating perilous traps and pitfalls -- and 
 for that matter, the Iceman missions are probably the most interesting part of the game, if only 
 in comparison to the utterly dull Nightcrawler and Wolverine segments.  

  When you're playing as Wolverine or Nightcrawler, you're beating up a lot of enemies in relatively 
 closed-off environments. Sometimes you need to find a control panel to open a door, and there are 
 some platforming elements with the Nightcrawler sections (which can usually be circumvented altogether 
 using his teleport ability) , but for the most part you're just constantly fighting enemies with 
 guns, electric sticks, electric spears, bazookas, or the occasional mutant power. Plenty of beat-'em-up 
 games have managed to suffice with a similar formula, but X-Men's combat is just boring. There's 
 next to no combo variety to speak of, and it's awfully easy to just use Wolverine's power attacks 
 or Nightcrawler's teleport attacks over and over again to break past an enemy's block to simply 
 roll right over them over and over again. It's not that the fights are easy, exactly. Sometimes 
 they can actually be a bit frustrating, especially when you're playing as Wolverine and getting 
 pelted with bullets, and the only thing you can really do is run right at the guys with the guns. 
 But frustration aside, there's nothing interesting about the fight sequences to make you want to 
 keep playing. It's just button-mashing of the most banal variety.  

  Additionally, there are a number of moments in the game that make you wonder just how much time 
 this game really spent in development. There are no major show-stopping bugs, but rather a lot 
 of little glitches that just keep popping up over and over again. Enemies will sometimes teleport 
 from one side of a level to another instantaneously for no discernible reason; sometimes you can 
 knock enemies into walls or doorways from which they cannot escape; scripted appearances of characters 
 will sometimes get stuck and remain there even when they're clearly supposed to disappear moments 
 later -- there are a lot of little things like this. Boss fights also seem very poorly cobbled together. 
 Most boss fights in the game simply revolve around you and the boss character running around an 
 enclosed area, hitting each other for a bit, then running off, hitting each other again, and then 
 running off, and so on. The bosses just aren't very smart, since you can basically pelt them with 
 attacks, run to the far side of the environment to recharge a bit, and go back without them ever 
 really running after you, or at least not very quickly.  

  X-Men manages to deliver a pretty good visual experience, although there's nothing too special 
 about it. The basic character models and animations are nicely detailed, as are a few of the environments. 
 There are a couple of cool levels in particular, such as the power-plant-at-sundown scenario Iceman 
 takes on at one point, as well as the sequence inside the Dark Cerebro machine from the 2nd movie. 
 There's also a fair share of rather mundane looking areas in the game, but generally speaking, 
 it's a pleasant enough game to look at. The most obnoxious visual aspect of X-Men, however, is 
 its cutscenes, or practical lack thereof. All the game's story sequences are presented with still-frame 
 shots of comic-book versions of the movie characters. You'll see these static characters awkwardly 
 move across the screen to do various actions, and speak to one another with no mouth movement whatsoever. 
 It doesn't even look so much like a comic book as it does the kind of purposely bad animation you'd 
 find on something like  Sealab 2021 , but without the purpose. Every once in a while the game does 
 go whole hog into the comic book style of transition, but it skips by each panel so fast that you 
 can't read a single line of what's being said. As if the story weren't confusing enough already... 

          X-Men beat-'em-ups can be great -- just look at the old X-Men Arcade Game. If the developers 
 had played that a few more times, maybe they'd have come up with something better than this trite 
 junk.     

  There are five home system versions of X-Men currently available, with iterations on the Xbox, 
 PlayStation 2, GameCube, PC, and Xbox 360. The first four versions all look comparable to one another, 
 with the Xbox version perhaps looking the best of the bunch. All four really do look practically 
 the same, but the PC, GC and PS2 versions suffer from an erratic frame rate. The Xbox 360 version 
 is actually also comparable to the other four versions -- perhaps a little too comparable. To say 
 that on a standard-definition TV, the 360 version looks pretty close to the Xbox version would 
 be an understatement. They're practically identical, with only a slightly more noticeable bit of 
 color depth apparent on the 360 version. Upping to HD resolution does improve matters, especially 
 in terms of environmental detail, but it's not such a huge difference as to warrant the $60 price 
 tag (as opposed to $40 for the other console versions, and $30 for the PC version) . Suffice it 
 to say, the 360 version is pretty much a rip-off.  

  X-Men: The Official Game is ultimately an easily dismissible movie game to toss on the smoldering 
 pile of other cash-in movie games released over the years. Its existence is solely based on the 
 need to have an X-Men game to coincide with the hype surrounding the film, and it brings no interesting 
 gameplay, story, visual, or feature components to the table to make it worth your time. It's all 
 the more disappointing, considering that as of late, Activision has done well with the X-Men license 
 with games like the X-Men Legends series. You'd have to go all the way back to 2002 for something 
 like X-Men: Next Dimension to find a comparably lame use of the X-Men license to X-Men: The Official 
 Game, and trust us when we say that this is not something you ever want to go back to.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (81 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  As a follower of the X-Men from comic books through to movies I deceided to give this game a chance 
 despite the less than sparkling reviews and lack of respect video games made from movies tend to 
 get. Here's my Good, Bad, and Overall:
  
  The Good - X-men 3 did not have nightcrawaler in the movie. In this game I got to literally kick 
 butt as the teleporter. It was the most fun I've enjoyed in the game.
  
  The Bad - 
  1) Only three characters can be used, Wolverine, IceMan and Nightcrawaler. Storm and Colossus made 
 appearances but its as a sick-kick backup role.
  2) There are tech pieces, you know like Halo skulls, scattered throughout each mission to make 
 things interesting. There's no challenge in finding the pieces since they are sometimes placed 
 right in front of you. I got a feeling that it was an after thought from the developer.
  3) Within missions there are certain goals that have to be met. There's no autosaving after finishing 
 each goal. So ... if you happened to get killed just before completing the entire mission you have 
 to start over. Tough Luck.
  4) Boss fights are lame.
  5) Ice-man's character is a cool character once you get use to him but finding the tech pieces 
 (especially when you're on a timed mission) sometimes becomes impossible. Sometimes I was forced 
 to ignore the tech pieces, finish the mission of the highest level to get credit for it, and then 
 replay the mission on the lowest level to obtain the tech pieces.
  6) Graphics remind me of the orginal XBOX console.
  7) The three characters have separate missions 
 in which they must accomplish. The three are not interchangeable within missions.
  
  Overall - I'm being generous by rating this game a 4.5, that translates to a D+ in my book. It 
 a good game to rent for the weekend on a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I won't take too much of your time here. Since most of you who would be reading this review know, 
 most movie games suck hard. In fact, many of them are downright terrible and the companies releasing 
 these turds should be sued for fraud. These types of games are made for one sole reason..... to 
 make money. While that would seem like an obvious statement for any videogame, these kinds of games 
 have no creativity, storytelling, graphic prowess, and the gameplay is usually some mix of repetitive 
 beat 'em up and crappy game design.
  
  Where does X-Men fall into all of this? Well, playing as Nightcrawler is somewhat entertaining 
 for awhile. Wolverine is pure button mashing. And playing as Iceman, with his lame on-rails levels, 
 had me yelling at my TV in frustration many times. The graphics look like a PS2 game. The cut scenes 
 are an absolute embarrassment and might be the worst I have seen since the 32-bit era.
  
  They did get the three actors that play these characters in the movies to reprise their roles here. 
 They all do a decent job, but they didn't get any of the other actors except for Patrick Stewart. 
 This wasn't exactly surprising, but Storm & Colossus sound terrible. And if you were curious where 
 Nightcrawler went and why he wasn't in the third movie, well this game will give you that answer 
 if you decide to play it all the way through.
  
  This game should be retitled, "Mediocre X-Men Game" and written on the front of the box. Everything 
 about it feels rushed to come out in time with the movie, including some bugs and glitches. Under 
 no circumstances should you purchase this game, as this is a weekend rental. And even that might 
 be a stretch. If you have been avoiding these games for a long time (like I have) , then this is 
 a nice game to pop in your Xbox 360 & remind yourself why you should continue to avoid crappy movie 
 games like this. In fact, that would be the best reason I could give to play this game: to jog 
 your memory of how bad games like this are so you are never tempted to spend money on any of the 
 others like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This game is so boring because of the repetitive nature of just killing and killing things. All 
 you do in this game is hit this guy and then this one, I mean seriously, there is no value to this 
 game whatsoever. The two things I found interesting is playing as night crawler, this was awesome 
 because you get to zap from one spot to another, to another, and to another which is pretty awesome. 
 The only other cool thing about this train wreck was flying around the statue of liberty as iceman 
 (while this is neat is gets old after like 5 minutes) . Granted at the beginning the game is pretty 
 fun but about the 5th level (which you will get to very quickly) you will most likely be mad you 
 spent your money on this. If you have an xbox 360 do not waste your money on this game because, 
 overall this game is a complete and total wreak!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing X Men: The Official Game on the Xbox 360 I was quite surprised that the 
 game was actually have decent. Sure the game's graphics are quite last gen, the camera was a little 
 out of whack, and the story was told through comic slides, but the game did a pretty good job at 
 making you feel like you were Wolverine, Iceman, and Nightcrawler. Plus, the story took place between 
 the second and third movies so it was kind of nice to get some story as to what happened between 
 those movies.
  
  The first act of the game has you going back to lake Alkali and has you going through Striker's 
 lab. This set of missions has you only playing as two of the three playable characters in the game 
 (Wolverine and Nightcrawler with Iceman not even coming along on the mission) . Wolverine's missions 
 are definately the best of the two. Nightcrawler's missions have some sweet ideas like the ability 
 to transport behind an enemy and attack them, its not always the most accurate.
  
  Then when the first act ends the game takes a steep fall downhill. Not only are Wolverine and Nightcrawler 
 missions starting to go stale bcause they are exactly the same as they were in the first act, but 
 now you have Iceman missions which are really terrible. If you had problems with the controls and 
 the camera in Wolverine and Nightcrawler's missions than you will find Iceman's missions to be 
 complete hell. He surfs around on an ice beam and its nearly impossible to be accurate at targeting 
 your enemies.
  
  Since I've been a fan of X-Men as far back as I remember I was hoping that I could look past all 
 the negativity surrounding this game and find some good in it, and at first I thought that I had, 
 but then I realzied that I, in fact, had not. The game looks like a last gen title even though 
 the back of the box brags about next gen graphics. The use of celebrity voice over's helps you 
 feel like you are in the game a little more, but the repetative nature of the missions and the 
 bad camera/controls bring this title down to the point where its just not even fun anymore. If 
 you want some XMen fun on your 360 than check out Ultimate-Alliance. It has more playable Xmen 
 than this game and its just a lot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 3
Date: May 30, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  WOW is what i thought when i first saw the cover and read the back..... but then guess what? i 
 actually played the damn thing... i love xmen and had to beat this game even though it sucked bad. 
 the graphics were decent and that was about it. its like playing a bad movie game that they just 
 threw out there to say HEY WE DID IT.... dont buy it and dont rent it. if you are a hardcore fan 
 then go on ebay and you can buy it brand new for the same price it is to rent it. the game will 
 take about 6 hours to beat and you will never want to play it again... if you are an x men fan 
 do yourself a favor and save your money and go buy x me legends for the ps2 and have fun. dont 
 torture yourself with this one people. the story line offers branched paths to make you feel like 
 your doing something useful when in all actuality it leads to the same point for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 29, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game offers gameplay that gets boring after a while. I tried to make one run through of the 
 game but it said my xbox live account wasn't able to be used as an account to save to sooo basically 
 I couldn't save. It was a medocre game I thought. But then later I went to play this game again. 
 All the achievements were incredibly stupid and required pretty much beating the game. Whats worse 
 is 3 achievements for the game are worth 0 points. What game does that?!?!?!?!?!  . Thats such 
 a rip!!!! Even worse is theres an achievement you get for getting 950 points off of this game. 
 WTF???? Incredibly stupid and boring game. Don't ever consider buying it even thought you'd think 
 it couldn't be too bad. If it's in a discount bin consider buying it for a loooong time until you've 
 made a decision your sure you absolutely won't regret. Definatley not one of my favorite games. 
 PERIOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  I found Gamespot's review to be a little harsh for X-Men Tha Official Game. I have played it on 
 many platforms and i find the xbox version to be the best. Its the same game but with better graphics 
 and sound. The story is a tie-in from X2 to The Last Stand and is the most comic like i have seen 
 yet. The splitscreens arent movies but COMICS! The Graphics are sub-par, at least for a 360 but 
 better than other consol versions. The control layout is easy to use and can be supirior to PC 
 and PS2 versions. The actual gameplay is fun but again sub-par. But considering its movie origions 
 i was suprised to find it such an enjoyable game. The soundtrack is the same as the X2 Film but 
 shorter and the sound effects are what you would expect from a X-Men movie. The one thing i found 
 anoying was the difficulty. It can be harder to beat a henchmen than any of the Villians. I thought 
 Lady Deathstryke very easy to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealKilla_789
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game I have ever played for the 360. It is bad in every area. Although, I may 
 admit, at the beginning of the game where you fly around beating up people as nightcrawler, it 
 is fun. But after that first experience there is nothing worth playin this game. You dont get any 
 achievement points for each level that you play. The gameplay is just stupid and feels like it 
 was rushed and poorly done (like most movie games) The graphics are horrible and a little bit better 
 on HD. I wasted $30 on this game rather than Burnout which got a 8.8 on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am a long time Xmen fan and I loved the movie. Saying these things, sets the mood for the 
 game. This game is not that good to be nice. There are several issues with the game. Lets cover 
 the basics. Starting out with Iceman (who is the most true to form from the comics) . He isnt bad 
 but the flight controls will have you running into things and the camera will trap you against 
 walls or spinning obsticles. Overall annoying but playable. Finding all of the sentinal tech and 
 Weapon X files is a little difficult due to the camera and the speed at which the level goes by. 
 Wolverine (most disapointing character) is not true to form. Comparable to the comics he downright 
 sucks in the game. His power is weak and he does little more damage than Iceman or Nightcrawler!. 
 Overall he is disappointing. On the other hand one of the easier characters to control. Biggest 
 complaint for his levels are that most of them revolve around a small board where you do nothing 
 but kill similar enemies over and over. Boring to say the least.
  
  Finally we have Nightcrawler. If you have played Ultimate alliance and seen the cut scene of Nightcrawler 
 with a sword slashing away and generally destroying with his teleport ability... this game turns 
 that into utter frustraition. Lockon is difficult (you will miss who you are aiming at more than 
 you hit them) . You do almost NO damage, you have issues (due to the camera) of even being able 
 to figure out where to go and how to teleport there. Often the solution to where to go is to jump 
 into space and pray the little blue flame comes up to allow you to teleport to safety! Also (IMHO) 
 the worst level of all belongs to Nightcrawler (Telepurgatory) which pits you against shadow versions 
 of yourself (only more demonic) . This would be cool but the one thing that (once you get the hang 
 of - locking on) is all but disabled (as they are teleporting too) . On Super hero mode 5-6 hits 
 will result in death. Couple this with having to rewire the power nodes and you spend most of the 
 time trying NOT to get killed. Finally achievements. How annoying is it that the 3 training missions 
 give you 0 points apiece, yet getting all the other points 950 to be exact nets you another 50 
 freebies . That just ticks me off on a personal level (Personally I feel they should have divided 
 that 50 up on the training levels and ditched that achievement!) I mean you already get 100+ for 
 each of the Beat the game on HARD achievement (get all mutations) . Bottom line this game is best 
 left in the bargain bin and not worthy of even a rental. If a manufacturer puts out garbage like 
 this we shouldnt reward them by giving them 1 dollar for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlewnix
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Don't listen to the review about this game! Its true that this one won't win any awards, but then 
 again, most games don't anyway. The bottom line is that is game was a basic 3rd person beat em 
 up, but it was also challenging, fun, had alot of replay value, good graphics, animations, and 
 other themes straight from the movie. Personally, I enjoyed playing as wolverine and being able 
 to slash and stab people. As far as replay value, you can go back to replay any mission with the 
 upgrades that you've earned. You can also fight in the danger room as well, unlock new costumes 
 and art. And now, the game is cheap -- around $10. I recommend this game for some good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I must have been really bored to have picked this game up, well there wasn't anything 
 else in at my local Blockbuster like usual. First off this game just isn't any fun, I can't even 
 if there was a story to this game, the slide show cut scenes were just pathetic to see and the 
 camera and characters were often hard to control. How do companies get away with selling crap like 
 this? It will never fail to amaze me how much they cash in on crap like this and Marvel doesn't 
 seem to mind. Biggest thing I'm upset about is I can take this back tonight to the video store 
 for a chance at something better. What a waste even as a rental... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Xmen: The Official Game is a movie-licensed title that takes place before the events of Xmen 3, 
 but it is still called Xmen 3: the game. Anyways, the game compliments the movies by filling in 
 some gaps between X2 and X3, which is does an amazing good job. Let's review:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Appearantly, people don't like it when gameplay is simple and working. The 
 combat for for both Wolverine and Nightcrawler are done very well, and the team behind the game 
 was wise enough to make the three characters (Iceman is the third) have vastly different game styles. 
 For Wolverine, the combat is simple and repeditive at most times since it makes up of constant 
 presses of XXY, XXX, YY, XY and you rarely use any other tactic, but there are some others if you 
 wish to explore. Because of his mutant power, Wolverine heals on his own, but this can be hastened 
 by holding a button. Nightcrawler, on the other hand, is more about speed, since he can't take 
 damage like Wolverine. However, thats no problem since he can teleport practically anywhere. Combat 
 works with the teleport in mind, even having a button to teleport behind the enemy for advantages 
 (which you need for most combat situations with Nightcrawler) . Now, the blow to the game comes 
 in the form of Iceman. Ice man has a completely different form of control since his surfs on Ice 
 the entire game. because of that, he has flying missions. Now his controls are bit on the broken 
 side, with some things not working that well. You can tell the team behind the game didn't put 
 nearly as much effort into this characters as they did the others. Its a blow to the game, but 
 a small blow.
  
  Graphics: 4/10
  
  Now, here is where I agree with people. The graphics of Xmen are good for LAST gen systems. However, 
 on graphic powerhouse like Xbox 360, the game lost everything. The game was clearly thrown on the 
 Xbox 360 as a cash-in title, but the team behind the game was smart enough to make the HD version 
 of the game look nice. That's right, in 720p, the game does look very nice. However, that does 
 not help it out of the last gen on next gen shadow it has casted on it.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  The sound of Xmen is good, with voice acting very bearable, and actually enjoyable. The sound 
 FX in the game are dead-on (I say this in every review I make, but trust me, there are games that 
 mess this up) with a nice mix of different effects and grunts from enemies. However, when it comes 
 to music, the game takes on a repetitive side. The music hardly ever changes from the one beat 
 you hear right in the beginning, but it does have its moment. I also noticed that the game has 
 sound cut-outs, with no sound at all being played if you enter a certain level too quickly.
  
  Value: 6/10
  
  When the game was released, it was $60, which was definitely not worth it. 
 However, these days the game is $20 or lower, making it a nice purchase for gamers looking for 
 a decent challenging game to play on their Xbox 360. The game last for about 10-20 hours, and the 
 achievements are set to be only attainable on the hardest difficulty (with some exceptions) . I would 
 recommend the title to bargain bin hunters.
  
  Tilt: 7/10
  
  Again, you could do worst than this game, plus, its on a movie trilogy that is actually pretty 
 cool. While I haven't taken the time to pick up Xmen 3 on DVD yet, Xmen and Xmen 2 were very enjoyable 
 flicks for the franchise. One thing that caught about this game was that I was having fun playing 
 it most of the time, something that usually indicates its a decent to great title.
  
  Overall: 6.7/10.0
  
  This is a underappreciated game for the Xbox 360, that should make a few 
 gamers happy if they find it at bargain bin price. Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBluff
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember how I said that Sonic the Hedgehog was a glitchy but
  not a bad game? Well, this is a glichy and bad game. As Nightcrawler, I got
  stuck TWICE in an invisible 
 gap that was designed in the original program
  to be a wall. The graphics are the only thing that's good in this game, and
  they aren't even that 
 great, either. Wolverine just plain sucks, Iceman is so
  difficult to control that it will eventually give you a headache, and Nightcrawler
  is ok to play 
 as, but all his levels have glitches in them. The voiceovers are
  pretty corny and sometimes extremely silly (no offense to the actors) , and the
  gameplay is terrible 
 as a whole. To save you some pain and misery, I will
  give you this advice: DO NOT GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  ... piece of trash ?
  I was warned that this game was very poor, although I found it at the budget bin , but let me warn 
 u once again: not even someone pays you to have this, don't waste your time with this!
  Let me try to analyze it a bit:
  Graphics - they're so, so bland! Have no personality at all. 
 It somewhat looks a 2D game, because it just lacks any kind of depth. To give you an idea, my gf 
 came home and said WOW! you managed to plug the DS to the TV ? . Camera movement/control is worse 
 than non-existant, it manages to be even worse than the so well known PSP camera issues.
  Plot - It could have been the best part of the game, because it goes the right way by going the 
 explain a bit further the movie path, but it fails, it fails bad! Not because it's presented with 
 stills, no problem with that, if it was made with some kinda panache, subtleness. But it doesn't.
 
  Gameplay - maybe the least awfull part of the game, mainly because, at time, the fighting can 
 be somewhat fun (if you disregard everything else) . Playing with Wolverine and Nightcrawler are 
 ok experiences. On the other hand Iceman play is obnoxious. Difficulty is well balanced.
  Sound - too irritating, over repetitive. Voice acting is good so I heard, but I can't agree, as 
 the (so called) cut-scenes lack so much personality, that I couldn't care about it anymore (and 
 I the kind of guy that likes to see them all, to the minimum detail) .
  Why did I score a high rate to value ? Well, like I said, difficulty is very well balanced, the 
 Achievements are nice to pursue.
  But ehn again, if you have the oppurtunity not to have the game, please, do yourself a favor, and 
 stay away.
  
  side-note: How come MS allowed this to see the light of day beats me. It's sure a bad publicity 
 for the fabulous machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  being an X-men fan and hearing that this game would bind the tide between the 2 last films i wanted 
 to play it... i got it in the discount bin for $15, and lets just say i still felt ripped off.
 
  
  the game is enjoyable for the first couple of minutes... until you realize its recycling the same 
 gameplay over and over and over.... and quite frankly gets very boring, dull and intolerable about 
 half way through. Wolervines missions are just very straight forward... kill a bunch of guysm move 
 to next room. Now, it does sound fun... and it is, until you realize you're fighting the same guy 
 with 3 different weapons basically through the whole thing. And you dont unlike new moves, you 
 just improve on the typical healing and power. Ice-mans levels are even worse... and even more boring. 
 you bascially fly through the sky putting out fires and stopping things from burning buildings... but 
 the controls make it so frusterating, and its BORING. Nightcrawlers levels are a little more enjoyable, 
 the developer did a great job with the teleport system... i would really like to see a full game 
 that utilizes this mechanic cause it actually works. Its a very boring game... and forget about 
 achievements cause you need to beat the game on superhuman (hard) which is more a chore than charm.
 
  
  pros
  -visuals are nice in HD
  -playing as nightcrawler
  
  cons
  -everything else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a prime example as to why some movies just don't need games. The least Marvel could've 
 done was dissaprove this game, but now anyone who buys it suffers and loses some green on an ECG 
 ( Extremely Crappy Game ) . I can't believe it. They put some of the best heroes ever in a game, 
 and their mouths don't even move. What's up with that?!? I bought this game hoping for something 
 that resembled the movie, but I was gravely dissapointed. I'm telling you right now, that if you 
 have an Xbox 360, DO NOT waste your time on this sorry excuse for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpm15
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  About the only thing about this thing that is any good is the graphics. It looks good but everything 
 else is horrible. The game offers no co op it misses more than half the movies entire story line. You 
 can only be three characters wolverine, iceman, and nightcrawler, the game really offers no challenge. 
 The only thing that could make it buyable is for 360 users it gives a maximum of about eleven hundred 
 game score without having to use xbox live. Other than that this game was the worst game i have 
 ever bought its worse than call of duty two big red one and lego star wars 2. All these gams have 
 something in common sure its a little good in the beggining but after you beat the story its all 
 dust on the shelf from then on. This game is pretty much just another game that only gives xmen 
 a bad name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuneSeeker
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Wow. I am even surprised I gave it a seven. It wasn't all that... but had its fun parts.
  Okay 
 so lets break it down a little more.
  
  Wolverine's levels consist of, hacking and slashing hacking and slashing, hacking and slashing... and 
 slashing and hacking. SOO REPETETIVE! SO BOORING! Okay so he had a fury mode which was cool, addedd 
 a little excitement, but overall, very disapointed in one of the X-men favorites.
  
  Ice Man's levels are the more challenging levels of the game. You are surfing on ice and more than 
 often racing towards an objective. Because of the challenge, I enjoyed his levels... most of the 
 time. His attacks were a little non user-friendly. But his ice surfing was original, and somewhat 
 enjoyable. His levels were a little less repetetive. Honestly, at first I thought I hated his levels, 
 because I would have been hacking and slashing bad guys, but after beating the game... I enjoyed 
 his character levels, and appreciate him a little more. And then we had Nightcrawler's levels. 
 His mutant powers are one of my favorite, and the developers did a FANTASTIC job at his levels. 
 His warping abilities took a bit to get used to, but once you did, I never wanted his stages to 
 end. Warping in and out of combat using chain attacks and warping to the cieling within seconds. 
 Unfortanatly, the developers thought different. His levels were generally shorter. But Nightcrawler 
 earned 5 out of 7 of the gameplay points.
  
  Graphics: 7
  Nothing to fancy. Would have earned an 8 if the cutscences weren't pieces of paper from a comic 
 moving around (seriously...)
  
  Sound: 7
  Again, nothing too fantastic. The dialogue was funny at times which is a plus, but the acting was 
 on the lower end of the scale. Nothing great about special sound effects though
  
  Value: 4
  The story was connected to the movies. But the players never became attached to the 
 characters... which isn't good for my ratings. Everything was just sorta.. happening. Nothing emotional... maybe 
 it was the comic book strip cut scenes that bugged the crap out of me. Since the movies established 
 some decent things, the story line was okay, but the writers just didn't get it. Tilt: 4
  4 out of 10 on TuneSeeker's rating chart 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deagler_
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  X-Men: The Official Game Is a simple rental but gives you alot of fun while it last's.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay: This game has 3 different gameplay types. You play as Wolverine which is just a hack 
 &amp; slash gameplay type. You don't develop knew attacks or anything, instead what it does is 
 give you improvements as you play on, either making you stronger, regenerate fast, or blocking. 
 I had fun playing Logan for two reasons, I haven't played a hack &amp; slash game for a while so 
 it was refreshing and secondly, Hugh Jackman's voice is really great in the game. The other two 
 characters is Iceman and Night crawler. Night crawler is by far most enjoyable out of the three. 
 I thought the way you played with Night crawler was pretty innovative. Especially the way he attacks, 
 I think a game should use the same type of gameplay but improve, It made the game very enjoyable 
 and also the skill tree is the same as Logan's as well. Very simple upgrading. Iceman was by far 
 boring, sometimes it was fun and sometimes felt like a choir to play as him. The very bad story 
 line with him and the voice acting was pretty awful at times. I found no value out of the character 
 and was just a filler for the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of course was not par with the xbox 360 at all, I didn't feel ripped off 
 from it since its a $60 game when it first came out (good thing I only rented it) . The graphics 
 are not impressive but is just there as with the rest of the game.. its simple.
  
  Sound: Hugh Jackman was by far the best part of this game. Everybody else's voices that were lent 
 in.. Felt like they just did it for a quick buck. The sound effects were okay and nothing takes 
 advantage of the 5.1 optical Surround Sound at all.
  
  Value: This game has no real value to it besides just playing it once have a good time playing 
 it and never see it again. You most likely get all the achievements by playing the game once and 
 thats it. The game lasted me about 8 hours and it was fun while I had it.
  
  So really just rent the game have fun while it last's, but do not shell out $60 for this game at 
 all. Make sure of it because you would regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I used to respect Marvel for taking better care of their lucrative franchises than their brethren 
 at DC Comics.
  
  This game makes me question that. Heavily.
  
  Based on the worst of the X-Men movies, this is one of the 5 least enjoyable games on the XBox 
 360.
  
  Let's start off with the cutscenes. It is unbelievably weak that the cutscenes are static comic 
 book panels --- and not terribly well-drawn panels to boot. If you're going to mail it in so obviously, 
 why not simply NOT have any cutscenes? They certainly did somewhere in the neighborhood of no good 
 whatsoever.
  
  The gameplay reminds one of the truly terrible Akklaim Marvel titles on the PS1 that were enjoyed 
 by nobody at all. Wolverine's portions of the stages are pathetically weak side-scrolling beat-em 
 ups. Yes, it is drawn in 3-D, but since your freedom of movement is awfully limited, what is the 
 point of 3-D in the first place? He has few moves and the enemies have even fewer thought processes.
 
  
  Iceman, fortunately, does not shame Wolverine by making sure his part of the game is even worse. 
 It took some doing, which is impressive to say the least, but he pulled it off with impressive 
 gusto. It's not too dissimilar from Panzer Dragoon, except without dragons, good graphics, or fun. 
 I suppose somebody COULD enjoy it, but I'm not sure I'd want to meet the person who could do so.
 
  
  Nightcrawler has, easily, the best levels in the game. This is praise in the same way that being 
 the LEAST inbred member of the royal family is praise. Take it for what it's worth. His teleporting 
 power is handled decently enough and his ability to teleport behind a guy and unleash the pai --- 
 err, moderate discomfort is fun for literally minutes at a time.
  
  Boss fights are an insult to the concept of boss fights. I got this game because it came, for free, 
 with the MUCH better Marvel Ultimate Alliance. The price point barely justified the purchase and 
 if you spend much north of $0 for this title, you've been ripped off and you should probably contemplate 
 legal remedies. I have yet to beat the game and, most importantly, I just don't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  A snappy game which allows you to play as iceman, wolwerine, and nihtcrawler. Encounter the villians 
 of x-men and some of its friends. It gets more challengin with different missions along the story. 
 The content between levels is extremely boring as there are no moving characters in a movie but 
 more of a book stlye format. They throw in extras and acheivement points to rank up your gamerscore. 
 You can upgrade your character after levels with all kinds of stuff. Some of the extras are bonus 
 missions or obstacle courses unlocking more acheivements for your card. Characters look like those 
 from x-men 3 the movie and the graphics are good. It is one of the first games to come out for 
 this great system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toyungu
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  For most all major products there is recourse if it sucks. How dare you put such simplistic gaming 
 on a nexgen console? It seems that movies that the fans want as video games create abberations 
 that have us hate the movie. This is a sign (like batman, superman games) licensed merchandise 
 should go as far as movie and that is it. You dont have to make a game. and PLEASE when the wolverine 
 movie is done DO NOT do a game. And to end this rant, i will mash my jeyboard as this is what the 
 game requires. u-] nhn-0i] 0m=
  in-0'ub0b9i0=n
  -m\-omm- =i= mm0 [80 y [u] ni] -0nm-\o=, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  X-Men The Offical Game could of been a great game, if handled with care, and by a better publisher 
 and devloper. As it stands its just a cash in title that released right along side the movie. On 
 top of that this Xbox 360 version is even more of a gimmick in the sence that its basically the 
 same exact game as the current gen games with a little bit more shine and effects, and they expect 
 you to pay 20 bucks more for that come on! The Gameplay consists of 3 different charecters that 
 you get to play as. Wolverine is basically a brawler, with horrorible 3 hit combo actions, and 
 clinched animations. Then theres Iceman that plays like a snowboarding game but with ice, and u 
 can shoot stuff. And then theres Nightcrawler which is easily the most intresting of the bunch 
 his levels especially the bridge are actually fun and look pretty good graphic wise. The cutsceens 
 prove even furthur that this game was rushed with its cheap comic book style cinematics mixed in 
 with a horrible story, and some horrible dialog. So is there anything to reccomend in this game, 
 well actually yes if you want to get more achivements for your 360 I guess you could do worse, 
 also the Nightcrawler missions are fun. But the rest of the game blows chucks and I would warn 
 people to stay away unless its like 10 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omy808
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  So you wanna buy this game? Let me just tell you the consequences of playing this rip-off. You 
 either
  a) scream AAAAAAAAAH! Turn this $%^ing thing off! 
  b) force yourself to finish the game while enduring many heart strokes
  c) break the game in 
 half
  
  Yes, it's that bad (I have done all of these choices, in the order that they appear) . Don't go 
 thinking around that I'm some kind of crazy lunatic that suddenly goes mental like Michael Jackson. 
 I'm actually a calm kind of guy, so there must be something really bad that happens that can make 
 me in this state.
  
  So, where to start? Oh yeah, by the better areas of the game. The graphics. The graphics have some 
 quirky elements on them, such as lighting and Nightcrawler's teleportation smoke, but it's not 
 enough to qualify for a next-gen game. The character models looks muddy and clay-like, and it you 
 easily get bored by the lack of detail and creativity in each environment that makes every level 
 (even the Zen Garden) look the same as every other level. In addition, the occasional glitches 
 make it unbearable to play and becomes tedious to support for extended gameplay. Once or twice 
 i had to restart the console on one particular glitch.
  
  The other OK element is the sound. The sound portrays the action smoothly (the poof of Kurt's smoke; 
 The Kaching of Wolverine's claws) but soon, like the gameplay, becomes repetetive and hardly adds 
 any flavor at all. They could have been better off with playing Fergalicious all the time, instead 
 of the stupid Police Radio that was put on. I noticed that a lot of the sound effects have been 
 recycled and stings you badly at times by the lack of effort to polish off the game's sound. The 
 voice acting is no less clumsy. Though most of the movie's actors came back to deliver the voice 
 acting, all of them sound bored and tired, as if declaring I'm gonna kill you, Sabretooth! is a 
 real workout.
  
  The last good thing you'll find in this game is the gameplay of Nightcrawler. You'll be able to 
 scale walls, run across catwalks, and use stealth as your master weapon. In addition, you'll use 
 his teleportation technique, which is exhilarating in the first five minutes of gameplay, but becomes 
 as entertaining as a dictionary after that. Now, the cons (deep breaths, inhale by the nose, exhale 
 by the mouth) . First, the #@$! ing price. Ok, 40 dollars isn't much to rant about, but this game 
 did me more harm than good (pun intended) . Now the gameplay. Let's just say that you will never, 
 ever look at Wolverine and Iceman the same way. The clunky gameplay totally put me off playing 
 the game. Enough said.
  
  So, planning on buying this game for the weekend? Don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Xmen the official game is a really fun game that lets you control 3 different xmen. You command 
 Iceman, Wolverine, and Night Crawler. You hack and slash your way through HYDRA units and fight 
 numerous bosses, unfortuanutely the hacking and slashing is quite repetetive and boring.
  
  The fighting in this game (the only thing you do) is very shallow, there are only around 4 different 
 combos and each isnt really spectacular. With Night Crawler you can kick, puch, teleport, teleport 
 to kick or punch, and other really boring moves that make gameplay tedious. For Ice man all you 
 do is fly around shooting either raptors down, or giant mechs. Overall gameplay is lame and really 
 boring.
  
  The graphics should have been cartoon because the way they are now, anything would have been better. 
 The graphics are ugly and colors are plain. The cutscenes in the game are cheap and stupid because 
 its like a non moving comic book cartoon. The bad graphics combined with horrific gameplay really 
 holds this game down.
  
  The game is kinda fun though. The only reason I played it was for the achievements, but otherwise 
 there is no insentive to play because there really isnt a story mode, its really weak and the game 
 isnt that fun after tapping the x button for half an hour to beat the level so you can get to the 
 next level which is not in any way different besides surroundings.
  
  Xmen the official game is a really half finished game that is repetetive and boring. I strongly 
 recommend steering clear from this disaster, or renting. But do not buy it however low the price 
 because youll be done with it in 3-4 days.
  
  Good points: Fun, simple gameplay
  
  Bad points: Difficulty, gets REAL repetetive, boring combos, only 3 characters, stupid cutscenes, 
 graphics are horrific, extremely weak story mode, and the game is really slopped through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game was a lot of fun. I don't care what anyone says, the graphics and next 
 gen visuals were just OK but, the frame rates and game play kicked arse. The frame rates had to 
 of been 80+ even in the heaviest action. Do to the high frame rates this game ends up being very 
 easy on the eyes, no eye strain from frame rate lag. Like you would see on Quake4 or PDZ. The only 
 downfall "if any" would be the fact that it doesn't have multi player. Everything else in the game 
 my girlfriend and I thouhly enjoyed until we finished it.
  
  pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RBolduc1231
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've played through about half of the game. I was really hesitant to play the game. But i rented 
 it from Gamefly. com because there's just nothing too good right now. I ended up having loads of 
 fun with this game. The downfall I can see is that I'll probably finish this game over the weekend 
 with about 3 or 4 days of play, which is why I'm glad i rented it and didn't buy it.
  
  Nightcrawler is my favorite playable character by far. I love the fact that you can just teleport 
 over and over again without waiting for some stupid power bar to fill up before using your mutant 
 power again (kinda like older x-men games.) In that sense, the mutant powers were done right. When 
 playing as Wolverine I felt a little "trapped" with the camera, but as Iceman and Nightcrawler 
 it eased up a little.
  
  The cutscenes, if you can call them that, are pretty weak. It's just a series of pictures that 
 are drawn out. That's it. No pretty graphics or cool looking stunts performed by the characters, 
 just story movers. If nothing else, you get a loosely told story about why Nightcrawler is absent 
 from the 3rd film.
  
  so my recommendation, GO RENT THIS GAME! Buy it if you are just the kind of person that has to 
 own all the good x-men games. But I dont' think it's worth a buy due to the fact that it's probably 
 going to be over too quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaleGringo
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I really don't have much good to say about this one. I pity anybody who was suckered out of $60 
 for it. Perhaps the most unexcusable flaw in the game is that it was released "simultaneously" 
 with XMen 3: The Last Stand in theaters. The game even goes so far as to include box art that would 
 make the average person believe that this was, in fact, related to the movie.
  
  Truthfully, it's not. The basic storyline of the movie has nothing to do with this game, and Z-Axis 
 should probably have some kind of punishment inflicted upon them for bastardizing a franchise like 
 this. However, a quick review of the *other* games that they've made reveal a number of mediocre 
 titles, including BMX XXX.
  
  ***** GAMEPLAY - 3 /10 *****
  The "extreme sports" background to this developer's history seems to accoutn for so many of the 
 ... "factors" of gameplay, including the jerky style of avoiding hits. As Wolverine, you hold a 
 trigger, press a direction on your left stick and roll out of the way... when it works. Nightcrawler 
 simply teleports to a more convenient location, and Iceman holds up a nice shield temporarily while 
 he slides around on a physically impossible sheet of ice. The controls, while passable, could use 
 an overhaul as some of the combos and different moves between the trio of playable characters simply 
 don't make intuitive sense.
  
  With such a variety of interesting characters to play in the XMen universe, it was a letdown to 
 see that you in fact can only play as three, and even more frustrating in certain missions where 
 you have to actually defend other, seemingly invulnerable allies. Quite ironically, I understand 
 the thought process that went into including these three particular characters - the developer 
 wanted a cheap way out of the health kit / healing process avenue, and chose three that could, 
 conceivably, heal themselves.
  
  There was a particular point in the game where I noticed an irrecoverable glitch - Colossus decided 
 to get stuck on a corner that was no higher than his ankle, and continued running in a straight 
 line, not turning or correcting his course to get around it. Overall, the combat is lackluster, 
 and the level design reeks of repetition (especially the Nightcrawler missions) , and the gameplay 
 will leave you with an overall feeling of discomfort and dsigust.
  
  ***** GRAPHCIS - 3/10 *****
  Graphically speaking, there is *NOTHING* in this game that makes 
 it worthy of a "next-gen" title. Games that look better than this one are available on PS2 or XBox. 
 The unimpressive level design is quickly overlooked when you consider the cutscenes, if they deserve 
 that title. Instead of attempting to do some FMV or even in-game engine renders, it relies on "comic 
 book" style of still images that may change a single frame while dialogue is read over the top 
 of it. Not being a big fan of comic books to begin with, I found this style of delivery a poor 
 attempt.
  
  ***** SOUND - 4/10 ******
  The vocal talent in the game isn't the worst I've heard, and, to the game's credit, the inclusion 
 of Patrick Stewart (who always seems "game" to lend his voice) and Hugh Jackman were esentially 
 this game's only high points. The sentinels sound as you'd expect them to, but the other effects, 
 including gunfire, and NPC voices are lame.
  
  ***** VALUE - 3/10 *****
  Lacking any kind of multiplayer (versus, co-op, etc) , and not being able to choose *WHICH* of the 
 three playable characters you'd like to take into a mission (the levels were, after all, designed 
 for each character separately) , there's really no incentive to play this game more than once. Higher 
 difficulty levels yield more "mutations" to the basic characters, but can often be frustrating 
 and are ultimately, more repetition. I'm not going to write this one off as valueless altogether, 
 but unless you're a hardcore fan of the series or comic book, you probably should keep this one 
 as a rental at most.
  
  ***** ACHIEVEMENT VALUE - 3/10 *****
  This game may well fall into the "Easy 1000's" category, so long as you can master the controls 
 and figure out what to do to complete all of the game's objectives to 100% for each level. However, 
 if it weren't for the very achievable 1000GS, this game wouldn't be worth playing at all, in my 
 books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  X-men the official game of the movie is the latsest addition to marvels line of super hero games 
 but ultimately it falls flat on it's face.
  
  The story of the game follows the movie i'm not really gonna describe it i'd much rather move on 
 describing what makes this game so mediocre.
  
  The gameplay in X is a basic hack-N-Slash With button masing elements such as speed tapping X for 
 a quick attack and crushing the Y button for a power move. You can unleash fury with wolverine 
 But it adds zero depth to the gameplay besides speed boosting your health meter, your far better 
 off just using normal moves for taking down enemies. Wolverine plays somewhat like a dynasty warriors 
 game which always seem quite bland in themselves i would say this game is more fun than your typical 
 sequel to DW but it's still quite a mess. Nightcrawler is quite fun to play with though he can 
 do these relocation moves that teleport you behind enemies for an easy kill and some platforming 
 that mainly consists of teleporting with the right trigger. Iceman is also on occasion fun to play 
 with but with weak mission objectives like getting rings which is incredibly bland but his ice 
 riding and powers are quite fun and don't feel all the same -- Via wolverine -- The ice riding is 
 probably the highlight of the character though. Throughout The game you will be fighting a couple 
 of different enemies in wolverines campaign, basic clawed enemies, bazooka enemies, basic gun enemies, 
 lightning staff enemies, lightning clubbed enemies, and some occasional boss battles. The boss 
 battles really don't bring anything to the overall gameplay experience, but it is nice to have 
 them. The other part of the gameplay throughout the levels is collecting sentinel things, and weapon 
 s to unlock costumes and what not, but they are easy to find and usually just have you breaking 
 boxes to get them which isn't anything new.
  
  Graphics in X aren't that bad the character models look OK and some environments are nice looking, 
 but it is mediocre for the most part. Most of the levels look the same and they are also linear, 
 with very poor lighting in them if your inside light is the same outside same, which is incredibly 
 disappointing the color palette looks nice on the main heroes but enemies look quite a like and 
 enemy models are poorly done. The breaking of objects looks Ok but they go transparent almost immeadiatley, 
 the cracking also looks meh. most oof the effects look bad but some look pretty smooth like a twister 
 in one of the first levels but gun effects blood and everything else are bad. Everything looks 
 incredibly possible on Xbox but it doesn't really matter since gameplay does'nt hold up. On a side 
 note animation on the game is all pretty average with only a couple of repeated animations and 
 bad effect animation.
  
  Sound in X is bad the voice acting is so bad my ears almost bled and no matter what you break it 
 sounds the same. fire sounds skippy, lightning sounds fake, enemies repeat the same lines over 
 and over again and it's really annoying there is really no good sound in this game so lets just 
 move on.
  
  Value in Xmen is mediocre a story mode. You can go back for the achivements and stuff but a rent 
 sounds most appropriate for the title. The sentinel stuff adds only about an hour at most on the 
 gameplay.
  
  The tilt in X is quite good it's very intruiging at first but interest fades after the good first 
 impressions quickly fade but simple controls camera will turn many people away from this title 
 though. 
  
  All in all Xmen is a good rental for achievements but if you are looking for an intense gameplay 
 expereience you're gonna have to look elsewhere because Xmen just doesn't deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  It's rare when I make a review short, but this time I am.
  
  The newest X-Man game sucks. Gameplay is unoriginal, the graphics are at best average (and this 
 is the 360 version) , the sound is uninspired and overall, it is a terrible dissapointment.
  
  If you are looking for a good X-Man game, look back at the recent Legends games... at least 
 those were fun!
  
  Gameplay - A straight up beat'em'up. Face wave after wave of identical badguys with slightly different 
 weaponry.
  
  Graphics - If this was the original PS they would be good graphics... on the PS2 or Xbox.... maybe 
 avg.... but for the 360... that just plain sucks.
  
  Sound - Unoriginal and repeatative
  
  Value - If you must play it.... rent it. But honestly, go get legends instead, at least those 
 were fun games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker212
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game sucked sooo bad, i dint even get through to half of the game before retuning it. i wish 
 i could give it less than a 1 out of 10. i recamend buying the game, then pour lighter fluid on 
 it and lighting a match and watch it burn. the gameplay was boring except for Nightcrawler which 
 got old by the second level. i felt soooo much better when i got my money back. nobody deseves 
 to have to spend hard earned money on a piece of !@$% like that. I hate this game sooo much that 
 want to go to where it was made and beat down the guy/girl that came up with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the x-men, from watching the fox kids cartoon when i was growing up 
 to x-men evolution and comics right through to the movies I have always thought the ideas and imagination 
 behind them was brilliant. 
  
  Unfortunatly this cant be said for xmen: the official game, a title that has the distinction of 
 being the worst game i have ever played. Yes friends this is a title that devoid of any real imagination 
 or indeed, effort. It starts off on a good musical note, with the exact theme from the movies playing 
 in the background as you select your menu options and start the game. Things go down hill quickly 
 from there though. 
  
  Within the first few minutes, it devolves into mindless button mashing, with the same attack animations 
 from wolverine as he slices and dices his way through not very nice looking clone enemies solidily 
 for ages until finally meeting up the boss and doing the same thing. 
  
  Progress allows you to unlock the nightcrawler and iceman missions, which to be fair are alot less 
 repetitive than wolverines but still suffer from the same bad guy over and over before you face 
 off againist a boss. The nightcrawlers do give a decent sense of what it would be like to be superhumanly 
 agile and be able to teleport about and are much faster in pace. The iceman levels however, are 
 truely terrible in everyway. sliding about on his ice slide is never fun nor fast and isnt even 
 in the movie. 
  
  The one biggest thing about the movie though is just how much liberty it takes with the licence. 
 Wolverine is able to regenerate health over time cause he has that power, but somehow he managed 
 to transfer it to nightcrawler and iceman too. which is dumb. 
  
  Iceman shows powers he dosent even use in the movie and fights pyro which the movies states he 
 hasnt seen since he left at the end of xmen2. 
  
  The game has 3 difficulties and achievements are unlocked on any as you progress through the missions, 
 and you can upgrade your charactors by finding hidden items around the levels which arent especially 
 well hidden, so there is some replay value in doing all of the difficulties and finding all the 
 achievements and enchancements, but why would you want to? even at thier most powerful, your charactors 
 do not seem any stronger really. 
  
  The graphics in this game are bright and levels are laid out fine for the context of the game, 
 but the textures are pretty bland and the destructable elements are boring - trees and the like. 
 The camera can be a bit dodgy but general gives you decent view of the action so long as your enemies 
 are close enough to you. 
  
  The biggest let down in the graphics are the cutscenes between missions, which are frankly, crap. 
 the voice talent is from the movie for iceman and wolverine (though the soundalike for nightcrawler 
 is quite good) , but the scenes themseles arent anmiated at all, just stills and that is a shame 
 because this licence deserves the extra effort. 
  
  The sound is functional but nothing stands out, with only a couple of music tracks. the attack 
 and power sounds are underwhelming but do the job. 
  
  all in all this game is a terrible waste of a great licence and a shockingly lazy cash on movie 
 hype. in my opinion to be avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  X- Men: The Official Game is the newest X-Men game to be taken from the blockbuster movie series; 
 unfortunately you would be better off watching the movie than playing the game. The storyline starts 
 off after the second movie and before the third; apparently the Professor needs parts for Cerebro 
 that were left at Alkali Lake. However, it seems that there is someone already there with a plan 
 of their own. The story isnt particular interesting and quickly turns predicable before the end. 
 The storyline itself should be enough to turn you away but it gets worse from there. You get to 
 control Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Iceman. The good thing about the three is that they are voiced 
 by their celebrity counterparts and thats about the high point for the three of them. Lets start 
 with Wolverine. Wolverines controls are down right horrible, combat relies on you pressing the 
 same two buttons over, and over, and over again. When Wolverine goes into fury, thats when it 
 gets real easy especially during boss fights. When you have a boss, just get hit, go into fury 
 and button mash to kill the boss in about a minute. Wolverines also use a horrible camera that 
 youll be fighting constantly. Next up, Nightcrawler. Nightcrawler has a much better control scheme. 
 Nightcrawler has cool teleport abilities but it makes a combat a bit of a push over. The teleport 
 abilities are very nice (Nightcrawler can pretty much teleport on any thing and crawl on pipes 
 and even walk run) . The biggest problem is that Nightcrawlers missions consist of unlocking doors 
 and disarming bombs. Finally, Iceman. Iceman has a good control scheme but there are a ton of flaws 
 with it. Icemans slide is a cool feature and the ability to freeze objects is a nice touch. The 
 flaw is that Iceman has one attack that does little damage until you upgrade the attack. The graphics 
 are nothing special and the Xbox 360 doesnt even make an effort to make the graphics look good. 
 Its basically a waste of ten dollars. The game is easily beaten in a day. Bottom Line: X-Men: 
 The Official Game is probably a good rental but unless youre a serious X-Men fan I would try to 
 avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  X-men the last stand is the latest game to be made because of its movie reputation and clearly 
 no passion or joy was put into this game. It feels corporate and mass produced.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The intial main character are graphics are decent but not by 360 standards. the 
 skin and model textures do looked rushed along with tastless inviroments and bleek enimie models. 
 The games cutscenes are disastirous. they do look like they were made for an internet game let 
 alone one that costs over 50. the colours are grey, bland and no diserable. It looks like they 
 tried to focus on other areas more but they didnt do so well there either im afraid. the graphics 
 would be acceptable for a regular console but not a next gen console, there are no effects or tricks 
 that you would remember form this game. There is quite allot glitching that can be seen with invisable 
 walls and enviroment settings. this game has nothing specail.
  
  Graphics 4/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  X-men Puts you into the postiton on 3 main charcters of Iceman, Wolverine and 
 Nightcrawler. These three characters have 3 different game styles. Icemans is all about hovering 
 around on a wave of ice and completing various tasks like putting out fires over and over agian. 
 Wolverines levels are your straight forward boring hack n slash levels, while nightcrawlers are 
 a little more fun stealth based mission. 
  
  Iceman's Levels:
  
  Each characters levels follow the pattern each time. Iceman's level characteristics were a good 
 idea but they were excecuted very very badly. With a difficult camera along sparadic movment and 
 mind numbingly pointless objectives, these are missions you should try to aviod although he is 
 only introduced a little later on in the game. The gampelay in his levels is glithcy and most repetitive. 
 with no thought but into these levels most of his objectives just deal with putting out fires which 
 gets frustrating after a few seconds. Icemans levels are pointless to say the least and the idea 
 of flying around on a stream of ice seems more like a chore than anything else.
  
  Iceman : 3/10
  
  Wolverines Levels:
  
  Wolverines levels are your standard attacking platformer 
 and standard is the key word. His levels are so boring its unbelevable not to mention tough. every 
 level is exactly the same just in a different room. your are pushed into un-escapablle combat with 
 hordes of dull and undesirable enimies. Wolverines attacks are useless. with virtuly no combos 
 or specail attacks it is a case of button mashing and blocking. your will get no enjoyment for 
 these levels to say the least as they just get harder as the game goes along and wolverine recives 
 the least stat points for completing missions which makes leveling up also a chore. These levels 
 are all set on a straight path with secret areas or alternate directions. these levels are no fun 
 for older gamers and are too hard for younger gamers
  
  Wolverine's Levels: 2/10
  
  Nightcrawler's Levels
  
  These levels are the most fun your going to have with this game as 
 they combine a pretty niffty teleporting system with easy to manage combat. The missions in these 
 levels are pretty straight forward which makes completing them no challange for older gamers. There 
 are certain challanges with these mission like deafeating multiple man which makes full use of 
 your teleporting abilities but sadly his missions are mostly timed or hindered in some way which 
 makes them slighty less fun and more of an endurence trail. his levles are quite short which means 
 the most enjoyable part of the game is cut short too quickly. so nightcawlers missions were not 
 a bad attempt but the mechanics of the game suck the life out of them.
  
  Nightcrawlers missions: 6/10
  
  Sound:
  
  There is very little sound effects in this game 
 along with a low, dull music track. there is nothing really to talk about here accept that your 
 wont find anything here you like either.
  
  Overall:
  
  A weak attempt at a game were all the fun parts are made un-fun and the difficulty level posses 
 a challange to younger gamers while the boring, repititve gamplay will surley stop older gamers 
 from getting much out of it.
  
  Overall 3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Im a x-men fan and i was looking foreword to this game for a month. This game was a total let down. 
 The game was not a total disaster but it was close to being one. The game had a bad story line. 
 The fighting was not good and the graphics was alright but not up to xbox360 expectation. The game 
 will leave you disappointed and mad. The value of the game was not worth the money. Do not buy 
 this game. It's not even worth a rent but see the movie it's 10 x better. I would bother reading 
 the back. I would only bother renting this if i had a xbox only and not a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full89
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  After the reviews this game got, I wanted to play it to see if it was bad or not. I rented it and 
 thought it was a good game. It doesn't have Xbox 360 graphics but the gameplay is fun. It was fun 
 playing with the three playable characters you had but Iceman was the most frustrating out of all 
 of them. The game would have been more interesting if it had more playable characters. In my opinion, 
 this game should be rented, not bought because this game is easy and doesn't take too long to beat. 
 Plus, it doesn't have multiplayer and if it did, I think this game would of done a lot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The game was ok, Like I stated before. It was fun for a bit, since I havent played a trua action 
 style game for a little while. But I would not buy it. It did answer a few questions I had about 
 the movie like why wasnt nightcrawler in it. (possible spoiler) But I do not like how they brought 
 back Strykker (sp) or Jason. It did not seem to fit the story, almost like they were stretching 
 for a storyline, even though you didnt see Strykker. Well to sum it up, it has a little added story, 
 no innovation, no replay, and wasnt even fun enough for me to try to get the achievement points. 
 I figured it would just be frustrating to get them since I have replay the same boring levels. 
 Mostly using Iceman for what I had left, the character in this game I found needed the most work. 
 He was more frustrating than fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Its become a known fact that with every hyped action film that releases in theaters, there must 
 be a video game to release along side it. Some of these games are well made and enjoyable experiences, 
 like "The Chronicles of Riddick" or even last years "Peter Jackson's: KIng Kong". However, most 
 of these games are poorly made and ill conceived games that sure nothing more then to cash-in on 
 the the hype of its pedigree. "X-Men: The Official Game" is most definitely that type of game. 
 Existing to do nothing more then an advertisement for "20th Century Fox's" upcoming film, "The 
 Official Game" is a fimiliar experience, that is not worthy of your hard earned money.
  
  Takeing place after "X2" and before the upcoming sequal "X3". "The Official Game" tries to tell 
 a story that is ment to fill in the time gap between these two films. However, the overall story 
 of the game is completely forgetable and serves to add no enjoyment of any degree. This is due 
 mainly to the developers choice of telling the story threw cut-scenes that consist of motionless 
 stills. As the cut-scenes go on, and action sequences are playing out before you. You are forced 
 to watch scenes that have no animations and look poorly made. Its clear that the developers were 
 meaning for these to give the game an interesting and original look. However, any atempt that the 
 game takes to give any emotion or tention to the games boring story is laughable. And these still 
 framed seens that take all of the interesting and suspense from the story and look comical if anything.
 
  
  The gameplay, on the otherhand, is even more of a mess. Instead of giving the player choices of 
 playing between many of the X-Men, you are forced to play as only Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and 
 Iceman. Each characters place in the story is branched off in intersecting storylines, as well 
 as many different play types. Wolverines levels are made up of complete brawlers, were you continuously 
 cut-up enemies untill you reach the levels end. Nightcrawlers, levels have a little bit more puzzle 
 based as you do light puzzle solving sequences along with the boring fighting that you continuously 
 do. Iceman's sequences are a bit more interesting as they play out with iceman using his ice powers 
 to ride a continuous wave of ice. Playing out like a rail, as you fly threw each level.
  
  Wolverines, and Nightcrawlers levels play out a bit the same. Wolverines and Nightcrawler both 
 have a high and low attack that feel very off and never reall give a realistic feel to the fighting. 
 Nightcrawler, on the otherhand, can use his teleportation powers to teleport to different, in sight 
 area, and as well as use the power in his fights. Which give a little more depth to his levels, 
 aside from Wolverine's that start and grow even more stale as the game goes on. Aside from this, 
 both characters feel cluncky and waiteless. Never giving you a feel for the game.
  
  Iceman's levels, are a bit more interesting but never feel very fun. You are on a constant rail 
 taking you threw out the level as you also are given mondain objectives o carry out as much the 
 same as Wolverines and Nightcrawlers levels.
  
  The game also does have mutation items you get from finishing levels that you can then use on upgrading 
 your characters to add more feness and power to the characters different abilities. However, nothing 
 you do really makes a difference in the gameplay. Nor does it add any more depth to the already 
 shallow gameplay system. Making it a real waist.
  
  The real problem with the gameplay is the fact that it feels so out of place on a next generation 
 console. This is most definitely expectable. However, having gameplay that would make for a passable 
 experience on the playstation several sum odd years ago. Be represented on a next generation game 
 console is not except able. Game's have come a long way, and with the more complex that they have 
 become it feels very cluncky and a step down to be playing games that feel this inadiquant.
  
  The presenation on the otherhand is a very mixed bag. To do fair, there are some neat special 
 effects that are showcased in "The official Game". Like Nightcrawlers teleport animations for instance, 
 and some other special moments. However, these most definitely dont add much to the game overall 
 unremarkable look. Character models lack detail, and levels look terribly designed. The neat phisics 
 engine is going unused in the gameplay. Along side the many clipping problems. The overall look 
 of "X-Men" the game just looks very bad on the Xbox 360, and when you look at other games that 
 showcase the systems power in a more better and proper way. It makes the game look even worse, 
 and shows even more how it doesnt take advantage of the systems great power. The sound of the game 
 also isnt anything special. The game has a poorly written scirpt that, though passable, does nothing 
 to add to the games already boring story. And the sound effects in the game is the average affair 
 that you would expect from a game of this type. 
  
  "X-Men: The Official Game" is also nothing of good value. There is nothing really to do aside from 
 the main game, which doesnt take no longer then a couple of hours to complete. You can go back 
 and get special items among other features to unlock achievements. However, the game is already 
 an unremarkable experience, making it really not worth the effort. Adding in the fact that the 
 360 version of the game is 10 dollars ( making an overall price of 60 dollars ) more then other 
 versions of the game, and for no real reason. Makes the game an even lesser value.
  
  Overall, "X-Men: The Official Game" is an unremarkable cash-in game, that does absolutely nothing 
 to do justice to the game pedigree. Featuring gameplay that is very much out of place on a next 
 generation game console, as well as a presentation that doesnt show off the Xbox 360's power. It 
 serves nothing more then an advertisement for the upcoming "X-Men" movie, and does nothing to deliver 
 a compable gaming experience.
  
  "X-Men: The Offcial Game" is a poorly made and unremarkable experience, that serves as nothing 
 more then an advertisement for its movie counterpart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beiisgei
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 3 different characters, each with his own unique controls, however there were only 2 
 attack controls, with a few combinations, but not many. The animation got tiring and control usually 
 resulted in button mashing.
  
  Graphics: Hi-res, I guess, but it was mostly walls and square objects that made up the landscape 
 of the levels. Characters were unmemorable, unlike in the movies. There were constantly issues 
 with camera angles or issues with the control of the camera when the view was controlled by the 
 users. The camera issue took away from any sense of realism of the game and on occasion made it 
 difficult to control your player.
  
  Sound: Nothing out of the ordinary here, which meant it is not worth much.
  
  Value: I am glad 
 I only rented it, because there is no reason to replay it. No multiplayer, I guess you will have 
 to do with City of Heroes for your superhero multiplayer needs.
  
  Tilt: The game lacked many things, but in the end I spent my precious time on it and totally worthless 
 games do not get that much out of me, so this is my "bump" for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  X-Men: The Official Game is a terrible disgrace to the franchise. It's repetativeness and overall 
 lack of good gameplay makes this a must not buy for the 360.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but considering the cutscenes are comparable to a graphics novel 
 is nothing special. In game models are really medicore, especially Collosus, the huge hunk of walking 
 metal.
  
  The characters are fun to play at first... but can get really frustrating a majority of the time. 
 Wolverine is a fun character but since you lack the control of the camera angle you're in it's 
 hard to tell where enemies are attacking you from. Nightcrawler is the best simply because of his 
 awesome powers, acrobatic skills, and the actual use of the camera. Iceman can get annoying since 
 he never stops moving; it can get annoying rather fast.
  
  This game is barley worth the rent, but if you like wasting your time go ahead. Unless your the 
 biggest X-Men fan of all time I see no reason why you should give this game any of your time or 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr33km4n
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Great! All characters have unique specials. I love Nightcrawler's teleportation and healing 
 factors.
  
  Graphics: They are unbelievably realistic. Except that the cutscenes are just pictures with sounds, 
 like a video of a comic book.
  
  Sound: The voices are the voices of the actors from the movie! Love it! There is only speech in 
 the horrible cutscenes (which have amazing graphics, if not from the movie) . There is no random 
 talking in the middle of gameplay.
  
  Value: This game's a keeper and will forever be in my collection. I will definitely play it through 
 on Superhero (highest difficulty) after I beat it on Hero (middle difficulty) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  I have recently had the misfortune of playing the latest addition in the X Men gaming franchise, 
 and there are two words that can best express my feelings, TOTAL- DISSAPOINTMENT. Every so often 
 a game is created that so unexpectedly awful that it burns unpleasant memories into your brain 
 that simply will not allow you to forget it any time soon. Unfortunately X Men the so called official 
 game for the movie is on such game. The level on which this game sucked was totally unexpected, 
 true it is granted that the movie was not very good to say the least, however, the X Men and most 
 of Stan Lees creations are so well done and so entertaining that it would take a person with a 
 very diminished imagination to mess them up. Having said that, I will give you a summery of the 
 game so that you may construct some idea of just how bad it really is.
  
  At first as I began playing the graphics seem to be fine and well polished. You start playing as 
 Wolverine as you hack and slash your way through a number of armed enemies that just keep coming. 
 It did not take very long for me to realize that Wolverines fighting ability and movements were 
 not very impressive and the combat got real boring really fast. However I played on and finely 
 came to the level boss, which was followed by more of the same dull fighting. After defeating the 
 level boss a cut scan came up, here is where the first really stupid mistake was made. Some person 
 who had enough say at the development company that was in charge of creating the game decided that 
 it would be cool if all the cut scans were done like some comic book, you know action pictures 
 instead of animation, needless to say this sucks. If I wanted to see still shoots I would have 
 read the book. But wait there is more you can also play as Ice Man, yah Ice Man and Night Crawler, 
 however you can not play as any of them at the same time or even on the same mission. They all 
 have their own missions and there is no coop option. In the Ice Man mission you are required to 
 fly as it were though energy rings that are floating in the air. Hmm, where have I seen this before? 
 Thats right, superman 64 another game that totally sucked. I could just run on and on, there is 
 simply so much wrong with this game, but that would make me just as bad. So I will simply say DO 
 NOT buy this game dont even rent it, trust me on this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alternate45
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I played this game from start to finish. I beat every level on superhero and checked out with a 
 full 1000 from this game. This game I really hated from the beginning. There were two Nightcrawler 
 levels that were ok but the rest of the game stunk. The controls felt very mushy and the action 
 was very repetitive.
  
  As Wolverine you will fight endless hoards of bad guys. Yeah that about sums it up. Occasionally 
 you will have to smash something but you mainly just wander around and fight dozens of pathetic 
 enemies at a time.
  
  The graphics engine for this game is terribly innefficient. The only thing next gen about this 
 engine is it's failed attempt at generating advance lighting. The graphics quality is underwhelming 
 and seemed to put an undue load on the 360. I actually saw a few enemies shooting through doors. 
 
  
  The AI really falls short. There is one part when playing as wolverine where guys with machine 
 guns will run out and if you step behind the pagoda looking thing they act like they can't see 
 you. Instead of shooting through the wide opening or running around for a better shot they stand 
 there unsure what to do next. 
  
  The cut scenes are a joke. Instead of rendering some animation for the cutscenes they used cheesy 
 half-animated drawings. It was a perfect illustration of what was wrong with this game. A lack 
 of funding and effort. 
  
  I don't want to neglect the other characters so I'll make some brief comments about the. Iceman 
 was really annoying to play with. I'm not really sure what to say for why. I think it was just 
 about everything. Again the controls were terrible. They give you a set of tedious tasks to complete 
 and it feels like you're playing with boxing gloves on. 
  
  Nightcrawler is the last. I had a little fun with him on the first few levels but it really didn't 
 last long. He is like the others, boringly repetitive and kind of a pain. As Nightcrawler you are 
 mostly tasked to run around and flip switches and activate panels. It gets old quick. Nightcrawler 
 is very weak and takes alot of damage from enemies so you must rely on you teleport attacks. His 
 weakness really get annoying when you have to fight multiple man.
  
  I really feel bad for the people who bought this steaming pile. You have to beat the whole game 
 on superhero to unlock new costumes for your characters. I'd didn't even look at the costumes. 
 I would never play this again. I just got to the point in the game where I felt compelled to beat 
 it just because it was so terrible. The X-Men has such a huge following its just shameful that 
 they would allow a monstrosity such as this to exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdgeKrusher187
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are just ok, just what I'd expect to see on the Xbox. The fighting system for wolverine 
 is mediocre at best, but playing with night crawler is a blast. The sound is ok, the voice acting 
 is good, but the cut-sceens lack any sort of depth. This isn't one for the action rpg fans, but 
 it's a good action game, though they could have made it more like X-Men legends. Definitely worth 
 the rent, but don't wast your hard earned cash on this one. This game doesn't deserve a 5.3. Some 
 may like it, and others will hate it. Cuz if it isn't Halo 2 then it must suck.... right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apollo5000
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am a big fan of the X-men, not so much the comic side but the cartoons 
 when i was younger and now through to the movies and games.
  
  This game however I didn't enjoy, No doubt about it X-Men Legends is probably the best X-men game 
 we're gonna get. The game itself takes place after the events of X-men 2 and before the events 
 of The Last Stand, You play as Wolverine, Night Crawler and Iceman. Each of which have their own 
 style of play. 
  
  Iceman is always on his IceSlide and often has the larger environments to do battle in, even though 
 his controls are simple and responsive it still gets pretty boring fast.
  
  Wolverine plays like the majority of button bashing games, fighting wave after wave of enemies, 
 although there is little gap between each wave which makes trying to Heal annoying. and just cutting 
 you're way through them , the only problem i really found with Wolverines levels is often you'll 
 be fighting too many enemies at once (or the more difficult settings) for example i was in a situation 
 more than once where there was at least 20 guys standing around me with these shock things, they 
 didn't even have to move and Wolverine was taking damage, at that point there is very little you 
 can do to escape that.
  
  Nightcrawler is probably the best thing about this game, the only levels and character I really 
 enjoy playing as would be him. Teleporting feels free, for him it basically jump from here to there, 
 swing on that, teleport to that destroy that, kill him, kind of thing. And out of all the enemies 
 for Nightcrawler to do battle with whose better than Multiple Man?
  
  The graphics are probably what sold this game, with pretty accurate renditions of each of the characters 
 adding their won voices to it also help sell it.
  
  Overall i do think they could of done a better job and maybe make it last a little longer (some 
 stages will have you stay in one room for 5 minutes and then the mission is over) .
  
  Hopefully the next X-men title will be more true to what X-men deserve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hollaback_Girl
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Well as everyone know's movie cash-in games are usally terrible. With very few exceptions. This 
 proves all the myth's about the movie games.
  
  Firstly has nothing to do with the movie... AT ALL. Secondly the graphics truly put the 360 to 
 shame, well for the story line- thats a different story.
  
  We all know ppl love Wolvirine (not...) but he isn't the main character. Jean Grey just cause she's 
 evil we should still play her. Plus Nightclawer wasn't even mentioned in the movie- let alone seen. 
 Same a 'Lady Deathstrike', who only ever made an appearance in XM: II.
  
  This isn't a game that even the kid's will enjoy ( i think) i recommend if u like the Xmen u should 
 try Legends. Above this sad excuse for a movie cash-in.
  
  ^= Bad game, decieves the movie, wrecks the 360 (as in it's reputation) and isn't exactly the best 
 movie cash (nothing it's gonna make) -in in this world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIscuits_ryan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Sentinals? can you say finally? X men 3 the game brings xmen fans everywhere what weve all been 
 waiting for. THE CLASSIC ENEMYS. In this game you can finally beat up all thoose huge robots (Sentinals) 
 that you loved in the comics, and animated show. FINNALY. 
  
  But back to the actual game. You get to beat'em up with 3 characters, wolverine, ice man, and night 
 crawler. 
  
  As for wolverine at the begining it just feels like ur running into bullets....... but eventuially 
 with the built up mutations you can add a bit of strategy. Personaly i didint really like the wolverine 
 leves even though hes my fav character.
  
  Ice Man, was an awsome addition to the game, flying around on his ice thingy was fun all around. 
 But there didint seem to be much point to it..... and they definatley could have used a speed mutation.
 
  
  Night Crawler was an awsome character to play around with, teleporting around your enemies was 
 more than enough to keep you amused for hours. 
  
  All in all the game was awsome to play around with, the last few levels were definatley a challenge, 
 but in the end id have to say if you can rent this game for a week, and have a good time. Then 
 go with that. Because throwing out 40 plus dollars for it just isint worth it. One last note.... 
 the graphics were definatley, even on the 360 very poor. This game definatley looked like it was 
 made for the Gameqube or even n64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonB13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I liked this game so much that I bought it. This game does a few things wrong, but I didn't care. 
 Playing as Wolverine isn't as great as you would think, but he does have some good boss fights. 
 Everybody complains about the cutscenes but I like them. Iceman and Nightcrawler's levels are great. 
 Iceman plays like a Ace Combat game, and Nightcrawler uses his acrobatic skills perfectly. I must 
 admit that for a 360 game the graphics are shallow, but that is made up for the voiceacting. There 
 are some Heros and villians like Beast, Storm, Magneto, and Pyro. The game as some replay value to 
 unlock the costumes which most are not worth it. So overall the game is a good game worth the 60 
 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  X-Men III is the latest (and last?) movie in the trilogy, and while some people haven't cared for 
 it, I thought it wasn't all that bad a movie. After seeing it, I thought to myself "Self... Why 
 don't we play the new game based on the movie?". My reply, "why not?". I don't regret playing the 
 game, as it did have it's moments... Wait, no it didn't...
  
  The game isn't awful, but definitely NO WHERE near the $60 admission price (or even the $50 other 
 console price) . For the 360 it feels like it could have been worthy of an arcade title in nearly 
 all departments. There isn't even anything that fans of the series (comics or movies) will really 
 enjoy. I'ts a simple cash in on a name... Nothing else.
  
  The graphics are possibly the worst seen on the system to date... And the cutscenes are a weird 
 comicesque style, but with the actors likenesses. They don't move, they are still, but there aren't 
 word bubbles or anything else. It is very awkward at first, and by the end, it's laughable. Also, 
 the Silver Samurai makes an appearance for some reason... and since he isn't in the movies he has 
 no detail to him like the other characters and looks VERY out of place.
  
  The in-game graphics aren't really much better. They are totally bland and uninspired. The only 
 good thing about the graphics is when you unlock the comic book style costumes. The graphics aren't 
 any better, but at least they are colorful.
  
  The voice acting is pretty bad... Since the characters are modeled after the movie, obviously they 
 should have the same voices as the characters, right? Wrong. They might sound like the actors, 
 but are clearly not the same guys and gals. Music in the game is ho-hum. I honestly can't say much 
 about it because it was very forgettable
  
  Another odd thing is that there are only three main characters. While that may not be odd in itself, 
 one of those three, Nightcrawler, isn't even in the new movie... What the hell? Each character has 
 a gimmick to get you through the levels, and that is about as far as the level design "creativity" 
 goes. Wolverine has to kill wave after wave of the same 3 guys.... Nightcrawler has to teleport 
 to different places and do computerish stuff or something... And Iceman flies around and stuff. 
 
  
  Iceman was my least favorite characters, and instead of trying to get everything in the levels 
 (like I did with the other two) I just wanted to get them over with... And quickly. Wolverine's 
 levels are better, but they are super monotonous after only the 2nd level. Nightcrawlers are the 
 best (oddly enough) but still not what I consider "fun".
  
  It's a pretty short experience, probably 5 hours total, which includes getting everything possible 
 with 1 character, and all the secret items with another. Another reason not to EVER buy this game.
 
  
  Overall, I was compelled to finish the game, it wasn't a horrible experience, but it pisses me 
 off that people are actually going to buy this (at full price, nonetheless) . Unless you are a fan 
 that HAS TO own every single X-Men memorabilia item out there... Give this a rental if you're truly 
 starved for something to play on your equally starving 360. You can't do much worse at the moment, 
 but at least you might be able to pump out some achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Hy guess what!? I've played this game before! it wa called Star Wars Revenge Of The Sith & The 
 3 Lord of the Rings Games.. The big difference here is.. those 2 franchise games at least had some 
 wikked cut-scenes and 'some' depth, I say some depth' very lightly, cause they were aftr all, also 
 button mashers, except they had numerous sets of combo's .. wereas XMen3 The Official Game has 
 but one set of moves (per character) and extremely shallow moves at best. If you actually purchased 
 his game then obviousl you are a huge XMen Comis fan, and purchased it solely for the fact of have/addiong 
 it to your collection of other Xmen collectors toys. Now not to be too harsh on this game, it is 
 fun.. for the first 10mins of your life.. then it kinda fades to.. 'holy man.. when is this gonna 
 end' and you keep playing just to get a couple decent achievements.. ad speaking of... The achievements 
 are down right mean.. the first 3 you recieve arfe worth 0points.. yes ZERO points.. they are there 
 just to look good i guess, the rest of them ... well, ure torture sounds about right. You can only 
 get the majoriy of the achievements by finishing the game .. not once but numerous times, seeing 
 as you need to go back and play at different difficulty levels & repeat teh trture over and over 
 again....... and again. If you renthis game make sure you at least rent another game with it, so 
 you can take a break from the mindless button mashing.. Oh and don't bother playing friends.. since 
 there is NO online and NO co-op.. no.. nothing.. just 1 player loneliness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  X-Men: The Official Game (of X-Men 3: The Last Stand) bares much similarities to 50Cent: Bulletproof, 
 it's got a big name and a superhero, but they are both crap, underwhelming graphics, boring and 
 repetitive action sequences, fast flowing story (not in a good way) and are both somehow overrated 
 by lonely bachelors who sit at home in their flat after ordering an Italian or Chinese.
  X-Men: The Official Game would be lots like Spiderman 2 The Game, low rate graphics, repetitve 
 and stupid, except for one thing ... Spiderman 2 had the swinging! WEB SWINGING! The greatest thing 
 ever to happen to a Marvel Action Game! WEB SWINGING! X-Men: The Official Game has nothing close 
 to that, X-Men: The Official Game couldn't offer half the wow-factor that Spiderman 2 did, and 
 thats why X-Men: The Official Game is like it is. We've seen in many times before! They thought 
 they could WOW us with the "epic" battlescenes and "hypnotising" cutscenes! They were wrong! So 
 very, very wrong! Activision really know how to ruin a game, just look at TC: NY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlieuS_uK
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first review on gamespot, I actively played this game while i was round my friends 
 house, started with the tuts which were extremely un-creative idd, fighting robots in the sky with 
 ice beams that wern't actually thrilling to shoot.
  The first thing i turned around to my mate and said, these camera angles are shocking, funnily 
 enough he agreed to this comment and ripped it to bits, i slowly got used to this problem although, 
 once i did go through a door, and when the camera angle changed , i went back again from where 
 i once came, which was very frustrating i did this about twice. All because the camera angles throw 
 you off balance just like a swaying ferryboat :P 
  
  I have gotta say that the fighting is somewhat lacking too, the fighting skill in this game is 
 probably comparible to mario brothers, should a couple of taps of the same button, and theres your 
 kill ! whats more dissapointing is the game isnt really hard at all, i managed about 3 levels in 
 the space of 10 mins. This game is easy to pick up and well, easy to master. THERE is nothing challenging, 
 you might aswell borrow it from a friend and save at least 34.99 then to accidentally buy it yourself 
 and not get a refund. 
  Coming from a broke student i wouldnt buy it , ask around , try to sample the game! 
  
  Oh 
 and i found this really annoying move from that rat thing that can teleport behind people and just 
 basically OWN them in a couple of hits, what would of been really fascinating to see if the AI 
 was slightly ,well more intelligent. 
  Perhaps one guys gets owned and then the other 1 runs away, BUT wen u lock onto this guy who is 
 running away, what if he knew you would teleport behind him?!?! boom youd get an uppercut in the 
 face, well thats what i would do, or any non SPECIAL opps badd ass.
  
  Basically this game is soooo poor, one of the worst cimema film games out there, id recommend Duke 
 Nukem: Manhatten Project over this ffs :P 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmycanuck
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Movie game's are notoriously bad, and enough people will rant on about this game being no exception. 
 I'll leve them to it, because my complaints go well beyond any of the standard movie tie-in nonsense.
 
  
  With the exception of Nightcrawlers "teleport behind a guy and punch him in the back of the head" 
 levels, there isn't a moment of fun to be had. But frustration? Oh, that comes in spades.
  
  Wolverine's levels are an endless sea of bad guys that can, at times, completely overwhelm 
 you. This wouldn't be so bad, except that once you die, you need to restart most every mission 
 at the beginning.
  
  Iceman's levels takes the cake, though. Controlling Iceman feels like pushing a broken shopping 
 cart through a swimming pool filled with pudding. You get the pleasure of pushing this shopping 
 cart through deadly mazes that will, one way or another, kill you. And once again, no matter how 
 close to the end you are, you'll be doing it all over again.
  
  I'm a grown man. I haven't thrown a controller since I was 6. Today that all changed. 
  
  I 
 hope Iceman walks in front of a bus and shatters into a million pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andybutch13
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  The graphics aren't very good at all for a next-gen title and the cinematics are all movig pictures, 
 which gives you a comic book feel, but also looks like the developers rushed it. The fighting as 
 wolverine is good at first but then they just chuck countless enemies at you until it becomes too 
 repetitive and may even put you off of the game. The nightcrawler missions are the best mostly because 
 he can teleport, but sometimes you will try to teleport to one place but end up somewhere else. 
 The iceman levels are kind of strange, he is always on the move. you can slow down, speed up, shoot 
 an icebeam, use a ice sheild and shoot a more powerful ice blast. It is still fun to play as iceman 
 though and the level designs are good. This game doesn't take too long to complete and wouldn't 
 take much longer to go back through and unlock everything. But while this games lasts it is rather 
 enjoyable in places but not quite so in others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKCANNON
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  To me this game had its ups and downs. But actually wolverine was my personal favorite character 
 to use, while some of you other gamers might enjoy night-crawler because his ability to jump around 
 and to be very flexible. But my second favorite character to use iceman because iceman is one of 
 my favorite x-men. But some things that i did not like about this game is, first of the graphics. 
 The makers of this game could have went all out but for an unknown reason, it seems like they did 
 not work their hardest on it. I also did not like the lack of attacks for wolverine, he only had 
 the basic fighting styles. You see, wolverine in the comics trained all over the world with many 
 different types of masters of sword/hand to hand combat, so to place the fighting attacks that 
 the makers of this game gave, was a careless mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmjmjmjmjm
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 31, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Easily the worst Xbox 360 I own (at least I only got it as a gift) . The graphics are nothing special 
 (especially after seeing things like G. R. A. W. and knowing what they COULD have done) . It is in 
 no way a next-gen game, with mediocre graphics and sound... and in NO WAY worth $65. The voice 
 acting is lazy, and while the cut scenes are trying to give a "reading a comic book" vibe, they 
 just give a "we were too lazy to animate this part" vibe. The camera angles when playing as Wolverine 
 are annoying, ruining everyone's favorite character. Enemy AI is low... just run away for a while 
 and heal (which everyone, not just Wolverine, can do) . I'll play it through once just to get the 
 game card points, but then I'll never touch it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS-Army
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 29, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Both were sh! t, thats all you need to know. If you've come into contact with X-Men 3 through either 
 mediums then there is only one thing you can do. Purify with fire.
  
  Its time for marvel games to move out of the arcade game mold and actually develop a title worth 
 playing. Something with.... substance? No more Wolverine games, or the Hulk for that matter.
  
  Jesus, Marvel was one of the founders of comic book heroism and guess what? City of Heroes 
 is a better game than you'll ever make! Why must you suck so bad?
  
  You could, at the very least, make a game that reflects the storyline of a good string of comics. 
 NO MORE PHEONIX! THAT IS THE WORST STORYLINE IN THE X-MEN COMICS, NEXT TO SCOTT SUMMERS AND HIS 
 PIRATE DADDY... now that I think about it, there has only been a handful of actual good X-Men storylines. 
 I'm really dissatisfied with Marvel. I'm going to go read some HellBoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSpartan104
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game isn't going to win game of the year. It didn't try to either. It's just what it is. A 
 fun, simple game. The graphics won't take your breath away and it doesn't take all that long to 
 beat. It would've been nice to see more of Scott/Cyclops, a truly underused character that never 
 reached his potential in the movies. The controls are flawless and became second nature after I 
 turned Logan's rage power on while trying to heal him a few times. The story isn't excellent, but 
 it gives a nice tie-in between X2 and The Last Stand. Sound get's a good score because the voice-overs 
 were done by the movie cast. That's one thing the most defiantly did flawlessly. I recommend this 
 game, but know what you're buying. It's 10-12 hours of fun of any X-men fan. Outside of that, this 
 game doesn't have a huge fan-base, the simple beat-em up is a lost genre in the age of Oblivion 
 and Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Wow, thats a whole lot of hating on the 360 port of this game. I just can't believe the game would 
 disappoint so many with the huge marketing scheme they have and movie tie in.
  
  A true button masher, but theres nothing wrong with that. I was a little disappointed with the 
 graphics but there is a little improvement over the original Xbox version. There are some camera 
 angle issues and theres nothing more fun than kicking some butt with the control of Wolverine.
 
  
  So of the missions are pretty fun and challenging. I don't really wanna say much about the story 
 line, so I don't mess it up for those that haven't seen the new X-Men movie.
  
  But if you must buy this game for collection purposes just wait and it will drop in price later 
 in the year, I promise.
  
  But if you are looking to get your X-Men fix and kick some butt with your favorite Mutant then 
 Please do go and RENT this one.
  
  It will entertain you, I'm sure of it.
  
  It certainly isn't the worst game I've played so, I'll be fair. There is a lot of really low ratings 
 on the board out there, so I'm gonna go with a 7 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhprime
Rating: 3
Date: May 27, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  What a colossal disappointment this game has turned out to be! After waiting nearly a year for 
 the next installment in the Xmen game series to be released, Activision had the gall to vomit out 
 this piece of bile! There are so many things wrong with this game; I dont know were to begin! 
 Let me start with the fact that it is a single-player game. Games 1 and 2 were multi-player, which 
 allowed gamers the option to choose their favorite Xman to play. My family and I are Xmen fanatics, 
 but each of us prefer different characters and for different reasons. I like the fliers with ranged 
 attack abilities, such as Storm and Jean Grey, others like hand-to-hand combat and enjoy using 
 Wolverine, Rogue, or Colossus; still others prefer the agility and stealth based attacks of Nightcrawler. 
 We play together as a family, each of us choosing our favorite type of character. But not with 
 this dismal disappointment of a game! Considering the vastness of the Xmen universe, why, why, 
 WHY would Activision limit the number of playable characters to three of the most uninteresting 
 of the Xmen?
  The cut-scenes are not animated, they are a series of still images with voice-overs, and when movement 
 is required, it is as though cut out paper dolls are being manipulated by a child just out of camera 
 range. Pathetic. 
  The brief cameos of various Xmen in the game does nothing to add to the playability of the game. 
 These guest characters are not playable, annoyingly weak, and utterly useless, since they require 
 you to rescue them more often than not.
  The story is uninteresting and difficult to follow. There is no compelling reason to finish the 
 game once started, other than to see just how bad it continues to get the longer it is played. 
 The overall feel of the game is amateurish, horribly planned, and poorly executed. I get the impression 
 that Activision feels that as long as the name Xmen is on a game, it will sell. Quality is nothing 
 more than an afterthought (if that) .
  A word to the wise, DO NOT waste your money on this piece of crap! Rent it, if you want about half 
 an hour of worthwhile playtime. I will continue playing Xmen 1 and 2 and pray that the short-sighted, 
 unimaginative programmers and writers of Activision listen to the protests and complaints of the 
 legions of disappointed Xmen fans around the world. I will keep my fingers crossed and wait another 
 year for the next installment of the series. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 27, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  this game is a game that everyone thinks is going to be a great game and it might be good for some 
 people but there is one mayjor problem...
  ITS TO EASY. really thats the main problem because I got it only one week ago and Im working on 
 beating it for the third time. beating the crap out of bad guys is fun... for a couple of minutes. 
 this game just diddn't go so well with me.
  
  but there is one good thing... the way that they give you a tutorial at the beginning but that 
 is mostly what I think of this game. overall this game was like a 6.5 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grash40
Rating: 4
Date: May 26, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  What is going on this is a poor PS2 game at it's best and is an act of blasphemy putting it out 
 on the 360. As a big fan of the films and enjoying the Nemisis game on the Xbox I was totally under 
 awed by this effort. It is just that poor on all fronts I am finding it extremely difficult to 
 find anything to like about this game other than the title having "X-Men" in it.... I know movie 
 franchised titles are often weak when put into a game but this is woefull by any standard...... Remember 
 the numerous Batman games ugh! Please please at least get the next X-men game right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 25, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Not even close to getting the cigar. Your run of the mill button masher. Eventually a software 
 company will really capture the the look and feel of what the X-men are really about. You don't 
 even get the pleasure of seeing them in their original get-ups (outfits, for you folks that do 
 know) . 
  
  This could have been good if they would have made the X-men have some combo moves or moves that 
 made you feel like you were fighting for your life . (as a mutant of course!)
  
  Oh get this!, when you use Nightcrawl you can move the camera in any direction you want. But as 
 Wolverine you CAN'T, what's up with that I ask! What does NC have that Wol doesn't have? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 25, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a cash cow to make more money cause the movie....
  The game is supose to be Xmen 2.5 and tells what happens between Xmen 2 and X men 3. It basically 
 why isnt nightcrawler in this movie. U play as 3 characters who play very differently. Icemans 
 is the hardest to controll and i hated these parts of the game.... although u have to do everyones 
 levels before u can move onto the next act of the game. Every character has different levels and 
 storys, although each one is about 5 mins long u can easily beat the game in 4-5 hrs and 6-8 if 
 u want 1000 gp. the graphics r awful and bland.... looks like dreamcast or ps2. too short and cost 
 60 bucks..... 
  Its XMEN !!! not XMAN should have mulitplayer and maybe added the old xmen arcade game? All and 
 all this game is not worth the money nor the time unless ur tryin to get more gamescore which is 
 pretty easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elazul_d_third
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 23, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  almost evrything in this game is dull and repetitive. Another downfall for X-men. 
  In this game, you could only play three mutants. Just when we had X-men Legends, with MORE playable 
 characters. Anyways, 99 precent of movie based games suck, so do not expect much from this one.
 
  Wolverine is supposed to be the coolest X-man, but in this game, he sucks the most.
  Iceman missions are kinda cool but the controls are awkward it takes the fun in the game. nightcrawler 
 is probably the best among the three. His teleportation just fells so good especially in confusing 
 the stupid enemies.
  All in all, this game feels like it's been rushed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: letacoleta
Rating: 4
Date: May 22, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  While waiting for the movie, game wasn't that good, Nightcrawler play is the only good thing. The 
 movie must be better , hope so
  Starts with cartonish images, kind of like a comic, the player view on wolverine
  is the one 
 that really s**** , nightcrawler play mode, was different, very interesting, if i was able to choose 
 character thru the whole game ill pick nightcrawler that will make the game more interesting.
 
  If your really like "X Men" and dont care wasting your moeny on the game, go ahead and get it, 
 otherwise just rent it, and decide by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentV21
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 22, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  X-men: The Official Game is everything you'd expect from a game based on a movie: disapointing 
 & forgettable. spoilers 
  When the first screens for X-men: the Official Game went online, I was a little excited. It looked 
 great and I felt like this might be a great way to redeem Wolverine from the terrible Wolverine's 
 Revenge game that came out in accordance with X-men 2. Sadly, even though this movie tie in contains 
 variety in it's gameplay, it is still dissapointing and forgettable none the least. Warning: There 
 are some gameplay, and possibly movie, spoilers ahead.
  
  The story takes place between the second and, upcoming, third X-men movie. Everyone is still feeling 
 the effects of losing Jean Grey at Alkali Lake and this explains why Cyclops isn't in the game. 
 It seems that to be able to find Magneto, Professor X will need parts from the dark Cerebro made 
 in the second movie. Wolverine, Ice man, and Nightcrawler are sent with other members of the X-men 
 to retrieve the pieces and save the day. Unfortunately for them, they soon discover there are soldiers 
 looting the former weapon-X facility and they also make a huge discovery: sentinels. 
  
  You take control of three of the new team of X-men: Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Ice man. One of 
 the saving graces of the game is the fact that there is variety between the characters. Wolverine 
 is tank and fights through hordes of enemies, Nightcrawler has acrobatic moves and his teleporting, 
 so he has a small stealth component to his gameplay, while Ice man's levels are setup more like 
 Panzer Dragoon. Unfortunately, there should have been more variety. It got very boring as each 
 character only has a limited number of combos (somewhere between four and six combo moves) and 
 they can't learn new ones. I would have really liked to have been able to play as Ice man without 
 always being on my ice sled and racing through levels. The same go for Nightcralwer or Wolverine 
 in the respects that I really had a feeling of "been there, done that" on every level. It was however 
 fun to tear through people as Wolverine, But this game has nothing on the X-men Legends games. 
 
  
  Even though you cannot upgrade your characters combos, or learn new ones, you can however upgrade 
 their health, health regnereation, strength, and character specific traits. While they are minor 
 improvements, certain upgrades do help later in the game. You can also collect sentinel tech pieces 
 and danger room disks to unlock secrets like different costumes, danger room missions, etc.
  
  Graphically, this game really doesn't feel like an XBox 360 title. Why on earth would you want 
 to pay $10 extra dollars for this game? There is nothing extra on it that doesn't come with the 
 XBox, Ps2, or Gamecube versions. I am shaving points off for this, as they did the same thing with 
 GUN (and the 360 version of GUN was actually worse!!) . There are no real cutscenes, but some sort 
 of stylized 2D comic panels. I think they thought it would help with the comic feel of the game... but 
 it doesn't. Some of the artwork is just lazy and plain terrible, but sometimes they do a pretty 
 good job with Wolverine. Voice acting is good, from the people who actually play the characters 
 on screen, but everyone else sounds just plain bad. Also, Colussus acts like a girl in this game, 
 so don't be suprised if he dies in one of the missions from Hydra baddies with stun guns..... lame.
 
  
  You really see the exact same villians in this game all the way through: Sentinels and Hydra. This 
 acts to the boring factor a lot.
  
  In the end, what you have is your typical movie video game foul up. A game that seems rushed, over 
 priced, and a huge sense of "been there, why the heck am I doing this again" feeling. Rent this, 
 but if you are going to buy this, at least get the XBox version of the game, and avoid the "been 
 there, done that, why the heck am I doing this again" feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: priley77
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 21, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  ALMOST... but you had something special and you gave it away. This will be a great movie. The graphics 
 are good and really acceptable. I love the MArvel World. He comes da' butt... the control is abit 
 awkward. I kept trying to rotate the view for better angles to use in playing Wolverine. I mean 
 360 degrees would be great or the first person option. Instead you have to watch as an observer 
 from the sky about 100 yards away. Damn man put me in coach give me the option for 1st person get 
 me close to the action. Anyway this is a fun game I will spend time enought to complete it but 
 then probably shelve it. Look for spidey to come and I hope it does nt disappoint . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killvayne
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 21, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Don't bother buying this game.. Huge waste of money.. NightCrawler is alot of fun to play with, 
 but sad to say you don't get to play with him through all of the game.. You'll be forced to play 
 with Wolverine and Iceman also and it's nothing to brag about.. Infact, they're boring, been there 
 done that waste of your time feeling.. If your a huge, HUGE X-Men fan then rent this game.. But 
 in my opinion it's not even worth the rent.. You'll find find yourself getting annoyed and wanting 
 to throw the controller through your TV in anger at this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djoyce92
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 20, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This is not a great game at all. It's pratically senseless, and its is a complete waste of my precious 
 sixty dollars. I couldve brought anything else and its better than yhis game. To me it hardly relates 
 to X-man. It's just a complete shame they must've made htis in about 5 to 10 minutes. This is a 
 definate waste of my time, i dont even know why i wrote a review for this game. The camera angles 
 in this game are just upsetting. The graphics are not next gen and are like below current gen. 
 This is like a very good playstation game. Please do not waste your money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 19, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Xmen the official game is a MINDLESS beat-em-up
  that isnt even that fun.
  You play as 3 xmen characters:
  Wolverine
  Iceman
  and Nightcrawler
  
  The entire game 
 is
  walk into room
  beat up badguys
  leave room
  go to other room
  beat up bad guys
  access controll panel
  Mission Complete
  
  thats it
  exept iceman 
 
  for iceman its fly around and shoot enemys
  
  Graphics are crappy for xbox 360 standards
  Cutscenes are boring- with lame ass non moving cartoons 
 instead of cinematics prooves how lazy the developers are.
  
  This game is a waste of time and money
  even if ur drunk or high
  u wont like this game.
 
  
  if you get this u are willing to pay for crap.
  
  Please
  -dont play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 19, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Extremly basic action beat em up gameplay , there is noting about it that makes it exciting 
 , one of the characters teleports while he fights though which makes it a little funner to fight 
 , but it dosen't redeem the whole game
  
  Graphics - Pretty last gen graphics , i doubt you could tell the difference between the 360 and 
 xbox version , but it does run at a pretty high framerate
  
  Sound - You can barley hear the voices over the action sound effects
  
  Value - No multiplayer 
 here , not even co-op , once you beat this game , there's no reason to do it again
  
  Good Tilt - Easy Gamer Score points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swantonbomb6
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 18, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  It wouldn't be entirely fair to call X-Men: The Official Game a total disaster. It should by no 
 means be called a masterpiece, but it's not completely awful. From the get go, the cut scenes will 
 confuse you. Their lack of real cinematics is a bewildering choice (and that's putting it nicely) , 
 but fans of the comic book may enjoy it. It's a nice testament to the art behind the characters, 
 and in some scenes actually plays out really well.
  
  The story itself is straight forward, and the ability to play as three vastly different characters 
 was a nice touch. Or would have been, had there not been so many issues with said characters, including 
 the fact that sometimes... they weren't all that different. Iceman, though he looks cool sliding 
 around on his ice track, can be a bit out of control. Of all things in the game, his controls take 
 the most getting used to. After upgrading all of his mutations, he's much more powerful and not 
 quite as frustrating, but I still can't understand why an electric shock won't knock him down, 
 but grazing a railing will. His levels are repetitive and lose their fun relatively easily, most 
 of the time consisting of a timed mission sending you down a tunnel, or a command to freeze so 
 many things in an effort to protect something else. Wolverine is a straight hack-and-slasher. His 
 ability to go into "fury mode" is a nice touch, and I thoroughly enjoyed getting to go crazy with 
 him. The levels for him were exactly what you'd expect, though when on Superhero difficulty can 
 get frustrating, as enemies will randomly become intelligent and strong, cornering you and making 
 it virtually impossible to escape. The challenge wasn't an issue; the inconsistency was. Nightcrawler 
 was quite possibly the saving grace of this game to most people. It was fun to teleport (even if 
 it was limited) and his attacks after doing so were great to execute. Aside from that ability, 
 he played a lot like Wolverine - a basic hack-and-slasher. His levels, like Iceman's, got somewhat 
 repetitive, but in all honesty it was the teleporting that made him worth while.
  
  That said, I still didn't think the game was an entire waste. If you've seen the first two movies 
 and plan on seeing the upcoming third movie, this is a nice filler. Aside from being something 
 to just kill time and keep your mind on the X-Men as you wait for the film release, the developers 
 were smart to not just make a straight play-through of the movie. This is a completely independent 
 story-line, falling between X2 and X3, and to me it was nice to see something other than the dull 
 movie impression we usually get from movie games.
  
  In all, the game might not be worth $60... in fact, I'm certain it isn't. But if you can rent it, 
 borrow it from a buddy, or find it used down the line, I would say pick it up and try it. If nothing 
 else, it's an easy 1000 to add to your gamerscore! ... if you're into that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inkky
Rating: 5
Date: May 18, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Do not waste your time or money, just another cash cow! This is just another attempt to get cash 
 for the name and not the content. After playing the legends games, I didn't give this purchase 
 a second thought. Those games were great fun and had a lot of game-play to keep you interested, 
 this game you could mash buttons to beat. They really dropped the ball on this one, there goes 
 60 bucks, DAMN! I am sure I could have found a better product to but than this piece of junk. Too 
 bad , this game could've been great if the developer would have spent the time making it. Just 
 seems really rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeldoom05
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 18, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Well lets say thank god i rented it because i really wasn't impressed at all. With the really bad 
 graphics and simple game play really made me take the game back. The only positives that came with 
 the game is you can get rewarded with level ups depending on what level of diffacultty you put 
 the game on "I like the thought of leveling up". It has like maybe 5 to 6 abilities you can can 
 level up on for each of the characters (for example) Ice man has certain abilities like ice beam, hail 
 storm, health, and, regenerate health. Also some more decent things about the game is simply the abilities 
 they can do besides wolverine because he has simple boring moves but iceman and nightcrawler have 
 some pretty neat moves and fighting skills. The last thing that was some what good was you can learn 
 combos but some are so long you cant remember them and it's so old fashioned game play because 
 its kinda entertaining for a while then its gets so boring after an hour or less. After all the 
 game really isn't that good i kinda expected a little bit more for Activision but even the best 
 game makers make mistakes just like mine, renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klm1
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is O. K, But I Think There Is Room For Improvement! It Seems The Designers May Have Thought 
 It Would Be Cool To Make The Cinema Like A Comic Book, But In My Opinion It Doesn't Make Sense. 
 The Name Of This Game Is X Men "The Movie," So Why Not Make It Like A Movie, Show The Cinemia Like 
 A Movie, While Showing Off All The Great Graphics and Special Effects And Powers That Each Character 
 Has To Offer. I Also Think There Should Have Been More Characters To Use In This Game. I Did Like 
 The Characters Available For Game Play, And The Game Offers An Exciting Display Of Each Characters 
 Powers And Skills, Just Like In The Movie, But I Think This Game Deserves More Attention, And I 
 Hope In The Future If There Is Another Game Like This Game, The Designers Should Use More Characters 
 And It Is Always Better To Use The Movie Cinemia As Oppose To Anything Else. Then You Might Have 
 A Decent Video Game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanstello
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 16, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good - 
  Main character animations are smooth.
  Provides an interesting preview of the film (though that really doesn't make the game worth playing) .
 
  Reward for aquiring all collectibles may be worth it. Probably not, though.
  
  The Bad -
  Control:
  Sloppy. Iceman's targeting is off, Wolverine can get stuck behind obstacles 
 easily. Nightcrawler's teleportation works relatively well, however. The camera is unintuitive 
 and annoying at times.
  
  Style:
  Repetitious. Even with Nightcrawler (the fastest and most versatile character) , there isn't a lot 
 to do. Once you learn which attacks break which enemy's defenses, you will repeat the process again 
 and again. Character mutations aren't worth mentioning, other than that they correct the control 
 issues above.
  
  Difficulty:
  Ridiculously easy. Collectibles are in plain view (or stupidly hidden) , making their inclusion 
 pointless. Enemy attacks don't vary from the typical "wait for end of the combo cycle, then advance."
 
  
  Length:
  Short. After less than five hours of play, I had already completed a little less than 50% of this 
 game, collected everything for each stage.... and that was with periodic breaks. The experience 
 'aint built to last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerZer0
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty decent in graphics and in game play if you liked Tomb and the missions were 
 a little harder and longer but still it deserves a rental I don't think its worth the x box 360 
 but then again I still had and alright time playing Iv'e played alot of super hero games and this 
 one isn't the best but it also was'nt the worst some missions in the game were really awesome especially 
 night crawlers missions they were my favorite the game definatley had some potential I think its 
 worth it on if your buying it on the regular xbox or any other systems at least rent it and if 
 you like it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autobots78
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Not worth the money for the 360. Wait a couple of weeks till the price goes down. Or just don't 
 buy it all together rent it. Its a game that looks like it was developed for last gen consoles 
 and thrown on the 360 at the last min. The graphics may be a little better on the 360 but could 
 look alot better if they wanted it too. But thats what you get when your in a trasion stage of 
 cosoles being upgraded. Buy it for the older consoles. these types of games will get better when 
 all the next gen consoles are out. Till then be buy at your own risk and don't expect to be blown 
 away, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madltu2005
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 16, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Got the game on Saturday @ Bestbuy.
  
  The game takes place after Xmen 2 and before Xmen 3. The X-men finds themself driven into the world 
 where the world hates and fears them, they combine there forces to stop the evil Mastermold, from 
 producing millions of sentinel, that haunts mutants. 
  
  You get to take control of Three X-men; Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Iceman. 
  
  Wolverines, 
 stages are pretty much a hack and slash where you find yourself surrounded with non-stop baddies 
 being thrown at your face all at once. Sometimes it feels like its never going to end. However, 
 with wit, and much patience you find yourself growing in to Wolverines rage and it become a breeze. 
 
  
  Like all action games, this game has some RPG style of leveling up after you defeat a level, depending 
 on the difficulty you set it. There are 
  
  Iceman, the cold hearted will find you creating and saving fires from Pyro. While this type of 
 gameplay will take you out of the Hack and Slash, you will have Iceman creating Ice slides with 
 speed and freezing up things and destroying robots in your way . You pretty much control iceman 
 as a plane, its your choice if you like it inverted or not. It's pretty fun and challenging. 
 
  
  On the other hand, the real treat is controlling the german indigo eyed, NightCrawler. Like in 
 the fighting games, Nightcrawler is one the fun characters you can play in a game. Impossible to 
 be hit because there is no limit to your powers. Nighcrawler can Bamf, anywhere he wants as the 
 bad guys find themself very confuse to where you are. Its pretty much fun to watch as you BAMF 
 you way from behind and Bamf from another character to character. One of the most challenging moments 
 is where you have to fight Multiple man, and his clones. Nightcrawler can be all in many different 
 places. If you have watched Xmen 2 then you would know what I'm talking about. One mission, you 
 will have to go from another robot to the next to shoot as they shoot each other.
  
  More features.. 
  
  As you play your characters, you will find that you will be able to command 
 Storm to help you kill 5-6 enemies all at once. (Remind you of the Xmen game on Genesis?)
  
  Overall, this game is fun and very challenging if you have time to traverse to the world of 
 Xmen, as you get ready to watch Xmen 3 the last stand. 
  
  Graphically, this game has soft shadowing and more intact than the rest of the systems. However, 
 if you dont have an Xbox 360 or you dont want to to spend 60.00 then you can stick to the current 
 gen. The game comes with a 5.00 dollars concession food purchase when you watch Xmen 3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  X-men for the most part a simple hack n slash game. The stages are not that big and it's not that 
 hard (even on hard) . I'm some what of a X-men fan so I liked it. If your not a X-men fan you should 
 stay far away or you will find everything to whine about. The music is to soft at time or is not 
 good. So it's great you can have your own music on this. I wish it had full CGI cut scenes, but 
 we only get still images with little movement for a much more comic book look. The graphics are 
 just a little better than the Xbox version (If you where wondering about graphics) . It doesn't 
 have a lot of the mutants from the new movie, but it does have some that can only be found here. 
 As Wolverine you just simply fight your way to the end of the stage and fight a boss (if there 
 is one) . Lots of times you just fight until all the enemies are gone. Nightcrawler is the same thing 
 but less fighting and finding switches to open doors. Iceman is a little harder to talk about. 
 All you do is fly on your ice slide and shoot down enemies and put out fires. There are a few things 
 I wish they did. One is that to have the in game scenes mouths move when speaking (This is next 
 gen after all, shouldn't be hard at all) . More mutants, to play as or even as cameos. So if you 
 like the X-men movies, there is no reason to pass this game up and it's good to hold you over until 
 the third movie. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
