-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Xbox Live Arcade Unplugged Volume 1
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/arcadeunpluggedvol1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Six solid Xbox Live Arcade games in one package.
 comes with a free month of Xbox Live Gold.
 disc is cheaper than buying each game individually.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Odds are you won't fall in love with every single game on the disc.
 Texas Hold 'em is pretty lame if you can't play with other players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.0, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 450 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Compilation
Date: Sep 5, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can't get on Xbox Live, this package is a good way to get your hands on some solid games. 
 

  One of the surprisingly addictive and great features of the Xbox 360 has been Xbox Live Arcade, 
 Microsoft's download service that lets you purchase smaller, digitally distributed games direct 
 from your console. A handful of these games have been updated versions of arcade classics, but 
 there are plenty of interesting original games, as well. Unfortunately for those of you without 
 any sort of broadband Internet connection, there hasn't been any other way to get these games. 
 But to address this, Microsoft has released six Xbox Live Arcade games on a disc under the name 
 Xbox Live Arcade Unplugged Volume 1. It's a good collection for two types of people. If you don't 
 have an Internet connection (and if you don't, how are you reading this review?) , this is the only 
 way to get these games. Or, if you have your Xbox hooked up but haven't purchased any of these 
 six games, you can now get all six in one shot at a slight discount.  

          Geometry Wars is one of the six games you'll get as part of this package.     

  Of 
 the six games included, the best of the bunch is  Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved . This dual-joystick 
 shooter was the game that made the download service make sense, and it's still fantastic. But the 
 package is well-rounded, so if the nerve-wracking action of Geometry Wars isn't your thing, the 
 puzzle game genre is covered by  Bejeweled 2 . You've also got a puzzle-action hybrid in the form 
 of  Wik: Fable of Souls , a few parlor games with  Hardwood Backgammon  and  Texas Hold 'em , and 
 the charming strategy game  Outpost Kaloki X . Most of these games work fine in a single-player 
 environment, but without an Xbox Live Gold account, Texas Hold 'em's weak poker artificial intelligence 
 isn't much fun for long, and Hardwood Backgammon is better against another player, as well.  

 
  The way the disc works is quite simple. Rather than install the games to your hard drive or memory 
 unit, they run right off of the disc, but the games show up in your list of available Xbox Live 
 Arcade games, just like the downloaded ones do. It's unfortunate that you can't install the games 
 to the hard drive and toss the disc aside, but then that would probably just lead to people passing 
 the disc around.  

  If you don't own any of these games and you'd like to, this collection is a good way to get them 
 at a bit of a price break. But if you already own one or two of these games, you'd probably be 
 better off cherry-picking games you like off of Xbox Live Marketplace instead of rebuying games 
 you already own.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  if you like the arcade games listed on the cover than you may enjoy this game. if you hate the 
 games, you will not enjoy this game. period. end of story.
  
  what!?!? my opinion? okay fine, i found it okay. nothing more nothing less.
  
  im so sorry 
 but there is not much to talk about here so im just filling her up until i finnally decide that 
 i have said enough and will eventually hit submit am I babbling? no? good. WHAT!? still not one 
 hundred words!
  
  (i put one hundred instead of 100 because it occu pies more space, *wink*)
  
  poker online 
 was kool. there are some easy acheivments here too. chicken but. 
  
  most of these games were pretty bad though but you may like them and im not the person who is going 
 to tell you to eat dirt and not play this game because dirt is awful but ice fishing is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Bejeweled 2- A great puzzle with fantastic colors and music. Depending on the challenge you seek 
 there are various modes of play, including classic, timed, and endless if you just want to relax 
 without having to worry about 'No More Moves." this is probably one of only two games most people 
 ever play on this disc. Bejeweled 2 Final Score- 8.2
  
  Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved- This is the other game on this disc that is extremely popular. If 
 you like sweet HD (although simple) graphics, sheer challenge to master, and explosive sound effects, 
 this is the game for you! One of the best shoot-em-ups since Gradius. Geometry Wars Final Score- 
 9.3
  
  Other games include Texas Hold'em, Backgammon, Outpost Kaloki X, and Wik: Fable of Souls.
  
 
  XBLA Unplugged Final Score- 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The only truely unique game on this collection is Geometry Wars, the exact reason why this is famous. 
 While Geometry wars is very addicting, innovative and crazy-cool-looking in every way, it isn't 
 quite enough to hold the collection up as a great title. Each game does warrant a play or two at 
 the very least but you will probably find yourself not wanting to play any one game other than 
 Geometry wars more than that. It is a good way to get your hands on some of the Live Arcade titles 
 as well.
  
  So basically I wouldnt go out of my way to purchase this collection but it certainly can be fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habsfan21
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Okay, well.. first off, this isnt a game, but a compilation of 6 full and 4 demos if im not mistaken. 
 Honestly, thank god that Microsoft but this in with a bundle like i got it on boxing day of 06, 
 because I wouldnt pay to get this. The biggest upside, is the free 30day XBL trial.
  The biggest downside, for me, is that the games are boring. I like games that are fun to play and 
 have easy-challenging achievements to have something to aim for... unfortunatly, some of these 
 achievements are like almost impossible, or really hard to get, and arent worth the 5 or maybe 
 10 gamerscore pts..
  
  My reactions are mixed, and if you didn't get this game for free with the console, but you still 
 want it, check a bargain bin or buy it brand new, but dont b dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 21, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game is basically a bunch of arcade games. they get borin really fast. My personal favourite 
 is texas hold em. considering thats the only game i play on it. The graphics on this game arent 
 great because there little minigames. The gameplay is borin and wont last u long. So if u like 
 playin a bunch of random games than this is 4 u. I would never buy this game and the only reason 
 i hav it is because it came with my xbox. And i relly hav nothin more 2 say about this game. Except 
 the sound is well ok but ... ya. this isnt my kind of game. im just written cuz i need 100 words. 
 Ya now i hav nothin left 2 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadameMoo
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I love Texas Hold 'Em and Uno, so I don't mind playing either one of them when I am bored.
  I still don't understand why it costs so damn much to buy this thing when it pretty much comes 
 standard with any 360 you buy, and you also have to buy half the games in order to unlock them. 
 So, please explain to me why I have to pay $40 just to spend even more money to actual play the 
 games?
  
  Anyway, this is something you play because you are bored, because you are waiting for another great 
 game to be released, because you don't have live (my ethernet cable doesn't reach, however, I am 
 in the process of buying a 50 ft one) , and because you are too hungover and/or lazy to put much 
 brain power or effort into anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiraniata
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  i found this group of games quite good as it came with my xbox im not sure i would have payed any 
 money for this and if i did i would have been a little dissapointed but overall i have enjoyed 
 its variation as there is something to suite anyone really and also proved quite addictive throghuout 
 the whole family and most never ever touch a games console so they must have done somthing right 
 i even find that there are games for when you are in diffrent moods as well and for coming in a 
 package with my 360 i was impressed as i kept me entertained until i got enough money to buy more 
 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Xbox Live Arcade: Unplugged Vol 1 is a collection of 6 Xbox Live Arcade games. They are Geometry 
 Wars, Outpost Kaloki X, Wik: Fable of Souls, Bejewled 2, Hardwood Backgammon, and Texas Hold 'Em 
 Poker (Even though they are pretty much all good, I listed them from best to worst) .
  
  Geometry Wars is the best one. It provides addictive action with cool music. Outpost Kaloki X is 
 a pretty adicting tycoon game. Wik: Fable of Souls is a unique puzzle-ish type of game where you 
 swing around with your tongue and spit bugs. Bejewled 2 is a puzzle game. Hardwood Backgammon and 
 Texas Hold 'Em Poker are both gambling games.
  
  I recommend this to anyone thinking about trying the Xbox Live Arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  For those who don't have XBL, this is a pretty good compilation of XBL Arcade games. They include 
 six games such as the new popular Geometry Wars, Bejewled 2, Wik: Fable of Souls, Texas Hold `Em 
 Poker, and more.
  
  The value comes at pretty much the same price, if not less then you would be paying for the games 
 anyway, so it's a good value. Maybe an extra game or two wouldn't hurt, though.
  
  Geometry Wars is definately one to love on this one. In the end, this is one to pick up if you're 
 not on the Xbox Live bandwagon, or you're simply too lazy to give away all of those Microsoft Points 
 to get them in the comfort of your own living room.
  
  Also, there's a free month of Xbox Live Gold, which is nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizengamotX
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I recently got this in a game package including my new white/ silver and green 360, a Xbox Live 
 headset and two wireless 360 controllers. With ten games, four demos and six real games in total, 
 this is a great introduction to the 360 console. My version came with a free one month trial to 
 Xbox 360 Gold Live but even with the free Silver Live this collection of arcade games both retro 
 and vintage is a must. Put this into situation: you are getting a headache from playing the noisy 
 Gears of War (see review) and need a light break. Try sitting back down on the couch or into your 
 favorite chair for a quick game of Geometry Wars - a both highly addicting and satisfying game 
 originally debuting on the Xbox title PGR2. Now beefed up for 360 standards in compatible HDTV 
 480p, 720p and 1080i resolutions this arcade classic is available in retro play (sporting amazing 
 special effects and eye candy lighting) or vintage play for a lighter less intense round. This 
 game is definitely the highlight of the arcade collection. All in all this is a very satisfying 
 package to start or even continue your 360 experience. With a variety of games from Geometry Wars 
 to Texas Hold'em to Wik - a side scrolling collect the grubs action game you won't get bored on 
 this game for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darquesyde
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Basically, this game is supposed to be for those with the Xbox 360 but not a broadband connection 
 to the internet. Too bad for those people in that the games aren't exactly the best of the bunch. 
 To start, there isn't a Pac-Man or Doom, or even Lumines. You get games such as the ever popular 
 Wik: Fable of Souls, the Sim City wannabe game of Outpost Kaloki X, and the classic Hardwood Backgammon. 
 Evidently, Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved is a game that is popular, I couldn't find anything interesting 
 in it that wasn't already covered in Asteroids. Bejeweled 2 was an interesting game with excellent 
 sound, but difficult to get past if you weren't paying attention - basically Tetris on some serious 
 steriods. And Texas Hold 'em was fun, but really needs the on-line factor if you are going to appreciate 
 the game better. Besides, you would bet high on a hand near the end, and every AI player remaining 
 would fold. This was really disappointing if you were trying to make the Luck of the Draw Achievement 
 because if everyone else folds, your hand won't count towards the Achievement.
  
  All of these games are avalible through Xbox Live, 400-800 points each, but again, this collection 
 is for those who can't get Live. And even those shoudl rent it first to see if they are really 
 missing anything. Should save your $30 and wait to buy something later. Those who do, would do 
 better to pick and choose their games and avoid this game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Comes with 6 full games (GW: RE, Bejeweled 2, Wik, Hardwood Backgammon, Outpost Kaloki X and Texas 
 Hold'em)
  Totals up to 1000G in total, making it equal to almost every other purchase
  Total proce of each individual game comes up to more than this costs (saving you a bit of money)
 
  
  Cons:
  Runs the games from the CD
  Requires you to be 12 (in the UK) to purchase (Not really a problem for most, but most games on 
 the disc are suitable for everyone, and for those with age restrictions on the computer, will not 
 be able to play the 3+ games, if the settings are set to not allow 12 games)
  
  Overview:
  Microsoft has done the sensible thing and released two of its greatest Live Arcade 
 games on a disc for those who haven't made it on LIVE. But the rest of the disc is made up of shoddy 
 valueless games (i. e. Texas Hold'em) .
  Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved and Bejeweled 2 will obviously occupy most of the time consumed from 
 this collection, Wik is also a nice playable adventure but doesn't have the time value of the others. 
 As for Outpost Kaloki and Hardwood Backgammon, these games are hard to get hooked on, but might 
 provide a fun evening if you are with friends. And then theirs Texas Hold'em, which is utterly 
 unplayable offline, with dumb-as-posts AI and very little replay value, this one game brings down 
 the value of the rest of the package.
  But if you wwant the arcade games and don't have LIVE (which isn't usually the case as you really 
 only download the arcade games because you have LIVE, and need something to do) , then this compilation 
 of LIVE arcade games must not be missed, well ... 5 of the games shouldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwagnah
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  You can't find much better than what you'll find in Xbox Live Arcade Unplugged Volume 1. Unless 
 of course you already own one or two of the arcade games featured.
  
  I personally didn't own any of the games in the package, so it was a worthwile purchase, plus with 
 an extra month of Xbox Live Gold pretty much free, I couldn't resist.
  
  I have yet to play online because of my lack of internet connection until October, but I'm sure 
 some games will rock and some wont, its a matter of preference I suppose.
  
  XBLAUV1 is a great deal for only $39.99 and with great games like Geometry Wars and Wik: Fable 
 of Souls, you'll get enough hours of entertainment worthy of the price.
  
  So if you dont own one or two of the games already, go out and get this great introduction to XBLA! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonezi6
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  I will do it short. I went out and got this, smacked it in my box and thought but Why hmm total 
 let down. Only fun game is Geometry Wars.
  Though the other games isn't, that great, you will get almost addictet to Geometry Wars. Well you 
 can proberly guess what the conclusion is. I wouldent get it if i was you.
  
  I will do it short. I went out and got this, smacked it in my box and thought but Why hmm total 
 let down. Only fun game is Geometry Wars.
  Though the other games isn't, that great, you will get almost addictet to Geometry Wars. Well you 
 can proberly guess what the conclusion is. I wouldent get it if i was you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
