-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: You're in the Movies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/youreinthemovies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gets players off the couch.
 Aspiring thespians will love hamming for the camera.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inconsistent movement recognition.
 No online.
 Annoying director.
 Tedious gameplay.
 Activities necessary to win games don't translate to actions in the movies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 49 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Zoe Mode
Genre: Videos
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You're in the Movies is a box-office bust, despite featuring your own recognizable stars. 

  You're in the Movies' camera-based gameplay promises lots of laughs, but delivers too many groans. 
 The premise is to get in front of the camera for a series of minigames. As you swat-the-fly, chop-the-block, 
 pull-the-rope, and run-in-place, the camera records your actions to be inserted into a movie at 
 the end of the collection of games. Seeing yourself in a short movie is initially amusing, but 
 the novelty wears off long before the credits roll.  

           Running games are frequent and exhausting if done correctly.      

  You can participate 
 in 30 movies either by yourself or with up to four players. Within the collection are many genres: 
 horror, sci-fi, action, disaster, and classic. The categories are pretty straightforward, but the 
 movies are lame rip-offs of real Hollywood blockbusters. The filming of each movie is divided into 
 four rounds to allow you to catch your breath, redefine your motivation, or just get ready for 
 your close-up. Each player gets a turn at a one-versus-one competitive game or an individual challenge. 
 Following each of the challenges in a round is the director's call to complete a couple pickup 
 shots. This involves positioning yourself into an onscreen outline and looking scared, appearing 
 to look down a well, or pantomiming wingless flight. The pacing isn't always bad, but when capturing 
 footage for four roles, the experience can really drag.  

  The minigames arent much fun; this is a problem in a minigame collection. Whether you're confined 
 to a hamster wheel, being chased by a pack of monkeys, or competing in a footrace, the running-in-place 
 games are no fun and come up far too often. The recognition of the user cutout is so sloppy that 
 many pointing games (such as choosing which of six tiles bears the same inscription as the keystone) 
 are almost completely unplayable in anything but the most controlled environment. Sometimes not 
 even a plain background or a true green screen can be adequate enough to ensure your image is successfully 
 captured. Everyday home environments are even less likely to translate to success.  

  The problems with the final movies are not just how campy the writing is or how overtly the source 
 material concepts have been ripped off, but also how poorly the actions you make fit within the 
 roles of the movie. This is even more noticeable if you don't have four players. The game fills 
 in any empty roles with footage of professional talent that was clearly captured with the movie 
 performance in mind. You will see your broken images within elaborate settings, unevenly aligned 
 with moving props, and frequently out of relative scale and image clarity compared to the other 
 performers. Even worse, if you and the other players are competing for in-game score and a chance 
 at winning the movie-ending awards ceremony, the best tactics for success are those least likely 
 to fit within the movie. Running in place is tiresome compared to simply wagging your hand in front 
 of the camera; it also happens to be a lot more effective at getting a high score. If you don't 
 get a perfect score in one game, chances are good you will play it again many times down the line. 

           The final movies are sometimes amusing, but quickly wear thin.      

  Once you've grown weary of the dull writing, monotonous games, and annoying voice acting, you can 
 make your own movies using the director's tools. You can piece together segments culled from the 
 movies and then save them to share or drop them into the available movies to play. Using the headset, 
 you can record dialogue, give instructions, or provide do-it-yourself sound effects. It is a nice 
 touch, without the ability to play online, sharing the experience with friends is limited.  

  Despite the pack-in camera, the problems of You're in the Movies drag this would-be game down, 
 making the $60 price tag much too high to justify. There are better party games on the Xbox 360, 
 and less expensive ways to get a Vision Camera.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KevinL3085
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:41 pm PT
Review:  You're in the Movies comes with the Xbox Vision Camera. The gameplay is an Eyetoy-like style. You 
 use the camera to see yourself and interact with the game. The main issue with this game is that 
 the game never seems to pick you up very well and at times can cut out a lot of your body or see 
 the background as part of your body. The ladder of which I had the most issues with. No matter 
 how much light I adjusted the game would not pick me up well enough to play the intended mini-games 
 well enough. Also note that to be a good size on the game you need to stay well beyond around 5 
 feet. If somehow you get all the technical issues to stop, the actual game isn't very good. 
  
  The game is set up as a series of sucky movies that have you pose or do mini games to put into 
 a movie. The movies at first are amusing but tire quickly. Many of the mini-game styles are repeated 
 from just pointing to something or moving your arms quickly. The mini-games are also very shallow 
 at annoying and not at all fun or enjoyable. There are also parts where you pose for the movie. 
 You don't have to even try. At first I actually posed with effort but after my third movie I got 
 tired and played with it from flipping the camera off to making face or just standing. After you 
 finish a movie it takes around 3-5 minutes or more at times to save, I'm serious. After I got like 
 5 achievements I just stopped playing. 
  
  Also there is a multiplayer. If you somehow get everything to work right and get everyone to fit, 
 you might just have a mediocre time. It seems like merely an add on and you might only get a chuckle 
 from the brokenness of the game with you friends. One annoying thing is that you can't access the 
 mini-games from a main place after you played them. This means if you are after achievements, you 
 have to remember what mini games are in which out of the 40 movies and or guess to play the set 
 mini game for an acheivement to get a high score or something. 
  
  The only good part is that the game comes with the camera which is normally $39.99 and the bundle 
 is $39.99 so you pretty much get the game for free. The camera is only 1.3 mega pixels but it is 
 still decent. It can also be used as a webcam too. Also you could consider the game Totemball to 
 come with it too because it is free on the marketplace but requires the camera to play. It kinda 
 sucks but that is a review for another day. Overall, only get this game if you want to get the 
 camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codenameaf7
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  I never start my reviews like this but, this actually is one of the worst games I have ever played 
 in my entire life and to anyone hoping for more, it won't "dissappoint to dissappoint", no matter 
 how low your expectations of this game are.
  In this case, you actually pay for air. Paying 40 for a freakin camera and some pathetic background 
 animations, you'd expect it being pretty innovative and at least on par with the latest and greatest 
 phone cameras (2MP being a minimum) . The quality of the camera offered to you is of an abysmal 
 VGA standard off the very first camera phones ever invented. Its gameplay is even more sucky though. 
 The series of minigames that you get with this game are clones/rehashes of those that came with 
 (if you had it/still have it sitting in the dust) the EyeToy. Only difference here is after doing 
 the crappy activities it combines the short movies of you doing it, and if you aren't doing the 
 activities correctly the whole thing looks horrible. Not only that, but due to lack of any control 
 whatsoever over lighting (editing-wise) before you see your movie, along with poor sensitivity 
 and restrictions to movement due to the camera, makes the whole experience even more mindless than 
 I ever expected.
  
  If there's anyone who's never owned a console before that wants to pick this up for the "fun" of 
 it, for god's sake look elsewhere. The idea has been done, and comes at a lot fairer price (about 
 10-20 brand new) than a whooping 40 for the same game only slightly edited and with a replay 
 function thrown in to give it some sort of identity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destron123
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  You're in the movies is one of the few XBox games that makes good use of the Live Vision camera. 
 Sure the camera isn; t hi-res, but it does the job.
  In the game you see yourself in a given movie scenario and have to act out a certain part within 
 the constraints of the game, like punching, running, driving etc. Yuo score points on how well 
 you act or, more accurately, how accurately you hit key points on the screen.
  The game is very clever and extremely fun for young kids to play and OK for an adult party game.
 
  The game has some issues. It requires A LOT OF AMBIENT LIGHT to properly track you and it has 
 has some trouble removing complex backgrounds from your real-world environment so that only you 
 show up in in the cinematic scenarios so its best to play in front of a plain wall with no pictures. 
 
  People of vastly differing heights (e. g, adults and kids) will have trouble playing together because 
 everyone has to fit in a generic silhouette that can only be adjusted at the start of the game 
 and for only one height setting.
  The end trailer that combine a lot of the players' actions throughout the mini games into one approximately 
 30-second vignette is a little disappointing but still amusing to watch.
  All in all, I'd say, apart from the caveats, this is a worthwhile family game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
