-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Advance Wars: Days of Ruin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/advancewarsdaysofruin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Terrific online support.
 Solid map editor.
 Huge amounts of single- and multiplayer content.
 New visuals look sharper, more detailed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Writing isn't strong enough to support grim look and feel.
 Single-player campaign can be excessively difficult.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.5, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,583 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Modern Turn-Based...
Date: Jan 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Advance Wars' new look and feel won't appeal to a lot of fans, but the series gameplay remains intact. 
 

  Intelligent Systems' long-running turn-based strategy series returns to the Nintendo DS with Advance 
 Wars: Days of Ruin, and it's far and away the most divergent entry in the series yet. The game 
 eschews an absurdly happy-go-lucky attitude toward military conflict in favor of a darker, more 
 ponderous tone, which suggests that the series is going through its sulky teenage years. The gameplay 
 itself will still feel familiar to returning players, though even veterans will notice an increased 
 level of difficulty, making it a slightly less accessible experience. Even so, Days of Ruin still 
 stands as a very satisfying strategy game with a ton of content.  

           All new visuals add to the darker tone of Days of Ruin.      

  The game sets its bleak 
 tone by kicking things off just after the end of the world. Meteors have struck Earth, leaving 
 it looking appropriately postapocalyptic. Any forms of government or social services have been 
 wiped out, and the survivors scour the planet for shelter and supplies from the wild gangs of bandits 
 that have begun popping up. The story focuses on a young boy named Will, who is rescued by a small 
 band of surviving soldiers from the Rubinelle army. As they make their way across the desolate 
 wastelands, they encounter animalistic bandits, cowering, duplicitous politicians, and other soldiers 
 who insist on maintaining their preapocalyptic grudges. It's a pretty dramatic shift in tone from 
 past Advance Wars games, which were themselves fascinating for their high contrast between breezy 
 tone and grim subject matter, and it's a jarring change. And unfortunately, the anime-grade writing 
 simply isn't strong enough to drive home any real impact from the story's meditations on the cost 
 of war.  

  Along with darker thematic tone comes a whole new look for the series, which trades its primary 
 hues for more subdued earth tones. The game also features entirely redrawn graphics, which are 
 more detailed and animated than they have been in the past, and it makes the game feel like it 
 was really designed for the DS from the ground up. The music is also a little more aggressive, 
 though after about a dozen missions of listening to the same rock-opera theme music, you'll likely 
 just find it aggressively annoying.  

  These changes are all largely superficial, though, and ultimately, underneath all of the game's 
 gritty pretense the action is still pure Advance Wars, the gold standard for strategy games on 
 the DS, and arguably one of the more consistently enjoyable strategy franchises on any system. 
 A big part of the game's appeal is that it's deceptively easy to get into, and its turn-based nature 
 means that you can take your sweet time deciding where you'll move your units. With no dedicated 
 tutorial, the game is very gentle about how it introduces new concepts, starting you off on a small 
 map with just a handful of different units with the simple objective of eliminating all of your 
 enemy's units. You'll gradually be introduced to a larger variety of ground units, as well as your 
 ability to produce new units at factories -- though this requires money, which you earn by capturing 
 cities scattered across the maps.  

  Advance Wars fans will notice that a bit of rebalancing has gone into Days of Ruin. A few units 
 have been retired and a few new ones have been introduced, such as the antitank unit, the flare 
 unit, the war tank, and the seaplane. There are also new obstacles to contend with on the battlefield, 
 such as crazy energy fields produced by the meteors that caused this whole mess in the first place. 
 Commanding officer powers have also been retooled, and while the CO that you choose to play with 
 will still have an impact on the battle, it's much more subtle now. Individual units can now earn 
 ranks through combat, with higher-ranked units being more potent. As many specific changes as Days 
 of Ruin makes to the Advance Wars formula, the pacing and feel of the game is still much the same. 

  By the time Days of Ruin introduces most of its significant elements, like nautical and aerial 
 units, multiple factions, commanding officers, fog of war, multiple enemy factions, and other concepts, 
 you'll find the game to be significantly more complicated than when you started. You'll also find 
 that you've already completed half the missions in the main campaign, though this doesn't mean 
 you're halfway through. The missions become significantly longer, as well as significantly more 
 difficult, potentially to a fault. Being able to just bowl over your enemy in a strategy game isn't 
 fun, but neither is the sensation that a wrong move in the first few turns will spell certain defeat. 
 When it finds its balance, though, it's a terribly engrossing game that can hold your attention 
 for hours at a time.  

           Commanding officers still have unique powers, but they're less likely to turn the tide 
 of war.      

   

  The main single-player campaign in Days of Ruin consists of 26 campaign missions of varying length, 
 as well as a number of optional training missions, which are often even more punishing than the 
 campaign missions. Frankly, all of the really exciting stuff in this game exists outside the single-player 
 campaign. In addition to local multiplayer support, Days of Ruin features online play for up to 
 four players, complete with voice chat. If the 150 maps that the game comes with aren't enough, 
 there's also a fully featured map editor that works in tandem with the game's online abilities, 
 allowing you to upload your custom maps and share them with friends.  

  Even if the stiff challenge and clumsy new "serious" tone don't make it the most accessible or 
 recommendable entry in the series, there's still a lot to like about Advance Wars: Days of Ruin, 
 especially if you're looking for some really compelling online action for your Nintendo DS.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (131 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Boat95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Days of Ruin is a wonderful game. It doesn't continue the series but it is still a 
 wonderful game. In AWDOR, you play as different commanding officers trying to survive after a giant 
 meteor storm that wiped nearly everyone and everything. Even though there are only a small amount 
 of people and food still left on Earth, everyone wants to fight, and you will face enemy's commander 
 by all types of people, such as crazed scientists, raiders, and noble soldiers. The graphics of 
 AWDOR aren't exactly the best, but they are a lot better than the previous games in the series. 
 AWDOR has wifi, which lets you battle anyone anywhere. Unfortunately, to put in wifi, the AW series 
 had to sacrifice some of its other modes. I think that everyone who owns a DS should have this 
 game. The wifi even has voice chat! The campaign is lengthy, especially with new trial maps and 
 the ability to replay maps. I personally am glad that AWDOR didn't include purchasing CO's, like 
 dual strike did. Now for the final count:
  Graphics:8.0
  Gameplay:8.7
  Sound:9.2
  Replay Value:9.9
  Money'sWorth: 9.2
  I believe that the Gamespot score was a bit low. The total 
 score averages out to: 9.0.
  Buy this game!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwikman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Advance Wars since AW2 came out for the GBA, and it's one addictive and fun 
 series of games. This game is no exception, though the fact that the COs from the previous 3 games 
 are replaced by new ones may come as a disappointment to AW fans. 
  
  PLOT: AW: DoR consists of a new plot line not seen in previous AW games to date. It is set in a 
 post-apocalyptic (gotta check my spelling) Earth, where 90% of humanity is dead. With a lack of 
 resources, everyone starts killing each other with- get this- military vehicles and weapons. Which 
 require resources to make. (pretty retarded, but I guess it's kinda true in a way.) Well, the story 
 isn't perfect, but it gets you involved and shows the player the dark side of war. Which is a first 
 for an AW game. 8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game uses the same game mechanics of its predecessors, where you select unit and 
 command to kill. Pretty basic. Of course, you need to use a certain strategy to get past a mission, 
 or the enemy will lick your little army to scraps. Speaking of little armies, the artwork is much 
 different than the cartoony look of previous AWs. No more little out-of-proportion soldiers in 
 toy-sized tanks. = ( The difficulty of this game is much harder than other AW titles, especially 
 AW: DS, requiring a lot of thinking and deciding. (I myself isn't done with the campaign yet.) 9/10
 
  
  MUSIC: The music is more orchestrated, that is to say, sounds less like video game music and more 
 like a rough-edged version of something you'd put on your ipod, without the lyrics. (Though the 
 music from AW: DS wasn't at all bad. In fact, all of the music from Advance Wars titles were pretty 
 good!) A definite plus. 10/10
  
  EXTRAS: Okay, I'm getting tired of typing, but I have to tell you these last few points. This game 
 allows you to play the Music Player without having to complete the Campaign first. On another point, 
 the game can hold up to FIFTY custom maps!!! That's opposed to previous games' measly amount of 
 three custom maps. This time, you can change the frame size of the maps from 5 x 5 squares (25 
 squares) to a whopping 30 x 30 squares (900 squares!) Also, you don't have to place army HQs on 
 the map anymore, if you want to make a "Rout Enemy" map. You can also battle over wi-fi connections 
 and trade maps worldwide! Again, a first for an AW title. 10/10
  
  If you're an Advance Wars or strategy lover, you'll love this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revan-kun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, and incredibly hard for a DS game.
  It's strategy, and a very intricate game. The logic needed for this game is immense, and players 
 new to the Strategy genre would also enjoy this. The story begins with Will, a Rubinelle cadet 
 who survived the meteors that killed billions of others. As the story goes farther, you meet new 
 friends and enemies. The map creator is very good, and map sharing is a great feature as well. 
 The ability for up to four players to play on one DS is another great feature for those who don't 
 have Wi-fi. The game will frustrate you greatly, especially as the game progresses and more units 
 and obstacles are introduced. For one to master this game, he/she must be able to think turns ahead, 
 and anticipate the enemy's movement. He/she must also be prepared to sacrifice many units, for 
 this is war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game and i bought it with really no hesiation considering i really enjoyed AW2 
 for gameboy advance. This game has a more balanced battle system that AW2 had, in the sense that 
 every unit has a weakness. Direct combat units can be pummeled from afar by indirect units, while 
 indirect combat units will be pummeled if Direct units come at them. If you're fighting a war tank, 
 use indirect units or bombers to make short work of them. Or, use the new unit the anti tank. The 
 AT has limited range but packs a punch against tanks, and copters. And it retalliates if attacked. 
 Its major weakness, beleive it or not, is infantry. Other new units like the duster are only good 
 against certain units: Infantry and copters. Aircraft carriers seem to suck by themselves as they 
 can only fight aircraft which they suck at doing. However they can produce powerful seaplanes, 
 which can attack all units with effecient missles.
  
  Of course most veterans like me will get used to all the new stuff fairly quickly. One of the newest 
 things is the CO ability that allows COs to actually get inside of a vehicle on the battlefield. 
 This can only be done at factories or airports/ports, and it costs money. The good thing though 
 is that the unit with the CO is a lot stronger and affects nearby allied units.
  
  Overall i agree with Gamespot with the 8.0 score. The story is rather boring at times and very 
 very difficult. What is really great is the online play. How will you match up against a human 
 adversary. Of course AW is like chess but with way more pieces and factors. Give this one a try 
 if you like strategy or AW games. If not, pass it by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtvarU
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dark Conflict basic idea has not changed from the days of Famicon Wars for the NES. 
 Although it still vaguely similar to all the other Advance Wars Games, it still seems modern.
 
  
  The plot which in a nutshell seams to be you start off with destruction of humanity, find someone 
 who cant remember who they, but still can remember top class military information, this all leads 
 to all different army's trying to obliterate each other. When your playing the game this plot is 
 very hard to follow and seams more like something extra than part of the game.
  
  The main aspect of the game appears to be these battles you control using the stylus. The graphics 
 by first look to be about par for the course on a DS the wary their presented makes it interesting. 
 For example when you move a unit to another unit and tell it to attach, a mini video is presented 
 of the action taking place. This helps the game because it makes you more involved with each particular 
 unit rather than the battle as a whole. The controls are very easy to use which helps you get more 
 involved. You only have to point and click for most part with the stylus. Although it must be noted 
 that the soundtrack doesn't generally add to the overall experience. The difficulty at first is 
 hard but one your start getting used to each unit and tactics on the battlefield it starts to become 
 entertainingly changeling. 
  
  In terms of originality the idea has been recycled form all the other Advanced Wars games. In my 
 opinion hasn't done it much harm. If you're looking for a game to replay for ever however don't 
 look for it here, as you will play it as much as you still get excited by the apparent stock backgrounds. 
 Saying this It I well worth to pick up and play if your looking for a solid turn based strategy 
 game for the DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  When meteors rain down from the sky, the already warring world is devastated evn more. The story 
 starts out with a young cadet named Will meeting up with The Beast, a former sergeant gone rogue. 
 Will is rescued bye Captain Brenner and Lin of Rubinelle's 12th Battalion, and the game begins. 
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay of Advance Wars is a turn-based strategy. It is a lot of fun to play with friends 
 or people across the world, but it can get really boring after a while. Some of the battles can 
 last for hours, and since the story isn't very intriguing, it is very easy to quit midway through 
 a battle. The fight cut-scenes can be pretty cool. In the game you can control water, land, and 
 air mechanisms. In all, the gameplay is alright, but nothing amazing.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  It is called "Advance" Wars for a reason. Although there are slight improvements over its predecessors, 
 it is nothing special.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Just think of listening to the same song over and over again. That is what the music in this game 
 is like. It is pretty much the same music in every battle. I do like the explosion sounds though. 
 They sound very good.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Like I said earlier, it is not really my cup of tea, so take that into consideration. It is a lot 
 of fun to play with you friends, or online, but the weak single player mode really brings this 
 game down.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maethlin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I really can't understand why this game gets slightly lower marks than the original. It's grittier 
 (not as cheesy) and I honestly believe the writing is much better. Some of the storyline actually 
 makes you feel for the characters, and the often terrible circumstances they are thrown into. While 
 I loved the AW: DS game, I found the storyline to be so full of fluff and completely ridiculous 
 characters that I just ended up glancing over the story completely.
  
  Not only is the story better now, the unit balance is better, the graphics look better, and the 
 unit levelling system is better as well. The CO's are no longer totally out of balance, and the 
 online play is just gravy. Yes, it is difficult in some parts, but that should not detract from 
 the overall score.
  
  I love this game, and think it's the best thing I've played on the DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neotank9999
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It has a great and more mature and realistic story and the same great Advance 
 Wars gameplay. The changes they made to the existing units and the new units they made really help 
 out the strategy. One thing I love about this game and other advance wars games is how each unit 
 is useful and fufills a unique role. There are no "superior" units which you build to the exclusion 
 of other units once you can produce them like in other stategy games. From the lowly infantry units, 
 up to the super expensive battleship, carrier, and war tank units, each unit is useful but not 
 superior to the other units in terms of overall usefullness.
  
  The story is more mature, which as an older gamer (28) , I really appreciate. It is darker and more 
 believable. Not that the other advance wars games weren't good, its just the story was a little 
 too "rated G". 
  
  What is keeping me from giving this game a 10, is a nuclear missle type unit would have been nice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameBlender
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Just to clarify  this is not a review of Advance Wars: Days of Ruin, but Advance Wars: Dark Conflict, 
 the European version. So Will's name is Ed, Rubinelle is Laurentian, Dusters are Fighters and Fighters 
 are Interceptors.
  
  Advance Wars: Dark Conflict is the second Nintendo DS game in a long running series dating back 
 to the Nintendo Famicon. Dark Conflict is a break with tradition, however, as it does away with 
 the colourful, cutesy depiction of war which was present in the other games. Gone are the cartoony 
 Commanding Officers, cheerful music and lighthearted storyline. It's a drastic change, but is it 
 enough to breath fresh life into a series which was starting to become repetitive? And does it 
 manage to match the high quality which is generally expected from an Advance Wars game?
  
  Graphics wise, the game is far better than previous Advance Wars titles. The tired old unit sprites 
 have been retired and larger, sharper sprites have been added so you no longer have to wonder why 
 an anti-aircraft gun looks more like a forklift. The battle animations have also been redone, although 
 some people may be disappointed that the battles are no longer in pseudo 3D, but rather in a Paper 
 Mario style 2D. While it doesn't show off a lot of the Nintendo DS' power, it fits the darker theme 
 perfectly and it is sadistically satisfying to see larger units like Battleships slowly crumble 
 into paper thin pieces (like Paper Mario being set on fire, perhaps) . One thing that is a bit disappointing 
 about the new unit sprites is that there is not a lot of variation between units from different 
 armies. In the other Advance Wars games units from different nations looked drastically different 
 which as well as making them look better, made it easier to identify them. In Dark Conflict, due 
 to the lack of variation (although there are still 2 distinct styles) as well as the darker colour 
 scheme used, I found it different to tell which units were mine and which were my opponents. Regardless, 
 the graphics are very good and are one of the stronger parts of the game.
  
  One of the weaker parts is the storyline. It's not just that it's filled with clichs (yet another 
 girl with amnesia) or bad plot points (a disease that turns people into flowers) , it's that the 
 presentation of the game doesn't support the story well enough. By that I don't mean the darker 
 theme  although the story does get a bit light hearted at times during "tactics talks" it is still 
 mature enough to suit the new graphical style, but the actual storyline is delivered so poorly. 
 The dialogue sequences are long, boring and tempting to skip. Characters just stand there as the 
 text appears, without changing gestures or even moving their mouths. There are some potentially 
 powerful moments in the storyline, but the dry presentation never lets it give you an emotional 
 response, even when a main character dies. I can forgive poor story presentation in the earlier 
 Advance Wars games but this time around when it plays such a major part it comes off as a massive 
 letdown.
  
  The audio is still pretty good, though. There aren't as many COs this time around so some of the 
 musical themes can tend to drag, especially in the story mode where you only get to use about five 
 different COs, but they are nevertheless of a high quality. Most of the themes have a hard rock 
 feel about them so they won't be to everyone's tastes although, in contrast, some of the other 
 music feels like it was lifted straight from Intelligent System's other strategy franchise, Fire 
 Emblem. Sound effects have always been a highlight of Advance Wars games and Dark Conflict is no 
 exception. From the blast of a cannon to the drop of a bomb, all the sounds of war are rendered 
 perfectly.
  
  Not only have the graphics, characters and music been changed, but the classic strategy gameplay 
 has also been significantly altered. Well, not significantly  it's still the same Advance Wars 
 deep down, but it does do some things a bit differently. For starters, your CO can now board a 
 unit, strengthening it and the surrounding units. Any damage dealt to your opponent within this 
 area (the CO zone) will charge your CO meter, eventually allowing you to use a CO Power. Now, CO 
 powers are nothing new to the Advance Wars series, but because they don't just charge automatically 
 anymore they can be seen as a bit underpowered. This is not necessarily a bad thing though, as 
 now with the omission of Super Powers, Dual Strikes and the watering down of CO powers the game 
 is a lot more balanced and purely strategic. Now you have to think about whether to use a CO power 
 or keep your meter filled high to give you officer a larger area of influence, adding another layer 
 of depth to an already strategic game. 
  
  While the CO side of things may be more balanced, Intelligent Systems must have forgotten to do 
 this to the units, introducing newer, overpowered ones such as the Anti-tank and Ship Planes. The 
 learning curve is also steeper than ever, with a massive jump from the tutorial missions to the 
 actually challenging ones. 
  
  Perhaps the biggest and most welcome change Dark Conflict makes is the addition of online play. 
 Advance Wars is a perfect fit for Nintendo Wi-fi play, with the ability to play other people and 
 trade maps without having to worry about the infamous friend code system. It may seem a bit too 
 much of a slow paced game for online play but time limits have been added, so you don't have to 
 wait insane amounts of time for your online opponent to make his/her next move. There's always 
 the threat of a bad sport dropping out, though I've yet to have anyone drop out of a match with 
 me (probably because everyone I've ever played has beaten me) . Overall, online play is an excellent 
 addition to the game, although it does come at a cost. Offline modes such as Combat and Survival 
 have been removed, so the game doesn't hold as much offline staying power as the other Advance 
 Wars. Regardless, the single player story mode is lengthy, and if you use Wi-fi play, the game 
 can theoretically last forever.
  
  Even if you didn't really enjoy other Advance Wars games, you should still try Dark Conflict simply 
 because it's so different to the other games. The sharp difficulty curve may scare off some newcomers 
 to the series though, and if you don't have a wireless internet connection you're better off with 
 Dual Strike. Regardless, Dark Conflict is a great game, not the best in the series, but it is a 
 fresh approach which at least deserves a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blast5000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I came to this site, today, looking for informations about the Ragnarok Online DS game (i loved 
 the MMO) just to find out that Days of Ruins has a score of 8.0. That's fine, not everyone like 
 this type of game but it bugged me to see Dual Strike with a score of 9.2. The only thing that 
 could explain this, in my mind, was the lack of appreciation toward the new ''theme'' Days of Ruins 
 approached. That or broken expectations of the online aspect of the game.
  
  Either way, i strongly believe that Days of Ruins deserve a better score than Dual Strike. I have 
 played Dual Strike and loved it too, but it seems obvious to my eyes that Days of Ruins is simply 
 better than Dual Strike on every aspect of the game. The story is much longer, immersive complete 
 than Dual Strike's. The graphics are better (even though i'll leave it to opinion) . Plus, it offers 
 a long awaited online feature, fairly poor but still enjoyable.
  
  Dual Strike, on the other hand, had a rather repetitive storyline. Black hole comes back and wants 
 to take over the world; been there, done that. As i was beating the campaign mode, i wasn't into 
 the story at all, i just beat every single mission just for the sake of looking at the map full 
 of flags...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComboTroop
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  As i liked the Advance wars series, i decided to buy this, after already completed Dual Strike 
 and AW2 and AW1, i wanted some more of this action, so i went down my local gameshop and brought 
 it for 20, i went home and sat down to play it, the first thing i noticed, it was in a different 
 setting, no Black Hole, an world that was ruined by meteors, so i was playing the first mission, 
 the graphics have changed a bit, and i noticed some new units and some that were taken out or changed, 
 so i was on the first mission just like i said a few lines ago, i had some enemies to the right 
 of the map, there were 3 of them, so i decided to go left, then suddenly, 2 allies pop outta nowere 
 to asist me, and then you know how it goes with a tank and recon, you given the good old beating, 
 so anyway this game does have lots of plot turns and some sides look like ones from the previous 
 games, the bandits remind me of Black Hole in a way, and Stolos with his clone army also reminds 
 me of Black Hole, but the game is still too much the said, i liked playing the Single player and 
 it was nice to see different COs in there, the graphics were more realist than the other games, 
 not as cartoony and the game had a more serious feeling to it and amtosphere, but some of the units 
 either look the same but have been given different names or abrittubes, what they can attack, what 
 ammo they use, movement rate etc. It was like Dual strike but like a respray on what it looked 
 like and different units and features, however one of the new features allows the COs to be placed 
 in a ground vechicle unit! But not nothing new, but still fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  The developers of Advance Wars: DoR took a step into unfamiliar territory when they strayed away 
 from the family-friendly premise of previous advance wars games. As a first-time advance wars player, 
 I wasn't sure whether I should purchase Dual Strike or buy the latest entry in the series. I eventually 
 purchased Days of Ruin, hoping for the best. What I first noticed when I started the game was the 
 excellent music. It's not often that you come across a DS game with excellent music, or even good 
 music. I was surprised by the extensive library of songs that were available. The collection had 
 over 50 songs, and for the most part, all of them were fantastic arrangements. They're not all 
 unlocked, though, so you will have to play through the game to unlock the rest of the songs. But 
 is the game good? There are 2 modes to choose from in single player. Free Battle, which gives you 
 1 player arenas from the previous entries in the series, 2 player arenas, 3 player arenas, 4 player 
 arenas, and arenas that are user-created (I'll get to that later) . There is a ton of content here, 
 and it will take well over 100 hours to complete all of the maps. The other mode is campaign mode, 
 which is the single player adventure. By playing through the campaign, you will unlock characters, 
 maps, and outfits for your characters. The campaign is pretty long, and there is over 20 missions 
 to complete to advance the story. Unfortunately, the story isn't very well written, and you will 
 find yourself laughing out loud at the stereotypical characters and situations. It does get sort 
 of interesting later on, but you probably won't feel an emotional attachment to any of the characters. 
 The game starts by introducing the basic premise of the game, and a few starter missions to complete. 
 There is a lot of trial and error at first, but the sense of accomplishment you get after you complete 
 a mission is unmatched. The game gets extremely difficult later on and only the most dedicated 
 DS player will have the nerve to complete every mission. The most important thing is that the game 
 is fun to play. Depending on what kind of person you are, you might keep coming back to the same 
 mission and never get tired of incorporating new strategies. If your not up to the challenge though, 
 you can always get tips from the mission info screen. There is also a design room in Advance Wars: 
 DoR that lets you create your own levels. It is very in depth, and fun to mess around with. I particularly 
 enjoyed making batlle arenas of places I had visited in real-life. For those who enjoy customization, 
 this is an excellent level editor. You can also upload your designs online. It's dissapointing 
 that you can't choose a particular map. You can download a random map, or a reccomended map, and 
 thats about it. But that's not the only online feature. The game also features wi-fi battles! If 
 you have a nintendo ds headset, you can even chat with the other player (for better or worse) . You 
 can't choose where you battle though. The computer will select a map randomly. I was also dissapointed 
 when some of the players I competed against dropped out of battle when I was about to win. Can't 
 they just accept defeat? The computer counts it as a win for you though. The most amazing thing 
 about the game is that it keeps track of every enemy you take down, every meteor you've destroyed 
 and even how many battles you've won and lost. It's fun to go to the history section and see this 
 information. It's amazing how much content is included in this game. The only cons are:
  1. The games apocalyptic premise remains throughout the whole game. Not a very uplifting game to 
 play.
  2. Bad story
  3. It's outrageous that Advance Wars: Dual Strike had 2-D/3-D graphics, but this game is strictly 
 2-D. Lack of effort?
  4. The battle environments are bland and lack color, thanks to the apocalyptic premise.
  I can 
 reccomend this game only to hardcore gamers who have had at least some experience with strategy 
 games. If your looking for a challenge, then this game will definitely give you one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AniMazter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Overall, this is an amazing game! I have played every game in the series and this game is eons 
 above the rest. All the new units, new setups, the WiFi, and the redistributed special powers make 
 this game the best strategy game on the DS.
  
  Graphics-The gritty anime is perfect for showing the units and the commanders.
  
  Gameplay-The 
 difficulty incline is just right for advance wars veterans or newbies.
  
  Audio- The gravelly music portrays perfectly the war and its results.
  
  Availability- This 
 can be found at all stores and is very cheap on ebay.
  
  The question is- do i want this? The answer is YES! Anybody can pick up and enjoy this masterpiece 
 any time any where. This game is NOT imbalanced and masterfully shows how fun war can be. The ultimate 
 DS game.
  
  Allthough this game is Teen, My sister (10) and I love playing each other. (sometimes she wins) . 
 Get this game at all costs as it is a must-have!
  See you on the battlefield!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin
  
  Sound: this game probably has the best music I've heard on the DS I've heard so far besides Mario 
 Kart and final fantasy. There's a music room so that you can listen to the 50 different songs whenever 
 you want, you have to unlock them first of course by hearing them in campaign mode.
  
  Gameplay: the campaigns can get really difficult, you'll have to use trial and error until you 
 figure out how to win instead of coming up with your own strategy which disappointed me. There 
 are however a load of maps that you can play either with your friends or against computers in multi-card. 
 Also there are 12 unlock-able commanders. You unlock them in campaign and you can use them in multi-card 
 mode. Each commander has a unique co-power which will help your troops by giving them more attack 
 health or speed in battle. 
  
  Graphics: these graphics are actually pretty good, the little clips you see when your units are 
 battling are brilliant and fun to watch, but besides that there's not a whole lot to the graphics 
 beside little explosions when a unit is destroyed.
  
  Overall: Overall Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a really swell strategy game, good music, decent 
 graphics, a solid campaign, and lots of maps make it extremely replay-able. It's a must have for 
 turn based strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntoniustheGrey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars: Days of Ruin is the third installment of the Advanced Wars Series on the handhold 
 gaming systems -- and by far, the best.
  
  The game plays out on a strategic map in which players must control their units (ranging from infantry, 
 tank, ships, and aircraft) in order to defeat the other player. Resources are gathered by capturing 
 towns and controlling various factories. 
  
  Modes of gameplay feature a full campaign, free play, and online play.
  
  Starting with the 
 campaign, the gameplay is phenomenal. Each mission has a lot of strategy that has to be put into 
 it. One of the most important factors is that each unit is very unique, in the sense that each 
 level has something different you have to do in it -- for example, some missions you are just trying 
 to escape the enemy, while other times you may be attempting to launch an offensive on the enemy 
 before they can build up.
  
  In either case, you will have to really consider your moves in order to get through the later levels 
 as the game, as the difficult does increase.
  
  Things I love about this game are the fact that all the units are diverse in what they can do -- they 
 all have various weakness and strengths to different units -- making a great mix of strategy. While 
 it may seem like a good strategy to just build a massive army of the biggest tank in the game, 
 it isn't, and such a strategy will fail -- the game takes real cunning and strategy to become good 
 at. Terrain also plays a factor in the game, from city ruins to mountains to flat land, the terrain 
 makes a huge difference in gameplay. Once again, the story is awesome, and more than likely anyone 
 can easily like it. The game also boasts a huge amount of gameplay -- the storyline is immense on 
 it's own, and features a lot of premade missions that you can play. You can actually also make 
 your own maps, which is enjoyable just to make as well as to play on.
  
  The storyline of the campaign is great. Gamespot will tell you that it's your run of the mill anime 
 post apocolyptic future but really, it isn't. It has it's own fantastic storyline that is highly 
 engrossing. It is unique and enjoyable. Sometimes, you will want to hurry and play through a mission 
 just to see what will happen next. You will also grow an attachment to the characters as they come 
 alive through the gameplay.
  
  The big complaint I have about the game is it's difficulty, which stops me short from giving it 
 a 10. Though the beginning levels are not to difficult, to even consider the later levels I would 
 say it is not for your casual gamer. It is undoubtetly those that have a knack for strategy games 
 and are willing to sit there for hours playing one level. In some of the final stages of the game, 
 I have actually spent two and a half hours playing a level. Some expert level strategists may not 
 have spent nearly as long, but for me it took a bit of learning.
  
  Another complaint I have is the campaign does feature a few levels that have water in them, and 
 hence, naval units, but not nearly enough of them. Usually when a campaign map has naval units, 
 it means you need naval units to win, and you can generally not make different strategies to win 
 without them, which can be rather annoying.
  
  EIther way, these complaints barely chip away at the perfection of the game. It is highly enjoyable 
 and worth your time -- even now with all these new games coming out. If you are a DS owner, I believe 
 this is a must have as long as you consider yourself somewhat of a strategy game player. This would 
 even be a good choice for someone who wants to start playing strategy games.
  
  As I have said before, the main reason I wrote this review is because I don't agree with Gamespots. 
 Though many of their points in the review I agree with and are well noted, I just cannot see this 
 game scoring anything less than a 9.0. This game deserves a better score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Unlike the its predesessors Advance Wars Days of Ruin has made some changes. The graphics have 
 changed for the worst and its annoying menu and story line is not advance wars material at all. 
 
  
  First of the graphics of an advance wars game is supposed to be anime type graphics and i think 
 that by changing that they made it worse graphics. Not to mention the bad audio in this game i 
 mean did you hear the annoying music in the main menu. The music is not the music that intelligent 
 systems put in its old, better games. The design of every thing has to be worse than advance wars 
 dual strike which was a much better experience than this. 
  
  Now they added multiplayer to this finally using the Wifi for online multiplayer, but they didnt 
 do it properly. This is just a system where your paired up with random person. There are no leaderboards 
 or rankings and worst of all you cant even check how many wins or losses you have.
  
  The capaign and your usual war room verses is also busted. They took out alot of the good classic 
 maps and added bad ones. I know alot of people didnt like the CO powers, but they werent to bad. 
 In this game the CO powers are useless and there is only one character: Tabitha who has more attack 
 and defense on all her units which every one picks to play as on multiplayer.
  
  The story is also weird and bad because its basically a post apocaliptic world and your killing 
 a mad scientists troops because hes cloning and making strange experiments, who cares about that. 
 At least the stories in the older games were actually good and intelligent systems actually makes 
 good stories.
  
  I think this game is overated and if you just want a good strategy game on your ds you can buy 
 this because I think its only 20 dollars at eb games or gamestop, but if you have not played the 
 older versions of Advance Wars i reccomend you buy those instead of this one, but if you really 
 have nothing to buy and you want a strategy game then go for it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  While the strategic discussions of Advance Wars and its multiplying sequels have become commonplace 
 on forums and tweenage hangouts for Nintendo handheld aficionados, it becomes to reason that the 
 series would have to eventually grow up. Between the abstract ebb-and-flow of the violent depictions 
 of war hidden behind the kiddie masquerade and funny-looking anime heads happily spouting nonsense 
 to each other, there needed to be a new level of complexity, something to bring in more people. 
 Another entry of the same in the series might just prove how ridiculous it all really is.
  
  Days of Ruin (subtitled Dark Conflict in Europe) takes the game to a new level, but not without 
 its casualties. It seems for everything the game gets right, another previously-featured relic 
 is discarded; the Wi-Fi battles replace the specialized War Room skirmishes, and the quality of 
 the new campaign replaces the purchasable maps rewarded during quick and smart play. And regardless 
 of the new wiz-bang visuals and post-apocalyptic plot, too much of the game feels like a cheap 
 jigsaw puzzle: too complicated, and the pieces never really come together. This doesn't mar it 
 from being a good game, but it does mar it from becoming a great one.
  
  With the new era of nuclear fears and terrorist activities, the game becomes a near mirror in what 
 the worst-case-scenario might be in our own lives. After the bombs have dropped and the smoke clears, 
 what walks from the ashes of civilization turns out to be much darker than anyone realized. Gangs 
 roam the dusty plains, preying on innocent lives for the sake of amusement. The leaders of the 
 new world care less about their people as they do about their egos, interested only in recreating 
 their respect in a world that has nothing at all. Within this frightening land, the battles seem 
 all the more potent and vicious.
  
  However, the Advance Wars roots never actually leave. The plot is never quite sure whether to embrace 
 Akira's hopeless dystopia or attempt to reconcile with the series' greatest fans who only want 
 more of the same. What we end up with is a battle of forces in the narrative between staying lighthearted 
 and going emo, and we get a game that debates humanity's worth in one hand while fooling around 
 with angst-ridden teenage friendship in the other. Unfortunately, however needed this new take 
 on Advance Wars might have been, it's hard to take any of the game seriously, especially when the 
 new characters are so short-sighted and unbelievably self-centered. Of course Our Noble Heroes 
 need to save the day while looking better than everyone else, but that's no excuse to make the 
 rest of the entire cast a bunch of idiots.
  
  The presentation of the game echoes this confusion. Cartoon-like characters and animations depict 
 scenes of bloody battles and brutal violence, trying to become a more mature experience while still 
 staying within its narrow E-10+ range. But while the screen shakes a little more and explosions 
 are bit scarier, there's nothing more to really keep it in place; there's no unified feeling to 
 the look of the game that the rest of the series had. Bloody explosions on cartoon landscapes, 
 and horrible nuclear devastation using a Mickey Mouse land color palate. Even the music is still 
 trying to figure out what a metal version of Advance Wars MIDI tunes would sound like, and never 
 quite answers its own question.
  
  But while the themes didn't pan out to plan, the game still succeeds in spite of these shortcomings 
 due to its ability to bring brilliant turn-based strategy to handheld simplicity. There's nothing 
 horribly deep about Advance Wars to begin with, especially compared to hex-based wargames regularly 
 played on the PC, but instead takes a chess-like mentality to distill out a simple but hard-to-master 
 experience. Removing many of the overwrought units and rules, the game takes some of the irritating, 
 shallow complexity of Dual Strike and replaces it with a simple, yet effective balance of units 
 and tactics.
  
  There are faults within the solid concept once executed. Games like Total Annihilation took multiple 
 patches and community modifications to refine to the online RTS masterpiece it is today. Advance 
 Wars similarly requires several balancing tweaks, but without a patching system in place many of 
 the game's issues will be there for its life. Air and sea superiority often feel like additives 
 thrown in after the ground battle has been won; too many units in these categories feel either 
 under or overpowered. It's too often after every battle there's a single enemy boat lying in the 
 ocean nearby, and while I have won the match, I cannot finish off that last craft because there 
 is no possible way of getting to it. These situations are much too common.
  
  Balance problems like this are all too familiar in Nintendo strategy games, however, and Advance 
 Wars has always been a showcase of this. Dual Strike was reduced to child's play after Intelligent 
 Systems again and again ignored their mistakes and threw more specialized - but ultimately useless 
 - units into the fray, such as the Pipe Runner. At least in Days of Ruin these issues are diminished, 
 if not completely irradiated in some areas, with new units and a few modifications to create the 
 best strategy game on the DS yet. While there's not much to compare it to, it's still better than 
 nothing.
  
  The Wi-Fi system is pretty good in most parts, only held back by Nintendo's astounding talent to 
 screw up every Internet-related video game they come in contact with. While the map sharing idea 
 is well-founded, there's no easy way to find maps, and the game automatically disconnects when 
 its done downloading. Irritating when the game has fifty empty slots to fill up. The online play 
 isn't so bad, but being a turn-based game is very slow and sometimes nauseating, even with the 
 timed turns. The best way  still by far  is to swap the actual DS system back and forth using 
 only one card, which is the most rewarding and easiest to set up.
  
  It's hard for me to recommend Advance Wars: Days of Ruin outright, however. It's a fun game in 
 most cases, with solid gameplay and some good modes the mess with. But nothing really feels like 
 it came out right; while many gamers enjoy the series, I feel that most of this stems from the 
 fact that they haven't played much else. While the improvements are small but effective, Days of 
 Ruin still stands as a good game, not a great one; but when we're discussing the DS, isn't a good 
 strategy game enough? In the end, that's all we really have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nealsdaman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game, I believe, would be good for anyone new too Advance Wars. If you played Dual Strike 
 you would know how broken and unbalanced the CO's were. In Days of Ruin the CO's are very balanced, 
 every CO has a counter CO. The story is very well done. It's everything you want in a Strategy 
 game. Crap I need 100 words... i'm just gana put random words now ok? i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i ii i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i ii i ii i i ii i i ii i ii i i ii i i i 
 i i ii i ii i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plixness
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  First of. Let me state that Advanced wars: Days of Ruin is a solid game. I enjoyed playing it trough 
 and spent a whole lot of time trying to break the extra missions just for the heck of it. It is 
 solid where the games of the franchise also have been solid. It even has a few really interesting 
 online features. And the story is miles ahead of Dual Strike in depth. But when it get's down on 
 to the nitty gritty: the gameplay, there is not a whole lot of new things added to the strategy 
 aspects. 
  
  The commanders powers are somewhat diminished then the earlier games in Advance Wars series, and 
 that is probably just as good. In Dual Strike you could entirely change the course of battle with 
 just employing the commanders special powers to their maximum in the face of battle. It is nice 
 to see that the creators have addressed this issue, because in this turn based world the commander's 
 power was simply to close to a rouge state having the nuke in the real world. 
  
  Aside from the game feeling a whole lot more balanced the game stays pretty much the same when 
 it comes to the actual strategy. They polish some things here, and change some things there. But 
 in the end nothing revolutionary happens. The graphics are also somewhat better and just feels 
 darker and more sinister. 
  
  What is positive is also the story that gets a complete overhaul. Nowadays Advance Wars is put 
 into a scenery that probably would not be suitable for the youngest of the audience, while appealing 
 to those old enough to appreciate mature topics. But where some will mourn the now less childish 
 story into this post apocalyptic turn of events. I applaud it. 
  
  Children would probably have a hard time beating the turn based hard core strategy anyway, because 
 sometimes it gets really hard. And not only were the earlier games story silly, it was just downright 
 bad as well. Finally you get to wrestle with moral issues as well as follow characters that actually 
 make a memorable impact. The game touches upon subjects such as democracy, honor, patriotism and 
 love. It is not perfect, but it's one of the best blend of strategy and story that I've played 
 on a hand held. 
  
  In the end. Days of Ruin is wholeheartedly recommended for all fans of turn based strategy. 
 
  
  Play it for the strategy. 
  
  Play it for the story. 
  
  And play it to beat it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin (known as Dark Conflict in Europe) offers a little more dark and serious 
 story than you might expect from the series, but other than that this is just another polished 
 turn-based strategy game in the franchise you've come to expect and love, or hate.
  
  Around 90% of Earth's population has been killed in meteor strikes, which caused a massive dust 
 cloud to form and blot out the sun. In this situation isolated military troops are either trying 
 to preserve order and protect the people or try to take advantage of the situation and rob everything 
 valuable. A young cadet from the Rubinelle military academy named Will escapes the ruins and is 
 confronted by The Beast, a former sergeant gone rogue who leads a small band of raiders. Will is 
 rescued by Brenner and Lin of Rubinelle's 12th Battalion and takes on the group's cause of saving 
 as many survivors as possible. After a while Will discovers Isabella, a mysterious amnesiac girl, 
 who somehow knows detailed military information. Eventually she becomes a vital part of the 12th 
 battalion as they put an end to the Beast's reign of terror. Story is told entirely in still images 
 and text boxes and there's a lot of it. Luckily the script is well written and the story flows 
 nicely forward.
  
  Graphics are not the best DS has to offer. Everything is quite blocky and there's nothing that 
 couldn't have been done in Game Boy Advance. Battle animations especially are horrible, but you 
 can turn them off from the Options menu. Darker story reflects to the graphics in a way that pretty 
 much everything has a shade of grey in it. Music and sound are well done, but they tend to loop 
 way too often and after a few hours you'll be just fine by playing with all the sounds turned off. 
 Luckily the game let's you do just that and there are plenty of different options to fine tune 
 the gameplay as you see fit.
  
  Controls are easy to learn and they are also taught very clearly. You can use the touch screen 
 to make decisions, but it's still easier to use d-pad and buttons. Upper screen provides information 
 about a selected terrain, building or unit.
  
  Actual gameplay is classical turn-based strategy and the campaign offers 26 different missions. 
 Aside from that there are 38 optional missions, which are quite challenging and really force you 
 to think. Every unit has strengths and weaknesses which you need to know and use accordingly in 
 combat. Proper use of terrain is essential to succeed and you'll learn it quite quickly.
  
  Save system works great: you can save anywhere and anytime. One mission can take from 30 minutes 
 to an hour to complete so for this reason there's a special Tactics option and this means that 
 the game gives you hints on how to proceed. As a whole the balance of Days of Ruin is done right: 
 first few missions are easy and in them you'll learn to use your units and terrain, but later it 
 comes much more challenging.
  
  When you're done with the campaign and those optional missions there's also Free Battle mode, in 
 which you complete a series of tough missions. They don't have anything to do with game's story, 
 but it adds a lot more gameplay to this package. Also everything you do is tracked in Records menu 
 and it's always encouraging to see how you make progress.
  
  Days of Ruin also includes multiplayer mode, either via multi-card wireless play or through a Wi-Fi 
 connection. Here you can battle against other human opponents and it's usually much more challenging 
 than playing against an AI. It also means that one battle can literally last for hours so I expect 
 that you don't do online matches that much when comparing to single player challenges.
  
  Finally there's the Design Room in which you can make your own maps and share them with your friends 
 either locally or through a Wi-Fi connection. This is again one more component to make you come 
 back for more Advance Wars gameplay.
  
  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a full package of features and gameplay that you might want from 
 a turn-based strategy game. It doesn't bring anything new to the table when compared to previous 
 games in the franchise, but it's still a polished and solid title. If you're new to this series 
 there's no better time than now to take a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  .............................. When I got my ds this was the first game that i got. I used to hate 
 ds because my friend had a game called yoshi touch and go and that game deserved a 
 
  anyway back to the game. The game was the best strategy game 
 
  I mean its wifi. WIFI!!!!!!! it has a nice sotory line. If you want to find a game worthwhile then 
 get this game. This game never ends. Im not joking. You can build maps and then play. WHY NOT GET THIS 
 GAME??????????????????????? i dont get it this a very nice game. And it should not desreve a 8. Belive 
 me get it and you wont regret it. GET IT 
 
  IF you liked advance war dual strike youll love this one.
  I mean dual strike is 32 mb {if you know what that means } and days of ruin is 64 mb. BY the way if 
 your wondering how i know this stuff is because my friend has a r4............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Bosmer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  
  Advance Wars is the Fire Emblem title for DS I been waiting for. The interface is loyal to the 
 series down to the mini map and menus.
  The key difference between the two is that Fire Emblem is medieval and Advance Wars is past-present. 
 Though tanks and infantry are melee units in theory and artillery can be considered an archer by 
 Fire Emblem standards.
  I'm not going to talk of the story mode because it IS really cheesy and not so interesting.
  
 The gameplay is turned base, where each player takes a turns moving and attacking each others units. 
 Each unit has ten health. Each health point can be considered a squad member for units are squads 
 of select units. When damage the unit attacks are weaker. Now like the name suggests you use advanced 
 weapons like  rocket trucks and other powerful units. Of 
 coarse no army can win without the help of lesser units. The game features several dozens of units 
 that differ in strength and cost.
  I said cost because the game lets you build your units from factories, ports and airports. To build 
 units you need cash and cash is gain from capturing buildings with infantry.
  The multiplayer is well thought out and features voice chat and a superb map editor with 50 save 
 slots so you can expand your collection of maps to your hearts content. The Wi-Fi lets you trade 
 maps and play with either random players or friends.
  Though the game doesn't have download play, only multi-card and Wi-Fi. The game makes it up with 
 single DS play. Up to for players can share a single DS, not so convenient.
  Though like I said in the title, most battles are just about resource control and not skill, because 
 units die quickly, even the strongest wartank can't survive forever. So the player that controls 
 the central resources can push back the other for hours but the game is already won for the defending 
 army will not match the attacker. That's where the games only fla is; no matter how good your stratigies 
 are it all comes down to who churms up more units.
  Still the game has great features and gameplay to keep you playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinno441
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  When many people think of war games, they generally think of one of two things; either the generic 
 WW2 FPS, or an RTS strategy game of sorts. Advance Wars normally breaks these molds by being a 
 turn based strategy game where war is taken lightly with cartoony characters and less than serious 
 plots.
  
  Advance Wars Days of Ruin takes the tried and true game play of the previous installments and attempts 
 to mesh it together with the seriousness of other games. The resulting concoction is a solid game 
 that could have been better.
  
  The game immediately kicks off its bold new outlook by explaining why it's called Days of Ruin. 
 The world was hit by meteors, and unlike the dinosaurs before them, bands of humans have now managed 
 to come together in an attempt to survive their post apocalyptic experience.
  
  That's the story in a nutshell, because the story is so predictable and cliched that you'll feel 
 like you've heard it before. Thankfully, a few of the game's characters will make up for that with 
 their love 'em or hate 'em personalities.
  
  As for the game play itself, not much has changed between this and past installments. You capture 
 factories, cities, ports, and airports to build up your forces and then use your resources and 
 soldiers to strike down your opponent.
  
  The battles are taken in turns with each commander able to use all the units and resources at their 
 disposal. Infantry units can capture cities and other place and work well against other infantry 
 units while tanks can destroy other tanks, infantry, and weakly armored units with ease. The game 
 rewards offense in the sense that once an enemy is attacked, their attack strength becomes weaker 
 and does less damage. Don't be mistaken though, being defensive and stockpiling weapons also has 
 it's perks, but usually only works well on maps that call for that kind of strategy.
  
  The campaign is brutal and takes no chances in punishing you for every little mistake you make 
 and often giving you a plethora of disadvantages. This will turn off players new to the game series 
 and challenge seasoned veterans to a new level.
  
  Thankfully, outside of unlocking all the commanding officers and getting through the lackluster 
 story, the campaign doesn't really give much reward and players can easily spend tons of hours 
 building their own intricate stages, and playing others locally or online. The game easily allows 
 four players to pass around the DS and take turns killing each other in a four player match. The 
 multiplayer can also be played if you have other friends of the game in the same room, and allows 
 for the same interactivity without having to pass the DS.
  
  Online is also fun but features a rather stripped down version of the game in the sense that big 
 maps aren't selectable and you are forced to play on small 10 x 10 maps. Thankfully, if you decide 
 to play with a friend, you can use voice chat to complain about it all you want.
  
  The art style is bold and interesting for the series, although it can turn off veterans. The graphics 
 are nothing to call home about and are pretty average considering all there is to look at is a 
 bunch of little tanks on a 2D top-down battlefield. The artwork and character art is pretty good, 
 but nothing really stands out too much and it just doesn't seem to wow anyone compared to the artwork 
 of Intelligent's other games like Fire Emblem.
  
  The soundtrack to the game is a mixed bag. Either you like it or you don't. There a few songs worth 
 listening to, but that's it, only a handful.
  
  Advance Wars Days of Ruin is a good investment if you're a DS owner, especially if you're a DS 
 owner who loves a good strategy game that will last a while. Unfortunately, being trumped by everyone 
 of its predecessors makes Days of Ruin hard to recommend over Dual Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kansasdude2009
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars has always been a series full of unrealistic settings, characters, units, and stories. 
 Days of Ruin attempts to change that with its more gritty approach. It succeeds on several fronts. 
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Added units make for a more balanced experience.
    Art direction and graphics are as stylized as ever, this time with more grit.
    Good soundtrack 
 with some catchy tunes.
    Gameplay is rock solid.
    Good multiplayer options.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad: 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Story is predicable and uninspired.
    Online is a bit limiting.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay: 9.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Advance Wars has always been known for its rock solid gameplay, but Days of Ruins one-ups all 
 past titles with a more balanced list of units. The cost and effect of units has been balanced 
 to near perfection and there are few ultimate weapons that destroy all others. The addition of 
 units such as the bikes, flares, and anti-tanks really helps with the balancing act Days of Ruin 
 has put in place. CO powers are no longer the main focus of the game as they have been greatly 
 reduced in power. Instead, a new tactic has been added for using your CO in battle to rally moral. 
 This was a simple, yet needed addition that truly turns this kids game into a strategic powerhouse. 
 Get ready to be marveled by how close this gameplay is to perfection. 
  
  Online and multiplayer are what this game lives for and even those options have been boosted. Multi-card 
 functionality is unfortunate, but necessary. Online play with voice chat is great, but overall 
 limited by Friend Codes, no random play, and only 2 players. Overall, this package should last 
 you a long time.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Hard
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Advance Wars continues its history of being a difficult game with Days of Ruin. I found myself 
 thoroughly enjoying the difficulty level because moderately challenging to challenging is a great 
 level to be at when playing a game. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 8.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Days of Ruin finally exceeds past visuals in the Advance Wars franchise. With different art and 
 better 2D animation, Advance Wars is a pretty package wrapped in thick black lines. The picture 
 may be messy and washed out at times, but it always looks nice. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: 7.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Days of Ruin's soundtrack is a little less upbeat than the other Advance Wars titles, probably 
 because of the serious mood of the game. Still, catchy themes are heard throughout the story and 
 CO switches. Sound effects have become a bit more realistic but still ultimately limited by the 
 DS hardware. Sound Design is uninspired. Little care was taken in crafting this game's sound design 
 as few unique sounds are found. This is still a solid end product though.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Advance Wars has always been about the gameplay, and this is easily the best the series has to 
 offer. With added online play, increased balance, and smart use of CO's, Days of Ruin is a must 
 buy for all strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I really like the Advance Wars series so I knew what to expect from this game, and i think this 
 one is the best out of the whole series. The one thing I really liked about this game was that 
 the controls were awesome. (even though there was pretty much nothing you have to do with the stylus 
 I still liked the controls) Probably the best thing I liked about this game was that the multiplayer 
 was awesome when I was playing with my brother and cousin. The game play in this game is still 
 the same, great as ever. The graphics for this game are okay, they are better than the GBA Advance 
 Wars Game's, but overall the graphics are just okay. the one thing I did not like about this game 
 is that if you do not have Wi-Fi you are going to get bored pretty quickly. If you have a DS or 
 you are an Advance Wars fan you should really get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FstrthnU
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Advance Wars before, you might be disappointed a little. For those who haven't, 
 this is a really great game. The game takes some time to learn (especially if you're introducing 
 a friend who hasn't gone through the campaign) , but once you have everything at your disposal, 
 this is a really great game. All the units are nicely balanced, and have to work together to win. 
 The pre-loaded maps are great, and you can always make your own. At first, you may be a bit intimidated, 
 but once you get used to the gameplay, its really addictive. The game can even be fun in short 
 bursts (thank Intelligent Systems for the in-battle save feature, where the data can be loaded 
 unlimited # of times.) The new units are really fun to use, and I like the grittier, more serious 
 look. The music is kind of poor, but if you don't like it you can just mute the DS. Overall, this 
 is a great game, and the gameplay really boosts it to the top. Multiplayer is fun, and I can't 
 get enough of this game. The campaign is just competent, but you can eventually get over it. GET 
 IT! YOU WON'T REGRET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiantTitan22
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Wasn't a bad game at all, the gameplay is a little slow and somewhat repetitive. There is not much 
 to do but fight. The story again is less than sub-par. The characters weren't that bad but are 
 pretty one-dimensional. it had great potential in terms of story and characterization but failed 
 to use it. The gameplay can be fun but can also get a repetitive or boring feel as you have nothing 
 else to do but keep going mission after mission which can be insanely hard and long. This game 
 could've been much much better. The units were interesting and cool, and also the maps and scenarios 
 were nicely done. This game has so much potential but it just doesn't have it. i have to say that 
 i am pretty dissappointed considering Dual Strike was really good. I hope that the next game they 
 will have more extra stuff to do and story strength. Again, you shouldn't believe the hype for 
 this game, I was greatly dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPmaster1199
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm a total Advance Wars vet, so I've seen everything that Advance Wars has to offer. For other 
 vets like me, you definitely want to check this one out. For all of the others, you might want 
 to find one of the earlier iterations of the series at your local EB Games before you buy this 
 one...
  
  The main difference between this game and Dual Strike is the more mature storyline... Personally, 
 I never thought of plot as a strength of the Advance Wars series, but at least the first three 
 games made some attempt at creativity. In this one, the developers basically took every anime cliche 
 in the book (Girl with amnesia, young teen that somehow overcomes all odds to save the world, etc.) 
 and slapped it together into one convenient package.
  
  Of course, AW has never had to rely on its story, instead preferring to put all of its bets into 
 the gameplay. In this respect, I've found a more balanced, yet more challenging, game than the 
 Dual Strike. They took out the overpowering Neotanks out, which finally makes the Mech a useful 
 unit (YAY!) They also added a bunch of new units to balance out previous balance issues that were 
 made clear in previous AW games. 
  
  This game is going to be a serious challenge, as the CO powers have been downplayed A LOT. If you 
 manage to beat this game, then you've earned it, because even I had to retry a few of the missions 
 many times before completing them...
  
  As a final note, the replayability of the game is ENORMOUS what with the robust map editor and 
 lag free online play, so, if you can stomach the steep learning curve, BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pai-may
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars: Dark Conflict boldly moves away from the rather cartoony look of previous incarnations 
 within the series and presents a game who's looks fit perfectly with the end of the world storyline.
 
  
  Those familiar with the Advance Wars collection of games will immediately be at home with this 
 new edition and those new to the series will be able to pick the game up in no time at all. Mastering 
 this beast is a different matter, however, with some of the additional sideline missions edging 
 close to frustrating in difficulty.
  
  This aside however, I feel that apart from a rather bizarre Japanese 'end of the world' story arc, 
 the game delivers in top draw fashion, offering the casual gamer a quick thirty minute blast and 
 at the same time rewarding the more committed hardcore endless hours of game, especially if you 
 want to complete to 100%.
  
  As with previous renditions the game offers the ability to utilise several different commanders, 
 each with there own unique battlefield specialities; a feature that not only adds depth to the 
 game but begs a player to master in order to squeeze the most from this wicked piece of software.
 
  
  I feel confident in stating that this game is the best in the series and you won't be disappointed 
 if you pick up a copy for yourself today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin leaves behind an impression that it ultimately matured as a game. Buying 
 this game promises new lands, characters, units and features.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: Advance Wars has never looked so refreshing, a true change in the direction and feel. 
 You'll notice the maturity level is relatively stronger then it's precedent's . Long story short, 
 the feeling and general direction has changed, for the better.
  
  Units: The game features new units which help to develope the tactics in the game. Without exhausting 
 the type, the units add to a larger sum then any other Advance Wars game.
  
  Plot: Because the maturity is out of the ordinary for the traditional Advance Wars series, the 
 whole plot was impacted as well. Meteors destroying 90% of the world's population seems almost 
 impossible in a series of this context.
  
  Characters: The characters know their places and as such, play well for the areas they were originally 
 given. For example, a character who would just join the army for survival purposes, serves as a 
 teenager at hear, not a strict soldier.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In the long run, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin looks more promising for a game revolving around war. 
 It's style is significantly improved and the characters still keep their anime looking appearences. 
 My final score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is definitely the game to have. It has a looooooooong addicting campaign, 
 multi card play, and even wifi! You can also play vs. locally on one ds. The game also features 
 a map editor, which allows you to make your own maps and do whatever you feel like putting on your 
 map. 
  
  The beginning of the campaign is a nice tutorial, which makes the game easier for people who have 
 never played the game before. Even as you go through you'll be introduced to factories, docks, 
 and airports. If a certain level is to hard you can either go to menu, and press tactics, or you 
 can just go to youtube and type whatever level you're having trouble with. For me the game was 
 hard, espically the last 2 levels, where I had to go search youtube to get advice. Hard, but fun. 
 
  
  Overall, the game is a 9.5. If you can, convince your friends to buy it as well so that you can 
 do wi-fi together, which can have up to 4 players on it. It is recommended to anyone who has a 
 ds, anyone. Buy this game, you won't regret it. Even reading the commentary in the storyline is 
 interesting. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor400k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Just to let you know, I have never tried the on-line multiplayer of this game (because I can't 
 where I am now) and I have the British version of DOR (Dark Conflict) .
  Like I said this game isn't revolution (game play-wise its not, but story-wise it is) , but it is 
 one heck of a cool game. The new story isn't so good, but its rather interesting and the characters 
 are cool. It starts off as a freak meteor accident destroys the world, then you as boy being rescued 
 by Capt. O'Brian and help fight raiders and so on and so on. The campaign mode I must admit is 
 way easier then I thought it would be (apart from 4 missions) , but then the game has these rather 
 fun and sometimes really challenging trial maps (like war room maps) .
  The graphics haven't changed much, still tiny sprites but darker, but I have no problem with that 
 (Apart from the forests) and the zoom in feature makes units look cooler but more like toys. But 
 the animations rock! Tanks still have over-sized cannons but who cares?
  On sound, I must admit that the sound effects on map view haven't changed so expect recons sounding 
 like toy cars, but in the animations, they are way better, just hearing the sound of a tank engine 
 and you know they're better and as for music its still the same old the song is modeled out of 
 the CO and lasts 40 seconds, but it certainly is better then before all techno like (especially 
 "Hope never dies") .
  Finally, the new toys to play with (and modification of older ones) , almost all of them are cool 
 except the missile-boat and the fighter (duster) . The bike, the anti tanks, which are really cool 
 and can really teach any tank a lesson indirectly and directly. The battleships with a smaller 
 range now while standing can move and indirectly fire making you realize it was necessary to remove 
 some of its range and finally the carriers are now truly portable airports which are able to produce 
 ship-planes
  The CO system has a great new change which I don't need to explain and I'm liking it because it 
 really makes you feel more involved added with the level up system.
  The game however has taken out many cool things which I would like to come back in a sequel, these 
 include the Battle maps (I know why they took it out, but can't they return it in some way) survival, 
 and also a hard campaign because this one is easy. There are only 2 technology sprites, I know 
 they don't affect game play but it would be cool if next time each army had its own and COs didn't 
 feel very important because you can't choose them in the campaign. Anyways I will continue enjoying 
 this game until IS can really come up with something so cool for this series on the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LycanDream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  To Start off,, Advance Wars series has always been best known for its turn base strategy playing 
 game.
  
  Compared to the previous advance wars games the graphics of days of ruins is a more mature and 
 dark in nature. Though the graphics are more mature, the quality, in my mind, could have been better. 
 For example when playing with a stylus, it is awkward to maneuver in zoom and the units looks a 
 bit sloppy. Nonetheless the presentation and the graphics of the characters in the main Campaign 
 mode is well drawn and designed. Also the story plot of the game in the Campaign mode is somewhat 
 awkward. Though I won't spoil it for you, the story is not very logical and seemingly made up just 
 to fit the game's new look of the dark and gloomy.
  
  Getting into the game play. The gameplay remains the same, yes... it is still a turn base strategy 
 game. It somewhat seems like final fantasy tactic, if you are familiar with that series, instead 
 it is with modern war machines instead of characters of swords and magics. The unit roster however 
 is quit dull, there are not that many new unit except with the addition of Duster planes, Gun Boats, 
 Bikes and Naval Carriers with Sea Planes. Most of these additions of units aren't particularly 
 effective and useful in the game. For example, the gun boat fires once and it is out of ammo and 
 can only carry one foot soldier. The Duster is a mix between a helicopter and a jet and it's often 
 better just to wait it out and buy a fighter or a bomber instead. The Bike is somewhat useful with 
 the ability to capture cities with it's farther area movement. Last but not least, the naval carrier 
 is an awesome unit with the ability to produce sea planes, so it is almost like a movable air base 
 on the sea for sea planes only. Nonetheless,. the traditional units are still there, War tanks- 
 now called the war machine, fighters, bombers etc. Since it is a new installment in the advance 
 wars series, Days of Ruin features a new gameplay and that is an interesting and logical way of 
 using CO powers and that is allowing any units to be CO'ed once, as long as the unit is alive, 
 and shaded boxes will appear and any unit within the range of the shadowed box will have the CO 
 powers. This feature not only make the game more realistic and also it is more challenging for 
 players to utilize the CO capabilities. With that said, though I like the old CO abilities of affecting 
 the whole battlefield, I simply believe this new adjustment is more logical.
  
  Besides the pros and the cons of what the campaign mode has to offer, there are plenty new mini 
 games to keep the players busy. Like always, you can design your own map and play the custom maps 
 on the game or you can challenge yourself and go online to play with other players. 
  
  All in all, this game is fun, entertaining and is definitely worth the money if you are looking 
 for an awesome game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Before Advance Wars: Days of Ruin I had never played an Advance Wars game before, so I came into 
 this entry not quite knowing what to expect. I was pleasantly surprised by the fairly engaging 
 story, beautiful visuals, and great music, but less so by the game's exceedingly difficult nature. 
 The game is really great, but sometimes the difficulty flies past a fun challenge and enters the 
 murky territory of frustration. Good enemy AI is a plus in any game, but Days of Ruin's AI will 
 not only punish you for making a mistake, it will beat you down and grind you into the dirt. However, 
 despite the punishing difficulty, I still enjoyed Advance Wars: Days of Ruin immensely. It does 
 a lot of things right, and even more things very well. This is an experience not to be missed for 
 strategy-loving DS owners.
  
  Days of Ruin takes place in a post-apocalyptic world. The Earth has been hit by a cataclysmic meteor 
 shower that killed billions and blotted out the sun for weeks. Miraculously, some people still 
 survived, but the world still dissolved into chaos. Small groups of people band together in a desperate 
 effort to survive and bandits raid villages and kill people at will. In addition, humanity is unable 
 to band together under the deplorable conditions, and old wars are still fought between countries. 
 As if this weren't enough, a malevolent force is thriving in this grim world. Mysterious diseases 
 spread, and strange robot-like troops stalk the earth. All-in-all, humanity is in a bad spot.
 
  
  There is still hope, however. This is where you come in. You will follow the story of a young boy 
 survivor named Will. Before the meteor strike, Will was training to be a soldier at the Rubinelle 
 military academy. After weeks of exertion following the meteors, Will finally digs himself out 
 of the rubble of the academy, only to be assaulted by raiders who call themselves "roaches." Fortunately, 
 he is saved by Brenner and Lin, members of the 12th battalion of the once-mighty Rubinelle army. 
 Will joins the battalion, and the adventure begins. At the game's beginning, the aforementioned 
 bandits will be your main enemy. As the game progresses, you will be fighting other armies and 
 a mysterious, seemingly-neutral side who will deploy super weapons and mysterious tactics. The 
 story is really sublime. There are many plot-twists and surprises - friends will die, allies will 
 turn on you, and beneath it all lies a supreme struggle in the characters to cope in this new world 
 and find oneself.
  
  Unfortunately, the writing in this game is simply not strong enough or serious enough to fit the 
 grim new feel. These characters have lost everything; all their family and friends are dead. Yet 
 they show no remorse other than the occasional comment on their deplorable situation. If the characters 
 had been given some heartbreaking lines or flashbacks, the story could have taken on a whole new 
 dimension and tugged on the ol' heartstrings a bit. Perhaps the most sensitive of us would have 
 even shed a tear. I can't help but feel that the story, while great, could have been an instant 
 classic if the characters had been more believable and "real"
  
  The game itself is a turn-based strategy game. In battle, you will move units across a map, attack 
 other units, and capture factories and cities. The units all have personal strengths and weaknesses. 
 For example, helicopters will destroy tanks or infantry, but fighters or anti-air units will take 
 them down quite easily. Likewise, subs are great against all naval units except for frigates, which 
 destroy them easily, and tanks are good against other armored units, but weak when battling larger 
 tanks or bombers. This system of battle takes a lot of type-trumping strategy. Knowing when to 
 press on and when to fall back, or when to build boats and when to build tanks takes a lot of practice 
 and skill. 
  
  In addition to the core gameplay are several more elements. In each battle you will be assigned 
 (or in the case of multiplayer, choose) a CO. Each CO has special boosts and powers that are applied 
 when it enters a unit on the battlefield. Some COs simply give attack and defense boosts. Others 
 will allow their units to be unaffected by weather or just boost air units. These boosts affect 
 every unit within the "CO Zone," an area on the map surrounding the CO unit. In addition to the 
 CO zone and affects, each CO has a CO Power. By destroying units on the battlefield, your CO Gauge 
 will fill. When it fills to the top, you can activate your CO power. Sometimes this changes the 
 weather condition; other times it changes the stats of a certain group of units. While the CO power 
 is useful sometimes, it has been downgraded considerably from previous Advance Wars games and no 
 longer will change the course of the battle instantaneously. Other factors like weather conditions 
 and terrain types can also affect a battle.
  
  One word to describe Days of Ruin's gameplay is "layered." On top of the core gameplay lies many 
 elements, like CO affects and different weather conditions. Thus, the strategic experience is a 
 deeper and a lot harder than it first appears.
  
  A lot harder is the key phrase in that last sentence. In fact, Days of Ruin is a game that is often 
 too hard for it's own good. The enemy AI punishes you severely for the slightest mistake, and said 
 mistake can sometimes cost you a mission in one fell swoop. The difficulty curve is a roller-coaster 
 ride, too. The game starts off easily enough, but then hard missions will come out of the gloom 
 like a brick wall, and you'll slam into them with a resounding crunch and the unwelcome sight of 
 a "Mission Failed" screen. eventually, you'll beat that hard mission and enjoy another easy run 
 of two or three missions before the process starts all over again. It's only at the game's end 
 that you will start to feel that the difficulty is evening out, but even then the finale is considerably 
 harder than it's predecessors.
  
  As for Days of Ruin's visuals, they fit the game's tone perfectly. The presentation has a grim, 
 grimy feel, from the dusty, ragged wasteland dotted by ruined buildings and burned-out tanks that 
 appears on the game's title screen, to the dark purple-and-gray battle environments. The maps themselves 
 look pretty nice, but not overtly so. While the terrain and units are nicely done and detailed, 
 neither stick out as awesome. What is awesome are the game's "cut-scenes." I put cut-scenes in 
 quotation marks because they aren't cut-scenes in the usual sense of the word. Instead, they are 
 basically static pictures of characters with text bubbles. What is impressive is that the character 
 pictures' facial expressions shift with the dialog. Another thing that is very impressive about 
 the game's cut-scenes happens only when a major plot-twist is going on. When these do happen, they 
 are a beautiful sight. What they are are hand-drawn pictures, and they are a sight to behold. In 
 particular, the one that appears in the game's final moments will make your eyes pop open, and 
 when it fades into whiteness you will want to replay the last chapter again just to see the awe-inspiring 
 shading and colouring. Major kudos to the game's developer, Intelligent Systems, for adding in 
 this under-appreciated aspect of the game. They bring a new dimension to the game's story-telling 
 and breath life into cut-scenes that otherwise could have been boring. In addition to these beautiful 
 drawings, the overworld map is surprisingly detailed, and from the coutures of the world shown 
 underneath the chapter selection to the dark dust clouds that constantly move over the map, even 
 the over-world has the detailed feeling that matches the rest of the game. Overall, Days of Ruin's 
 great visual art style is a definite change of pace to previous entries in the series, and I believe 
 that it's a good one.
  
  Sound plays a surprisingly large part in Days of Ruin. The music is honestly some of the best I've 
 ever heard in a video game, and it is especially impressive that the quality is so good when it's 
 coming from the DS's tinny little speakers. Each CO in the game has their own theme. They are all 
 different, and all great. From the rock theme of Will to the flute melody of Isabella to the funky 
 pop of Penny, each tune has a catchy beat that will be stuck in your head long after you turn off 
 your DS. Sound effects are great, too. All the explosions sound nice, and the general effects, 
 like the sounds when you capture bases and move units, get the job done. What really takes the 
 sound above and beyond all expectations is the fantastic music, though. As I haven't played any 
 other of the Advance Wars games, I'm not sure how much of the sound is recycled, but when it's 
 this good it really shouldn't matter.
  
  On top of it's great visuals, sound, gameplay, and story, Days of Ruin is sure to last you a long 
 time. The campaign is lengthy, and can take anywhere from 15 hours for the most seriously skilled 
 to 30 hours for more casual players, and even after the you beat the campaign there are the many 
 side missions, online play, and the ability to design your own maps. I've clocked almost 50 hours 
 myself, and I'm still playing online and doing the extra missions.
  
  All things considered, this game is simply a must-own for any DS owners that like strategy games, 
 and a game that should definitely be taken into consideration by any DS owner. The difficulty will 
 be a definite turn-off for many, and some fans of the series may not like the new, gritty look, 
 but underneath the grim feel remains the same old Advance Wars. If you do choose to purchase Days 
 of Ruin, worry not about getting ripped off. Some will clock over a hundred hours in this game, 
 and more casual gamers will get at least 40, which is pretty nice for a $35 price tag. A review 
 can all be condensed to one, simple question: is this game worth your money? And I can answer with 
 a resounding yes.
  
  Round-up:
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Story: 9.0
  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9.5
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Days Of Ruin is one of the best TBS games for the DS. This game was great for the 
 price I payed for it.
  
  Story 
  
  The story in AWDOR is pretty good from my point of view. But the whole cutesy virus was pretty 
 lame in its own right (growing flowers out of you is a pretty bad fake virus.) But beyond that 
 the story really keeps it bleak and gloomy. The world is suppose to have been destroyed by meteors 
 and the remaining few are fighting to save the world or using this time to conquer the world.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in this game is very good for a TBS game. Having tanks heliocopter and battleships 
 to command is pretty cool but also very hard. The A. I in AWDOR is very hard in some points and 
 very easy in others makeing it hard to keep a steady pace in this game. The A. I exploits your weakness 
 early on in the game and keeps at it untill you lose. But the overall gameplay will keep you having 
 fun and the Skirmish feature will help you get over the difficulty.
  
  Sound 
  
  Another goodside to this game is the sound. Having metal music in this game keeps the war like 
 feel up.
  
  Graphics
  
  The Graphics in AWDOR is pretty good for DS standards. And the 2D animations are fairly clean for 
 the most part.
  
  Conclusion
  
  If your big into TBS games and or youve been a fan of the series I highly recommend this game. 
 But for the impatint gamer or lack TBS strategy experince this is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I1yodsyo1I
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series has taken a large step in the multiplayer feature with the re; ease of Advance 
 Wars: Days of Ruin.
  
  Changes:
  1. Gone is the characters that we knew in the previous installments, replaced by a new cast.
 
  2. Gone is the story, instead the story is now apocalyptic, with humanity struggling to survive.
 
  3. Single-Player has been scaled back, so no more time-attack mode, no dual screen battles, no 
 versus mode against coms, etc...
  4. Multiplayer is now online, and chat is availiable between friends.
  5. CO powers have less 
 effect on the outcome of battle.
  
  Campaign:
  1. 26 missions total
  2. The story is about the 12th Battalion of Rubinelle, who are trying to save people from the destruction 
 of the meteorites, who have killed off 90% of the population. Throughout the campaign, The 12th 
 Battalion must fight the Lazurians (who later join you) , The New Rubinelle army, and Intelligent 
 Defense Systems (The main enemy in the game) .
  3. Along with the main campaign, there are trial missions that test your skill.
  
  Free Battle:
 
  1. Many classic maps return for Days of Ruin, such as Bean Island.
  2. Design Maps also appear here, included trraded maps.
  3. You can play against the com or against 
 other people online (in Nintendo WFC)
  
  Extras:
  1. A music player is available to listen to the music in the game.
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charelz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've been missing out for the last 7 years. I just got this a couple of days ago & i cant believe 
 how much Nintendo packed on one ds card. The campaigns also not as hard as gamespot says it is, 
 I guess its because I'm a Disgaea fan, but the extra mission/training are long & difficult. I have 
 nothing to say about wi-fi though, because I dont have it. I havent used the level editor yet but 
 thats cool that the game has one. The sounds okay, most of the tunes are pretty catchy. I love 
 the units, all of the units are useful and fun to use. The one thig though that I dont like is 
 the dialogue, the story is interesting, but the dialogue sucks. So all I have to say is strategy 
 fans, buy this!
  
  
  
  The good: lots of content, level editor (always a plus) , okay sound, lots of cool units
  
  The 
 bad: boring dialogue, campaigns a little easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeUchihaCMF
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  the game totally plows all of its predecessors out of the water and into the galaxy. the game comes 
 back in the fourth number in the series with upgraded graphics, new units, slight adjustments to 
 older untis, new COs, a new way of using and filling the CO power bars, wi-fi online battles and 
 trading maps with others, more slots for custom maps, brand new storyline starts off as a group 
 off newly formed survivors from the apocalyptic metor strom lokking for survivors and fighting 
 raiders and then changes into a war of honor with a power-hungry dictator and a terrifying disease 
 in which ppl start sprouting flowers from thier body and evetually dying a slow painful death. 
 the roots and stems of the flower are inside thier flesh, inside thier eyes, and worst of all they 
 have found evidence that the disease was created by humans (well mayb not humans but somthing with 
 the technology, resources and brains.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Days of Ruin is the latest and hardest turned based strategy game in the Advance Wars franchise. 
 It's about falling asteroids that bombard Earth, and leaves all of the cities on the Earth in ruins. 
 
  
  There are many characters in this game such as: 
  
  Will, he's one of the survivors from the asteroid attack and the first character you see in this 
 game. Brenner, he saves Will from the savage Beast that is bringing havoc among the survivors. 
 Lin, Brenner's loyal comrade, she is also very well skilled with recon. Plus many more characters 
 after her.
  
  There's this power called Co. power. These powers are different from one another, depending on 
 the character you're using. Example, if you play as Lin and get the opportunity to use the Co. 
 power, she'll give all of your ground units +2 vision.
  
  The story has 26 campaign missions, there are also training missions that are unrelated to the 
 story. The writing isn't as good as you think, it's doesn't do that good of a job to support the 
 grim look and feel of the game.
  
  Even though the campaign is too hard and the writing isn't that good, Days of Ruin's multi-player, 
 is a different story. I've never had a multi-player experience like that in my life.
  You can create and share your created maps online, and on top of that, you can pown people from 
 Japan. 
  
  Back onto how hard the campaign is.
  It is so hard that unless you're a strategy genius, you'll come running to Ign. com faster then 
 you can say, "This game is too hard for me!" two-hundred in seven times in a row.
  
  Advance Wars is for anyone that wants to throw their DS at the wall. I'm not saying this is a bad 
 game, I'm saying it's a hard game. 
  
  I give it 4 thumbs out of 5.
  
  P. S. I would've used stars but they were already taken.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostat
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  I've had a chance to play a friend's copy of this game and yes, I'm going to buy my own copy this 
 week.
  
  I've enjoyed played the Advance Wars games ever since the first one was released on the GBA console 
 some years ago. I've always absolutely loved the Advance Wars games, and its possibly my favourite 
 game franchise of all time (other perhaps, than the Mario Kart games on the GBA & DS) .
  
  This is the game that led me to later becoming a "Civilization" addict. I love turn-based strategies, 
 probably because I've always been a chess-player.
  
  So, its a new game, with new COs, powers and so on. The graphics are more muted but still good. 
 I'm 32 years old now so I'm content that the graphics aren't so cartoon-ish with this release, 
 although I enjoyed the bright primary tones of the previous games.
  
  I'm really excited about the Wi-Fi... with voice chat! I was sorry the first DS Advance Wars: Dual 
 Strike didn't have this option, so its fantastic its here now and I look forward to playing some 
 tricky online games with it.
  
  I notice the GameSpot official review rated this significantly lower than the "AW: Dual Strike" 
 release. OK, fair enough, not a huge amount here we haven't seen before, but if it ain't broke 
 then don't fix it. And let's face it, there was very little "broken"? before.
  
  I have to give it a 9.5, room for some improvements still (balancing could still be tweaked) but 
 its very well produced and is enormous fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The story is awful. Just like the time I crash my car into a train and killed dozens, it is just 
 plain awful. However, I get to that crap later. 
  
  I want to talk about the game!
  
  From the very first battle, the game grabs your balls with a vice-like grip and never lets go. 
 The gameplay is so addictive that you just can't stop, despite it's overwheleming difficulty at 
 times (well, more like: ALL THE TIME) . This was my first Advanced Wars game, and it certanly dose 
 live up to the reputation I heard all about. 
  The campaign is sweet all-around.
  The multi-player works the exact same way, and works pretty damn well, too.
  
  Ah.. one thing 
 I need to get out of the way:
  STORY.
  It sucks.
  Here we go.
  The world is in a post-apoctolypic state (how original!)
  There is this dofus you play as.
 
  There is a bad guy.
  He gay.
  You kill him because he is gay.
  You do other crap.
  You kill more bad guys (yes, they were all gay)
  You watch words go up.
  You go back to the 
 main menu and play it all over again!
  
  So there you have it.
  The game is pretty sweet.
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Days of Ruin is my first Advance Wars game. I know, I'm late to another party. Anyway, In Days 
 of Ruin I had plenty of fun for a bit, with the point and click style of gameplay being refreshing 
 to see, having played games such as Starcraft or Heroes of Might and Magic prior. However, Advance 
 Wars: Days of Ruin has a difficulty curve the likes of which I haven't seen, and this nearly killed 
 the game for me.
  
  If you're as green of a commander as I am, rest assured in knowing that the basics of strategy 
 titles are here. You must obtain resources and construct units in order to crush the opposition 
 by any means. Here, you have access to many different kinds of land, air, and naval units. In order 
 to move, or attack, or do anything really, you can just use the touch screen in a point and click 
 fashion. There is a button configuration if you have no stylus at the moment. 
  
  Graphically, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is never meant to look impressive. Sprites represent the 
 unit at a finer detail than you'd have seen on the GBA, while not looking too far advanced from 
 that point. The game makes a few nice uses of the two screens, mainly to show the battles on those 
 two screens. 
  
  Sound for this war game is, well, explosive. You'll hear plenty of chinks and booms, but nothing 
 ever earth shattering or very crowded. So rest assured, chances are those around you won't even 
 know a war is going on near them. 
  
  Despite my problems with the difficulty, the Wi-Fi multiplayer modes and quick session modes did 
 keep me entertained for an extra jolt. However, I'd only advise playing Wi-Fi when you have the 
 time, as a single game can take a long while to complete (it is turn based after all!) . 
  
  So, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a very good war title with seperate exhibition missions, but 
 the difficulty may lead some in the cold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShanghaiKid2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Many changes were made to this newest addition of the Advance Wars series. I'll state the bad things 
 first. The story is darker than its precursors and is not a game for children and I miss having 
 control of two or more COs. Other than that, I like this game more than the others. The story is 
 far better than its predecessors despite its darker tone. I believe its the first Advance Wars 
 with a bit of a love story. I feel this game doesn't want us to embrace wars and see it as fun 
 such as the earlier games. However, the game is still very fun to play. The CO zone is a very cool 
 addition to the game and CO powers don't seem ridiculously overpowered like they were before. The 
 new units didn't have an awful lot to add, but they were fun. The bike was awesome to capture cities, 
 dusters were a cheaper way to take out copters and bombers, and the best new unit was the anti-tank 
 which is essentially a tank destroying artillery unit that can counter direct attacks. It has a 
 difficult campaign as always but not as daunting as previous entires in the series. I have not 
 tried the multiplayer yet but I'm sure it will be strong.
  
  Summing up this review, great story and campaign, fun, slightly altered gameplay, and fun new units 
 make up this game as well as wireless multiplayer. If you are a fan of the Advance Wars series 
 and more mature as well, this game is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlgtiby67
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  If you have played any of the previous Advance Wars games and you enjoyed them at least a little 
 bit, you will enjoy this one as well. With that being said if you played Advance Wars: Dual Strike 
 and you are wondering if this is any better? Stick with AW: DS because this one is about the same 
 but has a lot of what was liked, removed. CO powers if you remember those are almost completely 
 diminished. The system works as your main CO can go into a vehicle of your choosing and make it 
 stronger. There is no cool Lightning Strike from Eagle or anything of the sort. This pushes the 
 battle into a less compelling game play. There are rankings among units which does increase their 
 individual power. If my tank kills a bunch of other units it will rank up till rank V which gives 
 it an advantage over other basic tanks in power and defense. This is probably the only new interesting 
 aspect to this Advance Wars game. There is no leveling up of characters to obtain a possible four 
 bonus attributes to a CO. This dulls it down even more. There are about 300 medals to obtain which 
 are nearly the exact same ones from AW: DS. The story is vaguely interesting with of course completely 
 new characters in a completely unrelated story to that of previous installments. Overall this game 
 is a lackluster version of Advance Wars: Dual Strike. Save your money and stick with the previous 
 one, unless you are an Advance Wars fanatic, this one isn't going to satisfy you like the last 
 one did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Years have gone by and intelligent systems have produced many advance wars games each with their 
 own merits but sort of falls of with their latest installment. This is not to say that the game 
 is not a great game but considering that previous advance wars games were the driving forces for 
 the strategy games on the handheld consoles this one does not quite drive the DS anywhere that 
 game is reserved for the previous installment Advance Wars: Dual Strike.
  
  Unlike previous games this one decides to take the happy-go lucky style of the previous installments 
 and instead add a dark, gloomy portrayal to the otherwise astounding strategy gameplay. The story 
 pits you in the shoes as an up and coming commander who is pitted knee deep in a war between two 
 rival factions. In the midst off all this a disease known as the "Green Thumb" infects people on 
 the already dying planet (which is unspecified) adding to the already massive chaos. As this civil 
 chaos erupts you are pit among your once thought allies and forge alliances with unlikely CO's.
 
  
  This makes the game sound more like a war novel than a game and in some sense it is. It is very 
 dramatic but can be surprisingly engaging. The more you play with the commanders the more you can 
 grow to like them but this can go one of two ways
  
  The game's main character, Will, is really a hit-or-miss type with some people liking him while 
 others finding him to be straight annoying. Captain Brenner on the other hand who is the revolution 
 captain who takes you (Will) in is definitely the most memorable character of the game and the 
 story does great justice to the character. There is no voice acting and the sound of weapons, etc. 
 is the same from previous games in addition to new weapons.
  
  The gameplay system has not been drastically revamped but it has been altered in a few ways mainly 
 with the balance of units. The new addition are units like the duster which is an all around air 
 unit or the War Tank which can shell out some serious damage depending on the situation or the 
 invaluable Flare which can light the way in a "Fog Of War". It also adds to the fray the action 
 of "Strength in numbers" which the previous games did not touch too much upon. What this means 
 is that times where you find yourself with a large amount of weak units against a small amount 
 of strong units you have a better chance of winning as opposed to in previous game where it was 
 more dependant on strength than in number.
  
  This also adds a layer of newfound strategy to original gameplay but this is not to say the battles 
 are unrealistic an example being a foot soldier squad defeating a half-health war tank but instead 
 10 foot soldier squads doing enough damage to take it out in a turn or two. 
  
  Difficulty has been given a new meaning in AW: DOR as it can range from easy to down-right maddening 
 even for veterans. In this light the game contradicts itself as the limit of Co Powers made to 
 appeal to newcomers (making everything focus on strategy) is cut out by the game's difficulty. 
 As to Co Power, they have been dumbed down significantly and this is not for the better but more 
 for the worse. As the powers are not as powerful as previous installments it takes away some of 
 the biggest highlights and most of the flavor from the game. The ability to change the tide of 
 battle with a single button made for an amazing concept and proved to live up to its worth in actual 
 gameplay so the idea to dumb it down will definitely come as a let down to some of the fans. There 
 is also no motivation to really use Co Powers because they are so un-useful and many times will 
 not do anything to turn the tide of a battle.
  
  The graphics are different as well featuring dark, gritty landscapes and hand drawn looking templates 
 as opposed to colorful, lush landscapes that were consistent with the other games. Of course this 
 change was not unwarranted as it fits into the context of the story but it makes it that much drearier 
 when CO's try to look for the best in a situation only to be reminded of the landscape.
  
  I am a big fan of the series and have beaten every single game but this one is a bit shorter than 
 the rest and can take a master strategist under 12 hours to complete but do keep in mind that this 
 will be unlikely for everyone else as the difficulty is punishing in many areas. The new look and 
 feel to the series is not unwarranted but for many veterans and newcomers alike the dark tone of 
 the story might not be the story they were looking for, but gameplay wise Intelligent systems continues 
 to stay strong on the DS as this is one game that strategy fans will not be disappointed with.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flipyap28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Days of Ruin/Dark Conflict has changed its style from Advance Wars Dual Strike but 
 it will still keep you addicted just like any other Advance Wars.
  
  Game play: The game has a campaign which can keep you playing for hours as you not only play through 
 an interesting story mode but will let you play through a load of bonus missions called trials. 
 The story mode set in a world which is in ruin by meteor showers during a long war is a new and 
 mature story compared to the previous games will teach you the basic rules of how to play Advance 
 Wars. The game play is much more balanced compared to previous games as CO powers have been lowered 
 to not give players a huge advantage. Apart from story there is free battle which lets you choose 
 maps to play against the computer, a design room for making your own maps which has improved massively 
 since Dual Strike with 50 save slots, a CO colour editor, history for keeping a record of what 
 you have done, and mutiplayer which now wi-fi is another great thing about the game.
  
  Graphics: The new graphics and the darker tone give the game a nice look and a new zoom feature 
 lets you manage your units in the old classic way or closer up to your units.
  
  Sound: The games music is more heavy compared to previous games but is still just as nice to listen 
 to while playing. The sounds of guns and your units are similar to previous games but this is not 
 a bad thing.
  
  Value: Advance Wars Dual strike may have more stuff to do and unlock but Advance Wars Days of Ruin/Dark 
 Conflict still has lots of stuff to do for its money's worth.
  
  Advance Wars Days of Ruin/Dark Conflict is an excellent choice for a strategy game whether you 
 are new to Advance Wars or Not.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: technowiz999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  First off the music and sound are spectacular as usual and the interface has all improved slightly. 
 The game play is still solid. Its unoriginal but why mess with a good thing. The campaign is punishingly 
 difficult at times and can take many tries and a dented DS from throwing it around to beat certain 
 levels. The touch screen can be fun to use, but when u misplace that first unit and cant undo it 
 you will never use it again. 
  
  The new CO powers are virtually useless. The CO zone on units ranges from 1-3 and gives a power 
 boost to units within the range. However, the range of 2 on most CO's is just big enough to put 
 your CO unit in danger and get it destroyed before you manage to rack up the number of attacks 
 necessary. You also don't get more of a CO charge when you get attacked, only when attacking. Even 
 if you do manage to get your power charged up, most CO powers are ineffective and really don't 
 change the tide of a battle. Many offer movement boosts or a vision range increase. The few good 
 ones like +3 to all units don't come with attack boosts and still don't help with that final push.
 
  
  A major reason why the mechanics are so screwed up on this Advance Wars, is how defensively the 
 land units are based. With the addition of anti-tank units that can use indirect or direct fire 
 can cripple even the best forces. Tanks do little damage to these units and take huge damage which 
 is only natural from an anti-tank unit. However, with the removal of any super strong and expensive 
 tanks like the Neotank, the strongest forces can have trouble breaking through a choke hold defense. 
 A few rockets and several anti-tanks can stop any force that doesn't have large naval or air forces 
 to back it up. 
  
  As far as naval and air units go they are much more balanced. Though the new duster unit does huge 
 damage to basic aircraft and reasonable damage to weaker land units while not taking damage from 
 tanks and infantry. On the naval side a new anti-ship unit can break through a defense quickly 
 but costs a bit much for its low defense and one-shot capabilities.
  
  The poor game play mechanics on this game make it impossible to crush a well defended player and 
 there is never an element of fear. I like the feeling of "OMG a Neotank is coming!!!" and scrambling 
 to build up some meager defenses at the last minute. The new multiplayer mode also is a nice addition, 
 but seems underdeveloped. The same goes with the close up mode. You get a different look at each 
 unit, but lose the big picture view. This would be beneficial if units were hard to distinguish 
 in the zoomed out mode, but units look obviously different in both modes. Both new modes seem like 
 an afterthought. All in all it is still the same old Advance Wars but the exciting elements seem 
 to have been toned down way too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastcoast93
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Days of Ruin arrives with a great cover and manual.... At first i knew nothing about 
 the series but after hearing so much good from you guys i decided to give it a chance. So i went 
 to the next gamestop and bought this not expecting too much.... Yes- i was a bit scared that it 
 would not cover the price but i risked it. I opened the cover and put in the game. First checked 
 all the functions and options and gamemodes....
  
  Well you have --
  
  Campaign
  Quick free play
  Multicard Wireless matches
  Wifi World matches against strangers
  Wifi friendcode 
 matches
  map editor
  map store online ( all free)
  map trading possibilities
  
  Lets start with the campaign you begin as a boy called Ed in the european version and survive this 
 big attack.... i wont tell more but just this ---- The story is a blast.. kept in this dark theme, 
 searching for survivors it fits in perfectly and i never wanna stop reading the dialogues.... then 
 you begin and have to do mission after mission, difficulty noot changeable... there are some bonusmissions... 
 difficulty rising throughtout campaign...
  
  online modes are fun and it is very cool to play this roundbased strategical game with other real 
 people. lots of maps over 100 with lots of downloadable ones and self made ones. you can upload 
 your maps send them to friends, receive some or get them online all free. besides you can change 
 colour of commanders. free play which is great can be played with up to 4 players 2 vs 2, 3 vs 
 1 free choosable. all of this with real players taking their turns on one ds... wireless play needs 
 a card for each ds
  
  so all in all fun game highly addictive if you know the series must go if you liek strategic games 
 also... get it rent it just play it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sakura_Burst
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I never thought Nintendo would do a darkly-themed series like this. But done it they have and it 
 is very, very good. Those who have played the first three games might miss the 'cute warfare' feel, 
 but the darker theme in Days of Ruin is just an enjoyable.
  
  The campaign is hard, especially on the later levels, but it is possible if you have some patience, 
 though those with a short temper should probably stay away -- some of the levels are pretty frustrating, 
 but this just makes it all the more satisfying when you finally beat the game. The storyline is 
 far more mature than the last few games and more enjoyable and involving. The War Room has been 
 lost (which is a bit of a bad thing) and has been replaced with numerous 'Training Missions which 
 you unlock throughout the campaign. There's also dozens of skirmish maps that will keep you and 
 some willing victims busy for some time, and you can even design your own maps (which is fun in 
 and of itself, let me tell you!) . The multiplayer is a LOT better now that WiFi is available, but 
 multi-card play and pass-the-DS games are still just as enjoyable.
  
  Players of Advance Wars 1 through 3 are also going to have to get used to having greatly weakened 
 CO powers which makes this game work much, much differently. On the positive side, though, your 
 CO can actually get out there and cause some hell now, which is a very-much welcome addition to 
 the game and helps offset the reduced CO abilities. Your units also gain experience now, which 
 makes target selection more interesting should I go for the full-health rookie tank, or the weakened 
 veteran one?
  
  The biggest negative is the loss of the Battle Maps shop, which makes unlocking new COs and maps 
 far less satisfying. There also aren't many AI difficulty settings (minor detail, really, because 
 the standard AI is quite good) and not all that many Cos (and they could have added a few more 
 quiet easily we'll just have to wait for Advance Wars 5, I suppose) . The units are also much closer 
 together in terms of health and firepower, so there won't be anymore Neo-Tank rampages (which is 
 good and bad, depending on which side of the rampage you were usually on)
  
  Most of the negatives are superficial, though, and the unit and CO changes help to set this game 
 apart from the last three. After all, if you want more powerful COs and units, just go grab Advance 
 Wars 2 or Dual Strike and start playing. The loss of the War Room is offset by the WiFi connectivity 
 (which is AWESOME) and the very-satisfying campaign. 
  
  All-in-all, Days of Ruin is a fresh and worthy addition to the series and is definitely worth getting, 
 whether you're an Advance Wars fan or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg_lover_freak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best and only strategy games i've played 
  
  i rate my games by.....
  
  genre 
  overall
  series (if its a sequel)
  
  this is an 
 amazing game as i said not to kill for but really good 
  
  in the genre section this is one of the best strategy games probably ever. why? well if its not 
 the idea that war is a bit more serious and 2 because this game can utterly stun you in its plot. 
 the idea of this strategy games is fa nominal but the one thing that kills it is it can get boring 
 or you get stuck in the same area (like 14) . if you are on a road trip this is for you; that you 
 well need weather its playing against all odds and barely managing to come through in the fight 
 for liberty and stop tyranny. or you are going all out and facing some crazeed freak who think s 
 he/she can beat you. and finally thank you intelligent systems for making this game more serious 
 with swearing and better more war like theme not happy go lucky. 
  
  the thing that is expert in this is not the game it self but the music
  omfg this game saved 
 me so many times cuz i am in a class where kids are insain and this game has music where you just 
 feel so alive...
  
  rpg score
  9.0/10.0
  
  
  
  series wise this game is original this was the first rpg and even if I'm wrong i have not played 
 the other game (s)
  series ?.?/10.0
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  overall the idea of tilt is spot on, music max points, if graphics could be boosted any more i 
 would do so, game play is amazing, and value well its spot on, but the difficulty is defiantly 
 high too high, and scenes are kind of boring maybe turn it into movie clips rather than stationed 
 clips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a turn based Strategy (the only kind of strategy) that is based on 
 modern day warfare but in a grim future where the earth is left in ruins by a meteor.
  
  This game in my opinion is a failed attempt of removing some of the flaws from Dual Strike. It 
 has less than half of the selectable Characters, some units have been way overpowered (battleship 
 + anti-tank) plus they removed the shop which you were able to buy new Characters and maps for 
 multiplayer.
  
  However, I like some of the "improvements" in this installment. irstl, this game has a more mature 
 presentation and is not cartoonish like its predecessor. The music is tonnes better, I just love 
 those Rock songs that cut loose. I also feel that the campaign has improved quite alot, it has 
 a better storyline, and is longer.
  
  Pros: Lovely new presentation, all mature, awesome music
  
  Cons: unbalanced power in units, 
 Less add-on features, dramatic loss in characters, way less rewarding with no incentive to collect 
 all the maps and Characters.
  
  Closing Comments: So even though this game is worse i still think it deserves a decent grade, and 
 I still think it should be snapped up by its buyers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solori
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Days of Ruin provides a streamlined version of Advanced Wars. The developers claim that they had 
 to simplify DOR in order to add online multiplayer. They also wanted to simplify it so that it 
 would be accessible to more people. This makes DOR the least challenging AW game in the series. 
 
  
  1. CO system 
  
  The most drastic streamlining was done to the CO system. Gone are the cool CO powers of the old 
 games. Instead, you have to pay $ to make a CO. The CO will join any unit you want. The CO will 
 move like any other unit that is its type (e. g. tank, plane, boat/sub) with one difference -- there 
 is a field around the CO, usually one or two spaces. Any units who are placed within the CO field 
 receive a special bonus depending on which CO you are using. (Similar to the system found in Age 
 of Empires: Age of Kings.) 
  
  Some COs have a "super" CO power. But it is nowhere near the same as the super CO powers of the 
 other AW games. In fact, it takes such a long time to power up that you will rarely ever see it 
 being used. (I finished the Campaign and Trial Missions all with S ranks and I only saw the computer 
 use its super power twice)
  
  The new system makes the CO much less of a factor in battle. Since the COs are now more "balanced," 
 (i. e., more useless) , it makes the battles more drawn out. Not harder, just longer.
  
  Supposedly the new ability to level up units during a battle helps to compensate for the loss of 
 the CO powers. However, leveling units has almost no affect on the battle. 
  
  The new CO system doesn't break the game. But it does make it easier. 
  
  2. Storyline
  
 
  DOR was supposed to be darker and more realistic than the other AW games. It isn't. DOR delivers 
 the same kind of corny dialogue and situations that the other AW games have. (E. g., DOR has a doctor 
 who likes to crack bad jokes and an over-the-top bad guy who carries a teddy bear) . It just has 
 a different color scheme and different people than usual. And for some reason, they decided to 
 add more dialogue to DOR than they usually put in the AW games. You will be doing even more reading 
 than usual while playing DOR. (Note: you can skip the text by pressing start) . 
  
  3. Trial Missions  War Room or Hard Mode
  
  The biggest thing that is missing from the 
 single-player mode is the war room. Instead of the war room, there are 38 trial missions that you 
 unlock as you play the campaign. These missions are scored (C, B, A, S) but the game only tracks your 
 top score (not like the other games that show the top 3 scores.) 
  
  As with everything else in DOR, the scoring system has been "streamlined," meaning it is much easier 
 to earn an S rank in DOR than in any other AW game. (They drastically reduced the criteria for 
 obtaining an S in DOR) . 
  
  This is bad because the developers themselves claim that the scoring system is supposed to take 
 the place of the hard mode. Supposedly earning an S on a trial mission is the same as playing on 
 hard mode. But if it is not as hard to obtain an S in DOR as it is in the other AW games, how can 
 it be the same as having an actual hard mode? 
  
  Also, you cannot pick your CO when doing the trial missions in Campaign Mode. You are stuck playing 
 with the CO that the developers put into the missions.
  
  There is a Free Battle Mode that has the war room maps and the trial mission maps. You can choose 
 your CO (only the DOR COs) in this mode, but you don't receive a score after battle and it doesn't 
 keep track of your progress. The removal of the scoring system cuts down on the difficulty level 
 and the replayability. Half the fun of the other AW games was playing through all the war room 
 missions to see if I could get an S rank with all the COs. You can't do that in DOR.
  
  The lack of the war room makes DOR a much shorter game than the other AW games. However, for a 
 DS game, it is still a decent length. There are still a lot of maps. It just isn't as fun playing 
 through them without the scoring system. You'll have to decide for yourself if this is a deal breaker.
 
  
  4. Online Multiplayer
  
  I have not tried this mode. I don't play multi-player because I don't have the patience for it. 
 I like single-player because you can quit and save when the battle gets too long and come back 
 to it later.
  
  According to people who do play online, the online mode makes up for all the things that were cut 
 out of the single player mode. 
  
  5. Bottom line: 
  
  DOR is not the best game in the series, but it is still a good game. It does add some fun maps 
 to the series. Plus, the new CO system does require you to come up with new strategies. So it can 
 be seen as helping to keep the series from becoming stale. 
  
  While DOR's single-player mode could be better, it is still worth playing, even if you don't plan 
 on playing multi-player. 
  
  If I was just comparing DOR to the other AW games, it would definitely get a lower score than a 
 9.0. But since I am comparing DOR to all the other DS games out there, I feel it does deserve a 
 9.0. The worst game in the AW series is still better than almost all the other strategy games that 
 have been released for the DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peyton17
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars: Days of Ruin, is the best advanced war game out of all four. This game is revolutionary. 
 I send my greatest appreciation to the creators of Advanced Wars: Days of Ruin. The best feature 
 about the game's creation, is how the game requires the use of both screens, at all times. The 
 two screens allow the player to feel more comfortable, have a better feel of the game, and makes 
 the game less complicated, plus, more fun to play.
  
  The second best feature of the game is the storyline. Days of Ruin has a better storyline than 
 the rest of the Advanced Wars saga. The biggest surprise for me was the brand new involvement of 
 the CO with each individual battle. Along with the new use of the CO, is the new system of using 
 one's CO Power. The new system is hard for me to explain, to understand my reason requires you 
 to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Advance wars: Days of Ruin may not appeal to the veteran Advance wars user. They have made quite 
 a few changes that most might not like, including myself. But enough about the bad parts of it, 
 I'm here to talk about the good...
  
  Gameplay - 9.5 Same gameplay is still intact, but some of the good parts are missing from the previous 
 ones.
  
  Sound - 9.0 advance wars brings the same music over and over again. But personally, I love it.
 
  
  Graphics - 9.5 The best in the series, I'll tell you that.
  
  Value - 10 Like any advance wars game, the value is the best part of it, sucking out hours and 
 hours ... if not days, of your life with it's addictive charm...
  
  Overall 9.5 - Vets of AW, just give it a shot and eventually you will grow to love AW again. and 
 newcomers, I suggest playing Dual strike first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Why was I disappointed you might ask? Well the main reason is the fact that Intelligent Systems 
 should have incorporated some kind of dual screen feature since this is on the DS. Also, the level 
 of customization of your characters, purchasing maps, characters, mini-games and upgrades was amazing 
 on AW: DS but lacking in AW: DR. And while AW: DR has some features, the real big advancement is in 
 the online support. If you are an online player then this feature alone makes up for any shortcomings 
 I feel it has now.
  
  The story, as you have probably read by now, is a lot more grim and less cartoony in its description 
 of war. And to be honest I kind of appreciated that move by Intelligent Systems since war is not 
 glamorous and cutesy as shown in previous titles. I also liked the more gritty characters that 
 were shown, even though it still had its share of toony teenage angsts as CO's that lead armies 
 to battle.
  
  The graphics were nice and different from previous AW titles. But because they were more dirty 
 looking, you might not appreciate the changes to backgrounds from previous titles unless you had 
 played other AW games.
  
  Now when I first rented AW: DR it was my intention to buy it outright since I figured this would 
 be one of the titles I would enjoy playing on my DS. But for me, the lack of customization to characters, 
 loss of major CO powers that could turn a battle in your favor and characters I didn't really feel 
 an attachment too, made me decide to return the game.
  
  Oh, as a footnote I will mention that the lack of major CO-powers will be a boon for those that 
 want a more balanced game that is based off of your strategies as opposed to the CO you play with. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is a game made for strategists and is extremely difficult but this game is fun at points 
 you might give up on the game but eventually you will be able to beat the game thegame has improved 
 from the original ones with the addition of the new bike and duster units! it has great music and 
 the storyline is pretty cool and it follows up from recent advance wars game another thing is that 
 the gameplay hasn't changed from the old advance wars games which is a good or bad thing depending 
 on how you look at it has some of the old levels with new graphics and has over 100 free battle 
 missions and has 26 levels in story mode along with 24 trial missions and is fun to pick up and 
 play it's very addictive you won't want to put it down it has wi-fi which is great along with voice 
 chat to talk to your friends and you can also battle random people you can also download maps online 
 so the fun is never over and unlike the other games this game's CO's don't make a big change in 
 the battle unlike the other games when you could win immedialty if you got the CO powerwhich is 
 again good or bad depending on how you see it
  the only bad thing is that people disconnect online and that's it
  all in all absolutely great 
 game a must have for all game strategist out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty2991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game over-all, and definitely an amazing game if you have never played Advance Wars 
 before. The thing is, its combat look, in my opinion, is worse than the others, they just stand 
 and fire in one specific direction, while in the other Advance Wars, units would move forward and 
 look at their targets before engaging. At the same time there are only two different skins of units 
 compared to Advance Wars: Dual Strike's five skins of units, which made it disappointing to fight 
 the same looking army every battle, and have the same looking units. But besides the skins and 
 combat looks, the campaign is MUCH more fun than any other Advance Wars, with a much more complex 
 and sometimes saddening plot, it was really easy to get hooked to the game's characters. Also, 
 despite what Gamespot claims, it really does feel like the world has gone into appocolipse in the 
 game, and many people show their emotions really well, for simple character texts and animations. 
 Also the game feels more like a full scale war in general: mourning for the death of soldiers, 
 talk of politics, talk of blood and gore... and they actually use SWEAR words in this game, instead 
 of saying lame phrases like: "Black Hole army is a bunch of mean bullies." So, despite the animations 
 and skins, the rest of the game is very solid, and the online play works well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Days of Ruin for the DS
  
  Gameplay 10/10 x3
  Sound 10/10 x2
  Graphics 9/10 x2
  Storyline 8/10 x2
  Extra's and Replay Value 10/10 x1
  
  This game for 
 a stratagy game fan will blow you away and other players will get an amazing ride. This game allows 
 you to control an army with your commander and each commander has there own special power ups along 
 with units that also have there strengths and weaknesses. The game offers ships, tanks, bombers and 
 plenty more units from sky to sea to land. The games unique gameplay makes it interesting to stratagy 
 rpgs as you can't win with per power. Well of course you can if you overwhelm the enemy in odds, 
 but all your units have the same stats making it almost always a fair battle. Storyline offers 
 a rather basic story, but enjoyable none the less with crazy bad guys who really need brains or 
 some sanity. Still who can't say a little girl who lets mr. bear decide who to kill isn't fun lol. 
 Graphics are very sharp on the ds and the sprites are also solid. The only minor default would 
 have to be lack of emotions of characters, seeing the same sprite 90% of the time with no voices 
 either makes it kinda boring, or at least not as interesting. As I just said this game offers 0% 
 voice overs. Thats kinda not a surprise since most ds games don't but it makes up for it with some 
 killer music, as each commander as there own soundtrack when its there turn. The games main storyline 
 is 26 maps long, but outside the story offers 100+ maps to use and theres more you can make your 
 OWN maps. The game also offers wi-fi, but don't expect to get a challange from it as people have 
 no guts or something as they surrender within 10 days of the battle 90% of the time and its really 
 a pain in the butt, considering theres no real section showing how many wins or loses you got so 
 a surrender doesn't feel like a win and you get nothing from it either or at least I havn't seen 
 anything from it anyway. So I say stick to the cpu, as there not that predictable and are rather 
 smart compared to the brain deads on wi-fi it seems. This game brought me back to my DS from collecting 
 a life of dust since November and its even got me a bit interested in the system again. If Nintendo 
 can get more games out like this and less garbage like the ds likes to offer it may yet see more 
 play time and more games coming from my collection. Enjoy this game its a blast!
  
  Overall- 94/100 or 9.5 Gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SomeOddGuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The newest installment of the Advance Wars series opens up with a far darker storyline than any 
 of the titles before it in the series. With the idea of the entire world in a chaotic struggle 
 to survive during a post-apocalyptic era, it would put some of the past players of the series in 
 an uneasy state after following the happy-go-lucky trail the series had followed. Though regardless 
 that it has a darker storyline (and some swearing in the game) , almost all the charm is back. Comical 
 moments to put a smile on your face (or even make you laugh out loud) , the constant reminder of 
 hope trailing the characters, no matter the situation, and the separate minds of each individual 
 CO to give you the feeling that all those characters are real.
  
  Though not everything is great with the story. The storyline scenes seem to run a little more like 
 Intelligent System's other well famed Strategy title Fire Emblem, though I would suspect it should 
 make it better, regardless that the scenes do post-pone you from the action for as little as one 
 minute to seven looong minutes. (Thank you for the start button Nintendo!) Also, sometimes the constant 
 thought of hope with some of the characters really just gets dull after a while, with one of the 
 main characters, Will, constantly using a phrase, turning it from a catchy line to an over-used 
 cliche statement.
  
  The battle system and controls are just as good as they always were, if not better. The CO system 
 has been greatly balanced out, making it so that not one CO has a true advantage over the other 
 in battle. The online feature is really handy for those that want to face other people rather than 
 the CPU. The inclusion (and the absence) of several units really add more strategy involvement in 
 the game. Fog-of-War is now a bit easier to maneuver with the new Flare units, and quick travels 
 with the Bike units.
  
  The changing of the COs, however, would seem to disappoint many fans of the series, seeing how 
 the system seems to be a little more complex, probably a bit complex with the newcomers also. The 
 inclusion of only 12 playable COs is a big let down since that is less than half of the COs featured 
 in the previous installment on the DS. Though regardless that no CO may be truly stronger than 
 the other, the exception of the final CO really upsets the balance of the 'equal opportunity' rule. 
 The final COs CO range and stats is extremely over-powered that it would put all other characters 
 to shame if used properly. The Campaign mode seems to be rather difficult to complete, seeing how 
 the AI is greatly enhanced to do more 'thinking' than before in the previous titles of the series. 
 Some stages may actually seem impossible to finish, even with the helpful tips the game gives you 
 in-game to help you win.
  
  The Online is a great inclusion, but the map trading with random players just seems to be so limited. 
 All stages must be only 10 x 10 and have been completed in play at least once. This really sets 
 a serious limit to all those that make some tremendous maps larger than 10 x 10. At least friend 
 playing has as much freedom as the wireless play. Any type of map can be traded, and battles can 
 be on most any stage, with the inclusion of voice chat. (friends only though) And space is not an 
 issue when it comes to custom maps. There's 50 slots for custom maps to keep you company just in 
 case you feel a little creative.
  
  The graphics are fairly improved over the last DS title of the series. The darker atmosphere really 
 shows much more expression in the game, along with the 2-screen battle action to really show as 
 much of the battle as possible. Also the new character designs look fantastic, with their unique 
 new looks, though some of them creepy looking... Though in the battle map, the inclusion of the 
 zoom-in tool is a nice little feature to show more detail on the units, though it'll probably be 
 the least used of all the features in-game, since actions can be executed faster with the camera 
 zoomed out.
  
  The music is rather good this time around, featuring a completely new set of soundtracks instead 
 of recycling some of the past tunes. The Hybrid music is really attractive for the most part, though 
 it probably might turn some people to play the game muted with the soundtracks mostly heavy metal/classical 
 hybrids constantly playing in the background in the battlefield, depending on the CO. As from the 
 previous installments of the series, each CO has their own unique, individual theme song that plays 
 when you are on the battlefield. Though to some people, it might get old constantly hearing the 
 same theme song over and over again while playing the game.
  
  To wrap this game up, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a must-have title if you are a fan of Turn-based 
 Strategy games such as Fire Emblem or Final Fantasy Tactics, and a should consider title for the 
 others. With its good storyline and limitless possibilities on the battlefield, you should be able 
 to play this game for hours at a time and still be able to pick it back up the next day or so. 
 It should not disappoint with it's improved graphics and soundtrack list, not to forget about the 
 Online feature, which spans the possibilities worldwide for battling. This is one title that doesn't 
 disappoint.
  
  Storyline- 7/10
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  
  Controls- 10/10
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  
  Music- 8/10
  
  
  Overall- 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Chances are if you are reading this review you are interested in this game and have played an Advance 
 Wars game before. The newest installment, Day of Ruin, is the second Advance Wars game on the DS, 
 and the 4th installment in the series. How does this game fare compared to the other 3 terrific 
 titles?
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are more serious this time around. The game play graphics are the same as the DS version, 
 which is not a bad thing. The cut scenes look relatively better than the DS version, too. This 
 might be because it's more serious this time around, which I have always wanted. Nintendo has too 
 many "kiddy" titles, and I believe some should be more serious, like Advance Wars and Battalion 
 Wars. The environments are nice, the art is nice, and overall the graphics are very nice and certainly 
 get the job done.
  
  8.5/10- More realistic, but overall the same.
  
  Sound:
  
  Same as the graphics, the sound of this game is good. You have new tunes not in the installments 
 before, but you also have some memorable tunes. I really like the tunes in this game, but they 
 don't stick out. If you lower the volume all the way down, you still get the same experience with 
 it on. It's there, I like it, but it could be much better. It also gets the job done.
  
  8/10- Generic and gets the job done.
  
  Game play:
  
  Oh boy, if the game play was not 
 good then the series would have ended by now. The series is still alive and well. I love the game 
 play. It's something new that you don't find in many games. Take a break from all the shooters, 
 and enjoy some relaxing game play which makes you think. The controls are nice, like the Advance 
 Wars DS, so if you liked Advance Wars DS you will like Days of Ruin. It's very easy, create units, 
 move them with limited moving spaces, capture your enemies "properties". Very basic, very strategic, 
 very fun. It can get a little boring at times, but if your planning on buying this game you probably 
 already know how the game plays.
  
  9.5/10- Same game play we all know and love, but also sometimes boring.
  
  Replay Value:
 
  
  AWDS was PACKED, and I mean PACKED. Days of Ruin takes off some of the single player options from 
 AWDS and puts in a fantastic online feature. This also includes voice chat right from the DS microphone, 
 which is just amazing. Trust me when I say this, the online in this game is terrific. FCs are back, 
 but you can even chat with people over random play, and since this is a Nintendo title, this is 
 purely amazing. The shop feature is taken out, but online comes in. The Design Room allows you 
 to create your own maps, trade them over Wi-Fi. You can store up to 50 maps from Wi-Fi and your 
 created, which means this game is never ending. Although AWDS was packed in the single-player, 
 I would much rather have an online mode where it will last me forever.
  
  10/10- Will last forever with online.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall, this is a must for anyone 
 wanting a smart DS game. This game has everything anyone would want from an Advance Wars game, 
 and the wait was certainly worth it. Pick this one up, you will be happy you did.
  
  9.0/10- Good presentation, addicting game play, and will last you a long time to come. It's the 
 best Advance Wars game out there, what is not to like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc1oad1etter
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is a long time series that has built a fan base for two reasons, the game play is 
 fantastic and it appeals to many different kinds of people. The characters while cheesy were likable, 
 and after playing through the various games in the series you knew what to expect. 
  
  This latest installment however was a gamble that I think was a bad play for Intelligent Systems. 
 They've worked at balancing the game which is a good thing. Removing overpowered COs making them 
 far more vulnerable by requiring them to be in the field gives a very tactical air to the game 
 and takes things up a level. But instead of doing this with characters we've known for years, they've 
 removed them in favor of a bunch of characters we don't care about.
  
  I think this was on purpose. Why ruin the things we liked about the original advance wars stories 
 if the gameplay turned out to flop? Now they know that this balancing and changing around of units 
 and the way COs work is a good thing, they can implement this in another Advance Wars game that 
 goes back to the story that engaged us in the beginning. 
  
  The graphics in this game were both better and worse at the same time. I liked the units and the 
 new terrain ideas, but the style just wasn't that appealing. 
  
  The addition to WFC was awesome, but after a while I realized I'd rather be playing Dual Strike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The War series has been a famed series since it debuted here in America on the GBA. After three 
 installments on the handhelds from GBA to DS and two iterations on the GC and Wii, the War series 
 has certainly met favorable criticism from many for having a very in depth battle system with a 
 simple and easy to navigate interface.
  
  Most famous of the War iterations is the Advance series which are on the handhelds. The latest 
 game in the series is now upon us, and it's called Advance Wars Days of Ruin.
  
  While some may argue that the series could be running thin with minimal things to add and even 
 more so a fourth installment of the same characters is just beating a dead horse too long right? 
 Well... good thing then! Because Days of Ruin takes what you knew about the past series and turns 
 things around in some ways you wouldn't expect.
  
  Firstly, the gameplay is still pretty much the same. It's a turn-based warfare game where your 
 objectives usually revolve around surviving for a few days, destroying all enemy units or capturing 
 the HQ. So while it's true that part remains true, there are differences to note about the game 
 now..
  
  One of them is that CO powers are no longer almighty deity stopping powers that totally leave your 
 foe blindsided even if he was taking control of the game just before you initiated your powerful 
 CO powers.
  
  While some may yearn and whine that no longer can one bring blizzards, cause a torrential wave 
 to damage and drain fuel, or suddenly repair 3+ HP on all units and power them up, it's not a bad 
 thing really. Some of the powers do offer HP recovery, or increase indirect attack range, or movement 
 range, but nothing is show stopping powerful like in past games. They've been considerably toned 
 down, to make the gameplay rely more on strategic gameplay than rather waiting to initiate one's 
 almighty CO power and just abuse these powers to make a long drawn out war.
  
  Another thing one must mention about Days of Ruin, is that it no longer takes place in the same 
 world. Yes, so long to Sami, Max, Andy and crew. Black Hole is no longer the threat to deal with, 
 so likes of Hawke, Sturm, and the rest won't be found here either... instead you play a game where 
 the storyline takes a more mature and more darker approach.
  
  While it must be said, the storyline isn't perhaps the strongest point in the game, the characters 
 for the most part are fleshed out well enough in this game to give you an idea of who's who and 
 what each person's motives are.
  
  While some of you die hard fans (like me) may miss the old crew, I do think there are a few interesting 
 characters to realize in this game and hopefully they'll be expanded in the next series. (Do I 
 really have to guess there will be a new series?)
  
  Another thing about Days of Ruin's storyline is that is does away mostly with the sci-fi -ish themes 
 and anime over the top zany-ness of the past games in favore for more of a grittier and surreal 
 theme. 
  
  While it still does have a bit of that anime quirk, something pertaining to a virus that kills 
 it's victims by sprouting plants from the inside of it's body and blooming out the person killing 
 them.... (cause that sounds painful, right?) It still deals with other issues that are far more 
 serious in comparison to the past AW games.
  
  Storyline aside, AW still offers the same robust warfare strategy, and with new units like the 
 Duster (field-duster plane with machine gun attached) , the bike (new infantry unit with largest 
 movement range for it's type and can capture buildings) along with a few new surprises, Days of 
 Ruin does bring new elements that make room for newer and better or refined strategies from past 
 games.
  
  Well now, what AW brings in for the new, it doesn't do perfectly without losing some things in 
 the translation.
  
  For starters, you no longer have to unlock maps, there is no Map Shop to worry about, instead... 
 you are just given all of them to use at your disposal. Some may argue that it takes away the replay 
 value of the game, but that's perhaps all on one's own terms. 
  
  Another thing is, not all units are back. You will find that some units like Neotanks and Megatanks 
 are missing along with a few other sutble changes like how one cannot block ports, or how battleships 
 can now move and attack on the same turn. All in all, the gameplay is more refined and balanced, 
 but the loss of a few units may bring a tear to some eyes. 
  
  With that said though, AW DoR offers Wi-Fi support where you can battle friends and random peoples. 
 So now you can take the war online and also use the new Map Center to trade maps with friends, 
 send maps to a server and upload/download new maps to play. Though it must be mentioned there's 
 a limitation where map sizes can only ba 10x10 squares or less to be sent...
  
  With all that said and done, there's a reason AW remains one of the top TBS games on the handhelds. 
 It's easy to follow in, the game remains a good dose of challenge and all the while it can keep 
 you playing for a long time. 
  
  The lack of a map shop, hard mode, and even having fewer COs than Dual Strike, it doesn't quite 
 re-invent the series in the way one would hope... However the new changes and theme bring a refreshing 
 breeze into the series the keeps it from feeling worn out and tired as one would expect from the 
 FOURTH installment. Hopefully next time there is better online options (larger maps to send? And 
 play same made maps with friends maybe?) newer units and old units brought back could definitely 
 help keep this series on the frontline of greatness and no doubt remain a solid contender for TBS 
 for years to come. It is without a doubt that this game is well beyond worth the price tag you 
 will buy it for, as it will keep one lasting for long days to come and even sleepless nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowTheHHFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When they announced that they were finally making a new Advance wars, I leaped with joy and did 
 a toe touch.
  
  But I was a little skeptical when they said it's going to be pretty much a spin off with new characters 
 and different story line. None of the original Advance wars characters return, Instead. They're 
 re-making the entire series with new characters and starting over pretty much.
  
  Story: Let's start with the story. 
  
  It's goes pretty much like this. The world was at war, 
 two great countries were going at it for a LONG time. When, one day, the world is struck by meteors. 
 Over 90% of the population died. 
  
  We start off with a 15 year old named Will, Who was training to be a soldier. He finds himself 
 to be the last one in the city. Not knowing what to do. He wonders around endlessly looking for 
 help. Un-fortunately. All he finds it raiders looking to raid his ass. Since the meteors hit. Raiders 
 raid cities searching for supplies. But not all is lost. As Captain Brenner with the 12th Battalion 
 come to save the day. After they scare off the raiders, You find out that Brenner and his group 
 are going from city to city helping survivors. Greatful for what Brenner has done, Will joins him 
 on his journey.
  
  The story is definitely grittier and more mature, Which is good because it goes great with the 
 new look. But I can't help but feel that they didn't give enough time in the story to let the player 
 get attached to the characters as they did in Duel Strike. Most of the time it kinda seems like 
 random battles. Like out of no where the raiders will just attack. It gets more advanced in the 
 story mode as time goes on. So the problem gets a little fixed.
  
  Gameplay: Probably the best part of the Advance wars game is the gameplay. As usually, You take 
 control of little soldiers and, using strategy, attempt to either take control of your enemies 
 base, defeat all of the enemies soldiors, or some side objective some missions have.
  
  The game is alot more in-depth then it sounds. It seems kinda like one of those you have to try 
 it to get it type deals. 
  
  But if you've played an Advance wars before this. You may want to know a few things.
  
  The 
 game has been almost completely redone. The engine feel brand new and they've changed alot. To 
 add more strategy, They've changed how CO powers work. 
  There is no longer duel strikes, Which I find is a good thing. Because if just feels like a handicap 
 or an added bonus if you're winning. 
  You can now have COs on the field. When the Co is on the field, He/she'll have a CO zone type thing. 
 Which is a certain amount of spaces where your units can be in to be buffed up. Like attack + 3 
 or Defense + 3, depending on your CO. Also, The new way you get your CO gauge to power up is by 
 attacking enemies only in the zone. So this way the CO powers don't get over-used, They don't feel 
 broken, and you can focus more on your units and using strategy with them instead of just killing 
 your enemy with a CO power.
  You may also want to know that the difficulty and Ai in this game have gone from meh to omg wtf. 
 I've actually been beaten by an enemy when he had four units and I had 20 closing into his base. 
 So even though the Duel strike is gone, don't think for a second the battle can't turn the tide.
 
  One more thing I'd like to add is that they've finally balanced out the units. You can no longer 
 make the incredibly over-powered Neo tank and there's a few new units you'd might like to know 
 about.
  
  The Mega-tank has been replaced withe the War tank. Which seems more powerful and less moveable. 
 
  There's the new Duster which is a new air unit. It kinda reminds me of a more powerful recon.
 
  A bike. Which is pretty much a bike version of the infantry, but it moves hella farther. It can 
 also take control of cities.
  There is the new Anti-tank. Which is kinda like an artillery for tanks. And tanks only. ( Although 
 you can attack other units, but it's not as powerful, Plus it has a counter attack for every kind 
 of unit) .
  
  I think there's a few other units, but I can't think of them off the top of my head.
  
  Graphics 
 and sound: The graphics are completely different now. They made it much more serious by tainting 
 the whole game in a dark brown. Giving it a WW2 type feel, plus they made the units alot more detailed. 
 I personally love the new look. But veterans of the advance wars series may not like it as much.
 
  
  They thought about this. So in game, You can push L I think. And you'll zoom out, making the units 
 look like they used too.
  
  The battle sequences are quite awesome, as usually. But every once in a while. You'll see a few 
 pixels out of line in the explosions. Hardly noticeable so it's doesn't really effect much.
  
  The sound in this game seems a little rehashed, But considering I liked the sounds. I don't 
 mind. 
  The music has a very, Rock and roll and kick ass, type feel to it. Most every song in the game 
 has a Hard rock feel to it. To try and match the new look. There is even some remixes of old songs 
 done in rock form.
  
  I love rock so this is a great aspect for me. but if you don't like it I'd suggest just turning 
 off the sound. Sound isn't quite important in this game because it's all text done. Yup still no 
 voice overs. Which I also find is good because they'd probably get bad voice overs like they do 
 with most games.
  
  Gamemodes: Don't have to worry about this here. This game is pretty packed with stuff to do. The 
 Map maker has become very awesome. And now, You can go online and submit your maps. At the sametime 
 download some aswell. They've changed the map spaces from having 3 custom maps to like 50. 
  
  They also have complete online capabilities. You can play against people online through random 
 battle or friends codes. As most online Nintendo games are.
  
  The online will keep you coming back to the game. So there's a bit of replay value.
  
  What's 
 also great is the single DS play. You can take this to your friends house and play with a Single 
 advance wars game. When you play multi-player, you can switch off turns, So all you need is one 
 DS and an Advance wars and you're ready to play. This was also in the last games. But I love this 
 mode to play with my little brother of my friends.
  
  Conclusion: Great game for fans of the series, but if you're new and you're looking to try this 
 out. Try Duel Strike first due to the crushing difficulty.
  
  Story: 8.5
  gameplay: 9.2
  graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 7.9
  Gamemodes: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since Nintendo had released the most recent Advance Wars game. Dual Strike 
 was released 3 years ago, and now Days of Ruin is coming out of its grave to keep the entire series 
 alive.
  
  This game has a whole new storyline: There's no Allied Nations or the long time Black Hole Army; 
 every army is now replaced (but its strange how the 12th Battalion has units similar to Orange 
 Star of the previous series.) The storyline is darker and more apocalyptic: most of mankind has 
 been wiped out by meteors, and you, leading the 12th Battalion, will be the one protecting the 
 remanents of civilization.
  
  Most of this game keeps most of the units from the prev. games like the Fighter, Md Tank and Battleship. 
 However, many new units have been introdiced, like the gunboat, a WW2- style plane called a Duster, 
 and a new indirect combat unit called the Anti-Tank that can wipe tanks off the face of the Earth 
 with just 2 rounds and can counterattack when under direct fire.
  
  Gameplay has also been tweaked a lot in this game, so don't hope to win by massing Md Tanks like 
 in the previous games, as now even mechs pack tank-stopping firepower when massed.
  
  The new cast of COs are also amazing, as most of them have somewhat similar abilities as the previous 
 COs.
  
  The best part, IMO, is the map making tool. It has been adjusted so now you can make massive maps 
 of your choice. In my opinion, this tool is perfect for recreating real-life battles, especially 
 WW2 battles.
  
  Get this game, you won't be sorry. AW veterans will adapt to the new changes really quickly, while 
 newbies will get a grip onto this game really quickly (although the campaign can be quite difficult 
 later on.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  When you first turn this game on your DS you immediately know that this game graphically, and storyline 
 wise more mature then past installments to me its seems like a good move, war games should be mature 
 and even more good news the game plays EXACTLY the same as previous installments even though it 
 has new countries and new CO's and new untis you still feel like your playing a advance wars game, 
 the controls are also the same so veteran players will feel right at home and the online multiplayer 
 (i never tried yet) looks awesome plus no friend codes and you can play world wide yet even though 
 the game is fun it does have its flaws and one major flaw is that the CO's don't have powers anymore 
 in the old games your COs had a special power (more damage, more movement spaces etc etc) but they 
 removed that function and the problem with that is you can't turn the tide of battle so the battle 
 just goes on and if you and your enemy have allot of money then prepare for a long battle with 
 no one moving a inch for hours because of rockets, the new anti tank units etc etc and another 
 flaw is the difficulty now its not too hard but hard enough to drive you crazy and if your stuck 
 on one mission there is a good chance you will have to reset the mission and finally its not a 
 flaw it more of an issue the CO's don't really do anything for the story and very reluctant to 
 fight for one example two enemy CO's were talking and was like i don't want to fight and i know 
 you don't too all i can do is wish you luck... what is that about? but other than that if you love 
 the advance wars series then you will love this game and will jump right in if your new and want 
 to explore the controls aren't that hard and after the 3rd or 4th mission you will get used to 
 everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars is easily one of my favorite video game franchises ever created, and certainly one 
 of my favorite to make an appearance on the DS (and honestly, it has good company with titles like 
 Lost in Blue, Hotel Dusk, Phoenix Wright, and Trauma Center) . So, you can imagine that I was absolutely 
 giddy with excitement with the announcement of the newest Advance Wars game, subtitled Days of 
 Ruin. After spending a few hours with the game, I'm ready to write a review essentially encapsulating 
 some first impressions -- as I spend more time with the game, I'll be sure to get a more detailed 
 review completed. 
  
  To begin with, the story of Days of Ruin is significantly better than that of any of its predecessors. 
 At this point, we're beyond the simple storyline that goes something like, "Oh boy, war is so fun, 
 so let's just fight, guys!". Rather, in Days of Ruin, you're introduced with a pretty grim story 
 of death and destruction from the moment you power on your DS -- a huge chain of natural disasters 
 has set the world in a state of ruin. You take control of Will, a young cadet and a survivor of 
 the apocalypse, as he meets up with Commander Brenner and his "Wolves". The story follows these 
 and other characters as they attempt to unravel exactly what happened and search for other survivors 
 -- fighting numerous battles along the way, of course. 
  
  The art style goes hand-in-hand with the plot, and they really get along together quite nicely. 
 The game's visuals are grim, depressing, and far more realistic than they have been in past iterations 
 of the series. Each of the units have also undergone significant change, and the result is everything 
 looking far more believable. There are also some presentation changes this time around, one of 
 the biggest being the fact that your units appear on the bottom screen and your foes on the top 
 during a battle visual, which really utilizes the space the two screens have to offer and is far 
 superior to putting both sets of units on the bottom screen. 
  
  But before I get to far ahead of myself, I'd better explain the Advance Wars game play mechanic 
 to any sad soul who hasn't had the good fortune to play one (or all, or some number in between) 
 of the Advance Wars games. It's a pretty basic strategy game, which has you taking control of a 
 number of different units on a battlefield and strategically pitting them against those of a foe. 
 You direct each of your soldiers and units, and issue them various commands, the most common of 
 which are attack and wait. The strategy is in utilizing unit strengths and weaknesses, along with 
 the varying range of each of your many units, to come out victorious on the battlefield. Days of 
 Ruin makes a bit of an addition to the core mechanic, however, with the implementation of an RPG-ish 
 leveling mechanic. Every time a unit kills an enemy, they gain a point, and their stats go up. 
 Each unit can get up to three points, and these aren't insignificant. While a zero-point infantry 
 is pretty useless, a full 3-point one is a force to be reckoned with. 
  
  The number of units is also pretty impressive -- there's no real increase over those of Advance 
 Wars DS, but a number of significant changes have been made. For example, the Neotank and Megatank 
 have both been removed and replaced with a new unit -- I'll save it for you to find out for yourself 
 what it is. And then there's the addition of more useful units like the Duster, which is a plane 
 that can fire on both air and land units, and the motorcycle, which is like an infantry unit with 
 increased movement and firepower. There are a lot of different troop types to keep track of, but 
 only by doing so and by keeping in mind troop advantages and disadvantages are you going to be 
 able to win battles. 
  
  As any Advance Wars fan knows, they're tough games, and Days of Ruin certainly is no exception. 
 In fact, even the first levels are going to be mildly difficult to a newbie to the series -- you 
 can't expect to just do whatever you want and then have the game hold your hand and help you win. 
 You've got to play smart and make good choices -- sacrificing units, who to attack with, who to 
 get out of the way and who's expendable -- it's all good fun, but it's also quite challenging. 
 At the same time, though, that makes this game all the more satisfying. 
  
  One aspect of Days of Ruin that might disappoint some fans of Advance Wars DS is that the CO system 
 has been largely scaled back. Say goodbye to monstrously-powerful CO Powers or devastating Tag 
 Teams. In fact, you can't even choose which CO to use during the campaign. Still, it's something 
 that I appreciate, largely because I like winning to rely on your strategic skill, not on a CO 
 Power. In fact, if anything, it serves to make the game a bit tougher, because you haven't got 
 that crutch to rely on when the going gets tough. Conversely, though, your opponents don't have 
 it either, so let's just say that it makes the game more realistic. You can, however, use whichever 
 CO you want during the online battles, which I'll get to in just a second. 
  
  There's plenty of game value to be had here, thanks to a long, difficult, and engaging campaign 
 and some bonus maps that will challenge you even more -- nearly 30, in fact. Beating the campaign 
 in and of itself is going to take a good while, and the extra maps will require even more time 
 to complete. Sadly, Days of Ruin does not feature a Shop feature (in past games, it allowed you 
 to purchase new maps and COs) . Even with that removal, Days of Ruin sports plenty of game time 
 and ensures that you're getting your money's worth with the 30 dollars you'll spend on the game. 
 
  
  Now, the part that everyone really cares about: the multiplayer. I've spent some time online, and 
 I can successfully say that the online multiplayer kicks butt. In addition to engaging in some 
 pretty fierce online battles, you have the opportunity to chat it up online during the entire battle 
 -- not just in between turns or battles, as in past games (I'm looking at you, Metroid Prime Hunters) 
 -- and you can trade user-made maps online as well. The map-maker possesses a surprising amount 
 of depth and is a lot of fun to use, and you're given space to save up to 50 user-made maps, which 
 can then be played by yourself or via local multiplayer. 
  
  All told, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is easily the best Advance Wars game out there, at least in 
 my opinion. It takes everything that is great about the previous games, then strips the childish, 
 colorful graphics (which were by no means "bad") , replaces them with something far more realistic, 
 and adds in a storyline that far exceeds that of previous Advance Wars games. The plethora of bonus 
 maps, combined with the long campaign and the potentially endless value given by the fantastic 
 online makes this one of the best DS games out there, period. If you've shied away from the series 
 before, now's an excellent time to jump in. Please, please, please go out right now and purchase 
 Advance Wars: Days of Ruin. Trust me: it'll make you very happy for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinksolidsnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. Still a little too cartoonish compared to the post-apocalyptic 
 background, setting, and story. But it does get the message out there to take the story seriously... I 
 guess. The framerate, is superb, I never experienced any slowdowns. The action is shown on the 
 touch screen. While hints, and other info about the terrain or unit is shown on the top. The text 
 is very clear, and easy to read. 
  
  
  Controls: I'll start with the face buttons. The D-pad moves your little cursor around. A selects, 
 B cancels, X closes the tutorial box on the top screen that'll occasionally appear, Y doesn't do 
 anything. The L button chooses your closest unit. R button zooms in on the screen. I believe the 
 zoom is used for precision stylus control. The touch screen is phenomenal, just don't use it while 
 in a car. But stylus control is a little tough to use because you'll be more prone to make some 
 mistakes if your arm hits something for whatever reason. Start skips dialog, and opens up a tiny 
 map screen. Select opens your menu, for ending your turn, checking your CO powers, and all that 
 good stuff.
  
  User Interface: It's smooth, but I would like to see a confirmation box option for deleting units, 
 and building some. Because when using the stylus control, your prone to create the wrong unit by 
 accident when in a hurry, or move to the wrong tile. Also a undo option would be nice.
  
  Sound: The battle sounds seem a little dated to me. The music, is like Heavy Metal. Which I honestly 
 don't really like. But if you do there is a music jukebox in the main menu. 
  
  Playability: A little challenging for newcomers to the series. But veterans pf the series will 
 feel right at home. Although there is no unlockable hard mode. The Training missions offer more 
 of a a bigger challenge than the campaign.
  
  Replay Value: Pretty high, with the ability to play online, the game just gets better. Also there 
 are training missions I guess you could call them through out the campaign. Plus you could try 
 to get S ranks on every mission. But I'm not sure if that'll unlock anything.
  
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Controls: 9.5/10
  User Interface: 8.5
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Playability: 10/10
 
  Replay value: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgxtremist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Even with all the changes to the graphic part of the game: new visuals, a darker, doomed world 
 of a story as opposed to the hyper cheery days of the first 3 installments, the core AW gameplay 
 remained. The new units are welcome additions, although certain ones are missed (here's to you 
 Black Boat) . COs have been greatly reduced in impact, with the removal of Tags and the other things 
 from Dual Strike. The battles certainly seem pretty tame, and with the CO Zone, it actuallys makes 
 you think if you want to use their CO Power or use the extended range of the Zone. However, the 
 AI is terrible, always building the most expensive units, which in the long run gets them burned, 
 or completely ruins them on certain maps.
  
  Being a veteran, it seems I will never see the days of AW1 Advance Campaign difficulty, and to 
 this affect while I still love this game, it certainly doesn't have the impact on me like original 
 titles do, and that's just the process of things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merrill25
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Days of Ruin is a fresh new look for the series but the strategy action is still there. The addition 
 of wifi adds hours of entertainment the last game didn't have. You can download other people's 
 maps (10x10 map) and after you beat their map you get to rate it which makes it fun and gives the 
 property more purpose. You can post the maps you have made also (after you beat it yourself) and 
 check what others have rated your map too. 
  
  The campaign seems shorter than the last game and is more challenging than any previous game. The 
 new CO system is brilliant and makes you rely on strategy rather than your CO like in the other 
 Advance Wars games.
  
  Online multiplayer is a blast! It is always challenging playing another human player. The online 
 leveling up system makes it that much more fun also.
  
  Days of Ruin is a all around solid game, but compared to Dual Strike (which came out in 2005) it 
 feels stripped of content, the addition of online play doesn't make up for the lack of content 
 they managed to squeeze into the last cartridge they made (in my opinion) . 
  Get Advance Wars: Dual Strike before you take on the challenge of Days of Ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played about every advance wars released and this one just takes the cake. The story revolves 
 around the world that has been destroyed by meteors. But for some reason we are still at war. You 
 are the Protagonist "Will" and you are a survivor who joins Captain Brenner of the the Rubinelle 
 armies 12 Batallion. You learn from him and kick the enemies Rear end (Gamespot censors) . 
  
  The game adds new characters you wont see ANY of the old ones here. The game has many new units 
 including Air and Sea. Multiplayer is also a terrific new feature. But lets just go to the Pros 
 and cons
  
  Pros
  -------
  New Story is Very good
  Good Soundtrack
  New enemies
  Great Multiplayer
  New units
  New Characters
  
  Cons
  --------
  1-Game Can be too hard 
 for its own good you may be tempted to seek help online or a ....... Strategy guide (Shudders)
 
  2-Players online can sometimes be a bore or perhaps demolish you before you know it.
  3-Online also allows Chat which is fun sometimes but annoying at others.
  4-f you are a concerned 
 parent (Please cool out) online play can have some explicit materials from the player or the map. 
 I should know my friend made a custom map shaped as a...... You get the point.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noclue_27
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish this game will completely immerse you in a world you'd never think you would 
 see on a Nintendo DS. While sitting at home, having the option to play console games or PC I instead 
 played this game. The addicting campaign was a little difficult, but in my opinion the more challenge 
 the better. The rewarded great satisfaction is an excellent feeling after beating campaign, and 
 the story line has been the greatest for any portable game to date. After the games completion, 
 many "trial maps" that consistently challenge the players strategically capabilities allow the 
 player to continually play this game whether they have access to wifi or not. The wifi in this 
 game is second to none, taking only around a minute or two to find an opponent, player versus player 
 access is easier than ever for a DS game. All in all, Advanced Wars: Days of Ruin has been the 
 best DS game I have ever played, I await a sequel with great excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Meteors have destroyed Earth. Few survivors are left. It seems hopeless for the Human Race. Not 
 true, Brenner's Wolves are working to bring peace back to the world and to start anew with the 
 survivors. So what if the sun is blocked out by dust? That doesn't bother them. This is the story 
 of Advance Wars: Days of Ruin.
  Do you want a game that challenges you with every move you take? Do you want a game with great 
 gameplay? Do you want a great story? Here it is. All of it packed in one.
  The next installment in the advance wars series has gotten rid of the catoony-look and replaced 
 it with a bleak no-hope-for-mankind look. Uplifting, isn't it? It suits the game.
  You play by taking turns, using all of your units in one turn, think Fire Emblem. There is a rock-paper-scissors 
 aspect to fighting as well, but its hard to explain. Overall this is a great game that everyone 
 with a DS should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendragonlink
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the second Advance wars for the nintendo DS to date, it has an excellent story, i love 
 it:
  
  Addiction: The first time you play it you cant leave it there, you need to play more, my mother 
 has to yell at me for making me turn off the DS:
  
  2.0/2.0
  
  Sound: It has an excellent sound, each battle is a different song, and in the story it makes you 
 feel like if you were on the game:
  
  2.0/2.0
  
  Graphics: It has some good graphics for the kind of game it is, but i expected better graphics, 
 almost 3D:
  
  1.0/2.0
  
  History: Excellent story, imagine a world that was devastated by some meteors, and the dust went 
 to the atmosphere, and light could go in, no food, no rules, no law. I like the way some people 
 in the game act about this:
  
  2.0/2.0
  
  Gameplay: Its easy to play, because you have the stylus, and i love this kind of strategy games:
 
  
  1.8/2.0
  
  Total:
  8.8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahughs007
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  As my title says, this game is what you're used to. Another Advance Wars title, with a slightly 
 darker (and welcome) feel to the franchise. 
  
  As I play I still feel a certain longing for something more exciting. As you get further into the 
 campaign it really feels like just another Advance Wars title. It starts off with an almost Mad 
 Max style setting, where hardly anyone in the world is alive, and then almost over night people 
 are coming out of the wood work, and the game begins to lose it's charming armageddon feel. 
  
  I would like to see heroe's in this game's lineup. Instead of being able to switch CO's it 
 would be cool to have one CO on the battlefield, each with their own super abilities. 
  
  I'd really be up from Advance Wars: Armaggedon Heroes or something like that. 
  
  If you like 
 Advance Wars though, you owe it to yourself to give this game a shot. It is alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandallarian
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Lately, the only great TBS that came out is Fire Emblem : Radiant Dawn. One hell of a TBS that 
 I personally found extremely time consuming and challenging; the best of its kind. 
  
  However, I'm getting far from the subject here ; what I meant to say is that DoR adds to the great 
 collection of TBS :
  
  First of all, there is Wi-Fi play, which practically makes it longevity infinite when you add to 
 it the map making system which Nintendo seems to be adapting for all its game lately. If you're 
 not quite the multiplayer type of guy, you can simply play against AI's in both your created maps, 
 your downloaded maps and normal maps.
  
  Now, for the campaign. The disappointing thing is it's easyness and it's lack of difficulty choice. 
 But, apart from that, the story has been quite updated : I actually feel the war atmosphere and 
 reality in this one, compared to other AW games.
  
  In any case, I must say that this is a must-have for every TBS fans that currently have a nintendo 
 DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vk44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Now, I've been playing the advance wars series ever since it came out... and all I saw were bigger, 
 badder CO powers and bigger tanks! But, with Days of Ruin, the new focus is definitely better!
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Though AWDOR seems like the old advance wars in new packaging (which is somewhat true) , the game 
 has been revamped to be much more strategic. Anti-tanks anyone? CO-powers? What are those? Units 
 are more expensive, more potent, and overall more balanced. In other words, the game relies much 
 more on the player and strategy now.
  
  Graphics:
  Much less cartoon-y than before. It reflects the dark storyline pretty well.
  
  Music:
  Meh, 
 I've heard better. It gets old after a few minutes.
  
  Replay value:
  Definitely! Though it could grow old pretty fast (since it is really similar to the older ones) , 
 give it time and you'll find yourself coming back! And don't forget the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baron1282
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  I want More. :-p I can't get enough of Advance Wars. This game is simply great, no matter how you 
 play. If you want to run the story, go ahead. If you want to just play a single map, go ahead, 
 there is over 100 to play on. Plus, if you want, just make your own maps to play on. This game 
 is great.
  Having said that, I wish that they kept the old Characters, and not put new ones in. The story 
 is good, and more dark than before, but some stupied things happen in the story to make it light 
 hearted, and plan dumb. (Flowers) . The slap happy feel of a war, was alot of the charm in the old 
 games, and this new darker story mode is not really what the series was known for. Still, its a 
 fun game to play. The units as always are well balanced, and the game can be VERY hard at times, 
 making the first build up of your forces very important. Nothing really to say about this game, 
 I would give it a higher rateing than an 8 by gamespot, but it does not get the normal 10's that 
 the game has been getting. Just switching the characters out for new ones, kind of made it different. 
 Which is a good thing, but also can be a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'll just tell you that I am an enormous fan of the Advance Wars series. The gameplay 
 is what does it for me everytime. The best part of Dark Conflict (what it's called in Europe) is 
 the gameplay that has featured in every game in the series. Essentially it's the same gameplay 
 as the original Famicom Wars on the SNES and that's why it's brilliant.
  
  Basically a meteor strike destroys 90% of the population and they're still bloody fighting. The 
 story concentrates on a young survivor, Ed in the European version. The name of the game, factions 
 and the characters differ in the US and European versions. He teams up with the Laurentian Army 
 who are at war with the Zephyrian Army and it carries on from there. People have criticised the 
 story but it's definitely the best story in the series so far. Plus the characters like O'Brian 
 and Sigismundo are great, certainluy better than the older characters like Max and co.
  
  Right, now onto the retro gameplay. The genre is turn based strategy where you and your enemy take 
 turns to knock the stuffing out of each other. As usual in an Advance Wars game the campaign is 
 at a great length and can be challenging. But the new feature is the online play, that's right 
 you can play it online now. It's great against other players. Overall, my favourite game on the 
 DS, retro gameplay, nice stylish graphics and just great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4yoshi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am a fan of the Advance Wars series. I loved the first 3. In fact, I think I have 
 logged more time in AW: DS than in any other DS game.
  
  AW: DoR takes the series in a new direction, but it's not all that the last games were.
  
  
 Main Good Points:
  *Units now gain experience when they stay alive (but not too strong, max is 120/120)
  *AI is 
 FINALLY smart! They can whoop my behind in some missions, and I consider myself a pro!
  *COs have been revamped to play an active part in the game.
  *Strong final boss that rivals Sturm's 
 strongest moments.
  *Better Map Designer.
  *Good Wifi battles? (untested by me)
  *Finally a direct/indirect combo that's actually really good (anti-tank) .
  
  Main Bad Points:
 
  *COs much weaker, so they no longer diversify the playing nearly as much
  *No battle maps shop! Makes unlocking new things much MUCH less satisfying.
  *War Room is GONE! 
 In its place are training missions that give you specific COs (or most often, none) and just don't 
 have nearly the same feel to them.
  *Too few COs, especially when there were quite a few more people in the game (where's Davis? where's 
 the one son?) .
  *Not all that many NEW maps.
  *All units much closer damage, so there aren't uber-units (what happened to my Neotank??? : ( ) , 
 so expect some trench wars.
  
  In general, unless you like to draw maps (which I don't) or do a lot of WiFi battles (which I don't 
 have a connection) , this is not the best game. Replayability has been royally shot down in many 
 areas, such as no War Room, not many maps, not the diversity of COs, and more really destroys the 
 value of this game for me (and probably for some others too) . On the other hand, if you like designing 
 maps or WiFi, this isn't a bad pick.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Sound: 7.5/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Value: 5/10
  Tilt: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, first thing i noticed: This story could be true. This could happen like tomorrow. I have played 
 all others advance wars from Advance wars to Days of ruin, and story has been pretty weak, tho 
 characters have been pretty good. But this story was great, i dont know what gamespot and othets
 
  game sites say about weak story... I really dont know, this is 30 times better than others.
  
  And second think i noticed: This was not all happy faces and that war is joy, this is almoast 
 true war. I liked new style.
  
  Third thing i noticed: My friendly co's dont explain everyting about half hour, like 10 sec is 
 enough, which is great.
  
  And to me difficulty is pretty medium. Dual strike was way too easy, didint lost once.
  
  So, 
 to me, this is my last ds game, and this game was great.
  
  If your new player, you like it. If your old fan, like me, your gonna like it.
  But i dont think, 
 every1s gonna go YEAH! YEA I LOVE THIS GAME!
  Dunno...
  
  But still, there is something missing. Maps are pretty lame. Co's super power is pretty much meaningless... And 
 main characher is pretty lame.
  Dunno.
  
  
  Still, you should get this game. There is pretty much to do after you finish playing this game. Multiplayer 
 is pretty cool too.
  GET FIRST AND SECOND TOO! (Gba games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This is now the second Advance Wars game for the Nintendo DS and the first one to break loose from 
 the previous installations characters and storyline. Gameplay is intact, with minor tweaks to the 
 better, colors are tuned down quite a bit and both visuals and audio has been increased significantly 
 in quality.
  
  As for the story starts off, there's meteors striking the world. If it supposed to be our world 
 or a totally ficationary is still a bit unconfirmed, but the world has however collapsed after 
 the disaster and the handful of survivors are off to fend for themselves. It reminds much of Robert 
 Swindells "Brothers in the Land", in a good way. Out of the rubble a military 'student', Will, 
 is trying to fend someone else out there in the destroyed city and ends up beeing rescued by a 
 party of soldiers and civilian survivors led by Captain O'Brian to rescue other survivors. But 
 there is also gangs of rougue soldiers using the situation for their advantage, going around plundering 
 and killing just for the kick out of it. 
  How the story unfolds is something I will not tell you, but it's enough to keep you interested 
 for some time as the story and characters are really strong. 
  
  Last thing to say about the campaign is that it is mixed between beeing ridicilously easy all the 
 way up to frustratingly, outragously difficult. If you're new to the fanschise at all you're going 
 to have a rather tough time after a while, but the mechanism of the game is rather easy to get 
 into so I don't think the new ones will have much of a harder time than the veterans. 
  
  A new addition to the game is not only Wi-Fi Multiplayer support, but also the new CO Power system. 
 For those familiar with the previous Advance Wars games the CO Powers are nothing new, when each 
 CO had a specific CO Power (s) to alter the battle after doing some fighting on the field. This 
 system has now been tweaked in a favorable way: When fighting you aren't getting Anything filling 
 the CO Power Metre, unless the fighting is taking place in vicinity of the mounted CO itself. In 
 order to maintain a CO Effect and CO Power Metre filling up the fighting has to be done within 
 the CO Zone after the CO has boarded a unit. In order to board the CO you'll need to bring a specified 
 or newly produced unit to either the HQ or a Factory and then mount the CO on-board the unit for 
 50% the stock price. The unit will now have a aura where the close friendly units will gain upon 
 depending on the CO itself and the spread of this aura, or Zone, depends on the CO Power Metre 
 and the specific CO itself. The Boarded CO will also cause the specified unit to turn into "Ace" 
 veterancy status and will thereby improve defence and firepower by a certain percentage. This new 
 system might sound messy, but it's quite easy to get into and just alters the game in a most favorable 
 way and keeps CO: s more balanced even if certain COs will be left behind as they are obsolite on 
 certain maps (some even in most maps) . 
  
  That is the problem with the Wi-Fi Multiplayer when playing random matches against opponents. There 
 is no way to select/vote or getting a hint of what map is going to end up after you've selected 
 CO, so if you select a Air-unit favoring CO there might be a risk the entire set of CO Zone Powers 
 and direct CO Powers are totally worthless which is a real big downside to the online Multiplayer. 
 It feels like the developers didn't think the system through all that much, talking about the management 
 of maps, as I would be able to list three CO: s that is NEVER used online as they have a fair chance 
 to just get obsolite in most games. 
  
  However, all and all I would think this is the best Advance Wars game yet. After playing this, 
 it is hard to get back to any of the previous games, Advance Wars 2 or Dual Strike, they all seem 
 a bit hard to get into again as the new game offers so much new features and units to tweak the 
 game for the better, as the characters are actually a bit better as well even if the previous characters 
 were very personal and interesting in their own right. 
  I would reccomend this game to basicly any DS owner and a good reason for the old Advance Wars 
 fans to get a DS just for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  The storyline of this game is about some dude named Will who survives after this giant meteor storm. 
 Everyone was dead. Streets littered with cars and ruins........ WAIT! He gets attacked by some 
 raiders. An army commander comes and bails him out and takes will with him. His name is Brenner. 
 Turns out that will was training in the military academy. They go to the army base and the rest 
 you will have to play to find out! The game has a lot of action it is a definite new feel to it 
 than the older one. Using the stylus is a great addition and if you don't want to you can use the 
 traditional controls. You fight and capture city's as you go earning more money as you go. Then 
 you buy more troops and then take your army in and own the enemy. You can also go on the Nintendo 
 wi-fi connection and battle with some dummy halfway around the world! Overall this game pretty 
 much rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad-Chad
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  While those who may look down their nose at a a simple turn based game over a RTS will over thisold 
 school reinterpretation of a classic series, it is their loss because this game can get surprisingly 
 intricate and punishingly hard and very satisfying overall.
  
  I honestly had to give this game to my girlfriend to hold onto because I was playing it so much 
 that it was interfeiring with my work- I couldn't stop playing. The battles are that good.
  
  The downsides to this game are that, like most Japanese games, the story and dialogue are pretty 
 bad. The story is mildly interesting but is overshadowed by the totally excessive amount of text. 
 Even the most patient soul will find himself skipping over the dialogue boxes later in the game 
 after reading hundreds of cheesy dialogue boxes over and over. Another repetitive quality are the 
 battle animations. They look cool at first but their novelty WILL wear off. You'll probably want 
 to turn them off later in them game when repeating maps for the n'th time.
  
  Speaking of which, another potential downside is the difficulty. I am admittedly pretty good at 
 Turn Based Strategy as it is one of my favorite genres. I cruised through the first half of the 
 game but hit a few brick walls with some battles which are drawn out, punishing slogs with the 
 slimmest chance to succed under only perfect circumstances. I was hoping that this game would be 
 challenging, but this is a bit too much. Others might find this a plus, but not passing a map no 
 my sixth try proved to be quite monatonous. 
  
  Even though I have listed some definite downsides, I'm going to give this a 9/10. This game might 
 deserve a 7/10 in diferent circumstances, but its satisfying sense of accomplishment after battles 
 and serious addictiveness substantially raise it a couple of notches over other titles. Big time 
 replayability on this one too! 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenheart234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has ever played any of the previous titles in the Advance Wars series knows that the 
 game is all about great turn-based strategy. When I heard that a new game was coming out for the 
 DS, I cryed tears of joy. Then, when I saw screenshots and heard that the game would be darker 
 in tone and feature full WI-FI functionality, my jaw dropped and that's when the wait really started 
 killing me. Was it worth it? Heck yeah, it was! Although the end result isn't quite what it could've 
 been.
  
  What's new: - Online play 
  -New visual presentation
  -A whole new world (no more Orange Star, Black Hole, etc...)
  -CO influence has been reduced 
 drastically ( a good thing, more on that later)
  -New units such as the Bike, Duster, Gunboat and a few more.
  
  The gameplay has been largely 
 untouched, which is a good thing. If you've played any previous Advance Wars game, you know what 
 I'm talking about. The biggest change here is that COs no longer possess the ability to compensate 
 for a lack of strategy with an unstoppable Super-Power. Instead, CO's now board on units and give 
 a boost to units close to them. The range and effect of the boost varies depending on who your 
 CO is. They can still unleash a CO power after a while, but it's never anything game-breaking ( 
 Direct-attack ground unit movement + 2, Line of sight + 2, etc...) . The new units are great ( especially 
 the bike and anti-tank) and the graphics look better than ever. The sound is O. K., but it isn't 
 anything spectacular either. 
  
  Multiplayer is awesome, and you can now play online and you even have voice chat! Makes me wish 
 I had WI-FI access at home, instead of going to a nearby hotspot to play online. In addition to 
 battles, that great map editor is back and you can now trade maps with people online.
  
  My biggest complaint is that single-player mode feels to short. You have 26 campain missions (including 
 the tutorial ones) and at least 38 trial missions that can be unlocked by playing the campain, 
 but that's about it. It's still great fun, but it isn't anywhere near as fun as multiplayer.
  
  My verdict: If you have a DS, you should have this game. It's a great game and a must-have, 
 although try to make sure you can find WI-FI acces and some friends, because you'll get the most 
 out of it by playing with others.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  As a mature game player I'm happy to see a DS game with somewhat mature content. It has no violence 
 or sexual scenes of sorts, but more specifically it does have a story that is not taken straight 
 from a children's book, unlike too many Nintendo games that seems to be aimed at kids around 6 
 years old.
  
  It's refreshing to actually be curious about what happens next in the story, instead of simply 
 annoyed when a game pauses because some cute pink big eyed kids need to say some childish nonsense. 
 
  
  Now, to the point: This game rocks! :)
  
  Coming from a PC and Xbox gaming background I was quite skeptical to enter the world of Nintendo 
 DS a few weeks ago, but now I find I spend almost all my gaming time on it. 
  
  I picked up AW recently as I am a huge RTS game fan, and wanted something to satisfy the basic 
 RTS urge when I was traveling. Surprisingly, this game is not only temporarily satisfying this 
 urge, it is in fact way more interesting than most RTS games I have played! :)
  
  Ok, so it is not a true real time strategy, it is indeed turn based, but the gameplay flows so 
 well it "feels" like an RTS. Where most real time strategy games usually loses most of the "strategy" 
 part, focusing on action, this game does the opposite. You still feel the smooth flow of the game, 
 while you indeed need to plan your actions carefully.
  
  Much like chess, you need to carefully plan your moves making sure all your exposed units are covered 
 by other units, and advance slowly while taking every enemy units abilities and range into consideration. 
 If you run and gun blindly, you surely will lose, as the game has an excellent AI that does put 
 up a challenge. Even as you do clear a level, you will find your performance rated, and permanently 
 engraved into the missions map location. There is some replayability in playing the mission again 
 to make sure you get that "A" rating on the map, if you are up for it.
  
  The level designs looks simple at first, I mean, we are not talking about any groundbreaking visuals 
 here. But the depth is amazing. Every tiny detail seems to have gone through a lot of thought, 
 and spending time with the game keeps revealing something new even after days of play. And each 
 level truly give you a new challenge.
  
  The units are exceptionally well balanced, and you have to master each one well to succeed. After 
 days of playing I could only find minor annoyances, like how the anti aircraft units fire range 
 will actually be blocked by water, but after some time even these things becomes natural and blend 
 in to your strategy in a way that balances the game out very well.
  
  The visuals and audio are both top notch for the DS, and the battle animations play out great. 
 Its very satisfying to see how your powerful weapons rip though the enemy's units. Its not so fun 
 to watch yourself be killed though, but you can turn off the animation for the computers attacks. 
 This and many other details makes the game very polished from inside out.
  
  When you get past the single player mission, there are other game modes as well, including skirmish 
 and multiplayer, which I did not try out yet. Suffice to say, this game has enough content to make 
 its price worthwhile and then some.
  
  If I only had one DS game, this would be it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelersrule56
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The Advanced Wars saga has ben somewhat successful in the video game world. And this game is the 
 icing on the cake. Advanced Wars: Days of Ruin isn't just a good game, it's also brought the entire 
 saga to new levels. Whether its customizing your own map (now able to do 100 different maps) , having 
 the ability of putting your CO inside a unit and making it better, or simply the much improved 
 3D graphics, aside from the old 2D. There are some downsides though. They have removed such units 
 as the Stealth, Neotank, Piperunner, Repair Boat, and Megatank (there may be others I'm forgetting 
 but I think that's it) . But on the bright side, the Megatank was replaced with the War Tnk which 
 is a little weaker in attack and defense, but more fair at the same time. There's also the new 
 Duster which is an older fashion of an aircraft. It can attack ground, naval, and aerial units 
 (including Fighters and Bombers) . There's also a cool new feature which allows units to build buildings 
 and other units. The Rig (or the old APC) for example can build a Temporary Airport on any plain 
 and a Temporary Port on a beach. The temporary buildings can only repair and resupply their specific 
 units. And the Carriar can build an aerial unit called the Seaplane who, like the Duster, can attack 
 any unit but is a little more effective since it uses missles instead of the Duster's machine gun. 
 And the story isn't too bad either. Basically, the world gets turned into ruin (hence the name 
 "Days of Ruin") by a giant meteor shower. Will, the main character is attaked by some raiders while 
 looking for survivals. He is then saved by Captain Brenner, Lin, and the Rubinelle Army. He then 
 joins up with them and, well, you can figure that out for yourself. There are many other features 
 in this impressive game but you have to find them for yourself. Go out and get Advanced Wars: Days 
 of Ruin today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronBass
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why everybody says this game is not as good as Dual Strike. I think Days of 
 Ruin surpass its prequel in almost every aspect: 
  
  The graphics, now darker and bloodier, are a delight. 
  The music: as good as Dual Strike's. 
 
  The gameplay has remained almost intact, with the exception of the Stylus controls. Playing with 
 the Stylus is a lot easier (and a lot more satisfactory) . 
  The addition of lots of cool new units makes that Advance Wars veterans feel a refreshing air on 
 this game. Of course, some units are gone, but you won't probably miss them.
  The history (my only truly complaint of Dual Strike) is now as dark as the graphics. And really 
 interesting, must I say.
  The game is also harder. Those who are new with the franchise will need a game guide (or a lot 
 of patience) , but veterans will love the new challenges.
  
  Add to that a great Wi-Fi mode, with TONS of things to do, and you have one of the best DS games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  GOOD: new grim graphics gives muturity to the game; fantastic tactics and stratagy in each levels; 
 new tanks ect are wicked; intresting story
  
  BAD: Story does'nt go anywere at first; mebe abit to grim style; rollacoster difficulty
  
  
 GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay stays true to its previous games like Duel Strike and the ones for the the GBA so 
 your not gunna be looking for something new insted of new vihicles and tanks ect. There is, how 
 ever, a tactic plan which gives you an idea on how to beat that level by giving you clues on were 
 to go so if your in abit of difficulty just go there and it'll give you a hand, but never the less 
 the game is difficult all over, some levels are easy but some are to hard. one of the best thing 
 about the game is its new WiFi features that lets you battle people from around the globe and fight 
 on maps that you can create which is alot of fun!!.
  
  GRAPHCIS:
  The graphics are alot better in this game than any other Advance Wars games, the new look gives 
 a more adult feel to it than the kiddy look found in the previous Advance wars games, and the drawn 
 battle sequence looks better than the others too, but mebe the game looks abit too grim cos you'll 
 be battling on battl fields with alot of brown wastelands which gets repetative leter on
  
  SOUNDS:
  The sound in this game is fantastic, the addenaline sound track when battling gives 
 you the urge to win the battle, and the music comes in the right place on different atmophere for 
 like when someone is sad it; ll play a nice sad music tune in the background awww.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall even though you want find anything new in Dark Conflict its still something 
 that fans of series and Stratagy turn based games alike should still get this game, its a must 
 have for any NDS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JubJub677
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the series since the first Advance War and have loved it ever since then. 
 Advance War DOR is my favorite out of all of them. First off I like the new characters and the 
 new world. It shows a more darker side to this game and I love it. But stay in the same formula 
 as the other ones. But my favorite change is the the CO powers. I glad that they changed that. 
 I remember getting owned from player who would build that up and throw a tag team at me and win. 
 Next is going to have to be how the story is played out. The story is good and draw you in. I haven't 
 put down the game since i got it. The the last things is the WI-FI play. I LOVE IT. It about time 
 this game get taken online. I remember play countless hour in the same room with my friends playing 
 a Advance War game. Now I can play them anytime anywhere. So matter if you going to play by your 
 self or with other people, you are going to get hooked to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noob-Antichrist
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars was always a fun, addictive, satisfying and cleverly designed game, but after three 
 versions, it needs a bigger change than just more units and characters.
  
  That's why this new generation is an excellent update to the series. The light-hearted gameplay 
 from before was good, but I felt it glossed over and seemed to forget that your objective was essentially 
 sending people to kill other people. Some people may have liked this approach, but I believe Days 
 of Ruin is a better perspective on the premise.
  There is still plenty of character interactivity and development, complete with light-hearted banter, 
 but the game makes little effort to tone down the presence of death in the world, which in my opinion, 
 is more immersive.
  You also get more than just heads and script when characters speak to eachother. Now there are 
 small cutscenes complete with larger character art and detailed backgrounds, which adds yet another 
 dimension to the game.
  
  And the biggest difference IS the graphics - pretty much everything has been re-designed. Imagine 
 being an experienced AV player and having to play with the same cartoony soldiers and tanks, the 
 same characters and pesonalities, the same menus, the same background art, and only getting some 
 new features fairly later on in the game? It would just make the whole series feel stale, if it 
 hadn't already by the third game.
  
  The art is more detailed and more mature, and there is a more expansive use of graphics. It's not 
 drastically different, and anyone should be able to recognise a well-known unit. The use of menus 
 and map graphics gives it a more techy and modern feeling, and that combined with the darker feel 
 is a good difference on the bright colours and cartoony art. 
  The character art, text boxes, units both in and out of fighting, the terrain from all angles - 
 it's all changed, and looks pretty cool.
  
  The music is a notable change which can be recognised instantly on the first level, which may appeal 
 or repel people. "Metal" is the first word that comes to mind - basically, there is a more heavier 
 rock feeling to the music, as well as the usual touches of techno. Again, it adds to the "grittiness" 
 of the new look and I feel it is a welcome change.
  Advance Wars always had great, loveable and addictive music, and the new generation still has that 
 quality.
  
  For someone who is new to the Advance Wars series, I would recommend that you play the earlier 
 game (s) before moving onto this one. For experienced players, I would of course recommend you continue 
 with this one. If you've grown tired of the series, this is an excellent make-over, and for those 
 who still like the gameplay, then it's got the usual.
  
  I have noticed this game get a lot of criticism for it's new style, but really it was just right. 
 This series could not have stayed as likeable with the same features as before, and the core gameplay 
 has not been damaged. It's still Advance Wars, and it is still brilliantly made.
  For the regular DS player, this is definitely a worthwhile game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timteo928
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Well... what can I say? Its Advance Wars, and yet, doesn't feel 100% like it. 
  If you want to see my overall opinion of the game scroll down to the last few paragraphs.
  There 
 were some changes made that not everyone will appreciate. The biggest one is of course, the darker 
 tone to AW. Some people will like it for its more serious outlook to war, and some will be disgusted 
 by the fact that it is no longer kid-friendly. Technically, the control has improved a little, if 
 at all, in terms of stylus control. Otherwise, D-Pad control remains the same. The graphics are 
 nicer to look at, and the change certainly is refreshing, considering that many of AW's graphics 
 in the previous games were recycled. As for music, you will get tired of it's new style. The sounds 
 just keep repeating and you're better off muting it to save power. Power will be an issue in later 
 stages as it starts to get lengthy, so don't play it when a charger is not handy at that moment. 
 You will be redoing many of the later stages due to the cranked up difficulty of DOR. The gameplay 
 difficulty has increased noticeably and can at times get frustrating. Some missions require full 
 concentration as one mistake in the beginning can lead to you redoing it again. This can become 
 a problem, as you may not always have the time or mood to strain your brain. Stress has really 
 reared its ugly head in this game. Also, the CO powers are no longer as fun as it used to be. Before, 
 you could use a CO power and save your own butt from being handed to you. Then again, some will 
 like it for it not being able to be taken advantage of.
  If you're a big fan of AW like me, then, chances are you won't like the change. The serious tone 
 is just not fitting for AW and many will find it hard to get used to it. The game relies a lot 
 on storyline and this time it doesn't quite strike like it used to. The most disappointing thing 
 about this game is that all previous characters that you love from previous AW are not available 
 in the game.
  As aforementioned, fans may not appreciate the changes, but if you're new to the series, it'll 
 probably get you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpcicno6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  The new installment in the Advance Wars games is totally new. Forget all your memorable and favourite 
 characters such as Andy, Max, Grit, and Eagle. Ed and company will carry you through a new land 
 were after a metoer shower the war between the two nations persists in order to decide who is strongest, 
 whilst a mischevious scientist works in the background with his "children".
  Advance Wars Days of Ruin (Dark Conflict) graphics are less cartoon styled and more mature. A lot 
 has changed in the presentation but little in the gameplay. The formula is exactly the same; the 
 best tactician will win. Intelligent System changed a lot but still is able to transmit the same 
 feeling to the gamer.
  On another positive note, the excessive strength of certain units has been removed allowing a more 
 fair battle even when there is a big difference in property ownership. The story is fun. The missions 
 are great. The characters are well made and the CO Powers will not turn the tables, but will aid. 
 The CO Zone is introduced. This occurs when your CO is deployed inside a unit for half the cost 
 of that unit. It is a cool system that boosts that unit and possibly other units depending on the 
 CO being used. However it is rather stupid that after that unit is destroyed the game continues. 
 If at least game continues, you shouldn't be able to re-deploy your CO into another unit.
  It is true. The game is punishing in its difficulty level. Any Advance Wars veteran should be able 
 to get through a good quantity of the game without giving up. However the latter stages of the 
 mission are HARD! Another negative thing to note is the introduction of the "sub-missions" in the 
 campaign mode. I believe they should have been war room maps that can be unlocked. I do like that 
 the character to be used is set in advance and so you cannot adjust to a level depending on who 
 you think best fits.
  On the whole Intelligent Systems delivers another great game although I'm sure everyone will miss 
 our old CO friends. Advance Wars Days of Ruin is a game that shouldn't be left on the shelf by 
 any strategy player or someone who wishes to try something new. New players would however want 
 to try the GBA versions as the genre can be rather hit or miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  i admit that i havn't played any of the advance wars game before duel strike, and my friends are 
 always saying that i have to play the originals to truly appricate the game, but for a hand held 
 statagy game, advance wars is the best that i have ever played. Days of Ruin is more serious and 
 has a darker feel than duel stike. The characters seem to be a little more serious about the fact 
 that there in a war and trying to survive. Game-play didnt seem to change much from duel strike, 
 it is still the same go and capture buildings to make more money, and make units and go blow each 
 other up. The Dialog is not good, but isnt bad. it is somthing that they could have improved. The 
 story is pretty weak. anyone can make up a story about the end of the world and everyone struggling 
 to survive. it was pretty bland givin the setting the game had. over all it is a game that some 
 people will enjoy and some people will not. the game can be exteremly difficult and frustrating. 
 so if your new to the series, rent the game first, because you might find the game too difficult. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaemonBlack
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Intelligent systems definetly got it right with the newest installation in the Advance wars series, 
 Days of Ruin. Gone are the happy-go-lucky characters and the bright colors, and in their stead 
 is a new cast of characteres and a dark, earthly tone. Gone are the ridiculous CO powers that required 
 no strategy whatsoever and made some CO's completely unfair. Instead, CO's can now join the fight 
 by entering a unit and increasing the power of surrouning units as well as making that particular 
 unit powerful as well. Also, for the first time, there is full on WiFi multiplayer on Days of Ruin, 
 which although i havn't tried personally, is pretty sweet. But if your like me and just like to 
 play the computer there is a fairly lengthy campaign that has extra challenging missions called 
 trials that will test your strategy skills. Also, there is about 150 "free battle" maps that can 
 be played against the computer or a friend. And if you dont like those maps you can use the map 
 editor to make your very own battle scenario. Unfortunetly, they took out the system that let you 
 buy extra maps and clothing styles for characters, which added a ton of replay value to Dual Strike. 
 But i feel like this is the game's only fault. The gamespot review said the story was weak... pay 
 no attention to that. The story won't blow you away but it is still good, and will make you want 
 to complete the campaign just to see how everything works out. Also, the gamespot review said the 
 game was too hard.... pay no attention to that either. This is a strategy game, strategy games aren't 
 supposed to be easy. I personally thought the main story in this game was easier than Dual Strike, 
 but the afforementioned trial maps can get quite difficult. If you played the old Advance Wars 
 games, you will notice that some units have been removed. Including the Neo Tank, Mega Tank, Black 
 boat, and the Stealth Bomber. However, there are new units to take their place. Including the Duster 
 ( kind of a fighter/copter hybrid) the Flare (lights up an area of the map in Fog of War) The War 
 Tank (Sort of a Mega Tank) and the Seaplane (a unit made on carriers that can attack any unit.) 
 There has also been subtle balancing changes to some of the other units, but ill let you find them 
 out for yourself.
  In conclusion, if you are a fan of the Advance wars series or a fan of turned based strategies, 
 this is a game you need to have. There were a few small things that could have been added to the 
 already huge replay value to make it an incredible game, but this is still a superb game that will 
 no doubt give you hours of strategy fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamHo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  pretty surprised by gamespot's review actually. Let me just say that the story isn't weak, this 
 is hands down the advance wars with the most serious plot ever.
  
  They tweaked up the system which fans may like or dislike. personally, i preferred the system in 
 DS, but this new system is awesome too.
  
  The CO system works quite differently, COs now "join" a unit giving it a powerful bonus, and the 
 unit as well gets an aura, giving bonuses to other units in a nearby radius. This radius is different 
 for all COs, which is a huge balancing factor in the game - this game is without a doubt the most 
 balanced AW to date, but given that fact, some players may or may not like that, because it severely 
 limits the amount of strategies you can use now. 
  
  In effect, this forces players to really think about what they do with their units, as spamming 
 is no longer a really viable method of combat - there are counters to everything, and one must 
 be aware of those counters. 
  
  I really enjoyed this game but I do miss the old system - the change is so significant, you feel 
 like you're playing a new series, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, it's not like i'm not allowed 
 to play the older AW, lol! Definetely a title worth getting, very intense.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiLoN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars Days of Ruin to start, has done what many series fail to do. Which is take the same 
 game, and generaly keep the key elements of the game the same, but sharply turn to the gameplay 
 and feel, and come out successful. Being a huge fan of the series I will have to say this is the 
 best in the series. The darker tone and feel to the story fits well, and better yet it's a good 
 plot. Where it can be corny at times (every scene with Dr. Morris) it takes and great political 
 and devastating situation and turns it into a amped story featuring some very memorable characters. 
 You start off following the story of a military cadet named Will who is saved by a straight by 
 the book military commander Brenner, who strives in the midst of the destruction to find and save 
 survivors. And will go to all lengths to complete this mission. Will join's up with the 12th Batallion 
 (aka Brenner's Wolves) a helps him fight his cause, in doing so runs face first into a full fledged 
 war. So on to the actual gameplay. Where Advanced Wars generaly remains the same tactical game 
 we all love it's gone through some changes, in my opinion for the better. First major change, New 
 units, such as the anti-tank, the indirect ranged unit, which although has limited range, can counterfire. 
 The Flare unit which dispells hidden areas of fog in Fog of War, and last but not least, the Seaplane 
 which is created by your aircraft carriers and holds a perfect average of fighting capabilities 
 in the field. Second major change- Units now level up through three ranks after defeating emeny 
 units. After a single kill the unit becomes a level one unit, then progresses to a level two unit 
 after a second kill. Then after the third kill it becomes a Vetran unit. In the process of leveling 
 the unit's stats will increase. Third Major change, CO's abilities are now mellowed out and balanced 
 down to a equal level. Now CO's can actually board your units and increase the stats of surrounding 
 units. On top of this, the unit they board automaticly becomes a Vetran unit giving the unit an 
 advantage in combat. When this CO unit destroys enemy units it will fill the CO's gauge where you 
 unleash havoc depending on the CO your commanding at the time. Fourth major change, the enemy AI 
 is now much smarter and won't fall for simple traps and such, and will most likely pull you into 
 a trap of it's own. Due to this the gameplay has been amped up into a whole new level giving fans 
 and those new to Advanced Wars a compelling challenge that true fans of the genre wont be able 
 to ignore. For the minor changes, the art has been completely redone, much crisper, much darker, 
 and sets the mood for the game. The soudtrack to the game has taken a rock/metal twist which I 
 personally enjoyed, (not everyone would agree) and I felt this too helped contribute to the game's 
 new look. For the bad? Not much really, the game's store is missing which I think was a poor decision 
 to take out, CO's are not that difficult to unlock, and not as many of them to choose. Also the 
 stylus doesn't play as well as it could, and it's very easy to miss touch a command and make a 
 very wrong move in a very important situation. Also, the game could have done much better with 
 a stronger line of dialoge for good ol' Dr. Morris. The character's lines completely kill the serious 
 feel of the game and he's not funny, the game spells this out clearly, but he continues on with 
 his bad puns, and annoying jokes. It not really the biggest downfall but it does get old. Overall 
 this game rocks. If you like tactical games, you'll enjoy this one to the fullest. If your a fan 
 of AW, look this way because this game is worthy of your time. Im glad that a series like this 
 had enough guts to change it's face, and for the better. 
  
  Graphics- 8
  
  Gameplay-10
  
  Sound-8
  
  Replay Value-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, where do I start about how great this game is? Oh yeah, the new setting. The advance wars series 
 seriously needed a new setting and theme, and they got it in Days of Ruin. With a meteor shower 
 hitting Earth and almost all the population is wiped off the face of the earth, you must band up 
 with other survivers to gather food and supplies. (and maybe help some total strangers along the 
 way)
  
  The graphics have more pixels resulting in smoother unit looks, and by the way, there are about 
 4 new units to the game.
  1. The duster: a totally useless airplane with weak attack and defence.
  2. The anti-tank gun: 
 An indirect fire unit that can counter attack tanks the directly confront it. (WAY overpowered)
 
  3. Gunboat: An inexpensive boat that does moderate damage against other naval units.
  4. Bike: A new infantry unit that moves much faster than normal infantry and can still capture cities 
 and stuff.
  (Might have missed some units, but that don't really matter that much.)
  
  The only Con to this game is that it gets hard really quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrJocobo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Visual: 4/5
  This is a visually pleasing game, capable to two different perspectives during gameplay. The first, 
 the classic Advanced Wars view, where it will show a wide view of the feild and the classic sprites 
 for each different unit, and the second, more detailed view of Days of Ruin. This new view shows, 
 less field, but gives each of your units, a greater feel. Instead of the classic side view, the 
 units face a downward angle on their square, defining the unit and giving them a more 3D appearence.
 
  
  The overall graphics of this game are pretty simple durring gameplay, easy to find menus and directions, 
 but what is really dazzeling are the photographs that flash into the storyline. Each one of these 
 images are a credit to what the DS platform can really do.
  
  Audio: 2/5
  The sound has never been all that extraordinary in Advance Wars, and Days of Ruin isn't an exception. 
 All the bells and whistles are found, theme music for each CO is unique and original, but honestly, 
 the sound is really not a serious part of the game. It should just be turned off to keep the batteries 
 running for longer.
  
  Control: 3/5
  The controls are going to be familiar to the fans of AW: DS. The same princiaples apply. touch the 
 unit, move the unit, attack with the unit. The stylis is just as easy to use as the D-pad, although 
 the pad and buttons might seem less tedious at times. 
  
  Story: 4.5/5
  Fans to the happy go lucky world of classic Advanced Wars, be ready to be shocked. This new world 
 is a place of death and struggle for survival. It may seem similar, but there is definatly a dark 
 twist that classic users wont be used to. The planet has been taken out by a rain of meteors, and 
 the whole planted is demolished. Not many survived. In the days of Dual Strike, the Co's were little 
 kids and the overall mood was bright and happy. Not in Days of Ruin. Quite the opposite infact. 
 The entire storyline is full of close deaths of the CO's that you become quite close to in their 
 struggle to relight the fire of humanity. The characters have taken a more serious look to them, 
 and the storyline could, but dosen't, stay as dark as the characters.
  
  Overall: 3/5 for Fans, and 4/5 for gamers
  Basicaly, if you are looking for another great Advance 
 Wars game, I wouldn't suggest this game. The entire system and story will leave you sad that you 
 got such a depressing game. On the other hand, anyone who is looking at this game and saying: "maybe", 
 I say go for it. It is a very strategic game, and, although frustrating at times, will allow for 
 multiple hours of enjoyment. 
  
  And if the storyline isn't for you, there is alway the multiplayer function that is quite addictive. 
 Share maps, and fight people all across the world. The way that a DS game should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkryu91
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  As a veteran of the previous three games of the advance wars series, I'm happy to say that Advance 
 Wars: Days of Ruin is one solid game. Admittedly, when I first heard about the face lift that the 
 series was getting, I was distraught. I would miss the colorful atmosphere and the tried and true 
 game play mechanics of the advance wars games. And you know what? I still do. Yet, Days of Ruin 
 has proven that even a change as big as this can still be awesome. 
  
  Although darker in many aspects, the storyline of the game is certainly more realistic and more 
 believable than the story lines of previous titles. Characters good and bad die, cuss (gasp!) , 
 and the player finds that war is not always some happy go lucky game (that is, they would if the 
 game didn't manage to be so fun) . The story actually has some morals to it and gets the player 
 thinking. Don't get me wrong: Bioshock this game is not. Yet, the storyline manages to be satisfying 
 nonetheless.
  
  Another one of my previous fears about DoR had to do with the new CO power system. I thought that 
 I would miss the game breaking effects of COs and their ability to wipe the face of the battlefield. 
 Fortunately, I was wrong. I'm not saying that the new system is a complete upgrade of the last 
 one, but it certainly is an improvement. Not only did I learn that the new CO powers could be just 
 as potent as the last, but I also learned that the system can be quite innovative and requires 
 more strategy on the part of the player, thereby adding even more realism and fun to the game.
 
  
  This isn't to say that I don't have my gripes with this game. There are some features that were 
 omitted from the game that I and possibly other fans will miss. Namely, the war room, various challenges, 
 co abilities (not powers) , shop system, dual screen battles, and even some useful units like the 
 black boat (don't kill me!) . While I do acknowledge that the developers removed features of the 
 previous games in an effort to make DoR more realistic/ balanced, I feel that extras like dual 
 screen battles could have been left alone. I'm not actually a fan of dual screen battles, but I 
 really don't see any harm in leaving features like that in the series. It's not like they detracted 
 from the game at all; they merely served as extras in case the player wanted a little more. I really 
 hope that fun quirks like these are brought back into future installments. My other complaint is 
 minor, but I would like to see it improved upon nonetheless. I felt that more COs should have been 
 included to improve variety like in dual strike, but I guess that problem can be left to future 
 games.
  
  I'm also happy to say that the core game play hasn't changed a bit. DoR still holds true to the 
 thought provoking, tank blasting action that everybody loves. New units such as the anti tank and 
 the bike are interesting and help to spruce up the battles. They are certainly more creative than 
 just another souped up tank. Although, like I said before, innovative units like the black boat 
 will be sorely missed (by me anyway.) DoR can also be recommended to newcomers (even some non strategy 
 fans) , as the game play of advance wars is fun, approachable, and simply a blast. However, some 
 of the missions in the campaign can be pretty difficult and may require previous experience to 
 beat them. 
  
  So despite the new direction the advance wars series has taken, DoR still manages to be an excellent 
 game that is on par with its predecessors. The story is fresh, the game play remains cool and exciting, 
 plus wi fi mode gives the game nearly endless replay value. The most annoying problems of the game 
 stem from the lack of extra features, but the overall game play has not changed a bit and should 
 still appeal to veterans and newbies alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asurapwner
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin brings out the best in turn-based strategical warfare to date; both 
 in -and- out of the series. This game presents us with a completely different world, devoid of 
 the cheerful overcoat of Macroland, Cosmoland and Omegaland. The word "gritty" has been used before 
 to describe this game and to great effect. Not only has the story become more of a dark, empty 
 place; it's also just as coarse as it's been before. The game's storyline is rather straightforward: 
 the world's basically in a post-apocalyptic state. Most of the inhabitants were vaporized by an 
 onslaught of meteors. However, several of the high-ranking officers of the military along with 
 plenty of soldiers have managed to live. How convenient. Unfortunately, the two warring countries 
 of Lazuria and Rubinelle have just enough military force and inhumanity to continue fighting.
 
  
  You enter the Campaign mode to your usual plethora of tutorials. The first great thing I noticed 
 about this game was that the Campaign Screen was now fully navigable. This means that if what ever 
 rank you got marred the pristine "S"-ranked average you had up until then, you can try again for 
 a better (or lower) grade. The game still grades on the basis of Speed (amount of days taken to 
 win) , Power (Most units killed in a turn) , and Technique (most units lost in a turn) on a scale 
 of 1 - 100 for each category. Except that that's a lie because you can actually go up to 150 in 
 each category, but anything beyond a "300" is an S ranked and at that point it's just giving your 
 ego a nice back-rub.
  
  Throughout the first 12 or so missions you'll find the game to be a bit of a pushover. After that, 
 let's just say things start getting a bit challenging. Once you hit 21 you're going to stop playing 
 the Campaign mode until nobody is around, and then under cover of darkness looking up every single 
 strategy people have posted on the internet as to how to solve the puzzles. Why do I say puzzles? 
 Because that's what they become! They're hardly battles anymore. It's like picking a lock a mile 
 deep! All in all, the difficulty gets so insane you'll get incredibly irritated.
  
  The only silver lining to that is that the last three characters aren't worth your time anyways. 
 Penny is really only worth using when the map your playing has weather-rules set, and Tabitha and 
 Caulder are so freakin' broken that having them available just means that your friends are going 
 to insist that they get to use those CO's 'cause they probably don't have them. In fact, you can't 
 even use Caulder online. I can understand making a character tailored to the Story mode, but perhaps 
 they should've considered dumbing Caulder and Tabitha back down to a balanced level for purposes 
 of Multiplayer combat. Because hey, who doesn't want to play the stuck up brat or the psychotic 
 evolution obsessed scientist who will remind you of an even creepier version of Gin Ichimaru from 
 Bleach?
  
  The one thing that Advance Wars was completely consistent on in this game, however, was putting 
 in new battle-content that suit the games playing style. Every time you see those new units there's 
 always that worry that they'll break the game. To be honest, they do. They broke it free of what 
 it was. Full of stalemates. The game basically took bad the old roster then added from the blank-slate. 
 There's the Bike unit which is basically infantry that can move five spaces but is subject to terrain 
 and can't traverse mountains and the Flare which is mounted with a machine gun but if you don't 
 move it, you can use its "Flare" option to light up a medium sized (2 spaces in any direction from 
 a central space) area of fog. This is great for when you and your enemy are at opposite ends of 
 a bridge twiddling your thumbs. The MD tank has had its price cut to 12k, making it more accessible. 
 The War Tank (which is basically the Megatank) has been placed in at 16k. The tank, MD tank, and 
 War tank provide for a basic but great selection with a very obvious balance of mobility and power.
 
  
  New air units like the Duster and Seaplane provide a better selection of air units. Both of which 
 being able to hit most any unit. However, you might find Battle Copters suspiciously under-used. 
 Anti-air are now 7k, I believe, and thus even MORE accessible, making air warfare very much strike 
 and retreat. However, that's exactly what it SHOULD be, and thus, is a great improvement over the 
 previous game (however veterans of the old games might find it difficult to adjust to) . The infantry 
 now cost 1500 and the Mechs (now called Bazookas) and Bikes are 2500. The gunboat is a nifty little 
 trinket. A cost-efficient (6000) unit that can carry one shot (great against the now extremely 
 versatile Cruiser) and can carry one foot soldier. The Rig is the new APC and can use materials 
 to build either temporary Airports on planes or temporary Naval ports on beaches while still functioning 
 as a unit carrier. However, these buildings are not production buildings. The Aircraft Carrier 
 uses a similar mechanism to create Seaplanes, a plane that is devastatingly powerful but starts 
 with about 40 fuel only. The Anti-tank unit (11000) is the perfect unit for making your opponent 
 switch strategies. Not only is it ranged 1 - 3 (however to use it you must treat it as an artillery 
 unit) it can counter direct-combat attacks. Thus, it's perfect for meat-grinding tanks. However, 
 it's less effective against units without vehicle armor.
  
  There are three huge problems with this new selection, while they are permissible and defeatable, 
 are extremely annoying. The PC's now, when threatened by a majority of either tanks or air units 
 will do one of three things (each of which is a huge annoyance) : Spam anti-airs, spam mechs, or 
 spam anti-tanks. Ultimately these are all defeatable via simple "rock-paper-scissors" outlook, 
 but it shows you that the AI however smarter now, still has a small box it thinks within.
  
  The last thing is that you now have to put your CO into a unit for it to have any relevance 
 beyond graphics and music (which is an awesome selection, by the way) . This is done by putting 
 a unit (or after buying one) on any sort of production building (airport, naval port, factory) 
 you can pay half the unit's value (ex. Artillery = 6000 / 2 = 3000) to attach your CO to that unit. 
 Each CO has a CO-Effect that applies to any and all of your own units within a certain zone (called 
 the CO-Zone) . Each CO's radius is also different, and expands by 1 square when reaching a certain 
 point on the CO Power gauge. The Power gauge is now divided into two pieces. The zone grows at 
 the halfway and full-charged mark. The power is activated by the CO while he's in the unit. This 
 is a wonderfully tactical implementation as if your CO's unit is routed, he returns to HQ and his 
 gauge resets.
  
  Other great aspects of this game include online capability that includes 1 vs 1 games on maps that 
 at most can be 10 x 10 (or as small as 5 x 5) . You can play with friends or with random people. 
 Beyond that there is a Map Center where you can send your maps and people can download them at 
 random. They can then rate these maps and your map will be updated with the rating, thus, people 
 can also download the highest rated maps. The design room is just as great as it's always been; 
 if not better. The game introduces several new tiles such as Wasteland, Ruins, Mist, Rough and 
 Plasma/Meteors. The first four all include different movement inhibitors and/or provide cover in 
 Fog of War. The Plasma is like the new pipes and can be used over Water without turning the tile 
 into a plane tile. The Meteors are like pipe seams, except that when destroyed, all plasma is removed 
 that was connected to that meteor. The last of these fun features is a gimmicky zoom-feature that 
 allows you to zoom in on the game presenting a different set of art that makes the game look refined, 
 and a Sound Room where you can listen to the game's rockin' sound track.
  
  All in all the game takes its biggest hits in the Campaign mode. The multiplayer is still jam-packed 
 with fun and strategy, and with the edition of Online mode you're not limited to beating/losing 
 to your same group of friends over and over. The removal of purchasing maps and COs means no unnecessary 
 wait periods after unlocking things, and keeps up the game's over all increase in tempo. Over all, 
 the game receives a 9.0 from me. A great game that you can play in school under a desk, in a line, 
 on a plane, or when someone's talking to you that you just don't want to listen to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  OK, so the previous three games in the Advance Wars series were great, right? Days of Ruin is the 
 fourth game in the series. It is radically different from the previous games. Is that a good or 
 a bad thing? Well unfortunately, quite a bit of it is bad.
  
  First off, there is the complete replacing of the CO's from previous Advance Wars games. That's 
 right, all of them. That's right, all of the CO's who we've all loved throughout the years and 
 have grown very attached to. And I'm very concerned that they will never appear in another Advance 
 Wars game ever, ever, ever again. Yes, Will, Brenner, Lin, and Isabella are very cool people, don't 
 get me wrong, but they're just not the same as Andy, Sami, Max, Colin, Kanbei, Kindle, Jess, Hawke, 
 and all the other characters who basically made Advance Wars Advance Wars. That's one major disappointment. 
 
  
  Next is the changing of the CO power system. Now, instead of having three levels of CO powers, 
 there is just one (1) in Days of Ruin. And that CO power can only very rarely be used in a game. 
 This definitely seems to be a downgrade. CO Powers wre a large piece of the strategy in the AW 
 series, and the extreme downgrading of the CO powers seems to leave a gaping hole in Days of Ruin's 
 gameplay. Sure, the COP's in previous titles were quite powerful, but powerful does not mean overpowered. 
 Many of the most powerful CO Powers had lengthy charge time, and the weak ones had less charge 
 time, thus balancing them out.
  
  I also greatly dislike the removal of many of the singleplayer features, such as the War Room, 
 Battle Maps shop, and Combat mode. It seems like IS has decided to ditch many of the SP features 
 for multiplayer. What the heck were they thinking? This significantly decreased Days of Ruin's 
 replay value. Since not everyone has that expensive wireless router needed to play DS games multiplayer 
 anyway. 
  
  My biggest problem with Days of Ruin, though, is the removal of the D2D Co strengths and weakness. 
 Now, I'd really like to slap IS across the face. D2D powers was the staple of the strategy in the 
 previous AW titles. This is the largest hole in Days of Ruin yet. Balance does not mean everything 
 has to be the same, silly. Another thing to note was the removal of the leveling up of CO's and 
 the CO skills. These were great features added in Dual Strike which allowed you to tweak the game 
 quite a bit while also greatly adding to the game's replay value. Now in Days of Ruin, this has 
 all vanished for some reason. I was really hoping that all the CO's would be radically different, 
 except for just the name and a graphic. Oh and a Co power that you only ever see once in a blue 
 moon 
  
  Now for the things that Days of Ruin actually did RIGHT. FIrst off, the musical score. It GREATLY 
 surprised me, as since this game looked unappealing, I expected the music of Days to be terrible. 
 Boy, was I wrong. Brenner's Theme, Will's Theme, and the Menu Music are just simply amazing. Music 
 may very well be the ONLY thing Days of Ruin does better than its three predecessors. Also, some 
 of the new units are very cool too. Such as the Flare unit, which lights up areas in Fog of War 
 (as well as reveal woods and reefs) . Another good thing was the leveling up of units, thus increasing 
 their attack and defence. Although I felt that this system was very sloppily done, as it was way 
 too easy for units to level up, it was still a nice addition to the series. The graphics are somewhat 
 updated as well. And much of the core AW gameplay remains intact, such as the capturing of properties, 
 victory conditions, and battle sequences.
  
  Overall, Days of Ruin is not a bad game, but it seems to me to be the worst in the entire series. 
 It just feels that there are a lot of missing elements in the game, which made the previous AW 
 games really shine. It is worth playing, just don't expect too much out of it.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 5
  Tilt: 7
  
  Final Score: 8.0\10 (great)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeez1311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I've played the advanced wars series dating back to the second one released "Advance Wars: Black 
 hole rising"
  
  I can see why a new player to the series might have difficulty playing since there is no dedicated 
 tutorial. I had no problem myself since I've been there and done that. I thought the learning curve 
 was good and I learned how to use the new units without much trouble. Overall I think it was a 
 solid sequel to the Advance Wars series. The only thing which kind of disappointed me is that instead 
 of building on the strategy they took some away with the Co-powers not being existent. This makes 
 the game bases more on the players skill, which is a good thing. But it also takes away from the 
 pre-game strategy. Before i would look at a map and see what CO would be best like in "Dual Strike" 
 the CO drake would be super cheap on sea maps. Now with "Days of ruin" it doesn't matter as much. 
 That is about the only complaint I have with the game it still has the addicting game play I have 
 come to love from the Advanced Wars Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stormwingman22
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I'm sure that most of you have read at least some form or review on this game. I come from 
 the experiance of playing all four of these games and seeing the improvements... and "deimprovements" 
 with all the progressing games. If you have never played Advance Wars before or this is the first 
 one in the series that you have played, this review probably won't change your opinion at all of 
 the game.
  First off, I love Advance Wars and was hooked on it ever since I bought the first one many years 
 ago. The stratagy in this game is still the same as ever, amazing. I'm just going to go ahead and 
 list the "improvements" and "deimprovements" over its predecessors.
  
  Story: This is probably one of the worst stories out of all of them. This catagory is the only 
 thing I would of said that would of decreased with every game (the exception being the story line 
 in Advance Wars: Duel Strike (#3) ) . It is more hardcore so some people will like that. I appreciate 
 Intellegence Systems incorporating some inicial incident into the story (rather then in AW: Black 
 Hole Rising (#2) Max saying that suddenly, "Those guys from Black Hole are back." that just left 
 me saying, wow...) But i really wanted the Meteor strike to have been planned and not just "coincidence."
 
  
  Graphics: I personally liked the older graphics then this one. This games graphics seem crude and 
 "hardcore". The graphics in the previous 3 games seemed more appealing to me.
  
  Content: Ok, I was REALLY disappointed that they took out the War Room. I seriously loved playing 
 in that for hours. There doesn't seem to be that much you can do after the campaign now that you 
 don't have to buy maps with the points you earned on the missions in regard to your rank. An "S" 
 rank doesn't seem as rewarding anymore... The Wi-fi is the thing that averages the previous losses 
 out. They should of incorporated it in the 3rd game but i guess they didn't have the time? or something.... 
 
  
  COs: This to me was bitter sweet. I really like it that the game is focussed on stratagy more then 
 the CO that you pick at the begining of the mission. Ever since the second game, the CO powers 
 just turned into "powerhouses" that basically turned the tides on the game (especially Hawke's 
 increadibly CHEAP CO power...) In the 3rd game, the CO powers became more increasingly cheap. I 
 found that if you used Eagle and Sami together for a "Duel Strike" attack, you could get 3 moments 
 out of most units in one standard day (or turn) . By doing this, Eagle could move an infintry unit 
 close to the enemies capital and Sami, on her turn, could use her CO power to capture the capital 
 in one turn. Thus, ending the battle in an increadibly cheap way!!! Some of the current CO powers 
 seem generic and useless in some conditions. I like it that the CO you chose doesn't affect your 
 units fighting strength NEGATIVLY. Also, the CO zone and the increasing increments in the zone 
 seem to have been a good add on. I liked that if you destroyed the CO, their meter returned to 
 0 and you could put them on any unit you like (at a base or HQ) for half the units inical cost, 
 and making it a vet. 
  
  Veterancy: This was one of my favorite parts. No more will you see stats like in "Starcraft" that 
 show you how many units you kill just for the fun of it. Basically this made a unit that killed 
 100 units no different from a new one, but HEY, at least it made the game fun, right??? The sence 
 of veterancy is incorporated well. You destroy one unit, the unit which you destroyed it with games 
 one level (max level 3) of veterancy. This makes the unit more powerful and experianced, giving 
 you an incentive to either keep it alive or make it a priority target (for the enemy) .
  
  Units: I had fun observing the diffences in this game over the other ones. 
  
  New and Old: 
 There as some new units and changes with old units. Some were removed in this game then that which 
 were in previous games
  The Bike: a mechanized infanty. It can capture properties like a infantry or mech. It has the power 
 of an infantry but has 3 more movement and costs 1000 more. However, it can't be loaded like an 
 infantry into a T-copter, Rig, or gunboat, and can't traverse streams or mountains : (. I still 
 don't see why you use you mg gun and not a tanks main gun and such to fire on this unit...
  Flare: Best unit to have during a Fog of War match. It has an mg gun for direct combat and uses 
 a flare (indirect combat style: it can't move and fire) to illuminate a zone far away for one turn, 
 IT EVEN REVEALS FORESTS AND SUCH!!!!
  Wartank: Like the Mega tank in AW Duel Strike (#3) but costs a heck of a lot less and is a less 
 powerful.
  Antitank gun: FINALLY, an inderect unit that can counter attack!! It has the range of an artillery 
 unit but can attack right infront of it. The same rules for firing still apply to this, an indirect 
 combat unit. It is amazing for weakening any veicle unit. Any vehicle trying to get the first strike, 
 THINK AGAIN. You will barely do any damage and receive equal or more damage in return then what 
 you dealt. It can even attack copters (for some reason) but CANT attack naval units unlike the 
 artillery and rockets.
  Rig: Exactly like the APC units in the other game but with an additiona feature, it can build tempory 
 ports on plains and temporary docks on coast. This makes the space have 1 star of def and it allows 
 navel or air (depending on what port or airstrip you make) to be replenished and recover 2 units 
 per turn like a regular airport or dock. It can only build one temporary dock OR airport per rig 
 but this helps clear up your docks and airports so they can still build new units while a damaged 
 unit can still get repaired.
  Gunboats: cheap boats that can attack other sea units but only has 1 ammo slot. It can transport 
 1 infantry unit as well and can go on coasts (obviously) . It is basically a support unit or a unit 
 to "soften" other sea units, like a cruiser.
  Battleships: This addition i personally enjoyed and felt it was a good call on Intellegence Systems 
 part. Its range has been reduced from 2-6 to 3-5 (like a rocket) BUT it CAN fire AFTER MOVING!!! 
 This makes it a unit that is effective in coast bombardments or an decent support unit to a ground 
 assault. Cruiser attacks are not advised because the battleship can just move little and blows 
 the ship away on its next turn (well, severly weaken it)
  Carrier: Yet another time i applaude Intelligence systems for making revisions. In the past (3rd 
 game where it made its appearence) it was a unit that provided indirect anti air support and could 
 refuel any 2 air units at once. But when u wanted to "launch" the units, you would have to "drop" 
 them like how you drop a unit from a transport unit, and they cant more till next turn. This basically 
 made the unit useless and vulnerable for 1 turn. The changes: units can launch from the carrier 
 and attack if the carrier doesn't move on its turn. The carrier doesn't become inactive after this 
 happens and can still move or produce seaplanes. Which brings me to my next unit and concept. It 
 is still an anti-air unit but it is a direct combat unit and isnt that effective. Just use a cruiser 
 or the planes docked on it.
  Seaplanes: (cost: 15,000 understood) they are only built by aircraft carriers. a carrier can only 
 build 4 of them per each carrier. They are versatile units that can attack any other unit (save 
 submergered subs) it is a high flying air unit (ie: it burns 5 fuel at the start of each turn) 
 and it only has 40 fuel and 3 ammo. Needless to say, you need a rig, airstripe, or even a carrier 
 nearby. Still, they are extremely powerful and useful.
  Duster: I laugh at this unit. It is a high flying unit that can attack everything but ships. However, 
 it barely does any damage except other copter units. It is good in "supporting" either a seaplane 
 or fighter in attacking another fighter or air unit i guess... but thats about it.
  Sub: I had to mention this because i love the changes, even if they are minor, to what they did 
 to it. It now has 70 instead of 60 fuel but it is produced SUBMERGED!!!! This means that unless 
 the enemy is looking at your cash and seeing that it dropped 20,000 one turn, the enemy will never 
 suspect you built a sub. They they can be truely effective. They extremely good vs carriers and 
 battleships and can usually take them out in one strike at full health. This, even if it is a sacrific, 
 is worth it to take out a stratigically placed carrier or battleship.
  Mech: Only a hardcore fan would notice this. They are soooo much better vs vehicles such as med 
 tanks but still, only if they get the first strike that is at full health. A wave of theses can 
 defiantly stop or delay an enemy tank assault for some time.
  Cost: most of the units cost less in this game. The only unit that costs more in infantry by only 
 500. since bikes and mechs are 2500 and the infantry is 1500, the infantry seems a little useless 
 to me at least.
  Non returning units:
  Pipe-runners: (it was basically useless in the 3rd game... thats all the reader needs to know)
 
  Mega Tank: is basically replaced by the War Tank
  Black boat: a ship that could repair 1 unit and resupply any unit (air, sea or land) . It could 
 transport 2 infanty units. It was a good support unit, i miss it.
  Black Bomb: This costly air unit had no attack, it just detonated. Reducing a huge area of units 
 by 5 hp. It couldn't destroy any units but it could defiantly turn the tide in a battle.
  Stealth: I really loved this unit. This high flying air unit could cloak and, while cloaked, it 
 could only be attacked by fighters and other stealths making it the perfect unit to hit a-airs 
 and cruisers as well as other units. It was a little cheap because if there was only one airport, 
 these units were basically indestructible.
  
  Campaign: Straight forward. Like the campaign off #2 and 3, just without the other world... and 
 COs.... However, there is no hard campaign once you clear it. I thought this was Intelligence System's 
 signiture move in all of its games like AW 1-3 and all "Fire Emblems" to put this mode in so I 
 was shocked to find that it wasn't in here. Although, some might argue that it was too hard in 
 its normal mode to which i say, it was not as bad as "Black Hole Rising" (#2) when you had to fight 
 the "factory" levels and especially the huge maps when you had to fight against Hawke especially... 
 and Sturm... It was harder then most parts of the first one and the 3rd game was the easiest of 
 all of them. If I can get a "S" rank on the campaign the first time through then something is seriously 
 wrong with the difficulty. The end levels were challenging but not that difficult. I personally 
 enjoyed the "Great Owl" level when you had to fight off several waves of enemies that came as reinforcements 
 when you cleared the map of all units. The last level wasn't as difficult as the second or even 
 the first games final level, personally. Clauder is not nearly as cheap as Hawke during the campaign, 
 trust me.... You can't chose your CO at the start of any mission. I felt this was good because 
 then the gameplay depended on one's own stratagy rather then the CO to give them a boast. Overall, 
 I felt the campaign was challeging, but not nearly as bad as previous campaigns. 
  
  Whew. If your still with me allow me to sum up my previously stated points.
  
  Pros: COs aren't 
 powerhouses and offer support to the battlefield. Wi-Fi!!!!!!!! redesigned many of the units' abilities 
 and prices. Most of the new units were a help rather then just useful in certain situations.
  
  Cons: No hard campaign. Game is too hardcore and lost some of its "colorful" appeal. No War 
 Room. Can't buy new maps so ranking on missions seem kinda dull. Some CO abilities seem to generic. 
 I really liked some of the other COs that were in the other games an their abilities (many Eagle's) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is easily one of my favorite video game franchises ever created, and certainly one 
 of my favorite to make an appearance on the DS (and honestly, it has good company with titles like 
 Lost in Blue, Hotel Dusk, Phoenix Wright, and Trauma Center) . So, you can imagine that I was absolutely 
 giddy with excitement with the announcement of the newest Advance Wars game, subtitled Days of 
 Ruin. After spending countless hours with the game, I've happily come to the conclusion that Days 
 of Ruin edges out its brethren for the title of best Advance Wars game ever.
  
  To begin with, the story of Days of Ruin is significantly better than that of any of its predecessors. 
 At this point, we're beyond the simple storyline that goes something like, "Oh boy, war is so fun, 
 so let's just fight, guys!". Rather, in Days of Ruin, you're introduced with a pretty grim story 
 of death and destruction from the moment you power on your DS -- a huge chain of natural disasters 
 has set the world in a state of ruin. You take control of Will, a young cadet and a survivor of 
 the apocalypse, as he meets up with Commander Brenner and his "Wolves". The story follows these 
 and other characters as they attempt to unravel exactly what happened and search for other survivors 
 -- fighting numerous battles along the way, of course.
  
  The art style goes hand-in-hand with the plot, and they really get along together quite nicely. 
 The game's visuals are grim, depressing, and far more realistic than they have been in past iterations 
 of the series. Each of the units have also undergone significant change, and the result is everything 
 looking far more believable. There are also some presentation changes this time around, one of 
 the biggest being the fact that your units appear on the bottom screen and your foes on the top 
 during a battle visual, which really utilizes the space the two screens have to offer and is far 
 superior to putting both sets of units on the bottom screen.
  
  But before I get to far ahead of myself, I'd better explain the Advance Wars game play mechanic 
 to any sad soul who hasn't had the good fortune to play one (or all, or some number in between) 
 of the Advance Wars games. It's a pretty basic strategy game, which has you taking control of a 
 number of different units on a battlefield and strategically pitting them against those of a foe. 
 You direct each of your soldiers and units, and issue them various commands, the most common of 
 which are attack and wait. The strategy is in utilizing unit strengths and weaknesses, along with 
 the varying range of each of your many units, to come out victorious on the battlefield. Days of 
 Ruin makes a bit of an addition to the core mechanic, however, with the implementation of an RPG-ish 
 leveling mechanic. Every time a unit kills an enemy, they gain a point, and their stats go up. 
 Each unit can get up to three points, and these aren't insignificant. While a zero-point infantry 
 is pretty useless, a full 3-point one is a force to be reckoned with.
  
  The number of units is also pretty impressive -- there's no real increase over those of Advance 
 Wars DS, but a number of significant changes have been made. For example, the Neotank and Megatank 
 have both been removed and replaced with a new unit -- I'll save it for you to find out for yourself 
 what it is. And then there's the addition of more useful units like the Duster, which is a plane 
 that can fire on both air and land units, and the motorcycle, which is like an infantry unit with 
 increased movement and firepower. There are a lot of different troop types to keep track of, but 
 only by doing so and by keeping in mind troop advantages and disadvantages are you going to be 
 able to win battles.
  
  As any Advance Wars fan knows, they're tough games, and Days of Ruin certainly is no exception. 
 In fact, even the first levels are going to be mildly difficult to a newbie to the series -- you 
 can't expect to just do whatever you want and then have the game hold your hand and help you win. 
 You've got to play smart and make good choices -- sacrificing units, who to attack with, who to 
 get out of the way and who's expendable -- it's all good fun, but it's also quite challenging. 
 At the same time, though, that makes this game all the more satisfying.
  
  One aspect of Days of Ruin that might disappoint some fans of Advance Wars DS is that the CO system 
 has been largely scaled back. Say goodbye to monstrously-powerful CO Powers or devastating Tag 
 Teams. In fact, you can't even choose which CO to use during the campaign. Still, it's something 
 that I appreciate, largely because I like winning to rely on your strategic skill, not on a CO 
 Power. In fact, if anything, it serves to make the game a bit tougher, because you haven't got 
 that crutch to rely on when the going gets tough. Conversely, though, your opponents don't have 
 it either, so let's just say that it makes the game more realistic. You can, however, use whichever 
 CO you want during the online battles, which I'll get to in just a second.
  
  That's not to say, however, that CO Powers are completely gone -- they're still there, but they're 
 far less powerful (which, as I described above, I believe to be a good thing) . Each CO still has 
 a single, useful power -- for example, expanding the range of certain units, increasing certain 
 units' firepower, or restoring health to some of your units. Additionally, there's the cool addition 
 of CO Effects, which gives each unit within a range of your CO Unit a bit of a leg up. At the beginning 
 of each battle, after you reach a certain point, you can choose a unit in which to deploy your 
 CO. When this unit does well and destroys enemies, your power gauge fills up and eventually you 
 can use your CO Power. It's a more feasible and realistic system and ultimately, at least in my 
 opinion, works out better than the previous CO Power system.
  
  There's plenty of game value to be had here, thanks to a long, difficult, and engaging campaign 
 and some bonus maps that will challenge you even more -- nearly 30, in fact. Beating the campaign 
 in and of itself is going to take a good while, and the extra maps will require even more time 
 to complete. Sadly, Days of Ruin does not feature a Shop feature (in past games, it allowed you 
 to purchase new maps and COs) . Even with that removal, Days of Ruin sports plenty of game time 
 and ensures that you're getting your money's worth with the 30 dollars you'll spend on the game.
 
  
  Now, the part that everyone really cares about: the multiplayer. I've spent plenty time online, 
 and I can successfully say that the online multiplayer kicks butt. In addition to engaging in some 
 pretty fierce online battles, you have the opportunity to chat it up online during the entire battle 
 -- not just in between turns or battles, as in past games (I'm looking at you, Metroid Prime Hunters) 
 -- and you can trade user-made maps online as well. One slight disappointment, however, is that 
 you cannot choose specific maps to take -- instead, you can only select recommended maps or have 
 one randomly given to you. The map-maker possesses a surprising amount of depth and is a lot of 
 fun to use, and you're given space to save up to 50 user-made maps, which can then be played by 
 yourself or via local multiplayer. And of course, you can also upload your own maps to the server 
 and allowed them to be downloaded, played, and ranked by other owners of this game.
  
  All told, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is easily the best Advance Wars game out there, at least in 
 my opinion. It takes everything that is great about the previous games, then strips the childish, 
 colorful graphics (which were by no means "bad") , replaces them with something far more realistic, 
 and adds in a storyline that far exceeds that of previous Advance Wars games. The plethora of bonus 
 maps, combined with the long campaign and the potentially endless value given by the fantastic 
 online makes this one of the best DS games out there, period. If you've shied away from the series 
 before, now's an excellent time to jump in. Please, please, please go out right now and purchase 
 Advance Wars: Days of Ruin. Trust me: it'll make you very happy for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Advanced Wars: Days of Ruins offers the same great turn-based strategy formula as past Advanced 
 Wars incarnations, mixed with a less than cheery backdrop and sprinkled with a few new units to 
 mix up the tactics. This all serves as the recipe for a great new DS game and worthy entry into 
 the Advanced Wars family.
  
  Set in yet another fictional world, DoR tells the tale of a boy and his coming of age in a newly 
 destroyed planet. The meteor storm which devastated the world has lead to lawlessness and renewed 
 conflict between two rival nations. Not the most original storyline and sadly, the characters don't 
 pick up the slack. The characters generally lack any back story other than what has happened several 
 battles prior.
  
  The graphics are generally a carryover from the last Advanced Wars game, Dual Strike, same goes 
 for the sounds effects. New battle animation screens were done which show more realistic proportions 
 and convey a more somber tone to the many conflicts you will engage in. A more, serious template 
 was used for the COs this time, gone is the anime, punk-kid styling, replaced with frowns and scowls 
 and some serious body language.
  
  Most battle commands are issued with the stylus as is most menu navigation. The d-pad can be used 
 as well as the face buttons but it is far easier to use what is "at-hand", pun intended. Early 
 in the game, you will find yourself issuing a few bad commands due to tapping the screen in an 
 effort to backup in the action you are about to approve. In short, you will learn that the B button 
 will be your best friend.
  
  The campaign offers a generous portion of single player options including the campaign, side training 
 missions as well as unrelated challenge maps. Some maps in the campaign are much harder than others 
 and can become increasingly frustrating after the 5th try. Multiplayer game modes include single 
 card link play, single DS play and connection over the Nintendo WiFi network. Multiplayer modes 
 were not tested as of writing this review. Also included in the game are map and rule editors which 
 can be used to design unique confrontations for you and a friend.
  
  Advanced Wars: DoR is another strong title in the Advanced Wars franchise with lasting appeal far 
 after the campaign in completed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series has always been known for its unusual, almost repulsive lighthearted take 
 on the brutality of war. In fact, that very aspect of the series is what has largely drawn in so 
 many people to this franchise and made it what it is today. Yet with Days of Ruin, Advance Wars 
 finally decides to take itself seriously, bringing the true evil of war along with it.
  
  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is the fourth entry in the critically praised grid-based strategy series. 
 Therefore, as you'd expect, the gameplay is very familiar for returning tacticians. You start out 
 your battles with virtually nothing, and then build your grand army with the use of factories, 
 ports, airports, and more. With this army, you move your units along a grid with the objective 
 of either capturing your opponent's headquarters or demolishing their entire army. Sounds like 
 fun, right? Lucky for you, it's not just fun, it's a blast!
  
  At first glance, you may not notice just how much has changed with this installment. Yes, the core 
 mechanics remain the same, but the gameplay has been tweaked to not only make the game more strategic 
 (and rely less on luck) , but to balance just about everything in the game. For example, CO powers 
 are no longer the drastically powerful, game-changing forces they were previously. Instead, your 
 CO is actually embedded into a unit on the battlefield, with that particular unit emitting a range 
 of effect that gives bonus stats to all units within that area. When your meter builds up through 
 attacking other units, you have the ability to use your CO power. While the CO powers still have 
 an effect on battles, they don't have the overly dramatic effects that they had in Dual Strike 
 (at last, no more ridiculous tag powers!) . Along with this, infantry units are no longer as "spammable" 
 as they were in previous games (although I've already experienced plenty of this online) , units 
 such as the Neotank and Megatank have been ditched in favor of the War Tank, and of course new 
 units like the anti-tank have been added to the large roster of units. 
  
  But that's probably not the change that's most apparent about Days of Ruin. In case you haven't 
 noticed already, Days of Ruin aspires for a more realistic take on war. That shows heavily in both 
 the art style and the brand new world of characters. The fresh post-apocalyptic storyline focuses 
 around a young man named Will, who is rescued by a band of military survivors of the Rubinelle 
 Army called "Brenner's Wolves". After meeting Captain Brenner, Will is instantly inspired by the 
 war hero personality of this tough faced soldier. Unfortunately, Will and co. face a plethora of 
 new problems in this ruined world, particularly two nations still fighting a pointless war and 
 bandits running rampant terrorizing helpless civilians. To say the least, this is not the sugar 
 coated story seen in past games, which I can absolutely say is a great thing. The new storyline 
 has a bigger emphasis on, well, actually developing a story. To put things in perspective, imagine 
 a "Fire Emblem meets Advance Wars" deal in the sense that we now have the great story of the Fire 
 Emblem series combined with the spectacular gameplay of the Advance Wars series.
  This leads me to what is probably the greatest part of Days of Ruin, the multiplayer. As you can 
 imagine, multi-card play is available for both local battles and map trading. Gone, however, is 
 the single-card play in the last game that allowed you to play the real-time "Combat Mode" (which 
 is also gone) . On the flip side, you can still pass around your DS using a single cartridge and 
 system to play a multiplayer match with up to four players. But that's probably not what excites 
 you about this game, is it? The online play, I'm thrilled to report, is about as fluid and fun 
 to play as you would expect from this game. Little, if any lag was noticeable during playtime, 
 and the many features included in the package are more than enough to provide hours upon hours 
 of replay value. The only downside that I could see, was that map trading online was limited to 
 only 10 X 10 size maps (smaller than you think) , and that the worldwide online play does not feature 
 voice chat or as many customization options as the friends-only online play. Despite those small 
 issues, though, you couldn't ask for a much better online feature in an Advance Wars game. Days 
 of Ruin may have lost a good bit of features from the last game in the process of being developed, 
 but Intelligent Systems' clear focus on creating a solid online mode more than makes up for it.
 
  Graphically, Days of Ruin shows vast improvement over Dual Strike, both technically and artistically. 
 The new art style fits in very well with the series and the refined combat, and the graphics themselves 
 are a lot crisper and truly shine as a Nintendo DS quality display. Character models show much 
 more detail, with units having a more rounded and non-pixelated look to them and the hand-drawn 
 character models having a shine to them not seen in the past Advance Wars game. Even the battle 
 scenes have a more fluid and detailed look to them, and yet they still maintain the top-notch quality 
 of the battle scenes in past games as well. Visually, this is an appropriate step forward for the 
 franchise.
  
  On the audio front, Days of Ruin is positively radiant. The theme music specifically is quite catchy, 
 and will instantly draw your attention. Add in some effective battle music, and some great character 
 theme music and you have a solid soundtrack dare I say one of the best soundtracks in an Advance 
 Wars game yet. Sound effects are also more distinguishable, not necessarily leaps and bounds better 
 than Dual Strike, but definitely show improvement.
  
  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is everything that you could want in a sequel and more. It stands out 
 not only as the first great Nintendo DS game of 2008, but quite simply as one of the best games 
 to hit the popular portable yet. Refined, more strategic gameplay helps make the game more approachable 
 than it was before, but yet still manages to improve just about every facet of the franchise. The 
 fact that Intelligent Systems took a risk that was, in reality, unnecessary, and still came out 
 on top proves that the development studio has still got the magic touch on the strategy genre. 
 Advance Wars: Days of Ruin continues the legacy of the franchise, and keeps its crown of being 
 one of the best strategy games on the market.
  NOTE: This review was originally posted by myself on portablevideogamer. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroxfinal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  this game is bad cause some missions are so easy and then some missions are really hard. for example 
 mission 14 and mission 20 is crazy and is really hard. It takes a while to beat it and you need 
 to out think them and its a real challenge. Its really fun and i ike the fact that u can play online. 
 The only only have 30days to win which is the bad part of the online feature. The downloading map 
 is really nice too because u can get more experince what u know and dont know about this game. 
 This is my frist advance war so i duno what the others are like. this is the best game i have played 
 so far snice the mario games and the mario games are really good bcause they had alot of contient. 
 I love this game alot but its really challenging i sometimes it makes me wanan throw my ds against 
 the wall. If u dont like intense stargy then u wont like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofu-lion91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Advance Wars since the original on the GBA and was pleased to find another 
 sequel to Dual Strike. I didn't really expect anything dramatically different to the last game 
 and was shocked to find quite a lot of difference.
  
  Days of Ruin straight away made the impression that it was more grown-up; the colours are darker 
 and the storyline seems aimed at an older audience. I think it's good that the makers have done 
 this, it seems like a different game rather than 'just another Advance Wars' so it's kept old players 
 interested.
  
  The graphics have been improved and the 3D effect is good. There has also been a lot more terrain 
 and units added which gives the battles more depth and variety. The units also gain levels now 
 which makes game play much more interesting. However, some added units are a bit too powerful such 
 as the war tank. I personally preferred it when units were simple. The original units have been 
 kept though, and also the map maker which is a simple and fun extra to play around with. Maps can 
 also be traded between players.
  
  The main difference with this game is the added extra of Wi-Fi so the player can battle with people 
 around the world. I think this is a great feature and can provide hours of extra game play.
  
  Overall the game is diverse and provides many extra features to ensure hours of fun. It is 
 more mature and the storyline is deeper.
  
  However, I personally preferred Advance Wars when it was bright and colourful, and the extent of 
 complexity was a simple tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  truly, the only thing that is bad about this game is the wifi function... when you first hear about 
 Advanced Wars going online and finnaly being able to beat the crap outa people your like "YEA I 
 GONA OWN" but its only 1v1, which i suppose is good since humans are much smarter than computers 
 so you have to focus... second on wifi is the map trading and that would have been totally awesome 
 as well but you can only trade maps that are 10x10 and the real size is 19x19 (pretty sure it was 
 larger than that in the other AD game for DS)
  
  the 10x10 doesnt allow for much room but it does make things interesting because of more strategy 
 involved, if you create a map that is 10x10 and you have beaten it in free mode you can upload 
 to wifi and people can then download your map and give it a rating
  
  lastly new units like crazy! but i wont get into those because finding those new units is half 
 the fun XD 
  
  
  *BIG EDIT*
  
  map size you can create is really 30x30 im so sorry i didnt notice, there was a "change size" option, 
 anyway the 1v1 one thing is much better (undefeated) but it doenst keep score of your wins/losses. 
 it barely does in a dog tag that adds stars every few wins,
  thats my edit sorry for confusion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thordain0011
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing through all three of the first Advance Wars games, I was very interested to see how 
 this change would play out. Intelligent Systems has thrown out the old storyline and a lot of the 
 game play quirks to make this a pure strategy game. At the same time, without these quirks, the 
 Advance Wars series loses a lot of the charm it's had. Still, this is a very solid game.
  
  The story begins with a meteor shower destroying the world, leaving 90% of the population dead 
 and the survivors struggling to hold on. The story follows Will, a cadet in the Rubinelle Academy 
 before the world was destroyed. Will is saved from raiders by the courageous Captain Brenner and 
 his 12th Battalion. Together they travel across this devastated land, looking for survivors and 
 trying to keep living. All through out the game keeps up the feeling of desperation even for the 
 player as you want to see what happens next. The story now is more realistic and It's nice that 
 characters no longer just pop out of no where and join you, but are instead worked into the plot.
 
  
  Advance Wars has always been a turn based strategy game and Days of Ruins is no different. Intelligent 
 Systems took out some units and added some new ones, but the biggest change has been with the CO 
 powers. In previous installments, a CO power could completely alter the game. Now, they have a 
 much more minor effect on the battle. I personally like the fact that strategy now is more important 
 than hording up for a CO turn around, but I wish the game would make the powers a bit stronger, 
 to balance it out more.
  
  The graphics on this game are okay, since the characters are displayed in a 2-d format. The biggest 
 improvement is in how the units themselves look. The previous playful style is gone with a much 
 grittier tone. As for music, most of what you'll hear will be some form of techno or rock that 
 become annoying eventually, though there are a few catchy songs hidden in there.
  
  A big step up for DoR was the inclusion of Wi-fi play. Not only can you battle, but you can also 
 trade your own custom made maps. And with 50 map slots, Advance Wars has given plenty of reasons 
 to play online for hours and build the ultimate map to share with friends.
  
  Overall, this is an amazing game. Both the single player and multiplayer modes are enjoyable and 
 I applaud Intelligent Systems for throwing precedent out the window and making such a highly unique 
 sequel. I hope they continue to develop this particular world because It's got a lot of fun left 
 in it. If you enjoy strategy games in general, the DS is a great system for you but this game really 
 stands out above the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broter_of_jafar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  My friend owns many Advance Wars games so whenever i am at his house, i usually play some. after 
 doing this for about 5 years i finally decided to go out and buy one. And let me tell you, i was 
 not disappointed. I was still mainly a noob and the first couple of levels were just the right 
 difficulty. when it started to get harder i had to make a full shift to keep with the pace. I am 
 a big FE fan and this is quite different, with allowing your units to die. but i finally have the 
 hang of it and it is a great experience.
  
  I really love the story. it actually makes since with the battles and i always look forward to 
 the next little talking tidbit. the battles are just as much fun. with new units and and different 
 ports slowly being introduced it sets an great pace. The only thing i would change is allowing 
 the enemy to have the uber war tanks. thats what killed me early on.
  
  All the extra things are also tons of fun. The stage builder is awesome and i really made some 
 cool stages. With wi-fi i can est my skills out against the pros and learn from some of the more 
 advanced players.
  
  So all, in all, i find this game extremely good and a must-buy for all strategic game lovers and 
 in general DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhm414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I got this game yesterday and its been hard to let go of it. there's simply so much to do. every 
 mission is unique, the additional (hidden) missions are superbly made and the landscapes and storyline 
 are topnotch. The COs can still change the tide of the battle, but in a more satisfactory manner. 
 In this game, skill is actually needed to win, unlike dual strike where you would wait for your 
 CO power bar to fill. 
  Though i haven't been able to connect wirelessly, i am certain the WiFi multiplayer games are the 
 best the ds can offer thus far (it has ranks and voice chat!!!) 
  My only complaint is that the units are too similar to the previous games. Yes, many like it this 
 way. Personally, i would have liked to experiment with new, more strategic units. However, the 
 few new units are fun to use and offer new techniques to your arsenal
  
  All in all, days of ruin is a welcome addition to my library and it will keep you busy indefinitely. 
 i would definitely recommend this to all DS owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bettaluva242
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Intelligent Sys. has managed to keep the gameplay strong while adding new features to compensate 
 for the changes made to Days Of Ruin... It feels like the graphics have a more mature twist to them... 
 while wifi and the newly added voice chat adds competitive edge to the overall experience. It would 
 have been nice if you didn't need a friend code just to chat... the design room is always a welcome 
 feature for those AW players who need that extra room for creativity... new units add a whole new 
 dimension to the already outstanding series... Free battle is great for a quick pick up and play 
 session... the strength of the series lies in its strategy... and days of ruin does a modest job 
 of refining the mechanics without going over the top.... the music could have been a bit more orchestrated 
 and I miss being able to use the abilities of the old CO's .... Nintendo has a solid franchise 
 on the horizon... I have a feeling the best is yet to come... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruins is the fourth installment to the Advance Wars Series, well... this fourth 
 game is awesome
  
  Quite tuned him to a world war 3 tune which looks awesome, story goes when meteors crashes into 
 the earth killing many people. You are a cadet that survived the shower and will find many things 
 towards the story
  
  Graphics: Old engine, New graphics, the graphics looks amazing, it feel that war started on your 
 DS (and it did!) . Well, whatever, graphics are awesome. Sound: Only complain is that some are recycled 
 from the other games but it added rock- techo which is AWESOME!
  
  Gameplay: Just right but sometimes, you will get stuck on one mission and its HELL. There are new 
 features like the bike and the carrier. Theses look amazing but suffers a lot of weaknesses.
  
  Extra: its advance dammit
  
  Rent or Buy?: BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HushRong
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Days of Ruin is in my opinion the best in the series. This new storyline and style 
 is what the series needed to breathe new life into a great game.
  
  the story is set to a darker tone and a bit more extreme as well but it serves its purpose. I couldnt 
 put down my DS until i beat another mission to find out more of the story and where it was headed. 
 Also, it was nice to have a story that didnt involve Black Hole amassing a giant army an stampeded 
 around. and when my battery needed a recharge, i couldnt wait to play again. 
  
  the campaign missions are now fun, challenging, and satisfying. it relies more on what you do in 
 a mission than trying to use CO powers to stay alive. The missions have a "simple" way strategy 
 to them, its up to you to make sure you do it right, but if you need help, theres a tactics option 
 in the menu to give you a hint. I also cant help shake a feeling that the levels are just fun to 
 play over and over.
  
  CO's are basically characters with a story, and their CO Powers are something i have used only 
 once while playing the entire campaign. Unlike their earlier counterparts where a CO is better 
 known for what kind of hell they can unleash on a battlefield, i. e. sturm and his meteor strike (there 
 is a character similar however) . Also, COs can enter the battle by attaching them to a unit at 
 the place they are made. and unlike the earlier games were their attributes affected all their 
 troops, in DoR troops have to be within range of their CO for it to affect them. And troops that 
 attack within that range of influence, the damage they dealt builds up the CO's power.
  
  I am upset that there is no war-room or store anymore. i enjoyed racking up kills in the war-room 
 and spending hard earned points on new maps to beat. however, something like war-room missions 
 have been added into the campaign as training type levels. As for the store, there are no maps 
 to purchase, and you unlock CO's as you beat more and more missions.
  
  as for wi-fi, i have used it and i am not dissatisfied. meet new people and hand them a plate of 
 defeat, what better way to make new friends.
  
  If you have a DS, you should most definitely give this game a try. If you are a fan of tactical 
 games, this is a must have.
  
  I give it a 9 for good story, characters, gameplay, yet i took off 1 point for lack of extras and 
 the removal of the traditional war-room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  It has been a while since Nintendo released an Advance Wars game, Dual Strike being one of the 
 early releases on the DS but lacked online capabilities. However the war rages on, but this time 
 on a new world gone apocolyptic due to a meteor shower that destroyed much of the planet. You take 
 control of the Rubinelle forces, one of the two factions in the game trying to survive in the destroyed 
 world.
  
  You will take the role of Will, a surviver who rescues a young girl during one of the early missions 
 of the game, as well as his commanding officer, Captain Brenner. The story itself is much like 
 the previous games, however it comes off as being more mature and darker. The art design and how 
 the game pans out makes it seem a little darker, being that there is no annoying attempt at being 
 witty, something the Black Hole characters had a problem with in the previous games. You take on 
 bandit armies early on in the game but after several missions you go into full scale war with the 
 Lazarian army. 
  
  Combat has not changed at all, it still takes on the turn based strategy format however new units 
 have been added and others are modified with new features. The Battleship used to be restricted 
 to movement or attacking in separate turns, however now you may attack targets after moving on 
 the same turn, but the movement range was cut down to balance out the move and attack feature. 
 Carriers can now produce units that can attack any unit on the battlefield, although their gas 
 is limited and they only have attacks before refuelling and carriers can only produce up to 4 before 
 becoming useless. There are some new naval units, as well as modifications to ground and air units. 
 APC's can now build either a temp airport on land or a temporary dock in the sand near water which 
 will allow your units to repair and refuel, however you can't build units with them and each APC 
 is limited to creating one temporary building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:7/10 Advance Wars: Days of Ruin focuses mostly on multiplayer with its somewhat brief campaign. The 
 game really does not have a lot of variety. The scoring thing has no point considering there is 
 no shop. You can simply get all the COs by just beating the campaign. Map Editing has improved, you 
 can now increase the size of your maps... But I cannot believe they removed.. what gave me a lot 
 of fun out of an AW game.... War Room. Seriously! they removed the War Room out of this game! War 
 Room gave me a lot of challenge, and it shows what rank i beat the game on and such, so it got me 
 playing even more, and they replaced the War Room with.... Trial Maps... Really no point in playing 
 these maps, and in campaign you cannot use COs in these maps... Since the shop is completely nonexistent, there 
 is nothing to look forward to when beating campaign missions. The game is just too focused on Multiplayer, and 
 the problem is that my favorite VS maps were kinda changed... What were airports in certain maps 
 are now T Airports so it is difficult to reinforce armies in the middle of a battlefield. The games 
 longevity is increased by Wi-Fi Connection... playing against people worldwide... but guess what? 
 I don't have wireless internet... Theres more! I don't have that wi-fi USB connector thingy, and 
 that device is at a ridiculous price! Intelligent Sys has worked too much on Multiplayer since 
 people complained about lack of Wi-Fi connectivity in Dual Strike. The core gameplay itself is 
 still solid, and i love the new units and COs, Especially Gage.... Story is much much better than 
 Dual Strike, and i like the "Darker" style of this game..
  
  Graphics:9/10 For a DS game, these visuals blew me away when i saw them! Much better looking game 
 than its predecessor! 
  
  Sound:10/10 Soundtrack has been dramatically improved...!! I listen to mostly Rock, Nu Metal, Metal, and 
 such... Bands like Linkin Park.. so this music fits me quite well! Also, Sound effects have gotten 
 better..
  
  Value:7/10 The game just totally lacks the single player experience that was Dual Strike. I'd love 
 to play a Dual Strike styled Days of Ruin... I valued the AW series a whole lot, but this made me 
 feel uncomfortable.
  
  Overall: The gameplay itself is INCREDIBLE, but this game is nothing like Dual Strike, it lacks everything 
 that Dual Strike has, except better multiplayer. Other than that, this game is just alright... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is the fourth installment of the famous military strategy series. However, 
 unlike the last three, this one takes a drastic change, not only in story, but graphics, sound, 
 and even gameplay. However, Days of Ruin has managed to not only make some changes to the game, 
 but still leave the core series intact, making it another amazing game.
  
  Days of Ruin's story is a little more mature than past ones. A meteor shower has hit the planet, 
 destroying 90% of the world's population, killing plant life, and blocking out the sun with a thick 
 cloud of dust and smoke. You will command Brenner's Wolves, a band of soldiers who have attempted 
 to restore order and find survivors. However, there are many who would rather exploit the situation 
 and rise to power or raid the innocent, it will be up to your forces to stop the chaos and restore 
 order. As if to make matters worse, a deadly parasitic disease is rapdily spreading throughout 
 the world, causing flowers to bloom on the human body, slowly and painfully killing the victim. 
 As you can see, the world isn't exactly in the best shape as of now.
  
  Like all AW games, you fight your opponent by taking turns moving your units, building more units, 
 and engaging the enemy. You'll be using a wide variety of units ranging from infantry and bikes 
 to gargantuan tanks and crop dusters outfitted with machine guns. The gameplay, while turn-based, 
 it fast paced and challenging, and many times, you wil find yourself outpowered, outmanned, and 
 outgunned, with only your intellect to save you. 
  
  The graphics are another change in the series. Gone are the bright, cheery, and bubbly tanks and 
 infantry of old, here you will find stark, gray, and cold units, effectively reflecting the chaos 
 and destruction that have occured here. The sound is also new. Instead of hopeful and happy tunes 
 urging you to never give up hope, we have techno-metal themes bringing in the theme of apocalypse 
 and hard reality. The themes are just as memorable though, my personal favorite theme song being 
 the revenge-obsessed chick, Tasha's.
  
  The character designs are also changed. The bright red and green uniforms are gone, replaced with 
 dark gray and brown schemes, fitting in nicely with the rest of the doom and gloom. However, despite 
 the dark aesthetic, Days of Ruin still manages to keep the same sense of humor that the older ones 
 had, especially in the random dialogue that occurs when you visit the Tactics section in the Mission 
 Info section at the beginning of every mission.
  
  Multiplayer is also a blast to play, and while Friend Codes continue to be rather restricting, 
 still offer a lot of replay value. And if you're friends with your opponent, voice chat is also 
 enabled, allowing you to taunt or hassle your opponents. There's little lag and as long as your 
 opponent and you aren't taking forever (there's also a time limit) , games go by quickly between 
 two skilled commanders.
  
  Overall, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin, while being drastically different, is also more of the same, 
 which in Advance Wars, is definitely a good thing. With fast-paced and enjoyable gameplay, a new 
 style, great music, and lots and lots of replay value, you'll be sure to be playing Days of Ruin 
 for weeks, months, or in my case, years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong -- I loved the other Advance Wars games and played them a bunch. But I always 
 felt they were too "happy" if that makes any sense. I mean, c'mon, it is war after all. So naturally 
 I was pleased when I found out this one has a darker, more real side to it. As far as game play 
 goes, it's basically the same as all the others. Graphics aren't as 3D looking as Dual Strike, 
 but in the long run that really doesn't seem to matter that much. What is cool about Days of Ruin 
 is that actual units level up and gain more experience in the field, making it feel more like war 
 than ever before. The storyline is also decent, even though it still has semi-cheesy anime commanders. 
 However, if you're looking for a fun game that has cool multiplayer features, I would definitely 
 recommend Advance Wars: Days of Ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david61391
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin looks nothing like its predecessors, but that's not a bad thing at all. 
 The old, playful take on war is now gone, replaced by more serious graphics and a far more serious 
 storyline. But that same incredible turn-based gameplay remains, and with the new additions of 
 online play and map trading, this game deserves an 11 out of 10.
  As for the storyline: Meteors have hit the Earth, wiping out most of the population. In this post-Apocalyptic 
 world, survivors band together, creating new armies. And while some people are trying to rebuild 
 the world they once had, others take advantage of the situation and do what they want (which is 
 mostly just causing more destruction) . New units (along with some old units with new abilities) 
 accompany this far different storyline.
  Like the past games, there are well over 100 multiplayer maps. And these are now all playable over 
 Wi-Fi as well as local wireless multiplayer. 
  The map creator has been improved greatly. The map editors in the previous titles have only had 
 spaces for 3 custom maps (which unfortunately includes traded maps from other players) . Days of 
 Ruin has a grand total of 50 slots for making tons of maps. That along with other changes like 
 individual unit AI control and custom map sizes makes for more unique designs.
  So even with the newly renovated graphics and story, Days of Ruin makes a great addition to the 
 series that changed strategy gaming for handhelds. And this is the best one yet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrwindmddl77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Before I start with this review I just want to say how much I have really enjoyed the Advanced 
 Wars series, after playing through all games. I hope that this is not the last that we see of Intelligent 
 Sys.
  
  If you have played Advanced Wars since the original you would know that it has been famous for 
 its adictive gameplay and high replayability. Thankfully this is still the case in Days of Ruin. 
 I. S. has really created a kind of gameplay with just the right rules and figures that after the 
 basic formula was established in the orignal AW, they could just add more content. There is a lot 
 of new in DoR, but its in places that have really never been considered before Nintendo Wifi. I 
 would only reccomend this game to those who have an internet router or if you have played another 
 advanced wars game, because a majority of the gameplay here is in the online features. It's almost 
 dissapointing that there was a lot of singleplayer aspects of this series that were removed for 
 it, but nontheless its still great to finally play this game online. 
  
  Gameplay: You can play DoR either exclusively touchscreen or exclusively through the buttons on 
 your ds. If you don't already know the basics of advanced wars what you do is you take command 
 of an army and you lead it in a turn based strategy battle against an opposing army. You have to 
 worry about ammunition, supplies, funds, fuel, and of course your own units as you battle either 
 using direct or inderect combat from land, sea and air. A big part of the advanced wars series 
 is that as the health of your units goes down, so does its attack power, which really balances 
 out the gameplay. It goes very much indepth and you really have to play the real thing to truly 
 know how addictive and easy it can be (though DoR will be increasingly difficult, even if you have 
 played previous advanced wars) .
  
  Graphics: AW has never been known for being a really graphical game, technically or artistically. 
 DoR does go into a more darker art style, which sometimes does look a lot better than the old advanced 
 wars. Also in this version you can zoom in on the map and everything will look more realistic, 
 though none of it is truly impressive or dazzling. Still this game's graphics would not likely 
 function on a GBA, and none of the models are really ugly so that should be good enough to anyone.
 
  
  Sound: Your basic gun and tank sounds that you would hear in most military games are here, and 
 they don't sound particularly amazing or bad. The music is about par for the series. (As you can 
 tell this series relies more on gameplay than production) .
  
  Now for what you should know about the game if you are new or old to the series
  
  The New
 
  All of the CO's in this game are brand new, in fact CO's have a dual purpose now. Depending on 
 the CO you choose can affect the strenth of some of your units, but also your CO can go into one 
 of your own units. This will increase its abilities, and the abilities of the units around it. 
 CO powers will activate depending on how much you use the Unit your CO is in, but if that unit 
 is destroyed, you lose all of build up to the power meter you have been saving. All units now gain 
 ranks from 1-3 depending on how many enemies it has destroyed. This will increase all of its abilities. 
 The campaign in DoR is somewhat revolutionary because it actually has an interesting story that 
 will be a pleasant surprise to a lot of AW veterans. Also during the story you can do bonus missions 
 that will explore a lot of new tactical strategies. There are new weapons in the game such as the 
 anti-tank unit, both capable of direct and inderect fire, but its big weakness is air units. The 
 Rig (formerly the APC) can now create temporary ports or airports to heal and repair sea and air 
 units. Aircraft carriers can now create sea planes, and air unit capable of effectively firing 
 on anything, but it can only be created from aircraft carriers. A gunboat, a powerful anti-naval 
 ship, cheap but only with one round of ammo. Bike infantry, highly moble foot soldiers. Flare guns, 
 capable of deminishing a large area of fog. Dustplanes, somewhat cheap and somewhat powerful planes. 
 So there are basically a lot of new units. The online mode is great because a lot of people could 
 never before play AW with another human and its a very warm welcome. You can now play against your 
 friends, trade maps, and it just opens up a lot of replayability. They even now allow you to creat 
 50 of your own maps just for trading online. The one thing bad about the online is if you are inexperienced 
 in the series, you will get crushed by a lot of the veterans online before you even know it.
  
  The Removed
  Here's the hard part...
  There are NO returning CO's, and there are only about 
 12 in this version compared to about 30 in the last version. The war room is no longer there really, 
 now its just versus and you can't earn money from it. Not that that would matter since the shop 
 is no longer there. You either unlock everything from the story, or its already there. Survival 
 Mode is no longer there, Combat mode is no longer there (even though it was never great to begin 
 with) . There is only one battlefront always even though its a ds game. No more Super CO powers, 
 you only get one from your limited CO selection. Some slight changes in unit pricing and defense 
 value have been made. Units like the piperunner, the blackboat, the mega tank and stealth bombers 
 are gone. The Md tank, and Neo tank are replaced and now are less powerful and a lot cheaper. In 
 a way a lot of what was removed or changed has made the game more tactical and less about what 
 CO you have or what single unit you own so not everything removed is necissarily a bad thing if 
 you are in for a tactical challenge.
  
  So the true reason to buy DoR is the online gameplay. If you are new to the series and you like 
 it, I would still reccommend you buy Dual Strike. Even though the first ds game does not have online 
 play it still may be the better game simply because it has a lot more to offer even offline. If 
 you are a purist you may be annoyed by some of the tweaks and missing features, but this game still 
 stands out a lot on its own and still has the high replay value and addictiveness that made this 
 series stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I have never really been an advance wars fan, if I'm being completely honest, I've played the previous 
 games and enjoyed them to a certain extent but I could never really get into them. So I didn't 
 really expect to much more from this game.
  
  First impressions were that it seemed a much more 'grown up' game compared to previous games in 
 the series. The art style has changed and become darker and that graphics have generally been improved. 
 Also it seems the story is aimed at a slightly older audience than previous games but I'm not going 
 to start going into the details of the story as I'm only reviewing the game not going over the 
 entire plot. Suffice to say the story is for an older audience compared to previous games but thats 
 not to say it isn't for all audiences, there's nothing particulaly offensive or shocking so younger 
 players can safely enjoy this game to. Most of the troops are fairly familiar to anyone whos played 
 advance wars or any other similar strategy titles but there are a few new additions such as bikes 
 and the truly fearsome war tanks which, although I wouldn't really call them major innovations, 
 add something new to an already established series.
  
  Also I would like to note all the extras, this game has multi-player modes both online and offline, 
 a map editor with the ability to trade maps with your friends and customization options for your 
 CO's. I found the map editor very easy to use but still able to make pretty much any map you can 
 think of there's a lot of options it gives you with a good simple interface which is easy for anyone 
 to pick and seems as you can take these maps online this gives the game almost unlimited replayablility 
 as long as there are people online and you can actually get online. The CO customization, on the 
 other hand, is limited as it only allows you to change their uniform colours to one of four presets. 
 It would have been great to change hair, clothes and faces but you can't have everything and this 
 is really a fairly minor feature compared to online play and customised maps.
  
  Overall I enjoyed this game more than some of the previous titles in the series and I like the 
 more mature feel the game has. I will definately really try to play this game to the finish and 
 hope it keeps my attention for a long time. With good graphics and simple interface this is a really 
 easy game to start playing but after a while can get a little boring as there's not a great deal 
 of difference in missions. I would reccomend this game to people who do not want an overly complicated 
 strategy game and people who do not play games for extended periods of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokanite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  As an owner of the first two Advance Wars installments on the Gameboy Advance, I have had extremely 
 high hopes for this title. The first two games were outstanding and provided a wonderful little 
 strategy package you can carry wherever you go. But by the time the third chapter was released, 
 I felt that I was done with buying essentially the "same old thing" just for a new platform. I 
 still enjoyed the first two, I just didn't feel it was necessary to buy the third game since it 
 was so similar to the first two.
  
  Then this game was announced. Advance Wars with an entirely new feel, story, and atmosphere. And 
 it all works together flawlessly. The difficulty curve is perfect from start to finish, gradually 
 accustoming new and veteran players to the new and not so new gameplay mechanics and units. Overall, 
 this game is a GREAT deal. Hours upon hours can be spent beating the campaign, playing free battles 
 on the numerous maps provided, and creating your own maps with their own unique strategic styles. 
 
  
  And once you want to take a break from single player,,, you get an exciting, fulfilling multiplayer 
 experience as well. 
  
  All in all, this is a title that no DS owner should miss. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Although it may a simpler strategy game, (basically build, move, then attack.) advance wars: Days 
 of Ruin is truly excellent. It's not often we get a good TBS game, ( Turn Based Strategy) , and, 
 this is the best in years.
  
  
  Of course, you'll see new units, but may miss some old ones. *sniffle* Good-bye, Black bomb. *Sniffle* 
 But, the new bike unti is cool. Mobile infantry, basically. The anti-tank is probably the best 
 new one, cuz you know you want artillery that doesn't suck. (Rockets are good though.)
  
  The new map editor owns. Come on, who hasn't wanted to make a map made out of fire, meteors, and 
 plasma that you can link between the meteors, making them unpassable, unless you destroy the meteors. 
 
  
  Advance Wars is now dominating the portable online gaming community. It's great, even with voice 
 chat, and a type of TrueSkill. 
  
  The best handheld of the year is already here. Fire Emblem, step aside. You've been beaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKpwnzYOU
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  At first I was sort of depressed that the old CO's would'nt be returning to this installment of 
 AW. As soon as I started playing thoe, I completely forgot about them and was sucked into the story. The 
 game looks beautiful, and plays great! You can control using the D-pad or stylus. New units add more 
 strategy and fun to the game. The battle animation looks great to! Online is also fun and you dont 
 need to worry about people taking too long since there is a timer. Story mode is also good because 
 now instead of fighting one group of people (like Blackhole) , you're fighting others who've gone 
 crazy for blood and power. Overall, GREAT GAME! Buy it now before it's to late!...... (As you might 
 have noticed advanced wars prices usually stay the same or even cost more.... especially when they 
 stop making copies and people sell them on Ebay.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  advance wars days of ruin is the 2nd advance wars game for the ds.
  
  Story: The world has been destroyed by millions of comets or so it seems. A band of survivors are 
 fighting for their life while they rescue people in need.
  
  Game control: you start the game with the first chapter, if your accustomed to playing games like 
 fire emblem or even advance wars then you'll see that the controls are the same as other game titles. 
 Tutorial is explained on the upper screen or you can just press start and check it out there.
 
  There are different types of vehicles like tanks, artillery, mechs, etc which you will get by playing 
 on and beating the missions/chapters. Each one have different stats.
  
  sound/music: well its O. K. no one actually cares about the music.
  
  Graphics: Very good although, 
 the terrain could be improved.
  
  Dialog: Wow, this could be improved dialog is pretty boring all read no voice effects. You could 
 say that its more of a gba kinda style. Also, characters don't move while in speech.
  
  Recommendation: i highly recommend this game to people who love fire emblem or love strategic games, 
 it's worth the money.
  
  OTHER: You can also design your own terrain map and battle your friends via wireless. You can do 
 loads of other stuff but i can't remember now sorry.
  
  thanks for reading i hope this review helped you i know it's a bit lame but whatever. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriphilewill
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  New graphics. You have the option of "top-down zoomed-out" view from all previous advance wars 
 games, or you can have the zoomed-in view which adds some depth to the game. All scenery and units 
 have been redesigned and they look great. Story cutscenes have been improved with all new characters, 
 which gives the game a more mature feel to it. 
  
  The story is the best of all advance wars games so far. I was kinda annoyed with the story in dual 
 strike. Dual strike made the story around introducing as many old characters as possible, but the 
 story was essentially the same as all previous advance wars games. 
  
  New Units. Now have Flare tanks, which cann illuminate a 13 space area of "fog". Anti-tank cannons, 
 which have the ability to act as short range artillery, and still have the ability to counter-attack. 
 This balances out the game abit, especialy when someone builds several War Tanks. The war tanks 
 are similar to the neo tanks, just one step above MD tanks. Everyone who has played AW before knows 
 3 or 4 neo tanks are touch to take down, but with anti-tanks, the fall quick. Motorbikes good agaist 
 infantry, but the best part is, they can capture. Still have all basic units from AW series.
  
  Control. Controls are nice and simple. Makes effective use of dual screens on DS. Can use either 
 Dpad or stylus. 
  
  Sound. New music and it rocks. You have the option of listening to the songs once unlocked as a 
 bonus. 
  
  Cons: Not many, but mostly limitations with DS hardware. I never liked how the NDS designed their 
 wifi games. The sound quality is never great, always sounds "tinny" with too much treble, has some 
 break-ups and crackling. Graphics are ok, but I want more out of a DS game than just 2D cutscenes. 
 (I can play movies on my DS, why can't advance wars??) The games doesn't make effective use of 
 the stylus. You don't have to use it if you don't want to, but then what separates a DS from a 
 GBA?? A bit more implementation from the stylus would have really separated this AW from all previous 
 games. 
  
  Overall. A must own game for any strategy player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: podliver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is another amazing, almost perfect game of tactics and strategy for 
 the DS.
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as it has been in the last Advance Wars games, aside from adding 
 a few new types of units and removing a few of the units from the last game. The gameplay has not 
 changed at all really, except for the whole new look and other minor parts in the stats and info 
 of different units. The CO powers have been toned down a lot, which can be a good thing if you 
 like more tactics in games than just waiting to use your power at the last minute and totally wiping 
 out the enemy and vice versa. Online play is a great addition, and you can also share and store 
 up to 50 user-created maps online. 50 map save slots is also a big plus if you like to make a lot 
 of your own maps.
  
  The sound is good, it has the same kind of techno feel like AW: DS had and it works well. None of 
 the songs are too annoying, and if you don't like them you can turn the sound completely off (but 
 keep the sound effects on) .
  
  The graphics are updated a bit more than the last game, as the battlefield is zoomed in more and 
 the units are bigger and more detailed. But if you want, you can zoom out to get the more traditional 
 Advance Wars view of the units and terrain by simply pressing the R button during battle.
  
  The replay value, of course, is endless, especially now that there is online play, and the 
 addition of all the map save slots is great. All of the classic versus maps were kept, and just 
 about all of the 2P, 3P, and 4P maps as well. The war room and battle maps store were taken out, 
 but the "trial" battles replace the war room in a way, and the store isn't really needed since 
 all of the maps are already unlocked. You can still unlock more players, it's just that you don't 
 buy them. As for the removal of the war room, that's not that big of a deal if you compare it to 
 the addition of online play.
  
  Now just a little about the new features of the map editor: First of all, the whole layout of the 
 map editing buttons and units/terrain is much nicer and easier to navigate. Now you can change 
 the dimensions of the map, from 5x5 to 30x30. You can also set rules for battle on the map itself, 
 unlike when you would choose the options before you would battle. So you can turn Fog of War on 
 or off for a certain map so it is always either played without or with Fog of War, and you can't 
 change it before starting the game (unless you edit the rules of the map, obviously. The stylus 
 seems to make creating maps a lot easier and faster, since all you have to do to select a unit 
 or change the color of it is touch it, and then touch again on the map to place it wherever you 
 wish.
  
  Overall, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a great sequel to one of the already amazing strategy games 
 on the DS. Anybody who loves Advance Wars or loves strategy games in general should buy this game 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  They got rid of the cutesy characters and turned the game into a post- apocalyptic masterpiece 
 with a new world and storyline to boot. They also added a handful of new units and revamped the 
 graphics to a more adult state. This game targets all audiences now and can no longer be called 
 a "strictly child's" Turn Based Strategy. Yet how does this new look compare to the rest of the 
 games? Advance Wars plays, looks and feels better than ever and the tactics are even deeper now 
 as your units level up (to a maximum of 3 levels) when you defeat an enemy unit. This adds a new 
 height of tactical depth while keeping the other tactical elements from other games freshly in 
 tact. The new graphics are gorgeous, the gameplay is phoenominal and the sound is much like the 
 other Advance Wars games but still very good. With online multiplayer that is voice chat compatible 
 this makes AWDoR shine above it's predescessors. If you are looking for an incredibly deep Turn 
 Based Strategy with hours of entertainment packed in, look no further than Days Of Ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreversai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  And finally, this much awaited game is out, and we're talking about Advance Wars: Days of Ruin.
 
  
  The first screen you will come to is a dust covered looking ruin, which hints you to the new direction 
 the game, a post-armageddon scenario. Waiting for a few seconds will bring you to a little picture 
 story about how the world got into a meteor shower sort of disaster whereby most things have been 
 destroyed. But of course, some people managed to survived, and so here we go...
  
  The main menu screen presents, Single DS Play, Multi-Card Play, Nintendo WFC, Design Room, Records 
 and Options.
  
  I went into the Options menu straight, and found something new that is pretty useful.
  The ability 
 to have BGM or SFX at different volume levels (on or off as well) is pretty nice, since i've found 
 the BGM in the previous games repeative after a long time.
  
  Under Records, we have the usual History of game time and stuff, and a Music Player like the old 
 Advance Wars.
  
  In Design Room, u get to design your own map like in the past, but u'll notice that u can save 
 up to 50 Maps now! This is a great thing to me, since this game has said to be able to download 
 maps from online, i believe the ability to store up to 50 maps will be fantastic.
  You can also customize the CO Uniform Colors like in the older sequels, and here we have what might 
 be a spoiler to the game, as it shows 4 selectable COs (Will, Brenner, Lin, Isabelle) and 8 ???, 
 which may mean the game has up to 12useable COs.
  
  The Wifi and Multi-Cart modes both allow you to trade maps and battle. And the Wifi offers a Map-Center 
 function whereby players can upload or download maps onto the server, there's also a recommended/random 
 map download.
  Battle-wise, you can choose to fight random opponents Worldwide or to fight someone on your friend 
 roster which enables a storage of up to 60 Friend Codes.
  
  Something i've noticed missing up till now is that the Single-Cart, Multiplayer option has been 
 taken away, so i guess now your friends cant download the game from you to test it out. 
  
  Single DS Play offers Campaign mode and Free Battle. In Free Battle, you get to choose a map from 
 5 categories, Classic, 1P, 2P, 3P or 4P. You can then set whethere COs are AI or player controlled, 
 this means the old "One DS, Multiplayer pass around" play is still here. 
  
  Campaign Mode offers 3 slots for saving, which is like the older advance wars. Starting a new game 
 here will show you the little "slideshow" that we've seen if you wait a couple of seconds on the 
 starting title screen.
  
  Starting out, you'll be playing as Will, a cadet of a Military Academy named Rubinelle, and it 
 seems like you're all alone after the devastation. 
  Just when you are feeling all alone and despair drives in, you see someone nearby, and you try 
 to seek help and attention.
  And this is when we meet one of our enemy COs, The Beast, who laughs a bit and commands his underlings 
 to snatch your food and weapons, as well as to kill you....
  Will is outnumbered 3 to 1 this time, and has no choice but to make a getaway, and a "tutorial" 
 sort of fight starts, and the first thing introduced is the "Zoom in/out" function with the R shoulder 
 button, which is something new and handy! We've gotta run and some "good guys" by the name of Brenner 
 and Lin, shows up on Day2 with a couple of reinforcements and offering to help.
  You've been asked to fall back and, a little dialogue goes on, revealing that The Beast is a raider 
 who kills survivors for his personal good, and Brenner and Co are gonna stop him!
  Go on and wipe the enemy units and one of your unit will gain a level from killing an enemy unit, 
 which is something new and will add in more strategy to the game.
  After the battle, more is revealed and it seems like Will just got himself out after weeks of digging, 
 and Brenner is the commnder of the 12th Battalion, and now lead a pack of soldiers, naming themselves 
 Wolves with the mission to seek out and aim survivors of the disaster, he offers Will a place among 
 them and the story goes on....
  
  Graphically, the game has "turned to the dark side" with a theme that suits the post-armageddon 
 storyline more, everywhere is a wasteland and dustcovered, and the character design are more serious 
 looking this time round, which i find nice.
  Obviously this time, the game is going towards a more mature feel which i think suits a war game 
 much better. Overall presentation has also been tweaked this way, and even though you might prefer 
 the old cutey presentation, there is no denying that the new one is good.
  BGMs are nice and pretty good and, the SFXs are well done, making this game solid in terms of presentation.
 
  
  Gameplay wise is good old Advance Wars with new helpful additions to controls and new stuff added 
 in to give more strategy.
  The R shoulder button's Zoom function is simple but a great addition, letting you have a quick 
 button to look at most of the map instead of scrolling over.
  New units are also a great welcome and means a little more decision making about what units will 
 do better seeing how the new units are mostly utility.
  Level up system of units is also quite a big addition to strategy, especially in battles which 
 you know will last longer. You'll no longer wanna let your units die so much, since they give experience 
 to the enemy, and amassing infantry units to use as canon fodder might not work as good now. You'll 
 also wanna conserve them, bringing them back to heal in bases, and perhaps combining them to prevent 
 death, to gather more EXP and level to a higher rank for more powerful firepower. This system will 
 definitly contribute a lot of strategy and thinking into battles, especially multiplayer ones.
 
  And like how it has always been, the campaign brings lots of strategy to the player, and a good 
 storyline too.
  
  Multiplayer replay value has always been the greatest aspect of the Advance Wars series, and this 
 one is the same as well.
  Most of the old features are all here, and now we have the wonderful Wifi added in.
  The ability 
 to battle online opens up endless possibilities, it will enable people to organise tournaments/competitions 
 online through forums and such, let's you fight your friend across the globe and also your neighbor 
 without the need of going out. 
  Trading maps online and having bigger map storage means more replay value, seeing how map design 
 can have endless possibilites.
  Voice Chat without the need of a headset will also mean that everyone can enjoy the feature!
 
  
  With all being said, Advance Wars: Days of Ruin is a Masterpiece of a game that everyone who own 
 a DS should really try out. Immense strategy in both single and multiplayer, with the ability to 
 battle, trade and communcate through Wifi means Unlimited Replay Value in this great turn based 
 War Game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Chances are if you are reading this review you are interested in this game and have played an Advance 
 Wars game before. The newest installment, Day of Ruin, is the second Advance Wars game on the DS, 
 and the 4th installment in the series. How does this game fare compared to the other 3 terrific 
 titles?
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are more serious this time around. The game play graphics are the same as the DS version, 
 which is not a bad thing. The cut scenes look relatively better than the DS version, too. This 
 might be because it's more serious this time around, which I have always wanted. Nintendo has too 
 many "kiddy" titles, and I believe some should be more serious, like Advance Wars and Battalion 
 Wars. The environments are nice, the art is nice, and overall the graphics are very nice and certainly 
 get the job done.
  
  8.5/10- More realistic, but overall the same.
  
  Sound:
  
  Same as the graphics, the sound of this game is good. You have new tunes not in the installments 
 before, but you also have some memorable tunes. I really like the tunes in this game, but they 
 don't stick out. If you lower the volume all the way down, you still get the same experience with 
 it on. It's there, I like it, but it could be much better. It also gets the job done.
  
  8/10- Generic and gets the job done.
  
  Game play:
  
  Oh boy, if the game play was not 
 good then the series would have ended by now. The series is still alive and well. I love the game 
 play. It's something new that you don't find in many games. Take a break from all the shooters, 
 and enjoy some relaxing game play which makes you think. The controls are nice, like the Advance 
 Wars DS, so if you liked Advance Wars DS you will like Days of Ruin. It's very easy, create units, 
 move them with limited moving spaces, capture your enemies "properties". Very basic, very strategic, 
 very fun. It can get a little boring at times, but if your planning on buying this game you probably 
 already know how the game plays.
  
  9.5/10- Same game play we all know and love, but also sometimes boring.
  
  Replay Value:
 
  
  AWDS was PACKED, and I mean PACKED. Days of Ruin takes off some of the single player options from 
 AWDS and puts in a fantastic online feature. This also includes voice chat right from the DS microphone, 
 which is just amazing. Trust me when I say this, the online in this game is terrific. FCs are back, 
 but you can even chat with people over random play, and since this is a Nintendo title, this is 
 purely amazing. The shop feature is taken out, but online comes in. The Design Room allows you 
 to create your own maps, trade them over Wi-Fi. You can store up to 50 maps from Wi-Fi and your 
 created, which means this game is never ending. Although AWDS was packed in the single-player, 
 I would much rather have an online mode where it will last me forever.
  
  10/10- Will last forever with online.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall, this is a must for anyone 
 wanting a smart DS game. This game has everything anyone would want from an Advance Wars game, 
 and the wait was certainly worth it. Pick this one up, you will be happy you did.
  
  9.0/10- Good presentation, addicting game play, and will last you a long time to come. It's the 
 best Advance Wars game out there, what is not to like? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
