-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Advance Wars: Dual Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/advancewarsds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Perfectly tuned, incredibly deep, addictive, and approachable strategic gameplay.
 Tons of different gameplay options make for almost limitless variety.
 Excellent presentation makes marathon gameplay sessions easy on the senses.
 Great artificial intelligence for solo play, plus tons of Wi-Fi multiplayer options.
 Memorable cast of characters and a good story-driven campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is a little easy for series fans (though a hard mode is unlockable).
 Underlying gameplay elements and visuals recycled from past entries.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.0, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 5,911 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Modern Turn-Based...
Date: Aug 22, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Advance Wars: Dual Strike significantly broadens the scope of this very deep and incredibly fun 
 strategy series while not messing with the fundamentals that made it so great. 

  The brilliantly designed, addictive Advance Wars series of strategy games has found itself a comfortable 
 new home on the Nintendo DS, and it couldn't be more welcome. Originally created for the Game Boy 
 Advance back in 2001, Advance Wars now is on to its third installment, which significantly broadens 
 the scope of this very deep and incredibly fun series while not messing with the fundamentals that 
 made it so great. The result is Advance Wars: Dual Strike, the biggest and in many ways best game 
 in the series yet. It offers a tremendous value and is sure to provide you with hour after hour 
 of fun-filled, surprisingly brisk turn-based gameplay. A terrific presentation and tons of different 
 modes of play, in addition to some great Wi-Fi multiplayer support, put this one way over the top. 
 It's arguably the first must-have game for the Nintendo DS, and it's a perfect excuse to get the 
 system if you haven't already.  

          Advance Wars is back and better than ever in this incredibly fun and rewarding strategy 
 game.     

  Fans of the previous Advance Wars games will be in for a comfortably familiar experience with this 
 installment, though it adds a slew of new features, characters, twists, and tweaks -- considerably 
 more than Advance Wars 2 did. Still, all this new content isn't evident at first, and it isn't 
 forced on you. So those who've already spent a ton of time playing previous versions of Advance 
 Wars might be a little put off when they first begin playing the campaign mode of this game. The 
 brand-new campaign assumes no previous experience, starting you off gently and teaching you the 
 ropes of how to marshal your diverse military forces (even if you already know the drill) . This 
 is done through some story-driven missions that do a great job of quickly getting you interested 
 in the game's colorful cast of characters. However, if you're an Advance Wars veteran, the early 
 missions of the campaign -- and indeed the subsequent two-dozen-or-so missions leading up to the 
 climactic conclusion -- will seem quite easy. Regardless of your experience level, though, you'll 
 appreciate the diversity and surprises that Advance Wars: Dual Strike's campaign delivers from 
 one mission to the next. There's some sort of a unique twist or angle to just about every one, 
 so you realize during the course of the dozens of missions that this game has a whole lot to it. 

  The campaign's two main characters are both new to the series. The male lead, Jake, can take some 
 getting used to, thanks to his knack for leaning on overused Internet slang ("Owned!") . Still, 
 the otherwise-well-written dialogue and endearing characters shine through, and in the end, even 
 Jake turns out to be likable. Advance Wars has always had a unique style to it, and this latest 
 game carries it forward, once again deftly accomplishing the seemingly impossible and ridiculous 
 task of making modern military warfare kid-friendly. For what it's worth, the story of this game 
 pushes farther into the realm of science fiction than its predecessors, distancing the subject 
 matter of Advance Wars: Dual Strike from anything resembling real-world conflict. That's probably 
 for the best, since what's left is a great mix of new and old characters all wrapped up in an interesting 
 storyline that hits some serious themes while still being fit for all ages. You must help the commanding 
 officers of the Allied Nations in their attempt to thwart the wicked schemes of the Black Hole 
 Army, which has mysteriously recovered its military might and seems to be draining the land of 
 its very life.  

  At its core, the gameplay of Advance Wars: Dual Strike is much like that of the previous games. 
 You take turns with your opponent maneuvering your various military units about a tactical map, 
 trading hits with opposing forces, capturing factories and other buildings, and ultimately attempting 
 to either destroy all the enemy forces or capture the enemy headquarters. At your disposal are 
 all the different types of military units you can imagine: infantry, tanks, armored personnel carriers, 
 helicopters, battleships, submarines, fighter jets, and more. Advance Wars: Dual Strike features 
 every unit from the previous games and makes a number of key additions, such as stealth fighters, 
 aircraft carriers, and the appropriately named megatank -- the biggest and toughest Advance Wars 
 unit yet, but one whose firepower is tempered by a steep cost, slow movement, and limited ammunition. 
 Perfectly tuned balance is the key to this series, after all, so there isn't a single unstoppable 
 unit in the lineup. Each has a valuable purpose, but none can help you outsmart your foe. Many 
 of the units are elegantly simple and yet very interesting in their own rights, like chess pieces 
 packing unique weapons and defensive properties. Since most units can automatically retaliate when 
 hit, you're constantly having to consider the possible repercussions of your every move.  

          A large cast of likable characters gives Advance Wars: Dual Strike plenty of charm on top 
 of its near-perfect gameplay.     

  There's an impressive array of different units available, but when multiplied by all the different 
 commanding officers in the game -- each of whom has his or her own unique specialties -- the variety 
 becomes incredible. Besides being memorable characters, the various COs of Advance Wars can have 
 a significant impact on how you play. For instance, Advance Wars fans will recall that the laid-back 
 gunslinger, Grit, is an expert with long-range combat units like rocket launchers and battleships. 
 However, he's relatively weak with direct-fire units like tanks. The new COs are equally as interesting. 
 For example, one of the new Black Hole COs, Kindle, is a snobbish socialite whose units fight more 
 fiercely than ever when stationed in cities -- and her superpower lets her cripple enemies recovering 
 in their own cities. Each CO has two different superpowers that can be used every several turns, 
 once the CO has gathered enough energy.     

  In addition to the great new units and characters, Advance Wars: Dual Strike introduces some intriguing 
 new types of battles. For starters, it's possible to fight tag-team battles using pairs of COs. 
 One CO is active at a time, and you can alternate between them in between turns. So if Grit gets 
 into uncomfortably close quarters, just bring out his buddy Max, who's got a knack for doing serious 
 damage with his tanks. Being able to mix and match different COs' strengths makes for many more 
 interesting variables to consider and experiment with. Plus, when both your COs fully charge their 
 power meters, you're free to unleash their devastating tag attack on your foes. These let your 
 COs take their turns one after another, before your enemy is able to act. The new tag-team matches 
 allow for wider, faster shifts in a battle's momentum, making for more-exciting skirmishes. What's 
 more, your COs now gain experience points after every victory, and once they've earned enough, 
 they get promoted. As COs rise in rank, they gain access to an increasingly larger variety of different 
 skills, which they can mix and match to subtly but noticeably tune their fighting styles.  

          Tag battles, dual-screen battles, and the new real-time combat mode are just a few of 
 this game's great, new features.     

  Dual-screen battles are another welcome addition to the series. Normally, the top screen is used 
 to display contextual data about the terrain and also whichever unit you have highlighted at any 
 given time. Most of the action takes place on the bottom screen, where you may either use the directional 
 pad and buttons or the stylus to move your units around. However, in dual-screen battles, there's 
 combat happening on two separate maps at once. Once you're done maneuvering your forces on the 
 main screen, the battle switches over to the second front, where the computer will move your forces 
 by default. However, you can command them yourself if you like. Usually the two fronts are linked 
 somehow, and whoever wins the battle on the second front will gain an advantage on the primary 
 front. You can send units to the secondary front to help guarantee that happening. The dual-screen 
 battles are a nice twist to the tag-battle gameplay that's the mainstay of Advance Wars: Dual Strike. 

  Different weather effects and, of course, the great variety of maps compound the complexity of 
 the game without complicating it. Fog-of-war maps have a totally different feel to them than the 
 standard maps, where you always have full visibility. When there's a fog of war, you can use forests 
 and reefs to hide your units, which will lie in ambush; also, you can move your infantry into the 
 mountains to gain a better vantage point on the fight. In other types of maps, snowstorms and sandstorms 
 can hinder some of your units' movement, which keeps you from getting too comfortable with the 
 way your mechanized forces normally work. The difference between maps that test your tactics by 
 limiting you to a specific set of units and those that let you strategically use funds to build 
 reinforcements is quite dramatic as well.  

  It's also important to point out that the game's artificial intelligence is very good. The computer 
 makes shrewd use of its forces, exploiting the weaknesses in your defense while attempting to steer 
 clear of your deadliest forces. It's a little overzealous with its use of CO powers, but apart 
 from that, the AI makes for entertainingly challenging, unpredictable competition. Taken all together, 
 Advance Wars: Dual Strike's numerous well-implemented game mechanics make for one of the best strategy 
 gaming experiences available -- one that has what it takes to draw in both hardcore strategy game 
 players and those who never would have expected to enjoy such a game.  

  Apart from the lengthy campaign, Advance Wars: Dual Strike offers a war room, a versus mode, and 
 a survival mode for experiencing all the possible variations on the strategic gameplay. For good 
 measure, as you win single-player battles, you earn credits with which you can unlock tons of new 
 maps and many new COs for use in the various modes of play. In keeping with this whole "give you 
 everything and more" theme, extensive multiplayer options are available. You can pass-and-play 
 with other people using one DS and one copy of the game, or you can compete with up to three players 
 in wireless Wi-Fi battles. Using Wi-Fi, you can also trade maps you've created in the game's design 
 room (which are easier to create than ever thanks to the stylus) , and you can also download the 
 new real-time "combat" action game to any unfortunate DS owners who don't have the game.  

  It's possible to have up to eight players in a combat battle with just one copy of Advance Wars: 
 Dual Strike between the lot of you. Combat takes some of the units and mechanics of Advance Wars 
 and translates them into a fun little arcade game, where the object is to capture the enemy base. 
 You directly control one unit at a time, firing on your enemies and recovering damage at your cities. 
 There aren't many units or maps in the combat mode, but it's a fun diversion, and it represents 
 another solid addition to the series.  

          Sure this is a portable game, but why even bother to go out anywhere anymore once you have 
 it?     

  Advance Wars: Dual Strike borrows many of the same visual elements from the previous games, but 
 it's still a great-looking game, thanks partly to plenty of wonderfully drawn new artwork for all 
 the characters, as well as some nice 3D touches to the battlefield. The game's various units are 
 smoothly animated and entertaining to watch as they lay into one another, and the maps themselves 
 are clean and colorful. The game sounds at least as good as it looks due to a surprisingly rich 
 musical score that pairs each character with his or her own unique themes. Some very catchy melodies 
 and even some choice use of vocals in some of the tracks make this one of the best musical scores 
 on the Nintendo DS so far, though you'll recognize some of the tracks from the previous games. 
 The military units sound just right, too, with their throaty engines and powerful guns. Advance 
 Wars: Dual Strike's actual gameplay is the main attraction, but the care that's gone into the presentational 
 elements certainly doesn't hurt its case.  

  In short, the latest Advance Wars game somehow succeeds at making a well-worn formula as fresh 
 and exciting as ever. Intelligent Systems, the developer of the series, deserves tremendous credit 
 for crafting such a deep yet approachable gameplay experience. Those who haven't yet played an 
 Advance Wars game shouldn't hesitate to start with this one, while the series' dedicated fans will 
 find that there's lots of great, new stuff here to play around with, get really into, and share 
 with their friends.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (385 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the 3rd Advance Wars in the Advance Wars franchise and changes the 
 series to fit the DS, and to good, but has a little trouble.
  
  Let's start with some of the new additions, first: touch screen control. In Dual Strike you can 
 control the units with the touch screen.... but it doesn't work well. You can't move the screen 
 so you'd have to use the d-pad and stylus. Also since commands are close together you could mistakenly 
 hit the wrong command.
  
  Some other new features are 2 brand new modes: Survival and Combat. Survival is too repetitive, 
 it's just playing 11 maps in a row and if you mess up you have to start over. It really isn't anything 
 special and I don't particularly like it. 
  
  Combat is good, provided you use touch screen control. If you use buttons you won't like it. Using 
 the touch screen makes it work better, but I really don't like that you are a 1 man army. They 
 couldn't have you control more than 1 units with the touch screen? Just the whole 1 against 20 
 is just dumb, and I didn't like it. They should've given it RPG elements or something. So it's 
 an all right mode, but had way more potential.
  
  Anyways, next up is the minor changes. There were some new units added, some are real cool, and 
 some aren't. The single player campaign returned to the AW1 style (sadly) and it is good. There 
 are some new characters that are fun to use.
  
  But the final new addition is double COs. Yes, it means you can play as 2 COs at the same time. 
 You play as 1 at a time and can switch. Whoever you are will have their affects and they will gain 
 CO Power while you play as them. It is pretty cool.
  
  Also you can do 2 battles at the same time, one on each screen, which is cool. You can switch units 
 from 1 screen to another, but the system as a whole is flawed. For one thing, you can only send 
 units from the bottom to top screen. Also the top screen battle always has little meaning. The 
 winner of that battle simply joins the CO on the bottom screen so it's 2 COs against 1, which isn't 
 much of a reward for winning a whole battle. This means that if you win the bottom screen battle 
 first, you automatically win, regardless of the top screen, so it has its problems.
  
  The graphics are good, same old AW graphics, nothing new. The music is just awesome, I absolutely 
 love it. The tunes are catchy and instead of porting songs like they did in AW2, they had remixes 
 of the old songs, which are great to hear.
  
  There's not much to complain about. The system wasn't changed much, but it still works great and 
 is fun. I was once again mad that old War Room missions were ported and then a couple new ones 
 were added, they need more new War Rooms.
  
  Overall, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a fun little piece of software. It has lots of new changes, 
 though most of them weren't executed well, but it's still a great game for any fan of the series.
 
  
  Final Score: 8.25 + 2 COs and some good changes (0.25) = 8.50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgs1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  Now at first glance you may dismiss this game for being cartoon like, childish or just plain silly. 
 But don't let that put you off buying it. It turns out to be a solid, hardcore strategy game that 
 isn't about looks and graphics, but is one of the (if not the) best games on DS. A must buy for 
 anyone who likes fast, strategic fun on 2 screens. The only reasons I gave it a 9.5 rather than 
 a 10 was because it isn't wi-fi enabled and the story-line is slightly... unrealistic. Hoping the 
 second game will fix both of these problems though, and so I will be able to give it the coveted 
 '10'. After that.. who knows what heights this game may reach. Outstanding. Go and get it now.. 
 before 'Black Hole' destroys all of the cartidges in their conquest of world domination... classic!
 
  
  All in all, this is one of the only games worth the full DS game RRP (29.99) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Having played the two GBA games in the series before this one, I can easily declare that this entry 
 in the series continues the established tradition of bringing over all the great game play from 
 the previous game, and adding a ton of new stuff to make it feel fresh and exciting.
  
  Advance Wars Dual Strike makes no obvious adjustments to the unit behavior and power from the previous 
 games. The big units still hit hard the way you expect them to, and the little units still get 
 cut in half the way you expect them to. However, the new units create something of a shift in the 
 top-end of the "hardest hitting", which ends up working out just fine since their cost of purchase 
 is so much higher. The great thing about this new top-end spectrum is that you get more variety 
 with units as the maps move along in their later stages. There are a lot more cities and factories 
 to capture on the maps than previous games. So you end up with more funds to play around with as 
 the maps move along. Meaning, you can buy bigger toys to squish stuff harder. Because of this, 
 the individual map's game play will evolve as you progress. No more hitting a plateau half way 
 through and just being stuck with the only choice of just churning out more and more of the same 
 units.
  
  Fortunately, the new units are not without their own weaknesses. They can be taken down, and when 
 they do go down, it just hurts that much more. Especially the new super huge mega-tank. This thing 
 doesn't just kill the target, it vaporizes the target. Seeing 175% pop-up before an attack is not 
 uncommon. Downside, low ammo, and moves about as fast as the infantry units. Takes time to get 
 there, but gets a kill a turn once you get into a crowd. The other new units all have equally appropriate 
 ups and downs that make them all fit into a niche within your arsenal.
  
  The story is, as usual, just kinda ok. The dialogue is pretty typical, and tries way too hard to 
 sound hip and cool. These kids are just too happy, and too young, to be in the midst of a war of 
 any kind. Fortunately most of the story elements can be skipped by simply clicking the start button 
 as they come up. Thank god.
  
  The graphics are still superb for a handheld system. The individual sprites are crisp and easy 
 to identify quickly, and the battle animations are great, but usually end up being turned off anyways. 
 The art style is carried over directly from the previous games. It's hard to tell if any of the 
 unit sprites were carried over 100% intact, or if they had touch-ups or not. Not that it would 
 matter, they all look great.
  
  All in all the game is superb. The difficulty scales up appropriately, without being anger inducing, 
 and the level of destruction that you get to unleash is still very much satisfying. If you haven't 
 played the GBA games, and want to get started with a prime example of what TBS games should be, 
 this is a terrific place to start. Although, I do recommend going back to the GBA games and playing 
 them in order. Since if you have a DS, you can play them. And should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVGDude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a turn-based strategy game. It is the third game in the series for 
 the Nintendo DS. It was released on September 30th 2005 and has a age rating of 7+.
  
  
  The player's objective in Advance Wars: Dual Strike is to defeat your opponents army with your 
 own either by defeating the army itself or capturing the opponents Head Quarters.
  
  
  There are two control methods. You can either use the D-Pad or the Touch Screen to highlight characters, 
 move them around and use different actions. The touch screen is used very well here.
  
  
  The history option on my copy of Advance Wars: Dual Strike tells me that I have spent over 60 hours 
 playing this game, and most of that is the time I spent playing in the War Rooms!
  
  
  What's my point? The point is that once you start playing Advance Wars: Dual Strike you don't want 
 to put your DS down! "All I want to do is build a few more Rockets and then I'll stop.... wait! 
 The enemy CO (Commanding Officer) has just destroyed my damn Neotanks! I'll just build a few more 
 of them first...."
  
  
  But don't make the same mistake I did and go straight into the War Rooms when you play the game 
 for the first time... I didn't have a clue what I was doing! Make sure you play Campaign mode first, 
 where the rules of the game are explained and you find out that infantry units and APC's actually 
 have a use! Campaign Mode is also the main story mode. It introduces all the army types and techniques 
 slowly so it eases you into the game.
  
  
  Army types are the units you can use in battle. Each has it's own use, strengths and weaknesses. 
 For example, soldiers are the weakest attack unit you can choose as everything else crushes them, 
 but they are the cheapest unit you can buy using your funds and are the only unit other than mechs 
 than can capture buildings, making hem essential. Mechs are similar to soldiers but travel slower, 
 however they carry rockets on their shoulders that can take down tanks and other smaller vehicles, 
 but they won't last long! This forces to plan differently each day as your opponent builds other 
 units you are weak against to counter your future attack etc.
  
  
  War Rooms are pre-made maps that you can play at any time, although some of the maps have to be 
 unlocked first by buying them in the Battle Maps section of the game. Once a map is selected you 
 need to select various options such as whether or not CO rank skills can be used. Rank skills will 
 become available once you raise your rank (level up) by gaining over 1000 skill points in War Rooms 
 and other game modes such as Survival and Combat.
  
  
  Survival mode is where you must complete 11 maps with a certain condition. There is a Money Survival 
 where you must complete the maps with a limited amount of funds (money) which are used to buy units, 
 there is a Turn Survival where you can only play for a limited amount of days (turns) , and there 
 is also Time Survival where you have to complete the maps in less than 25 minutes. Turn Survival 
 was the only one I completed on my first try!
  
  
  Combat Mode is where you play against enemy CO's in real-time. It's different to the main game 
 but it gives you a nice break when your head starts to hurt! The objective is the same as the other 
 modes but there are some differences. Along with the real-time element (which means there are no 
 turns) there are only a couple of army types to choose from. There are also power-ups you can get 
 from destroying mountains such as increased power, invincibility and recovering HP (Health Points) .
 
  
  
  
  Soldiers are like the all-rounders but also can travel over forests and mountains. Recon units 
 are the fastest but weakest. Artillery has a special shooting power and Tanks are the slowest but 
 strongest.
  
  
  Each CO has different strengths, weaknesses and CO powers, so pick your CO's wisely just like the 
 rest of the army! CO powers will help you get out of trouble and each CO can help you in different 
 ways, whether it's raising your funds or giving you a massive attack boost. If you have two CO's 
 with a full power bar each you can use a dual attack where both CO's can attack in one turn!
  
  
  You can also create your own maps with the map editor which adds even more gameplay! You 
 can choose anything you see in Campaign Mode, enabling you to create your dream battle field! These 
 maps can also be traded with friends who own Advance Wars.
  
  
  There is so much to play, do and unlock that trying to unlock everything will keep you busy for 
 hours! I love this game and I would recommend it to anyone!
  
  
  9/10 EXCELLENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepthought81
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt about it, this is a great little game, especially if you're into your turn based 
 strategy games. 
  
  In many ways it's actually quite limited though, the playing area is small as there is no scrolling 
 screen, and the battlefield you see is the whole battlefield. The units are very specific in there 
 function but this I suppose is the point. Colourful chess is perhaps the best way to explain it. 
 It's all about the thinking and strategy but at the same time, does not expect you to be a chess 
 master or military mastermind. 
  
  The characters are cute and a little amusing but after a while the inane small talk between them 
 becomes tedious in a game that I don't think needs character development.
  
  Reading back over what I've said, I realise I sound very down on the game. That's not true though, 
 it is fun but personally if you are going to purchase a turn based strategy game for your DS i'd 
 suggest Age of Empires. Less like chess and more like it's PC based predecessors it is a different 
 game, but I just enjoyed it a lot more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The only advance wars game I haven't finished.
  
  The graphics are still in the same style, with some (pretty minor) graphical improvements.
  
 
  Days of ruin shows the DS is capable of much better,
  but the gameplay has really been improved. Touch screen controls works acurate, although using 
 keys is very much preferred.
  
  The dual battle system plays out well, and the character combos give room for experimentation.
 
  
  The dual screen is only used in some battles - but when used, it is used well. There is also a 
 silly option to have the second battle play automatically... I am still wondering why...
  
  The story is also improved over the first two games, although it's still a minor feature in the 
 game. The new characters show some more personality, though - although the old ones are still the 
 same tired stereotypes.
  
  Once again, it is a game that fits on a portable - and a great game with which to tap some hours 
 away.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardorito
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Awesome Game! I have spent more than 100 hours playing this and haven't gotten tired of it. So 
 basically Black Hole is in again making trouble AGAIN in a new land called Omega Land (notice that 
 every land has land in the end) . Aw'ight now time to go to characters... SO MANY! have t0 wikipedia 
 this...
  
  CHARACTERS: IDK, to lazy to go to wikipedia, JAKE, RACHEL, AND THAT BUFF GUY THAT I ALWAYS FORGET 
 HIS NAME THAT'S IN THE OTHER ADVANCE WARS i think....
  
  Storyline: HECK, just read the top AGAIN!
  
  Gameplay: Two screens, strategy, fun-ness, beating 
 up commanders tanks, artillery, and crap like dat.
  
  Other recommendations: Advance Wars: Days of Ruin FTW! (nothing compared to this but is good also)
 
  
  advace wars advace wars adadvace wars vace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars 
 advace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars advace wars 
 advace wars advace wars advace wars (don't care with spellign) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tasthomas
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  IMO Advance Wars is the best video game series ever. This game took it to the next level with new 
 CO's, new units, the addition of skills and tag-teams. Some may say that the Tag Powers break the 
 game because they can turn the tide of a one sided battle. This was my opinion until I learned 
 how to defend and counter them.
  Some of the new units: Stealth, Mega-tank, Carrier, and Pipe-runner (all over 20k to buy!) add 
 a limited amount of fun to the experience, but the Black boat and revamped Cruisers turned naval 
 and amphibious battles into loads of fun!
  The one player game is enjoyable, but this game gives hundreds of hours of fun when playing with 
 buddies. It's fun just to think up new CO combinations, like: Drake/Sonja in a non-fog battle. 
 I know that this review is late, but I bought this game when it was released and I still play PvP 
 and still love it!
  
  Combat?!.......... no comment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead888
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  not only its it the greatest game for ds. its cheap. 15 bucks used at a game store. the story mode 
 doesnt make much sense and the subtitles are immature and lame but the gameplay is long and doesnt 
 affect the game overall in anyway. who needs a story anyway? give me tanks and units and flat out 
 kill the enemy. the game is extremely balanced. every unit has a strong point and a weakness. even 
 the most expensive units can be taken down with some of the cheapest units. boats, infantry, air, 
 tanks; everything that war contains is covered in this game. the graphics are not amazing, though 
 the animations of attacks are very interesting to watch at times. the story is long and is easily 
 replayed without boredom. one of the things about this game that i like best is that the missions 
 are long and kill time like crazy. say your waiting for something and you want to pass an hour 
 or so as painlessly as possible. theres been times when ive played this game for 2 hours straight 
 and it feels like 30 minutes. (very nice when ur getting paid to do so) the next best thing is 
 if you dont have time to finish your mission, you can save it at any point. it can be in the middle 
 of your turn and you can save it, turn the ds off and pickup right where u started. i havent played 
 any other advance wars besides this and the 2nd one for ds. this one is alittle easier then the 
 other, but still has some challenging moments and is very much fun to play. great all around game. 
 i cant say anything bad about it besides the story subtitles which doesnt matter anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejle12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic game. Its funny, with bright sprites, good mechanics, and lots of challengeing levels 
 in and out of the normal story campagin and lots and lots of goodies to unlock to keep your thumbs 
 sore, eyes dry and up through the night going 'just one more turn.'
  
  Though I do have to say some of the bad guys are a little cheesy, but thats not always a bad thing. 
 And the twit trio (Koal, Kindle and Jugger) always make me laugh when I pound the snot out of them.
 
  
  Oh, one thing... whats with Jake trying to talk like a hip hop singer?? That was just funny and 
 wrong so many times. But I guess it fits. Kinda irked that there was no Andy in the campaign, but 
 oh well. At least there was Max, hes the word on frontal assaults. (Darn those pesky indirect weapons)
 
  
  Ah well, its a awesome game all around and I hope there is more to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Advance wars: Dual Strike / DS / Strategy / 9.0
  
  
  The first AW games gave us something new, something comparable to chess and other strategy. The 
 sequel offered a better game with lots of new features. This game ads even more - even though not 
 as much as in the first improvement, but still much. 
  Ok, let me explain the gameplay quickly. You play as one of four nations. 4 players can be on the 
 field at the same time, allies or enemies. The game is turn-based so multiplayer is possible. You 
 have a varying army on different places - in the seas, the sky and on the ground. You can capture 
 stuff with infantry so that you get more money each day. With the money you buy more troops. But 
 beware, you must buy something that doesen't have a weakness for something in the opponents army. 
 All your "pieces" can kill another if it borders the square they're standing on. When all have 
 moved their one time you end your turn. The other armies play and then it's your turn again. That's 
 basically how this game works.
  
  However it can get more complicated than that. 
  
  What makes the game more unique is the somewhat unbalanced COs that you can choose from. Depending 
 on who you choose - you get different specialities. When enough time has passed, you can use a 
 power that, for instance heals all your troops by 2 HP (the maximum is always 10) or makes your 
 air units stronger.
  This game introduces the ability to have two different COs at the same time (well you can change 
 them when you end your turn. 
  
  The graphics and sound is alright, the theme songs for every CO is different and good. However 
 you might be turning off the short fight scenes and play without sounds when you get more hard-core. 
 At that time you will also skip the touch screen because it has it's flaws and slow management. 
 
  
  As with all turn-based games, this gets old after a while. Although this holds out for quite a 
 while, especially if you got a DS friend to link up with and play wireless with. Or just take anyone 
 and battle them hot seat style. What this game lacks is simply wi-fi (which they saved for Days 
 of Ruins) . It would've increase the value heavily. 
  
  Overall this is something that suits the DS perfect and one of the few high quality games for the 
 console. 
  
  
  
  //Seriously, how can you not like this game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neozander227
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic game. Its funny, with bright sprites, good mechanics, and lots of challengeing levels 
 in and out of the normal story campagin and lots and lots of goodies to unlock to keep your thumbs 
 sore, eyes dry and up through the night going 'just one more turn.'
  
  Though I do have to say some of the bad guys are a little cheesy, but thats not always a bad thing. 
 And the twit trio (Koal, Kindle and Jugger) always make me laugh when I pound the snot out of them. 
 
  
  Oh, one thing... whats with Jake trying to talk like a hip hop singer?? That was just funny and 
 wrong so many times. But I guess it fits. Kinda irked that there was no Andy in the campaign, but 
 oh well. At least there was Max, hes the word on frontal assaults. (Darn those pesky indirect weapons)
 
  
  Ah well, its a awesome game all around and I hope there is more to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars and AW2 has been impressing TBS fans everywhere whom wanted a strategy game that can 
 be taken on the go. With a ton of realistic units at their disposal, colourful and cute commanding 
 officers for their picking and addictive gameplay made the series one of the best handheld games 
 out there. But now that is all going to improve the series even more with the presentation of Advance 
 Wars: Dual Strike.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike picks up right after the events of AW2, after the almighty leader of 
 the Black Hole Army, Sturm, has finally been put to rest for the disaster he has done. But for 
 some mysterious reason, The Black Hole Army in Omega Land has grown to enormous porpotions and 
 started draining the land of its life power, leaving most of the land into lifeless heap of wasteland. 
 To counter this, The Allied Nations (somewhat a spoof of the modern United Nations) has formed 
 an emergency force with limited manpower and supplies and are fighting back to reveal Black Hole's 
 true intentions.
  
  AW: DS has some major changes in it, and most of them made this game 10 times better than the original. 
 New game modes like combat and survival gives extra fun after you complete the campaign and war 
 room. New features are new terrain, new Black Hole weaponry, and the almighty Tag Powers that allow 
 for 2 attacks per turn and can guarantee an instant win if used properly. New commanders arrive 
 from every faction to either preserve peace or to corrupt the land. 
  
  But the best feature of this game are the new units. Black Hole has advanced their technologies 
 even further now- they now have three new units at their disposal: a vague-looking hovercraft named 
 the "black boat" that acts like a repairing APC, a guided flying missile known as the Black Bomb 
 which somewhat acts like a remote-controlled missile silo and a Piperunner, which, as its name 
 implies, can only travel on pipes and is a hybrid of a MRLS (Rocket Launcher) and the mobile anti-air 
 missile platform. The Allied Nations also has developed new technologies (but Black Hole reverse 
 engineers them later anyways,) like the Stealth Fighter, which is a weaker fighter but it can fire 
 on all units and can avoid being attacked by cloaking itself. Another new unit is the Aircraft 
 Carrier, which can hold 2 planes and can resupply onboard planes. It can also rip other planes 
 out of the sky with missile salvos. But the all-time award goes to Green Earth's mighty Megatank, 
 which can destroy anything on land (with the exception of other Megatanks) with one volley of mega 
 shells. But with every strong unit comes weaknesses. This unit lacks speed, fuel and vision range. 
 It also costs a whopping 28000 credits so take that into consideration before making the purchase. 
 Black Hole has also developed another mysterious weapon of their own, but I'm not going to spoil 
 it. Hint: Not even the Megatank can defeat this monstrosity alone. Also one hit kills any unit 
 if it gets too close.
  
  Playing this game doesn't require the reflexes of a 10 year old on crack, all you need is brains, 
 firepower, patience and a few tricks up your sleeve. A veteran should be able to breeze through 
 the early missions easily, while a newcomer should take their time to listen to the tutorials. 
 But don't worry too much, the game won't get TOO difficult to handle, so don't worry too much about 
 20+ Megatanks charging at you since there's no mission like that. But beware, the later missions 
 sometimes do require a lot of smart moves in order to be successful.
  
  So, after my extremely long review, my message is this: GET THIS GAME!!! No DS owner should miss 
 out on this excellent game. It's nearly impossible to find nowadays, even in used bins, though.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  the game is basically a war based strategy game, where the object is to beat your opponent either 
 by taking his base or destroying all his units (there are other ways to win in some specific missions) 
 so you start out with a few units a base or 2 and build up an army, and try to strategically defeat 
 your opponent. 
  
  the game is interesting in that there are millions of ways to win, you could attack head on with 
 some strong close range units, or attack from the skys with helicopters and planes, launch missiles 
 from underwater submarines, or any other strategy you can think of, with the wide range of different 
 units with different capabilities and different COs with different strengths and weaknesses the 
 possibilities are almost limitless.
  
  the game makes great use of the DS's second screen by displaying unit and terrain info and stats 
 on the top screen while using the touch screen to display the main battle field, you can also control 
 your units with the stylus. also in the new Dual Strike mode where you fight 2 battles at once 
 you can use the top screen to display the second battle field.
  
  the sound track is good nice music in the background good sound effects, the graphics are ok, nothing 
 really amazing there but it is saved in how the units and characters are designed to look sort 
 of cartoony (in a good way) .
  the story mode is a little easy the first time (except for one mission which i absolutely hate) 
 but you can unlock hard mode if you beat the game and still feel like you're up for a challenge.
 
  
  basically id recomend this game to any one thats a fan of strategy games DS games and good games 
 lol. seriously its a great game, just get it trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  What comes to mind when you think of the words "video game"? Perhaps mindless shooting of unnamed 
 enemies, long, involved role-playing games, or high-speed racing through city streets at night. 
 Does thinking come to mind? Probably not. Well, Intelligent Systems, one of the most respected 
 names in game development, is going to change the way you think about video games. Advance Wars, 
 released in 2001, was a huge hit, and soon a follow-up game was released. Now, Intelligent Systems 
 provides for us mindless gamers a third installment in the beloved franchiseAdvance Wars: Dual 
 Strike.
  
  The most stand-out characteristic of this game is the fact that it makes you think so hard. To 
 truly enjoy all that Advance Wars has to offer, you'll have to throw out all your pre-conceived 
 notions of video games, because Advance Wars will change your entire view on the matter. The game 
 is divided up into around 30 missions, with the mission goals remaining pretty much the same the 
 entire way through: simply capture the enemy's Headquarters. Well, this isn't as simple as it might 
 sound. You are given a certain number of different units, ranging from infantry to artillery to 
 battleships to aircraft. With these soldiers at your disposal, you must fight your way through 
 enemy soldiers and conquer the opposing commanding officer. The true difficultly lies merely in 
 maneuvering your troops and utilizing them in a way that will result in victory. Even on the lowest 
 difficulty setting, the AI in Advance Wars is brutal. You cannot rely on force alone; in fact, 
 you're usually outnumbered in the battles. Instead, you need to have a keen mind and keep your 
 wits about you if you wish to come out victorious in Advance Wars.
  
  "Leave the thinking for homework", you might say. After all, video games are supposed to be a way 
 to unwind and relax, not tense up and have to think hard! Well, you cannot know how wrong you'd 
 be. Sure, Advance Wars offers a wonderful challenge. But above even that, the game is just genuinely 
 fun. Commanding your vast array of soldiers and pulling off brilliant strategic moves makes you 
 feel like a true armchair general, and the game will have you hooked for hours. Perhaps the most 
 interesting game play feature in Advance Wars is the Commanding Officers that you use to actually 
 order your troops about. Rather than simply commanding from an unnamed viewpoint, or even commanding 
 from the perspective from a soldier on the field, you order your troops in Advance Wars DS as one 
 of many Commanding Officers. There are more than 20 COs throughout the game, and each of them differs 
 drastically. Every CO has a specialty of some type; some excel in urban warfare, while others perform 
 well in messy weather. After perusing the battlefied and developing a strategy, you must then choose 
 a CO that you wish to use. In order to win the mission, you will need to choose a CO that not only 
 suits your style of play, but also one that would perform well on the map at hand. Some maps are 
 very large and complex, so it's often hard to develop a successful strategy using only one CO. 
 Well, that's where another crucial game play element of the game comes in, and it's also where 
 the game get's its subtitle: Dual Strike.
  
  As we living in materialistic-America love to think: the more the better! Well, that's certainly 
 the case in Advance Wars DS. As said before, sometimes one CO just isn't enough to provide a successful 
 battle strategy. Well, don't worry, because in this installment of Advance Wars, you have the ability 
 to choose two COs per mapat one point, you'll even get to use six at a time! This isn't gimmicky 
 at all, and it's not just thrown in there to give Intelligent Systmes an excuse to release another 
 game. Instead, it plays a very critical part in how skirmishes unfold, because there are numerous 
 skills that different COs that you will need to take advantage of in battles. For example, if there 
 is a large amount of cities on a map and it is also snowing hard, then you should pick the two 
 commanders that will be able to best utilize the conditions. The COs add a tremendous amount of 
 strategy to the battles, and they are incorporated into battles in several different ways. For 
 example, in some battles, you get to use two officers at once, and switch them at will. In other 
 missions, there are actually two separate maps, each a different "front". Each commander controls 
 one front, but units can be exchanged between the two fronts. Overall, it's wonderful what was 
 done with the Commanding Officers. They provide a tremendous amount of customization and strategy 
 to the game, and make the game more challenging and more fun.
  
  Because of the amazing game play of Advance Wars, other aspects of the game are put in a poor light. 
 That's not necessarily a bad thing, though, because the campaign itself sets a very high standard 
 for the rest of the game to follow. The plot has a very weak presence throughout the game, and 
 you get the feeling that it's there only because it has to be. The plot is certainly nothing new: 
 the world is under attack from the Black Hole Army (that's right, for the THIRD time) , and it's 
 up to you to stop them. The plot stale and unoriginal, but it does help to push the game along 
 a bit.
  
  Graphically, Advance Wars DS is very unimpressive, merely because it's no different from its GBA 
 prequels. Animations and character renders were clearly stripped directly from past games, and 
 it obviously shows. Breakthrough graphics are not an expectation when it comes to DS games, but 
 it is nice just to see an improvement from past games. However, the music in Advance Wars is phenomenal, 
 and completely makes up for the lack of quality in the graphics. Each of the several COs has their 
 own soundtrack, which plays whenever they're ordering about troops on the field. The music ranges 
 from soothing classical themes to hard rock full of pick slides and other such heavy metal musical 
 implementations. All in all, the music definitely showed off the developers' amazing creativity, 
 and it's a real pity that the same attention wasn't given to the game's visuals.
  
  Even once you finally beat the campaign mode, Advance Wars continues to please thanks to a number 
 of extra gaming features. To be honest, the amount of game play time that Advance Wars offers is 
 mind-blowing; you can easily have 50 hours of fun with this game. To begin with, there are almost 
 50 extra maps that allow you to hone your tactical commanding skills even further. In addition 
 to tons of extra maps, two extra difficulty modes are available for you to unlock, as well as additional 
 COs and the game's complete soundtrack. The fun does not even stop there, though, because Advance 
 Wars DS sports a fantastic multiplayer mode. Using download play, you can compete with a friend 
 in a real-time battle that is very uncharacteristic of Advance Wars games. If some of your friends 
 have a copy of the game themselves, however, you can compete in huge turn-based multiplayer wars. 
 Even more unique maps are available for this mode, as well as the ability to play on maps that 
 you have created yourself using the level editor. There is a tremendous amount of extra game play 
 features in Advance Wars, and truly do ensure that you'll never get bored of the game.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a wonderful example of just how amazing a DS game can be. Intelligent 
 Systems jam-packed this game with everything you could possibly want, which include a long, fun 
 campaign, numerous extra maps, fantastic multiplayer, and an amazing soundtrack. It's an amazing 
 gaming experience, all bundled up and ready for you to play on the go. Advance Wars presents a 
 strong case for being the best DS game on the market today, and no DS owner's collection is complete 
 without this masterpiece of strategical gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Advance wars is is easly the best hand held strategy game for any hand-held system. The AI is sharp 
 and challenging, the controls are sharp and easy to pick up. The games graphics are great and the 
 use of the duel screen is played out well. The main downsides to the game is that the touch screen 
 use while moving your troops around can be a little frustrating, but it is easly over-looked because 
 you can control everything using the d-pad. And, this may be more of a personal opinion, the characters 
 seem too childish and dont seem to take everything as seriously as they should. But that may just 
 be me. The game is a great multi-player game and has good wifi use. The story was ok, it could 
 have been better, but it is easy to follow. The exteras are easy to use and make for a good waist 
 of time. Advance Wars is a must buy for any strategy game fan who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars is a fun, brain-using game. It has a nice mix of challenging missions and easy missions 
 to keep you playing. It is also one of those games where you can play over and over again. It also 
 has a good mix of tactics and making your own battlefields. Also you can go into a mode where you 
 are a CO and you control one unit to fire at your opponent. It doesn't even have turns or days, 
 it's just moving around freely and blowing up whatever you find. The bad about this game is that 
 its war. It has a cheery environment though where you make new friends along the way. It's war 
 so it really shouldn't be happy, it should be darker and a bit more realistic. It is still a great 
 game to play. It introduces a few new units into the battle system which makes it a lot more fun. 
 Still it is a game where you won't get bored after the first playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  he last video game I played seriously was Star Ocean 3, and afterwards I gave up on games to pursue 
 other interests of mine. Only a favorite series of mine like Advance Wars had a chance of pulling 
 me back into an unrestrained gaming frenzy. I was fairly disappointed with AW2, due to its dull, 
 lackluster level design and enemy COs, so I wasn't sure whether the IS team would be able to outdo 
 the original, classic Advance Wars. So how does it live up?
  
  Advance Wars DS is quite simply a fantastic sequel and an amazing game in its own right. It adds 
 an incredible amount of new features, modes, content, COs and units, structures, scoring, and depth. 
 Unfortunately, the game stumbles in difficulty factor, and will disappoint any player looking for 
 a serious Wars challenge.
  
  Expanding on the classic AW formula are new gameplay systems that are integrated very well into 
 the game. You now select up to two COs per team, and can swap between them at the end of your turn. 
 The Tag CO power allows both COs to execute their super CO powers one after the other for absolutely 
 devastating attacks. This opens the door for a number of new strategies which are integrated well 
 into the vs CPU modes.
  
  Also new are DS battles, where you fight two battles at once, one on the top and one on the bottom 
 screen. The CPU has control of the allied units on top by default, but thankfully on a few DS-style 
 maps you can set an option to force manual control of the top. While a bit gimmicky, you do get 
 some strategy involved with the capability to send units from down below to the top screen. Unfortunately 
 I haven't seen a very good use of this 'transfer' feature yet, since you are usually just given 
 a bunch of units down below at the start of the mission that are obviously meant to be shifted 
 to the top screen.
  
  Another new feature are Force Ranks, which are slight bonuses that your CO can turn on for the 
 duration of a mission. As your COs win missions, they're rewarded with experience points that increase 
 their CO Rank, giving them access to more (and better) Force Ranks. Unfortunately, this opens up 
 a can of worms in terms of level standardization. In AW and AW2 missions, there was nothing you 
 could do to gain an 'upper hand' over another player by spending time elsewhere building up your 
 COs powers. But with the introduction of Force Ranks, it's possible to spend hours beefing up your 
 COs in the War Room, for example, then moving onto Campaign and having slight to moderate advantages 
 over someone who has just started playing. In some cases, these Force Ranks can significantly unbalance 
 gameplay. This is especially true of the two most powerful Force Ranks, which allow you to negate 
 movement penalties over forests and plains.
  
  The new allied and Black Hole COs are fun and well designed, although two of the new Black Hole 
 COs seem like carbon copies of two of the previous ones. The new units are cool, adding in diversity 
 and new gameplay strategies, and there are a bunch of them, not just the sorry 'neo-tank' offering 
 of AW2.
  
  Campaign:
  
  The normal campaign maps are a fun mix of classic AW predeployed-style maps and war room style 
 unit deployment. You get to fight a number of allied COs through the campaign, which is a refreshing 
 change from the whiny-goth punting of AW2. You're also allowed a huge range of CO choices per map, 
 which allows for multiple effective strategies to be dreamt up and executed. Often you'll come 
 across a fancy new Black Hole technology to destroy or seize, and funky new BH 'amoebas', which 
 only move one space per turn, but instantly kill anything they move onto. The difficulty is somewhat 
 higher than AW and AW2 campaign, although not quite as nasty as AW2's final levels in terms of 
 getting a perfect score. There's none of the AW2-style lousy map design where you're given rows 
 and rows of powerful units and ordered to go make a mess, or enormous blank war room style maps 
 with no personality to them. I didn't find one map that wasn't fun, engaging, unique, thoughtful, 
 and just all around kick ass.
  
  Unfortunately, the Hard Campaign, which in previous AWs has been an uber-challenging set of the 
 original campaign levels, is fairly easy. I had no problem destroying most HC levels on my first 
 try, with a perfect score. You are usually given more units, and the enemy slightly more as well, 
 with not much change in actual difficulty. One of the biggest problems with the Hard Campaign is 
 that you're allowed to use any CO pair and set of force ranks you like. This leads to abuse of 
 the best COs against the enemy AI  Hachi, Javier, and Kanbei. Grit, Colin, and Sami are also extremely 
 effective when paired with Hachi, Javier, or Kanbei. Not to mention the force ranks which make 
 your units quite simply superior to enemy forces that just don't use force ranks at all. The speed 
 score requirements are extremely lenient, and you'll only get penalized if you take a ridiculous 
 amount of time to finish a mission. Note that there are a few levels that are at least somewhat 
 difficult.. but nothing is going to twist your brain into a pretzel and give you turn-based nightmares 
 for weeks.
  
  Overall the CO selection/force rank imbalance combined with a pitiful increase in difficulty makes 
 the Hard Campaign a walk in the park for any players worth their salt. Although this won't stop 
 any serious fan from getting the game, it's a major bummer for anyone expecting a heavy workout 
 of the likes of the original AW Advance Campaign or even some AW2 Hard Campaign levels. I honestly 
 can't say I'd be that enthused about going through the Hard Campaign again with one hand tied behind 
 my back (choosing not to use Hachi, Javier, or Kanbei, and choosing not to use force ranks at all) .
 
  
  One thing that struck me as strange is that you aren't shown your campaign average score. But you 
 are shown each individual level and individual score in the end credits, so you can make a quick 
 tally of what you got right there. The game still makes no distinction between an imperfect S-rank 
 and a perfect, 300 point S-rank.
  
  Since I'm playing an import, it's hard to get an idea of what's going on in the game in terms of 
 storyline during the campaign. But from what I can see, the storyline looks to be fun and flagrant, 
 while adding a touch of maturity and serious issues not seen before in the playground of the AW 
 universe.
  
  War Room mode is back, with the same old maps remixed with new COs, along with new one-screen maps 
 and new DS-style maps. You can also choose handicaps for a higher EXP bonus, offering more flexibility 
 and challenge. The sheer number of maps means this mode is worth many, many hours of time investment 
 alone. Some of the new War Room maps are quite difficult, as well as the old staples like Terra 
 Maw. One thing to note is most of the old maps still have only one CO as an enemy, making your 
 dual-CO team more capable of victory.
  
  Survival:
  
  The new gameplay mode, Survival Mode, challenges players to complete a course of small levels in 
 succession, with a common limitation following throughout the course. The limitations are funds, 
 turns, and time. Survival mode is a blast to play. The levels are tricky, well designed and implemented, 
 and offer up a unique and fun gameplay experience outside the normal mission maps we're accustomed 
 to. Some of them are also quite hard! You get ranked for each mission, as well as an overall rank, 
 and your best funds/turns/time score per level is also recorded.
  
  The last new mode, Battle mode, offers a real time experience, controlling one unit at a time and 
 blasting away enemies coming at you from all sides. I really tried to like this mode, but it's 
 very droll, lonesome, and just isn't all that fun. Kicking up the difficulty to hard or death modes 
 makes the enemy AI so aggressive you'll have to maneuver like crazy just to stay alive. The only 
 really worthwhile unit on hard mode, the tank, still only has a lame pea shooter that takes a high 
 number of bullets to drop an enemy tank. It's less of a shooter and more of a chore. Some players 
 might find it a fun diversion, but I really don't care for it. But that doesn't matter, since the 
 actual turn-based part of the game is just so damn good.
  
  Graphics, Sound, Miscellaneous:
  
  The graphics in the game are good, with a nice mix of artwork, 
 good character designs, and cool looking Black Hole buildings/weapons. I would like to be able 
 to turn off the isometric map perspective, as it's very hard to see the back of the map in some 
 instances. I admit to being spoiled by playing AW and AW2 on a GBA emulator. One other problem 
 I have is that you can't turn off the CO power and CO switching animations.. these tend to drag 
 on after you've seen them a million times, especially considering that the CPU switches COs at 
 the end of each of its turns just for fun.
  
  The music is better than before, with some nice war themed music and fun character themes. While 
 I still keep the music and animations off, the tunes in the game are very well done. My favorite 
 would have to be Candle's theme.
  
  The AI is smarter than before, which is a welcome addition. While it still falls easily for bait 
 and doesn't take into account your CO powers, it uses more complex strategies when composing its 
 unit formations. It still suffers from having to be able to adapt to any situation or map, and 
 is thus quite predictable and easy to learn and fool. That's ok, though, as the maps are very well 
 designed and force the player to use their noggin if they want a high score.
  
  One of my sore points with the original AW and AW2 was the lack of multiple saves. Thankfully AW 
 DS adds in 3 save slots for Campaign alone, with additional save slots for War Room, Survival, 
 Combat, and three map editor saves.
  
  The map editor is largely unchanged, and still doesn't have enemy AI scripting features, which 
 really cripples the kinds of vs CPU maps you can create.
  
  There's a new Stat Tracking mode that counts a number of different statistics about your game playing 
 accomplishments. This ranges from number of allied units created/enemy units destroyed and times 
 campaign has been completed, to number of missile silos launched and number of units sent DS style 
 to the top of the screen. With 300 medals to pick up and an overall 'ranking' based on how many 
 medals you have, this could be an incredibly in depth game for those who wish to complete it fully.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  AW DS is a new classic S-RPG that kicks just about everything else in the genre to the curb. I 
 commend the IS team for doing an incredible job on AW DS  they have truly one-upped themselves 
 in almost all areas of the Advance Wars world. The game is just kick ass overall, polished to a 
 shine, with an enormous amount of depth and challenge. The game unfortunately takes a wobbly turn 
 in terms of score/level standardization, but this will only bother players like myself who want 
 to compare (ok, brag about) high scores. The low difficulty of the Hard Campaign really takes the 
 game down a few notches for me, but then again most players will likely be relieved rather than 
 disappointed. As much as I hate to say it, any player hardcore enough to want a good challenge 
 out of a Wars game is likely a fan enough to buy and play the game anyway.
  
  I am hoping that the IS team takes the fantastic innovations to the Wars series and makes a DS 
 sequel with a higher level of challenge and gameplay balance between CO selection and force ranks. 
 There's a lot of new challenges to be derived from the new gameplay elements, it's just up to IS 
 to design the maps to put them to use.
  
  Score  9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  i love tactical stratagies. but then again who doesnt? well if this was your first and you didnt 
 well.... i can see why To be honest i really can....
  
  
  i think i will start of with the good then go into more deph review
  
  + 300 medals is alot 
 and will keep you busy,
  + animation will make you smile and is top notce
  + designing your own map is alway fun
  + troops are full of charater and you feel sad if they 
 die
  
  okay and the bad...
  
  - they go on for hours, i know how to battle and i dont care about weaknesses!
  - a little to 
 much story (which i didnt understand) and not enough straight into battles though luckaly it is 
 skippable
  - it is sometimes pretty stressfull
  - the AI takes so long to do anything and you cant skip it
  
  
  okay i think the story is 
 somewhere along the lines of army attack you defend, do missions, destroy and all of that, but 
 thats the problam! they just keep going on "rachel, there attacking!" and "ill handle this, do 
 you thinks thats wise?". there is so much crap throw into the script it just makes you extremly 
 annoyed you want to snap the stylus, but deep down is an alight war game.
  
  the game is pretty stressfull in the fact that the AI can be slow, but just moving a few feet but 
 with more coming you have to wait and wait, tapping the screen to try and skip it then pressing 
 start.
  
  there are loads of modes which is good, but i like more battles less story and crap-filled cutscenes! 
 granted its the only tactical game on the ds in the UK but then again... the US have luminous ark 
 and Japan have the glorious final fantasy tactics advance 2 curse of the sealgrimsone. the GBA 
 FFTA is very and cheap and is amazing, i recommend that instead.
  
  - mureth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  I bought the DS directly before a long trip and the real reason I selected the Nintendo over the 
 PSP was the price; after playing throughout the Mario and Metroid games I purchased, I was scared 
 I had made the wrong decision.
  
  I am not a big fan of Nintendo's bread and butter games; Cutesy/Cartooney stuff with horrible dialogue 
 and immature gameplay. While AW: DS is cartooney with horrid dialogue, it also provides some really 
 solid turn-based gaming that fits in your pocket.
  
  I have yet to really master the use of the stylus concurrently with the d-pad and buttons (I think 
 the interface is clumsy) , but this games control scheme is easy to utilize and since this is turn 
 based, there is no rush for those of us with adult hands to try to hit the correct button at the 
 correct time.
  
  I wouldn't waste my time trying to follow the plotline, but the cut scenes do give you solid information 
 on upcoming vehicles and units, so its worth suffering through them.
  
  As an adult (and a military officer) I find this game a great diversion to take along with you on 
 a flight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars is a must buy. Just like a game of chess you must think of your future moves before 
 you do anything because a good move now can be a horrible move later. So it constantly keeps you 
 thinking of what you are going to do next to obtain victory. The difficulty can be right at one 
 point but way too hard at another so that's one thing you should remember. The touch controls can 
 be a little frustrating but it won't get in your way much because it works just as well as the 
 buttons. A few setbacks but other than that this is a very great game to buy for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebard1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The problem with this game is the ridiculous and boring 'story' told througha dialogue between 
 characters that are flat and stereotypical, that cannot be skipped or fast forwarded. This makes 
 playing campaign mode a test of endurance, you cannot even go and do something else which this 
 stupidity plays out, because the ds requires you to tap the screen after each characters dialogue 
 in order for the next equally boring and pointless character to say their line.
  
  This issue ruins the experience and flow of the game, which is otherwise delightful. What a pity 
 it cannot be turned off. Major design flaw.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 10
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 9
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 9.4
  FINAL SCORE: 9.5
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - includes 
 lots of CO's to choose from
  - features a plethora of game modes
  - has a very catchy, memorable soundtrack
  
  The Bad:
  - NOTHING
  
  ----------------------------------------
 
  
  First off, I have to let you all know this is my first AW game. As a result, some of my praise 
 and criticisms may seem a little "newbish".
  
  So with that said, let's get to business here, shall we?
  The gameplay of AWDS is great. It's 
 simple enough that after a couple of hours you'll be good to go. The controls are exactly what 
 they should be for a game like this. The best part about the game is the sheer number of things 
 in it. There's SO much to do. There are many modes, many maps, many CO's, many types of units. 
 Personally, I don't think I'll ever be able to say that I've done everything there is to do in 
 this game.
  
  Dual Strike's graphics are, in my opinion, its weakest element. They are very similar to the graphics 
 of the GBA titles in the series. As a DS game, I would have liked to see an upgrade. But, since 
 they by no means look bad and still work for the series, I still gave an 8 in this department.
 
  
  The sound in this game is OUTSTANDING. Not since Mega Man ZX have I encountered such an extremely 
 catchy soundtrack. There are just so many great tracks here. I actually have several of them stuck 
 in my head! [On a side note, I love that every character has their own theme that plays when it's 
 their turn. That's awesome.] The music is just great because it gets the point across that you're 
 playing a strategic war game, while at the same time, it's upbeat and cherry enough that you get 
 that it's a bit cartoony and all in the name of fun. 
  
  And that's why this game is so awesome. It's got such character. It's got that fun, cartoony personality 
 and yet it's a war game, complete with tanks and bombers and battleships. With so much to do, you 
 could play this game forever, so long as you always try something new and/or you have friends to 
 fight against. So, as far as the game's overall value is concerned, you need not be concerned. 
 This game's got replayability and then some.
  
  To close, I'd just like to say that as someone who has only experienced the wacky war-stricken 
 world of Advance Wars for about ten hours, I can't believe I didn't pick up this game sooner. This 
 is by far one of the best games on the DS. It's just a shame it's no longer in print. 
  (To those reading this that don't yet own a copy, do not be afraid to dish out $30-40 for a copy. 
 That's the standard these days, and it's totally worth it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh... Advance Wars. So much time has been spent playing this game. It's like The Elder Scrolls 
 4: Oblivion for the DS. Now that is saying something. Because you will spend almost over 150 hours+ 
 playing this game. Well, that is if you are into turn-based strategy games. And even if you are 
 not, it's easy to pick up and learn right off the bat! If you have already played the previous 
 Advance Wars games, then you know how dangerously addictive this game can get. Right? So get out 
 there and buy this game now. If this will be your first DS game, then good choice. It will last 
 you a very long time my friend. a VERY long time indeed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amarant15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Now this is one game i'll never get tired of. it's just GreaT, tons of CO's to select, lots of 
 units, possibility to personalise your CO's clothes and skills.... First time i tried it i didn't 
 quite get it, it seemed impossible to learn how to play it... But after a few hours i realised 
 that it was as simple as it could be! It didn't take long before i got good at it, but it was still 
 challenging. The CO's default skills are well balanced as well as the CO powers and no one is unbeatable... 
 The Tag Powers probably are as good as they're bad, because it will help you big time in a tight 
 situation, or ruin all your plans in no time... There is a big variation in the scenarios, everything 
 from grass fields, desert, snow, mountains, wasteland or sea. The weather also plays an important 
 role, for example: rain. This is probably the thing i hate most.... it causes fog of war and -1 
 in visibility... of course when you've played a bit you can choose the eagle eye skill which will 
 give you +2 visibility. Long story short: This game is the best turn based strategy game i've ever 
 played, so if you haven't played it.... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!!?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dauragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  If only this game had Wi-Fi, and I didn't have to find friends who actually owned this gem of a 
 game. The game-play is superb, they took what they know worked and just continued with that onto 
 a better and much more popular system. If you can't get past playing with little kids in a war 
 like situation then wait for the next one. But if you need a fix of a DS Turn Based Strategy and 
 a little bit of RTS (the Combat Option) then pick this up... if you can find it. It goes for about 
 70 on ebay... good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This is my number one game for the nintendo ds for many good reasons. If you have ever played any 
 of the advance wars games, this latest edition will blow your socks off. With the addition of two 
 CO's on the field at one time, and the abiltiy to use tag team powers, a new feature that lets 
 you unleash two turns before the enemy can react. For example, me and my friend were playing a 
 fog of war game. My friend massed rocket launchers and infantry. He was at the verge of completly 
 surrounding my base. I then used my Tag power, and with it i destroyed his artillery and infantry 
 with my tanks, and BOOM! 15 minutes later i won. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokebudz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Advanced wars dual strike is imo still one of the if not best DS game on the market to date (10-1-07) . 
 The reason its so good is probably the fact that its turn based which fits portable gaming very 
 well as theres no rush with the exception of a few timed maps. The game hits almost everything 
 perfectly except the gfx could've been maybe a tad better but thats just nit picking and at heart 
 its so good the gfx is overlookable. With all the battle maps to buy and CO's to choose from this 
 game can easily keep you busy 100-200+ hrs and still finding something else to come back and play. 
 The difficulty is so highly adjustable even when you master the game theres plenty to do and keep 
 you entertained. Some of the best replay value out of any game I've ever owned. If you own a ds 
 and don't have this game go buy it borrow it rent it steal it whatever just play it, it's that 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overwhelminglyD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  If you're anything like me, we only survive school, work, car trips, etc. because of our trusty 
 little handhelds, and this game has tested the boredom of high school and shaken it to its core. 
 What I'm trying to say is this: this game is in my opinion the best game the DS has to offer at 
 this point in time. I've been playing this game for over two years and it's only gotten better 
 with time. Before this game I never gave turn-based strategy a chance, but this game changed everything, 
 leading me on to experience other great games of the genre. Advanced Wars: Dual Strike is one of 
 the most strategic games I have ever played; providing all sorts of various elements to the game 
 that makes it a strategic masterpiece. It envelops ground, air, and sea, each with a wide variation 
 of units. The use of COs (each with different benefits and powers/super powers) adds even more 
 strategy to the game. On top of this, weather and the occasional fog of war can drastically change 
 the battle. On some stages, there is sometimes an entire second fighting plain on the top screen. 
 Outside of game play, I believe the game could of used a touch up... Although I love the art in 
 the game, the soundtrack could be a bit better. Plus, the storyline on campaign mode is okay, but 
 nothing special. But Overall, Advanced Wars: Dual Strike is an amazing game (it's my favorite title 
 for the DS) ! Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  The Good: Endless multiplayer, map editor, range of units, easy to theme armies, proper strategy 
 elements, tag powers, etc.
  
  The Bad: NOTHING!!!!
  
  Full Review: It's a VERY long time since I've came across a game as good as Advance Wars, and I've 
 been playing for 7-8 years! The multiplayer mode is great, with almost endless customisation making 
 it easy to find the battle you want to play, when you want to play it. The Map Editor allows you 
 to customise even more by giving you the power to place armies on the battlefield already! The 
 range of units is enormous, making it so easy to theme your army. If you want a mechanised force, 
 you can have one! same for a naval force, scout force, fast force, anti-vehicle force, the list 
 goes on (I prefer mechanised forces with loads of Megatanks, but have recently been drawn to the 
 better manouverability of the Neotanks) ! The strategy elements such as fuel don't swamp the game 
 like other strategy games, making that suicidal charge or desperate defence perfectly possible! 
 The Tag Powers are also amazing! And don't forget Story Mode! It tests a seasoned gamer to his/her 
 limits while being fun! So this is one of the best games EVER!!!! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I love strategy games that are simple and easy to handle. So when I saw that this title was on 
 the DS (I had played the previous versions on the GBA) , I went shopped around online until I was 
 able to find it.
  
  The story is simple and has to do with the black hole Army draining Omega Land for some nefarious 
 plan. The original nations have allied together to create, well the Allied Nations. You then go 
 about defeating black hole Army and eventually winning the war. I say eventually because its not 
 that difficult for anyone that has some experience playing the previous game since the game design 
 has stayed pretty true to the past titles. But, once you have defeated the normal campaign you 
 unlock the hard campaign, which is much more rewarding.
  
  Dual Strike has a lot of different extras besides the campaign levels. There is War Room, Versus, 
 Survival and Combat. If you flip to the Systems Menu screen you have Battle maps, History, Wireless, 
 Sound Room, Gallery and Design Room.
  
  Ill now give you a brief description of each option.
  
  Campaign: Where the campaign levels 
 are accessed.
  
  War Room: You can battle on pre-designed maps using different characters that can be purchased 
 from the Battle Maps and your selection of maps is limited by what you have purchased in the Battle 
 Maps section too. You can also adjust how you play the maps by playing one CO with no skills, one 
 CO with skills, tag with skills or tag with no skills.
  
  Versus: You purchase maps for this area too from Battle Maps. Your COs dont gain experience from 
 battling in this section but you have more control over the variables in this area. You can choose 
 skills, for the other COs you battle, turn on weather effects, control the amount of money each 
 property gives, set the variable for how you win the battle and also set the AI intelligence.
 
  
  Survival gives you three areas to complete and each one has a hard level you can unlock after completing 
 the normal one. There is Turns, Time, and Money. Basically, you select two COs to go thru the 
 different levels and attempt to beat all eleven levels with the given amount of resource (Eg: time, 
 turns or money.) Once that is done you can purchase the hard level for the survival mode you beat 
 which usually gives you an increase in the survival variable with the goal being to complete as 
 many levels as possible (it just loops back once youve finished the eleven maps and starts from 
 the beginning again) .
  
  Combat is arcade style game where you have one unit and you fight by steering your unit around 
 and try to defeat all your enemies or capture their HQ. If you need points to purchase maps and 
 upgrades, this is the easiest way to go. You can also purchase different COs to use for combat 
 from the battle maps section and also different difficulty levels.
  
  Battle Maps: This is where you go to purchase maps, COs and upgrades with the points you gain 
 from winning battles in campaign, War Room, Survival and Combat.
  
  History: This shows you your history in Dual Strike. You have 300 medals that you can unlock by 
 playing the games available. Everything from the number of times you defeated campaigns, how many 
 crystals youve destroyed, how many units youve built, the number of co powers you have used, 
 etc, etc The list is quite large and will require some serious time to earn them all. As of this 
 writing I have unlocked 274 and have acquired 377 hours of playtime. Luckily, the rewards dont 
 have any real effect on the game accept I think you can unlock extra wallpapers if you collect 
 all of them.
  
  Wireless: You can use to setup matches with other DS hand helds.
  
  Sound Room: You can purchase this to listen to the soundtracks in the game.
  
  Gallery: You 
 can purchase this too to view the different cut scenes in the game.
  
  Design Room: You have three options in the design room. CO, Map and Display. CO allows you to change 
 the colors for your COs in the game. You can either purchase this ability for each CO you have 
 unlocked or you can reach level 10 with that CO and get the option for free, (I basically purchased 
 this for every character except one who unlocked and then realized this feature was there) .
  Map allows you to edit and create your own maps. You have 3 different save spots that you can save 
 your maps to that you create.
  Display allows you to choose your wallpaper for Dual Strike. When you beat the normal or hard campaign, 
 the game takes the three COs that you have used the most and makes their wallpaper available in 
 the display option.
  
  So those are the different areas of Dual Strike.
  
  The game design is rather nifty now. You can do what are called Tag battles, where you and another 
 CO fight together against the enemy. You can swap between the COs at the end of your turn which 
 allows for you to use the strength of one Co one turn and the other CO the next. If both your COs 
 fill there power meters, you can then do what is called a TAG power. Basically one CO completes 
 his turn and then the other CO completes a turn right after, basically giving you two turns in 
 one (or three if you use Eagle first and then hit the TAG power.)
  
  The graphics Well, they are the same as on the GBA version with some added fine-tuning to the 
 images. It would have been nice to see more animation or something but it wasnt that much of a 
 deterrent to keep me from enjoying the feel and design
  
  For me this is the one great reason that I purchased a DS and has obviously given me hours of enjoyment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series was a direct sequel to the Japanese smash hit that never hit English speaking 
 shores. Famicom Wars started it off, while Advance Wars for the GBA (and Advance Wars 2) proved 
 that it would sell abroad. With this in mind, Intelligent Systems decided to twist the game for 
 the new handheld.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike starts where Advance Wars 2 left off. Black Hole, the organization who 
 seeks to rule the world had been defeated by an alliance of Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green Earth 
 and Yellow Comet nations. Together, they formed an official coalition, and formed peace as a result. 
 Then news from the Omega region of a resurfacing of Black Hole prompts those nations to rise again 
 against an old adversary.
  
  With its new land comes a bunch of new CO's. They vary from the incredibly cool, to the highly 
 annoying. Jake, the CO you will play as for quite a bit of the game has some nice abilities. Its 
 a shame he's the icon of gaming nerd/gangsta combination, telling people they just got served. 
 This is highly annoying and is likely to make people want to play as the other COs. There are returning 
 faces, such as Orange Star's Max (Direct combat is good, Indirect is just bad!) . One thing is apparent 
 straight away, and that is the visuals haven't changed. That is because as a whole, the gameplay, 
 sound and indeed visuals are exactly the same as the originals for the GBA. That isn't necessarily 
 a bad thing, since the game does improve on its own terrain. The campaign mode isn't difficult 
 at first, but later on the difficulty is sky high. There are secret missions which are explained 
 occasionally through hints at the beginning exchanges between COs. There are all the units from 
 the previous two games, Infantry, Tanks, Planes and Ships. There are a bunch of special units too, 
 which are all unusual and fascinating to see in action. An early example of this is the Black Bomb, 
 which acts like a Kamikaze Plane in that it destroys itself in order to seriously damage the enemy.
 
  
  New to this version is the use of the top screen. You can use it to keep an eye on statistics for 
 each mission, special conditions (such as a Missile about to make impact) , or even the other battle 
 . Thats right, there are missions where you take on two CO's at once, at the same time, on different 
 battlefields! These make for more frantic battles, and new ways of thinking about warfare.
  
  The controls for the game are exactly the same as the GBA original, and totally different. 
 That last sentence might not make too much sense, but you can choose between buttons or touch screen. 
 Incidentally, the touch screen is a nice addition, but there are two problems with it. First, everything 
 is small, so it is hard to distinguish between what you have pressed and what you wanted to press. 
 Secondly is that the screen can sometimes be too sensitive, so accidents do happen. This in turn 
 affects gameplay, but you can switch to buttons, which are far more reliable here.
  
  Apart from the campaign, there are skirmishes, missions, and different styles of play, such as 
 Dual Screen battles. Multiplayer uses the wireless functions of the DS and even includes a Download 
 play feature in the form of a Real Time Battle mode, which is also included on the cart for single 
 and multi play. The modes work the same as the single player modes, so it is quite easy to go straight 
 into battle.
  
  With the games shortcomings, comes a long adventure that will make you think about strategy and 
 be quite fun along the way. Its easy to see that the game's charm comes from its unique style of 
 play, nice visuals and its innovations to change the tides of battle. If you liked the previous 
 ones, this is a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoePro9950
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Where to start? I had only played the second game in the series when I got this game, and my expectations 
 were low. The Advance Wars series itself is hard to make new versions of because of it's great 
 fundementals, and I was afraid that the new one would change too much, but Nintendo hit the nail 
 on the head. At the start of the levels, only a few graphical changes (that in retrospect were 
 worse than in previeous games) and 2 new COs made it different from Advance Wars 2: Black Hole 
 Rising. But then I got to the later levels, and was almost overwhelmed by a new cast of charectors, 
 the Dual Strike feature, and a whole lot of new units. These units include 2 naval units (Aircraft 
 Carriers and Black Boats) , 2 new air units (Stealth Fighters and Black Blombs) , and 2 new land 
 units (Piperunners and Mega Tanks) . With new units comes new stratagies and video gaming at its 
 very best. This game is a must-have for fans of the series, but It may be difficult for someone 
 who has never played Advance Wars before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrndlze
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Few games that were launched along side the DS were as great and fun as this one was. I can easily 
 see anyone playing hours and hours on this game. The missions are fun and never frustrating. The 
 idea of a duel strike works great on the DS and it adds a new level of strategy. This game is a 
 must buy if anyone is a fan of the series. This game is also great for those who never heard of 
 it before. Overall, this game is a great find and you will have fun guaranteed! This game is the 
 best in the series so far and it will easily stand the test of time and be one of the best DS games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is perhaps one of the greatest ds games out their! In this game, you are confronted by 
 a bunch of people whom you wish you had the same weaponary they have. As you increase in levels 
 and unlock new maps, you unlock new characters as well, many of which you will be using alot. From 
 air fights, down to the depths of submarines, its blast or get blasted war. You also earn new ships, 
 tanks and planes to help blast your opponents. You are also allowed to create your own maps in 
 multiplayer, fight and trade them... The strategy in this game can be easy, normal, or complex 
 based on how hard the enemy is, what youre going up against, the terrain, which characters you 
 picked, etc... so choose wisely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimusStream
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  This is yet again, another great Advance Wars game that was ever made and this time it is on for 
 the DS. As usual, the storyline, gameplay, graphics, sound, etc were still great than the Advance 
 Wars 1 and 2. It's too bad that some of the COs from that last game did not appear in this game 
 campaign mode. I liked the new COs especially Jake, Rachel, and Javier. The new Black Hole army 
 COs are great like Koal, Jugger, Kindle, Von Bolt, and including Hawke and Lash who later on became 
 good guys in that game. It is too bad that this was the last Advance Wars game that was made, but 
 Battalion Wars is even greater than that. Anyways, this game, including Advance Wars 1 and 2, would 
 be the best turned-based strategy game that is out there to play and it would be an unforgettable 
 Advance Wars series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is one of my favorite games on the DS. It has a far bit of challenge to 
 the game, something that many DS games seem to lack. It has great gameplay, music, and tons of 
 replay value. AWDS is easily one of the best strategy games on DS.
  
  Like its predecessors, AWDS has you in charge of an army to defend you territory from the invading 
 black army. Basically you are defending the area of Omega Land, real original. :roll: The main 
 campaign is broke into about 28 different missions. Most of the mission you must either: destroy 
 all opposing forces, or capture their HQ to win. Some missions have different things to do, and 
 you can unlock some optional missions if you want. Each mission is different then the last, some 
 are on land, in the air, on the sea, and sometimes you have two fronts to worry about. It all adds 
 up to a single player experience that has a lot of twists and never seems to get old.
  
  At the beginning of each mission you must choose you COs. Each army can have two COs, but sometimes 
 you will be commanding multiple armies and will have three or four cos. Each CO has their own unique 
 abilities that will help you battle. Choosing the right CO for the situation is a matter of win 
 or lost. And as you progress through the game your COs will gain levels and you can upgrade their 
 abilities. Knowing the abilities of all the COs and evaluating the terrain to find the right CO 
 is very important. But this by no means is a bad thing, this adds a huge layer of strategy to the 
 game; and will engross you into the game to find the perfect CO for the mission.
  
  Once you choose your COs you can start to battle. AWDS uses a turn based battling system. AWDS 
 doesnt reinvent strategy games; it has the usual move your people, attack, buy new units, etc. 
 But the game doesnt need to reinvent strategy games; the game already plays great and why fix 
 something that isnt broken? AWDS has a ton of things going on at once, to be effective in battle 
 you must know each unit inside and out. You must know each units movement, attack power, fuel consumption, 
 vision, etc. Half the fun of the game is getting to learn each units strengths and weaknesses. 
 Because of this the game has a fairly big learning curve, but the game eases you into the main 
 campaign so you never feel at a lost. The main fun of the game is when your plan works out. Beating 
 that Megatank feels awesome, or capturing the HQ while you blockade the opposing forces so you 
 can get it; its just a really satisfying game, especially on some of the harder missions. Trust 
 me some levels will take you multiple tries to beat, and thats in normal mode. After you beat 
 the campaign you can play a hard mode! :o The gameplay might not sound all that thrilling on paper, 
 but in-game it is very addicting.
  
  Now that youve beat the main campaign youd think you played most of the game right? Wrong! :P 
 The main campaign isnt even half of the game. Besides the main campaign you have the war room, 
 which has literally hundreds of new maps you can play. And you can also do the survival campaigns, 
 and the combat mode. And for those who must collect everything in the game, good luck! There are 
 300 medals you can earn in the game. And for even more value they added in a map editor so you 
 can make your own maps. AWDS just has tremendous replay value, it never gets old.
  
  The graphics in AWDS are a little on the weak side. Theres nothing particularly bad about them, 
 but not really anything great about them. They are okay to look at, but they could have been so 
 much better. There are also animations when units attack, which frankly gets old after a while. 
 So luckily you can turn off the animations, which is what I choose to do. So basically the graphics 
 are okay, theyre not going to break the game for you.
  
  Surprisingly, I liked the music and sound affects in AWDS. The sound affects dont really go for 
 a realistic feel to them. But they get the job done while keeping up with the upbeat, colorful 
 game. And the music in the game is pretty good. Each CO has their own theme, each grapping the 
 character of the CO. Each song has an upbeat style to it that goes great with the colorful terrain.
 
  
  Overall AWDS is a great and long strategy game for the DS. There is just so much to do and learn 
 in the game you could easily surpass 100 hours of play, something few handled games can say. If 
 you like strategy games or just want a long, challenging game on the DS, AWDS is perfect for you. 
 And look out for AWDS 2 coming out later this year. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapefruit21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars is the best TBS on the DS and one of the best ever. The biggest problem it has is 
 on easy the AI is stupid.
  
  Gameplay- Easy to control and great depth give it amazing gameplay. The only thing wrong with its 
 gameplay is the grid is hard to control with the stylus, but the D-pad works fine.
  
  Graphics- The game gas good style and the slight differences between the factions are a great touch. 
 Though the quality could be a bit better.
  
  Sound- I play all my portable games on silent so I am giving the same rating as Gamespot.
  
 
  Value- There is a plethora of modes to choose from and Wi-Fi play that I haven't touched yet so 
 there is plenty to keep you coming back to the game.
  
  Tilt- Most fun I've has with a TBS since the first US fire emblem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garfield360UK
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  A good game, I have just got into after owning for a while. It is good to play as the touch screen 
 or dpad can be used and makes this good to use. The units are good to see and seem fair on damage 
 they give. However you have to persevere through the first couple of missions and the text which 
 you cant avoid when loading. However these are just minor faults. I like the game and if you like 
 real time strategy games give this turn based strategy game a try, you should be able to find it 
 for cheap now. Next time this could use more visual improvements (more effects, not making this 
 3D as I think the way the game is now works) and Wifi online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadMaxim81
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is one of those games that fans of the series know what to expect, but 
 then the developer throws in some new mechanics, some more units, more commanding officers (COs) 
 and suddenly you got an entirely new game.
  
  The game revolves around an army known as the Black Hole army that's doing something to the planet 
 and the world's different nations come together to stop Black Hole's evil schemes. I will not go 
 any further into the story as that would be spoiling a lot of the fun of the singleplayer portion 
 of the game. You control an army of infantry (light and heavy) , vehicles (recon, tanks, APCs, artillery 
 and more) , aircraft (helicopters, fighter jets, bombers and more) and seafaring vessels (cruisers, 
 submarines and more) to bring Black Hole down. The whole thing is presented through graphics that 
 remind one of a Japanese anime.
  
  The graphics are great without getting in the way. A lot has seemingly been recycled from the Gameboy 
 Advance versions of the game, but they still look bright and shiny on the DS and hold up nicely. 
 The art style is very much like that of a Japanese anime and gives the entire game an incredible 
 amount of energy and drive, even though it's all turn-based.
  
  The sound effects are also pretty much recycled from the previous games, but like the graphics 
 they get the job done nicely. The music that fans of the series have come to love have been run 
 through the synthesizer one more time and sound even better this time around. Every CO has his/her 
 own theme and they all fit the different characters nicely.
  
  However, it's in the gameplay department that Advance Wars: Dual Strike truly shines. The game 
 is incredibly deep and very addicting and will keep you coming back for more all the time. When 
 you're done with the campaign you can go buy more maps in the game's store that makes the game 
 last even longer and every last map is a challenge in its own right. What also makes you want to 
 play through the maps over and over again is the fact that you COs gain experience and access to 
 different abilities like making your units cause more damage or able to resist damage better. These 
 powers also work during the campaign which often makes it worthwhile to beat some of the non-campaign 
 maps just to level up your COs up, because this game is hard and especially close to the end, it 
 gets very hard, but it never becomes impossible to complete a mission.
  
  Unfortunately, I haven't tried out the game's multiplayer part, but I can only imagine that it's 
 just as much fun as the singleplayer part with the added fun of being able to beat one of your 
 friends.
  
  All in all, Advance Wars: Dual Strike pulls out all stops to deliver an incredible experience to 
 fans of turn-based strategy games. Beginners can also start here because experience with any of 
 the previous entries in the series isn't required. The game also has a nice tutorial that will 
 help newcomers learn the game with little difficulty. It's incredibly deep but still highly accessible 
 to those who haven't tried turn-based strategy games before.
  
  Said in another way, if you're a fan of turn-based strategy games and own a DS, you simply have 
 to go get this game. Newcomers can also start here without much difficulty, but I would still recommend 
 them getting both of the previous games for the Gameboy Advance, because they're great as well. 
 It's awesome and incredibly addicting. What are you waiting for, go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  even if your not into strategy games this game will get you ino them. characters and story lines 
 are just amazing. amazing use of the touch screen and use of the dual screens. old characters such 
 as sam and andy reappear and new characters too. the map editor and last boss battle really make 
 the game great. easily one of the best games for the ds. altough tanks seem too be getting more 
 and more industable. if you like war games or just games in general you will like this game. well 
 i don't know how much this game is know but it's worth 40 dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Story/Concept (The quality of the game's story and what new things does it bring to the table) : 
 There is a story in Advance Wars Dual Strike, but it is not all that important unless you feel 
 like doing lots and lots of reading. The lack of a story is ok though because the game is still 
 full of intense action sequences. Just like the GBA versions of the game this game kind of leads 
 you on, adding new features as the single player mission goes on. The biggest of these new additions 
 to the game is of course the use of the top and the bottom screens. Sometimes you will not even 
 use the top screen and another CO will do it for you. The game does use both screens but you don't 
 have to use the stylus, which is a good thing as it is not the most responsive. 9/10 Graphics (How 
 does the game look compared to other games of its time) : The graphics in this game do not look 
 like much of an update from the GBA game, there are still colorful sprites used for the tanks and 
 the soldiers and everything of those sorts. The game does however feature some pretty neat looking 
 effects like the explosions and things like that. The game does look good though, nice and colorful 
 and that's all that I need. 8/10 Sound (What is the music like in this game) : First off let me 
 say that this game features no voiceover work at all. The music is the same old catchy music that 
 you would come to expect from a Nintendo game. The sound effects are ok, and even though they are 
 not the greatest in the world, they are not fuzzy at all unlike some other games on the console. 
 8/10 Lasting Appeal (Will you play this game more after you beat it?) : Yes, this game has lots 
 and lots of lasting appeal, not only will you want to beat the single player mode there are lots 
 of other modes that will keep you playing this game. There are lots and lots of maps to choose 
 from to play random games against the computer. There is also a newer mode where instead of being 
 turned based it's more of an action game. The multiplayer is a lot of fun as well. The fact that 
 you can play a multiplayer game on just one Nintendo DS also adds the lasting appeal of the game, 
 so you don't need friends that have a DS to be able to play this game with them. 10/10 Quality 
 (Does this game feel rushed?) Advance Wars Dual Strike is in my opinion one of the highest quality 
 DS game next to the two Super Mario games. This is definitely a game that you should play if you 
 own a Nintendo DS, and if you are looking for a reason to pick one up then this along with Mario 
 Karts should be reason enough. 10/10 Story: 9/10 Graphics: 8/10 Sound: 8/10 Lasting Appeal: 10/10 
 Quality: 10/10 Overall: 9/10 Purchase Agreement: Definite purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianp_91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say? This maybe the best DS game ever to come around. This game has everything. 
 So many modes to play with lots and lots of replayability. I can't stop playing it. The advantages: 
 replay ability, so much gameplay modes, versus mode, unlockables, and much more. The only bad things 
 about this game are that there wasnt any online and that the graphics seems to be on the low side. 
 It would be great if this game could be made again and with online and updated graphics. THIS GAME 
 IS A MUST OWN FOR EVERY DS OWNER... no buts about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaKierad
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Kierad Loves : The deep and involving strategic gameplay, great balance in gameplay, Great campaign 
 with a great story and great characters, Great use of Both screens, Plenty of different gameplay 
 modes, Smart A. I, WI-FI Muiplayer options are great, Great Level editor.
  Kierad Hates : Touch scren controls are not implemented as well as you would think, no Single cartridge 
 multiplayer, Graphics and sound have not improved since GBA.
  
  Advance Wars finally makes its wayto Ninty's dual screen handheld in the form of the cleverly named 
 Dual Strike (DS) . The latest entry in the addictive handheld strategy series may not necessarly 
 be a big improvement as far as graphics re concerned, but the latest is the best in the series.
 
  
  Dual Strike's campaign stars two new leading characters. The male is Jake who can be quite hard 
 to like due him speaking like some rapper or some gang. The female lead Rachel however, is a lot 
 easier to like due her calm nature and the fact that she is very easy to use as a CO. You must 
 help the commanding officers of the Allied Nations in their attempt to thwart the wicked schemes 
 of the Black Hole Army, which has mysteriously recovered its military might and seems to be draining 
 the land of its very life.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as it has always been, flawless and tweaked to perfection. Battles 
 play out ina turn based strategy where you take turns moving about your miltary units about the 
 map and trade hits with enemies capture bases and basically try and decimate the enemy forces. 
 You will have lots of different units at your disposal from basic infantry to anti air vehicles 
 to megatanks, their is plenty to keep your strageties fresh and exciting. The DS makes advance 
 Wars easier to play as you have that extra screen to store enemy information and your own information 
 of units and the stats that could prove helpful. However stylus control is badly implemented as 
 the DS screen is basically to small to click on menu's and to move units. Its an interesting addition 
 but you will quickly go back to use buttons to control your army.
  
  Besides being memorable characters, the various COs of Advance Wars can have a significant impact 
 on how you play. For instance, Advance Wars fans will recall that the laid-back gunslinger, Grit, 
 is an expert with long-range combat units like rocket launchers and battleships. However, he's 
 relatively weak with direct-fire units like tanks. The new COs are equally as interesting. For 
 example, one of the new Black Hole COs, Candy, is a snobbish socialite whose units fight more fiercely 
 than ever when stationed in cities -- and her superpower lets her cripple enemies recovering in their 
 own cities. Each CO has two different superpowers that can be used every several turns, once the 
 CO has gathered enough energy.
  We are also introduced into tag battles which adds extra variety to strategy. This allows for you 
 to change between CO's to use different tactics to better effect. You can also combine your team 
 of CO's super powers to double team the opponent .
  
  Apart from the long campaign there are hundreds of things to do whether its Wi-Fi, map editor, 
 survival mode, the real time combat mini-game or the brilliant war Room in which you battle on 
 Maps that play to the advantage of the Computer A. I. Speaking of A. I, Advance wars A. I is very 
 challenging adn will give even the most hardcore AW fan a good fight all of the time. The only 
 downside to this game is that it has not visually improved at all since the last GBA outing, but 
 why does that matter when you have quite possiby oe of the most addictive handheld games in recent 
 memory? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwiksilva
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 4, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Definitely the best in the series so much to do in this game and accomplish. Everything that was 
 good or well done in the past series has just become even better reason why I first bought my DS. 
 It has the action and battles that will test your mind and make you develop a stategy. Great gameplay 
 and style. I have no complaints about this game at all I still go back and play the game even though 
 Ive beat it a couple times now. AS with most of my reviews I have some suggesions for the next 
 edition in the series. The only thing that I can ask for in this game is online play because everything 
 else was just fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SpikyBlueHero-
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Heres a question: How many franchises does Nintendo have? Possibly too many to count! Mostly due 
 to the popularity of Mario, Zelda, Metroid, and other famous installments in the Big Ns library, 
 the Advance Wars series remains one of their most underappreciated and unknown series to date. 
 Perhaps it was this ignorance that garnered a loyal following over the years.
  
  Ever since 1988, with the debut of Famicom Wars for the Nintendo Famicom (the equivalent of Americas 
 Nintendo Entertainment System) , the Wars have been raging on. Since it was a Japan-exclusive, very 
 few people in the States were able to experience it. It wasnt until 2001 when American gamers 
 received their opportunity, with the release of Advance Wars for the Game Boy Advance. It became 
 a landmark GBA title, and a smashing hit amongst strategy enthusiasts. Although the game is recognized 
 as one of the best GBA titles ever made, it was largely thrust into the shadows when more of the 
 popular franchises made their appearances on the handheld.
  
  When the DS hit store shelves a few years ago, strategy seemed like a perfect fit for it. What 
 could be more natural than point-and-touch command? Intelligent Systems responded with Advance 
 Wars: Dual Strike, the third entry in the Advance Wars line-up. Although it enjoyed success and 
 popularity, this fame was to be diminished by mega-hits such as, Nintendogs (released on the same 
 day as Dual Strike) and Mario Kart DS. If youve ever looked at a greatest DS game list, chances 
 are that Advance Wars: Dual Strike and Mario Kart DS are at the top. Which one is more popular? 
 Its quite evident.
  
  Enough of the history. Put your textbooks away, and lets focus on the package. Advance Wars: Dual 
 Strike is simply amazing. Every aspect of it is brilliant. A strategy game on a DS is a golden 
 opportunity, and Intelligent Systems took full advantage of that.
  
  Its gameplay is flawless. Choose from a vast array of tanks, aircraft, and vessels. Attack or defend. 
 You decide. Either way, your enemy isnt stupid. Rather, its almost like dueling against a decorated, 
 veterinary commander. The artificial intelligence is that smart!
  
  Besides strategizing in the multiple story modes, you can also participate in the War Room, where 
 countless battles await. Theres a multiplayer mode, where you can duke it out with your fellow 
 comrades. New to the series is a combat mode, which features real-time strategy action. Once you 
 earn enough points, head on down to Hachis battle maps store, where you can purchase various goods, 
 such as COs, alternative colors for them, and, of course, tons of battle maps. Many other modes 
 are available as well, making for incredible amounts of gameplay options and replayability.
  
  Every map is very detailed. Mountains, forests, rivers, citiesyou name it. Each location is 
 easily recognizable, thanks to Dual Strikes clean interface. The same goes for units. Regular 
 tanks are effortlessly distinguished from medium tanks, and every other unit has its own style 
 and shape. Its difficult to confuse them.
  
  Dual Strikes music is excellent. Every CO has their exclusive BGM, and most tracks, if not all 
 of them, are genius. From rock to classical, and from woodwinds to brass, youll never get weary 
 of them. Each musical piece fits each character perfectly. Also, the games sound effects are appropriate 
 for their specified purposes, which makes for a well-rounded audio experience.
  
  Possibly the greatest that Dual Strike has to offer is its story. As the saga unfolds, its impossible 
 to not become emotionally connected with it. As your troop moves from battlefield to battlefield, 
 the severity of the danger increases, and so does each characters personality. Without a doubt, 
 every player (even non-strategy fans) who witnesses this game will have a favorite commander that 
 theyll enjoy playing as.
  
  All in all, its the real deal. Addicting gameplay and perpetual replay value, along with many 
 other attributes, make Advance Wars: Dual Strike a must-have for DS owners. Intelligent Systems 
 was certainly intelligent when it decided to produce this magnificent treasure. As Commanding 
 Officer, Jake, would say, Get the plates, cause you just got served! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsnow7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  After I got Advance Wars 1, I had lots of fun with it. So I decided to see if there were any others 
 for a DS, and into my thoughts comes Dual Strike. There was one problem, though. No stores were 
 seeming to have Advance Wars: Dual Strike. I searched recklessly, until I turned to Amazon. com. 
 I got it there for $30.99 plus S&H. It turned out to be 100 times the fun for the short wait. Here 
 are the pros and cons.
  
  
  + New Tag System 
 adds twist to battles (Except when Rachel is with Koal)
  + New Combat Mode (No waiting for your friend to finish his turn)
  + Can still play 4P games 
 on one DS
  + Add-on skills (So you can make Colin's prices even cheaper)
  + Enough to keep you playing for a long time
  + Test your skill under limits in Survival (Can 
 you win 11 battles in 25 min.?)
  + Over 25 playable characters (And yes, they are very unique)
  + Over 20 different units 
 
  - Story could be better (Most of it was cool, though like before Muck Amok)
  - Huh? What? There are no other cons! (I mean it)
  
  So go already and save Omega Land! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay has been dramatically improved by using the DS' systems.. You know how its called 
 Advance Wars: Dual strike? well.. its also DS and the Nintendo DS is short for Nintendo Dual screen... and 
 this game uses the DS pretty well... except for the touch screen thing... thats best left to Wario 
 Ware and Cooking Mama.. Its been awhile since OS, BM, YC, and GE defeated Sturm in advance wars 2 in 
 Marco Land... now even with Sturm of out of the picture, all of a sudden Black Hole's formerly trashed 
 army, has regained strength, and is now stronger then ever! New COs and units are introduced in the 
 3rd installation of AW... as well as several other new features! The new COs in AW are Jake (my personal 
 favorite) , Rachael (a slightly weaker version of Nell but has a much different Super Power) , Grimm (a 
 weaker version of Kanbei) , and Sasha.. as well as several other new COs in Black Hole like in Advance 
 Wars 1... in Advance Wars 1 i think everyone was fighting each other, and there was only ONE Black 
 Hole CO (i think) , and that was Sturm. in advance wars 2 when you focus on the Black Hole Army, they 
 introduced new Black Hole COs like Flak and Lash.. Same in Advance Wars: Dual strike! Jugger (A slightly 
 different copy of Flak) Koal (A slightly stronger verson of Adder) and Kindle who is a pretty tricky 
 CO with both a powerful Power, and Super Power... Speaking of Super Powers.. They are still here in 
 Advance Wars, Dual strike and get ready to use a lot of different ones for the new COs! As i said 
 earlier, there are new units! The useful Black Boat (which is a cheaper version of a lander, but is 
 basically a Naval APC but can not only restore supplies, but also 1 HP to any unit that you tell 
 it to repair, ANY UNIT!!! ground, naval, and air.. it matters not.. but like an APC it can only transport 
 Infantry...) , the Megatank (Basically the grand daddy of all tanks, it can take down even a Neotank 
 in this game, its defense is also very high, but it has a movement range of only 5, has only 50 fuel, and 
 can only fire 3 shots of its Megacannon is its best left to destroy any ground unit that is bothering 
 you..) , the Piperunner (Which as its name implies, runs on a pipe, and can only be on the pipe, but 
 can also ride past neighboring bases! its basically a rocket unit on a pipe that has the short 
 range of an artillery meaning it can hit a unit within even 2 spaces, and has the range of a rocket 
 unit, and has slightly more defense then the rocket itself although it looks pretty sturdy) , and 
 them there is the Oozium... the Oozium is a very very unique unit that if used stragetically (especially 
 in fog of war) can be very powerful units, but in Campaign mode, you have to finish a certain mission 
 in the game, and you cannot use them in Campaign mode, and after you beat that certain mission, you 
 can purchase Oozium from the Battle Maps shop and predeploy them in your own maps... why are they 
 so good? Well, their movement range is only 1.. but they can cross any terrain (except the sea) ! and 
 it can move over any unit.. and the unit that it runs over, is killed in one hit! even an Air unit!! 
 even if its cloaked! well i will finish this review later, cuz im busy... Later! EDIT: Well im back! 
 Where was i? oh yes the review... Then, The Black Bomb.... like the Oozium, this unit must be used 
 stratgetically.. although they have the movement range of a fighter, and if used every unit (including 
 your own) within 3 spaces will take 5 damage.. they have low fuel.. they use 5 units of fuel each 
 day so if you are sending them far away, they use a total of 14 Fuel!!!! (if using Eagle about 10 
 fuel) They only have a total of 45 fuel... they can be powerful, but they are expensive and can be 
 destroyed easily.. then last but not least, the carrier.. as its name implies, its a naval unit that 
 can carry i think 1 air unit, and restores hp, ammo, and fuel to the unit.. it has defenses of its 
 own, but it can only attack air units... the advantage is that these rockets can be as strong as 
 missile units on ground, and have a really really large attack range! and now.. from advance wars 
 2, you used to have to destroy factories in order to win a last mission for a certain country, but 
 now... most of the time, you must destroy a Black Crystal, and sometimes a flying fortress called 
 the Black Arc, that must be destroyed.. although the black crystal is easier to destroy, it can heal 
 2 units of hp within 2 spaces, and replenish basically everything, fuel, ammo, you name it! Well that 
 ends my explaination... sorry for long gameplay review.. Gameplay is the heart of every game so it 
 has to be long!
  
  Graphics: In some places, the graphics are incredible!! although in some places, the graphics may be 
 slightly pixelized, and may look ugly.. but these 2D/3D graphics are still quite good!
  
  Sound: A great improvement from Advance Wars 2, Bombs actually sound like they're falling down from 
 the sky, and rockets actually make exploding when hitting a naval unit, instead of making just splashing 
 noises! Machine Guns sound significantly better, so the sound is just a big step from advance wars 
 2, to a totally new game!
  
  Value: I value this game a lot and im not letting go of it! Although i have only been playing since 
 Advance Wars 2, im a big fan of the series!
  
  Tilt: Modern RTS fans will be fascinated by this game, but if you are just an average gamer looking 
 for like a game with explosions and guns... you may or may not like this game.. Nevertheless this 
 is a great game that should keep going! I just cant wait for intelligent Sys. to make another sequel! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  i believe this the best advanced wars ever created by nintendo. this should be played by anyone 
 who likes a fun and and very addicting game. it has kept me playi for 50 hours and should keep 
 you playing for hours and hours as well. it is a fantastic game where there is new units control 
 like the strongest land unit the megatank and new aircraftsas well for comanding officers like 
 jake. this game was a brillant game that can meet the taste of anyone it was defintly worth the 
 wait for this amazing game i give this a superb score of 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gameplay is just as fantastic as it always has been; dual screen battles are cool; new 
 COs are awesome; campaign is possibly the best it's ever been; much more forgiving difficulty level.
 
  
  The Bad: Presentation could have been spruced up more; some modes are really lame (combat, etc.) ; 
 single-card wireless multiplayer is boring.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is one of the best games currently available for the Nintendo DS system. 
 Why? Well, it's simply an amazing and immersive experience that deserves to be played.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the series, here's what you'll be getting into. Advance Wars is a tactical 
 strategy game in which you command infantry, tanks, planes, battleships, etc. and attempt to defeat 
 your opponent by either a) Capturing the enemy base HQ; or b) Wiping out all the enemy forces. 
 There are also missions in which there are different objectives to win, such as keeping a certain 
 unit alive or destroying a certain amount of enemy cannons. Some missions come with preset forces, 
 and you must deal with what you have and be cautious, while others give you bases, airports, and 
 harbors in which to build more units. There is a lot of deep strategy and enthralling gameplay 
 involved, and once you get the hang of it, it becomes amazingly addictive.
  
  AVDS is an amalgamation of everything done right in the past entries. There's tons of new units, 
 interesting new commanding officers (CO's) , loads of bonus maps to buy, a hard mode that builds 
 upon the already-difficult campaign mode, and tons of options in building your own scenarios. Multiplayer 
 is great, but unfortunately single-card play is limited to the fairly boring Combat Mode. A single 
 DS can be used for multiplayer matches, however, and that works very well.
  
  It's too bad that Advance Wars DS doesn't really go as far as it could have with its production 
 values, however. The visuals are largely recycled from the past two games, though there are some 
 nice new environments and effects. Some 3D effects or hand-drawn visuals would have been appreciated. 
 Also, there's not a lot new to the fundamentals of the gameplay - but hey, that isn't such a bad 
 thing!
  
  Ultimately, this game is easy to recommend to anybody who enjoys strategy or who's looking for 
 a good DS game. Some may be turned off by its difficulty level, but it is worth noting that this 
 game is easier than the past two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmcm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  When the first Advance Wars came out in 2001, it was an instant hit. Advance Wars 2: Black Hole 
 Rising was also a big hit, but many fans were disappointed at how little was added from the previous 
 game. AW Dual Strike, however, adds tons of great new stuff.
  
  Firstly, there is like 15 or so new vehicles. They range from the new Tank, which is the most powerful 
 ever made, to the Stealth Fighter, which is a aircraft that can become invisible to all but other 
 SF's.
  
  There is the also the new Tag Team battles, which, in my opinion, are the best thing thats in AWDS. 
 It really adds a new element of strategy to the game. And, in previous AW games, did you ever get 
 the feeling that the enemy knows where you are in Fog Of War? You were right and this has been 
 fixed, it applies to them too now.
  
  There is some other stuff, but they are best left to find on your own. Whether you are a beginner 
 to the series or a veteran, advance wars dual strike adds a ton of new stuff to the series and 
 is a great game. I completely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebas1016
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is one of the most complete games in the Nintendo DS platform. The point 
 of the game is simple, a group of bad guys are trying to take over the world but a group of soldiers 
 are going to do everything in order to stop them.
  In this game the characters are the ones already shown in the previous games plus a couple of more 
 (like Jake one of the best young rookie strategiest in the army) . In total there are like 40 more 
 or less.
  So basically in the game you can play the campaign mode, in which you follow a bunch of missions 
 where the single and simple objective is to beat the enemy. There are two types of difficulties 
 normal and hard. In normal campaign you have to follow the missions with a given character but 
 in hard campaign you have the ability to choose whatever character you wish.
  Next we have war room. In this mode you are given different maps (which you have to buy) in which 
 you have to bet an assign character. This mode is really fun but is also really hard. With the 
 L and R bottons you can choose if you want to do a 1 vs 1 battle or a 1 vs 2 or even a 1 vs 3. 
 With the pad you are able to choose if you want to use skill, use a partner or the type of experience 
 you want to gain (people grow levels with experience and with experience comes skills) .
  After this mode we have versus mode. Here simple as the name says you can battle with a friend 
 to see who's the better strategiest. Under versus we have the survival mode. In this mode the point 
 is to choose from 3 types of survival: money, turn, or time. In money you are given a set amount 
 of money and have to bet a couple of stages with that amount. no more no less. In turn you just 
 have to beat the same amount of levels in a certain amount of turn. And last in time is the same 
 with a time limit.
  The last mode you have combat. This is one of the newest mode added to the game. In here you are 
 given 20000 dollars and have to buy soldiers, recons, tanks, and artilleries. After that you battle 
 with other characters but not by taking moves but moving around and shooting at your enemies units. 
 In this mode there are 3 levels: normal, hard, and brutal. Well that's all for the gameplay, if 
 you want to check the rest you just have to move the d-pad left or right and a new menu will appear. 
 In here you can buy maps, check your medals, go wireless, check the sound, see the pictures you 
 obtain in the game and you can design your own map, costumize your characters and set the background. 
 Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a really exciting game and any person that like a strategy game and 
 have a DS should definitely should go and get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuffj68
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Very amazing game that is made only for the DS. In my opinion, it is the best game for the DS as 
 of January 2008, even though Mario Kart DS is a favorite, I like this game a lot better. It is 
 a turn-based strategy game, turns meaning days, of who can capture an opponent's HQ first or who 
 can destroy all enemy units first. Once you play campaign, you will slowly learn how to play. After 
 some of the missions, you will know how units work and what your best COs and strategies are. For 
 example, I like being Eagle and flooding the map with air units. I also like being Kanbei and crushing 
 everyone else with his powerful overall stats. Some COs also have few disadvantages, though. Eagle's 
 naval units are weaker than his other units and Kanbei's units are more expensive. We just have 
 to adapt to these weaknesses and find the best strategies for each CO to use.
  
  War Room tests your skills against computer-controlled COs in a specified map. There are many options, 
 including the numbers of enemies and if skills, or apps used to juice up your COs, are on or off. 
 The harder the options are, there is increased experience for your CO.
  
  Vs. Mode is the mode that people practice at or play their friends at. Points aren't involved and 
 there is many maps you can choose from. I play this mode to practice or play with or against others.
 
  
  Combat is a real-time combat game that is challenging by itself, but you can play others at it 
 using DS Download Play. It gets hilarious when you play it.
  
  Survival is a series of maps that you must beat in order to survive. There are limits, though. 
 Turn gives you a number of turns that you have to get through for all the maps. Money gives you 
 a high amount of money to use to spend on units and funding. Time gives you time in terms of minutes 
 and seconds, so you have to think quickly!
  
  There are many other modes that let you design maps and COs, shop at Battle Maps, and see all the 
 medals you have. But remember, there is more! I've played the first game for the GBA and I think 
 this one is better. This is a very recommendable game for people of all ages. Only for the DS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, theres nothing wrong with this game enless you hate Nintendo? Or hate styluses for some 
 reason? But it is an exclent portable RTS (real time strategy) game that you must have in your DS 
 collection if you have one. I'm not saying buy a DS for this game but if you have a DS or are deffinetly 
 planning on it then you gotta just have this game period.
  
  Graphics, wow... such a small system... such amazing graphics. Hows it possible that we have gone 
 this far?
  
  Sound, heh catchy and good. I love the sound of this game.
  
  Value, oh ya. A game to be treasured. A game that you will find in your DS more then you though 
 it whould. If you have played Advance Wars before then you will find tons of new vehicles and modes 
 you will surely enjoy.
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, Graphics are good, and the Gameplay just will surprise you with how amazingly fun it 
 is and how much you will be playing it.
  
  The Bad, I guess... nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I respect the fact that this is a good strategy game, but I just find it slow, dull and to be honest 
 rather boring.
  
  Gamplay: The gameplay is OK. No need to go gaga over it because I don't see what's so special about 
 it. It's a very slow moving game and while I know most turn-based games are, surely they could've 
 pumped up the excitement rating a bit more? I mean, the DS should be able to turn out a much more 
 exciting game than the GBA, but it fails.
  
  Graphics: Please. The developers haven't taken effort. These are frickin GBA graphics! Surely they 
 could've put the DSs vastly superior power to better use?! I mean it's pretty ridculous actually.
 
  
  Sound: Some of the most annoying music ever seen in a video game and the sound effects are nothing 
 to shout about either.
  
  Value: The game's strong point is how much there is to do in the game. There is simply loads to 
 do, although it pisses me off that there's no online play.
  
  Overall I would say that if you own any of the previous Advance Wars titles then it's not worth 
 picking this up because there's been no change what so ever. Spend your money else where I think. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'm not a real fan of turn based strategies, but this game is definitely worth a purchase 
 for fans of the genre. You're probably wondering why I bought this game then........ that would 
 be because I heard it was really good and wanted to try it. I also bought Age of Empires DS ....... but 
 I didn't know that was a turn based strategy game when I bought it. : ( Well, whatever they're good 
 games, enough about me having turn based strategy games. If you look at the graphics in Advance 
 Wars Dualstrike you won't be too impressed. It's as simple as they come in the graphics area. They're 
 sprites just clear enough for you to tell the unit you're using. But I forgive it, it's a turn 
 based strategy game and it's on the ds, we don't need that much detail. It helps that the game 
 is bright and nicely colored anyway. There's no voiceacting to be found in the game besides maybe 
 a word or two, but few turn based strategy games have voice acting and even fewer ds games have 
 voice acting. The sound effects and soundtrack are pretty great though and the sound actually comes 
 out nicely out of the ds speakers. The reason behind all this games acclaim is the value of course. 
 You will probably never unlock everything in this game. I don't even know that you'll beat it. 
 I got stuck in it. There's a great amount of units courses, levels, characters, special moves, 
 and modes up heeeeya. The only reason that keeps this game from getting my editors choice is that 
 it's not for everyone. It's too hard like most turn based strategy games and it's really for the 
 hardcore tbs genre players. Others will enjoy it, but not as much. It's also pretty addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  I was actually wishing to get a DS, just so I can get this game. When my uncle got me a DS for 
 my birthday, with this game too, I immediately went into my room and played it for the whole day. 
 That was about three years ago and I'm still playing it.
  
  As the sequel to Advance Wars 2, this game has to deliver a lot to its fans, which it does in some 
 ways. You play as a new military called Orange Star, who eventually joins the Allied Forces to 
 take on Black Hole again. The story is the same as the other two previous titles, but in the end 
 of the campaign, it has a little twist.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the other two, but the new thing is of course, the dual screens, which 
 will allow you to have two battles at once. The tricky thing is, if you lose on the bottom screen, 
 it's game over, but if you lose on the top screen, you will have a big disadvantage, so you have 
 to pay attention to both screens. You can send troops and vehicles to the other screen, which is 
 a cool thing to have. If you want to play a one-screen game, you can have a tag-team with two CO, 
 and your opponent can have two COs too. You can do a dual strike (a dual strike is a special move) 
 with all COs, but if they are friends, then they can have a more powerful dual strike (like Sami 
 and Eagle have a dual strike of 110%, which is good) . As fun as this game is, whan you have a long 
 battle, it gets a little tiring, but you can save in the middle of it and pick it up later.
  
  The music is catchy, but after a while, you'll turn it off, because it will keep going and 
 going (especially when you have a long battle) . I don't mind hearing the soldiers run to a fight, 
 but the beeping gets very irritating after 45 minutes.
  
  I love that you have so many characters to choose from, making you have so many combinations ( my 
 favorite is Sami and Eagle or Jake and Sami) . Having a free-for-all in battles are real fun, but 
 it gets so long (my longest battle ended on day 148, which is very long) . I say if you liked the 
 other two Advance Wars titles, pick this up quickly. If you just got a DS, let this be one of your 
 Top 5 DS games to get. It's pretty fun, and having a friend play too makes it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxxThe_GoaTxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I purchased Advanced Wars: Dual Strike as a default purchase. I walked into my local game store, 
 saw it on display, remembered that it had gotten a couple positive reviews, and then ended up buyinging 
 it because nothing else caught my eye. I had absolutely no passion or excitement about it. That 
 soon changed.
  
  I get home, booted the game up on my DS, and began a Campaign. It outlined the basics in a digestible 
 format, and I was blasting away in no time. At first, I questioned the addictive qualities of AW: DS. 
 But by Mission 8, I was hooked like a tuna fish.
  
  Advanced Wars: Dual Strike is chess for the video gamer. Plain and simple. The gameplay is so linear 
 and simple, that you'd think that you'd be able to find some easy to repeat formula, and you could 
 beat the entire game in no time. WRONG. The game is deep, freakishly deep. The units are superbly 
 balanced, and the number of CO combinations make for a nye-limitless replay value. While the main 
 Campaign is not too difficult, the War Room, Versus and Survival Modes can be mind bogglingly tough. 
 Not to mention, there is a Hard and Brutal mode for the Campaign, which are both insane. With so 
 many options, modes, and ways to play, Advanced Wars: Dual Strike has had me occupied for over 
 4 months (no joke) . If you have $10-$15, you have no excuse to not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  It may seem like eons ago now, but the DS got off to a very shaky start. Its only notable launch 
 title was a port of an 8-year-old game, and little of note released over the following 9 months. 
 In that time, the PSP was released with an outstanding launch selection. Then, two new titles were 
 released for the DS on the same day. One, Nintendogs, was the vanguard of Nintendo's new strategy 
 to capture the non-gamer market. The other game, Advance Wars: Dual Strike, is a deep and satisfying 
 turn-based strategy game that remains one of the best games on a system with numerous quality titles.
 
  
  The world of Advance Wars is a mystical place where nations are all named after colors and their 
 elite military leaders certainly don't appear it or even act like it. The campaign mode follows 
 two Commanding Officers for Orange Star, Rachel and Jake. Jake is perhaps the prime example of 
 a CO that doesn't act like one - always listening to techno on his headphones, wanting to finish 
 battles fast so he can go clubbing, and utilizing time-tested military jargon like owned , weak 
 sauce , and you got served! While Jake takes a while to get used to, each CO has a unique personality 
 that is hard to dislike. Orange Star and their COs band together with those from Blue Moon, Green 
 Earth, and Yellow Comet to drive back the nefarious army of Black Hole.
  
  The core strength of Advance Wars is its intricately balanced units. Each unit serves a role, and 
 has its core strengths and weaknesses. Megatanks have incredible firepower and armor, but can be 
 picked off by bombers and long-range artillery. Fighters dominate the skies, but that's all they 
 can target. Infantry is weak, but are critical for capturing locations and can move places that 
 mechanical units cannot. Artillery can bombard targets a distance away without being hit with a 
 counterattack, but ranged weaponry cannot move and attack on the same turn, and are sitting ducks 
 against direct attacks. The weaknesses of each unit force both you and your opponent to diversify 
 your forces to keep your enemies on their toes. Attacking forces get a round in before the defenders 
 can return fire, and since firepower is reduced as forces take damage, the game certainly encourages 
 fast and constant offense.
  
  To further the strategy of the game, COs are thrown into the mix. Most battles are allowed two 
 COs per team, with one being the active CO and the other being on standby. At the end of each turn, 
 you have the option to swap the COs. Each CO has certain innate strengths and weaknesses that affect 
 every unit while they are active. One give offensive bonuses to direct attacks but defensive penalties 
 against indirect attacks, one boosts the stats of aircraft but leaves the navy weaker, one gives 
 a stat boost when fighting on plains, and so forth. Each CO also has two activatable skills. As 
 action takes place on the battlefield, a gauge fills for the CO (with the standby CO's also filling 
 but at a reduced rate) . A unique power can be activated at the cost of about half the gauge, or 
 a more-powerful super skill by utilizing the entire gauge. However, it's the new tag power that 
 certainly makes the regular skills seem to be weak by comparison. If both COs have a full gauge, 
 then the active CO uses his super skill, then at the end of your turn the COs swap, the other CO 
 uses his super power, then you get a second turn in a row. Given the slant the game gives towards 
 the offense and the movement and firing restrictions on indirect combat units, having two turns 
 in a row with strengthened units can drastically change the momentum of a battle. Using a tag attack 
 at the right moment is key to winning, or even simply not losing in some situations.
  
  New to the series is the option to have battles on two maps at once, taking advantage of the twin 
 screens of the DS. One CO takes command of the main battlefront on the touch screen, with another 
 CO commanding the secondary map on the top screen. Units from the primary front may be transferred 
 to the secondary but not vice versa, and secondary battles do not directly determine who wins the 
 match - the primary is all that matters. The key here is that the winner gets his second CO back 
 on the main front, giving him the ability to perform a tag attack while the opponent fights it 
 solo. In some campaign missions, winning the secondary front can neutralize the defenses of a key 
 target on the primary front that needs to be destroyed. This mode is by no means necessary except 
 in a handful of campaign missions, but certainly adds a new element into the mix to keep things 
 fresh.
  
  Visually Advance Wars is colorful and vibrant. The worst aspect of it is the map screen itself, 
 as it certainly looks like a grid with its straight lines and right angles. Granted, such an effect 
 is hard to avoid when dealing with a grid-based map on a handheld, but it certainly jumps out at 
 first glance. The unit sprites on the map aren't very detailed, but quickly give you an indication 
 of what unit it is and how damaged it is. The top screen typically shows all manner of stats about 
 the selected unit. When units attack, the top screen switches to large hand-drawn pictures of the 
 two taking shots at each other, and these units have their own distinct visual style. Characters 
 are similarly displayed in hand-drawn pictures when they speak. The music is pleasing to listen 
 to, with each CO having his theme played while it is their turn, and special music for each nation 
 when CO powers are used. The music is upbeat and tends to match the personality of each character 
 well. Sound effects are decent, and voice acting is virtually non-existent.
  
  The campaign is between 25 and 28 missions long, depending if you complete secondary objectives 
 to open optional missions. In all, it takes about 25 hours to complete the story. While the first 
 few missions are heavy on the tutorial, it eventually eases up - missions in the middle of the 
 game tend to introduce one new unit that often proves key on that particular mission. Some of the 
 later missions can certainly up the difficulty a bit. But the game doesn't end there. A hard mode 
 is unlocked when you beat the game. Your performance in battles earns you points that you can use 
 to unlock features or additional maps and COs. There is a survival mode that has you complete a 
 series of maps with various limited resources. A combat mode lets you get into some real-time fights 
 over a limited number of maps, which is interesting from time to time but not a major mode. There 
 is a map editor that lets you create pretty much every aspect of a map. There is also an incredible 
 amount of ad hoc multiplayer options supporting up to 8 players with both single cartridge and 
 multi cartridge play. There are also 300 awards to collect, ranging from total number of certain 
 types of units made to powers used and many more. The only thing that Advance Wars doesn't provide 
 is multiplayer over the Internet. However, its hard to fault a game for not utilizing this feature 
 given that Nintendo's WiFi service was several months away from launching when the game was released. 
 Regardless, there is an awful lot to do in the game. Given the game's addictive nature, it'll keep 
 you occupied for countless hours.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike gives you just about everything you could want in a handheld turn-based 
 strategy game. With its intricate unit balance, game-changing CO powers, and constant stream of 
 attacks by both sides, the game will grab your attention and refuse to let it go for numerous hours. 
 If you own a DS and enjoy strategy games, you can't go wrong picking up Advance Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Advance wars is one of the best RTS games for the Nintendo handhelds
  the game play is awsome and the turn base is quite interesting, i love the game becouse its just 
 different then a lot of RTS's i would have to give the game a great rating o and the story is great 
 too, the sound is quite good when pluged into a suround sound :D (same with New Super Mario Bros.) 
 grafix doent push what the DS can push out, but thier cute?! YES! any way its a game that takes 
 a little while to get used too. you also have to statigize in the gamplay. the armys are the same 
 with little exseptions there leaders have special abilitys that can be used to your advantage. 
 if you have a nintendo ds i highly suggjest this to any rts player of ever just a ds player, great 
 for a collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteFlame-XIII
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Advance wars, as Im writing, is one of the best, or the best DS game out there. No questions. STORY (reviewer's 
 tilt) : Black hole attacks again! It's up to you to stop them. Just as cheesy as that is, the story 
 is as shallow. Basically, you are put into the third person perspective of a small group of new 
 army officers in the orange star army. Eventually, you get more officers and the battles become 
 harder until you destroy the bad guy. The story just drags on and it fails to impress me enough. 
 But, there are many characters to stop the story from truly dragging on too much. The only thing 
 that could have been added are possible social conversations between characters for background 
 knowledge of the characters. The little other touches bring the score up dramatically like the 
 Pure essence of addictiveness, and sense of doing something somewhat important in the continent 
 of omega land. GAMEPLAY: Intelligent systems has made themselves a living using the turn based 
 strategy system. So why change that? you shouldn't. There are a set number of tiles in a battle 
 map. Each unit takes up 1 tile. Each unit can move a certain number of spaces or tiles each turn 
 or day. The terrain effects the number of spaces a unit can move in a good or bad way by blocking, 
 slowing and assisting the unit's movement. The different kinds of units include tanks, infantry, 
 reconnaisance units, a new thing that destroys anything it touches and other new and old units. 
 This is just a great gameplay system and deserves deep respect.
  
  GRAPHICS: Because this is only a DS, I am cutting this game some slack. But even for a DS, the 
 graphics are good, clean, and detailed. The graphics give you all the information needed to atleast 
 see what you are doing without the blur of a lesser bit handheld system. The camera is also not 
 a problem at all. the perspective of sight is a birds-eye view of the battle field that is small 
 enough to fit atleast 75% of the map while large enough to tell different units apart. So in light 
 of this, the graphics are pretty well done for a DS.
  
  SOUND: The sound fits well throughout the whole game. Each character has their own little theme 
 song and the generic special attack songs are actually pretty good. The sound effects are realistic 
 enough to be believable. on comment on the songs is that they are really well done. If you listen 
 to them on headphones, you can identify each individual sound of the songs being played while you're 
 not trying to pay attention to them specifically. That proves alot about the amount of quality 
 of the tracks and sounds as they are so clear.
  
  VALUE: I logged 60 hours and I'm still playing. The game has massive amounts of replayability. 
 It has 5 game modes and you can customize your characters with power ups and costumes. The modes 
 are Campaign, the story mode (remember? somewhat shallow?) , Survival, where you try to clear as 
 many maps as possible with limited resources, War room, where you try to get out of specific situations, 
 Combat, where you take control of a specific vehicle in real-time combat, and versus, where you 
 compete with friends on one DS or a computer (s) to win on a battle map. One final thing is the 
 customization factor. Each officer has an unlockable costume, and different colors for each one. 
 While on the mapwise version, you can literally create your own maps to battle on. All of that 
 can really add up timewise and give this huge amounts of replayability (and fun) .
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Story/other: 8- for okay story and sheer addictiveness.
  
  Gameplay: 10- 
 for great gameplay mechanics and well thought out concepts.
  
  Graphics: 9- for well done imagery for DS.
  
  Sound: 10- for specific quality and clear tone.
 
  
  Value: 10- for vast amount of replayability and modes.
  
  Final: 9.3 out of average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowHYREN
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Dont take it the wrong way, this is a great game. it just really hard, and I'm a person whos not 
 usually willing to try things over and over.
  
  Gameplay - spectacular. This is great turn based strategy, but it doesnt really compare to old 
 games like Final Fantasy Tactics or Vandal Hearts.
  
  Graphics - not that good for the ds, but stylized in such a way that you cant help but like them. 
 Shooting sequences are really cool.
  
  Sound - Not bad, but not good either. Fairly routine sound effects, but the music makes up for 
 this.
  
  Value - Despite these flaws, its definately still a game worth buying for nintendo's lil handheld.
 
  
  Tilt - At times, you cant put it down. Other times, you put it down at 100mph, horizontally, into 
 a wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: DS, the Nintendo DS's iteration of the famed Advance Wars series not only lives up 
 to the Advance Wars legacy, but brings it to new heights.
  
  In this one, it takes place in the new land of Omega Land. Here, the Black Hole Army mysteriously 
 gains new military power and make a sweeping assault. As the Alliance of the nations of Orange 
 Star, Blue Moon, Yellow Comet, and Green Earth, you must band together and fight back Black Hole 
 once and for all. (even though not really since we all know a sequel's bound to come up eventually) 
 The game is a TBS, or a Turn Based Strategy and you and your opponent take turns moving your units 
 on the map. There are many different units each with its own advantages and weaknesses. With many 
 various units, from Tanks, Infantry, Fighters, and Submarines, it never gets old. Also, with the 
 addition of Black Boats, Black Bombs, Stealth Fighters, Aircraft Carriers, and my personal favorite, 
 Megatanks, it brings much more variation to the the table.
  
  The gameplay is great and personally, it never gets old. But lemme warn you, Advance Wars games 
 are famous for being HARD AS F***ING HELL. I mean seriously, I haven't even beaten the first two! 
 But the difficulty is taken down a notch in this one, but it's still very challenging and don't 
 get angry if you have to redo a level more then once or twice.
  
  The animations are all clean and well done, but it has to admitted, the graphics haven't changed 
 much. They still retain a GBA look, though it is cleaner and more colorful. The CO's remain as 
 unique and well designed as ever, from the over-zealous Grimm to the Head Banging (albeit slightly 
 irratible) Jake to the over the top but very chivalrous Javiers, the characters have some great 
 dialogue.
  
  The best part of the AW series is probably the CO powers. With these abilities, each unique to 
 its own CO, you can turn the tides of a seemingly lost battle. These range from simply doubling 
 firepower of units, adding range to your indirect fire units, to even launching 3 missles at your 
 opponents from space.
  
  The sound is well done and while there is no voice acting, the dialoge is very good and makes up 
 for it. The music is also well done and each CO has its own memorable theme song. Believe me, if 
 you play this game long enough, you'll be humming the tune of your favorite CO. (My personal favorite 
 is Griff. Gotta love that slow Mid-Western theme of his.)
  
  Multiplayer in this game is great as well, it adds a lot of value and with a friend, you can be 
 playing each other over and over again for militaristic supremacy.
  
  Also, with the points you obtain in the single player campaign, you can buy even more maps for 
 multiplayer, thus adding more replay value. That and an added hard mode where you fight in literally, 
 deathly odds, adds a lot of replay value as well.
  
  It should be noted though, while AW is fun, for those who are turned off by kiddy graphics should 
 stay away from this game as it is literally oozing with immaturity. Instead of dying, infantry 
 simply fly of the screen, Bomber planes are fat and squat and have a very humorous look, and for 
 the most part, this game doesn't take itself too seriously. While there are some serious parts, 
 involving death, the philosophical meaning of face existence, and ecological threats, the game 
 remains lighthearted for the most part. A lot of people love this game for its lighthearted outlook 
 on war, but some complaing about it. My note to those people, you suck and probably had no childhood 
 anyway. :P
  
  Overall, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a very great game and with its great characters, varied units 
 and maps, amazingy replay value, and overall greatness, Advance Wars is a game that I recommend 
 for anyone who owns a DS and loves a good strategy game.
  
  Oh yeah, and a personal note, Griff rocks! Belive me, he kicks ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Excuse my bad manners with my opening statement but that is what I'll use to describe the game. 
 This is simply one of the best DS titles you can buy for the machine.
  
  Okay, at first glance nothing has really changed from the previous GBA games. But that's a good 
 thing. Basically, the game's premise is you're a Commanding Officer of the Orange Star; you have 
 to assemble an army and defend the Omega Lands from the Black Army, which appeared in Advance Wars 
 2. The game is played out in an almost identical fashion in the prequels and fans of the series 
 will quickly get into the swing of things. The controls are more or less similar to the previous 
 titles, though you can use the stylus for quick navigation, but I find it a bit fiddly. You start 
 with the basic infantry and you're gently eased into the game by a well-balanced tutorial that 
 welcomes newcomers yet doesn't infuriate veterans of the series. You quickly learn about capturing 
 enemy Headquarters and neutral cities, controlling different infantry units, ascertaining funds 
 and of course, combat. Advance Wars has always been about offering accessibility to casual gamers 
 whilst whetting appetites to strategy fans and once again, Nintendo has managed this balance beautifully. 
 Make no mistake though, though the game is easy to navigate and combat is a blast and the graphics 
 are cute; this is a challenging game. For the first couple of missions you can charge straight 
 into battle and attack head-on. But later on in the game the difficulty ramps up and you really 
 need to change your tactics to suit the situation. What's new in this Advance Wars title is the 
 option to change battlefields in certain missions. Such as on Mission 5, a missile is hurtling 
 towards the battlefield and you have a count-down until it reaches it's target. You can then switch 
 between the battlefield maps or statistics of soldiers etc on the top screen and see the progression 
 of the missile. This makes the game extremely tense and adds a whole new dimension to the game. 
 Really though, the game is roughly the same as the previous two GBA titles though as you play through 
 and delve deeper into the game you start to notice the little tweaks and changes Intelligent Systems 
 has done.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike doesn't necessarily make excellent use of the DS graphics capabilities. 
 In fact, first impressions when viewing the game you'll barely notice the difference between this 
 version and the GBA games. However, the graphics are clean and the screen never gets clustered 
 with unnecessary attention to detail. You can clearly see your units, the terrain they're on etc. 
 I suppose the biggest addition when graphics are concerned is the battle sequence. When you approach 
 enemies and begin battle you'll notice that the sprites and environment have a more 3-D feel to 
 them, at the beginning it sort of zooms out of the scene to allow the player to see the battle 
 unfold. The game's graphics aren't exactly breath taking but the style of the characters, weapons 
 and battlefields is charming and more than make up for it.
  
  The big criticism I have with this game is the recycled sound effects, and in some parts music, 
 that has been ripped straight out of the prequels. The music is also okay as well, each army has 
 their own unique theme to them that supplement them well and the music doesn't grate or get annoying. 
 The game is relatively big. Newcomers will probably be stuck a bit longer than Advance Wars veterans 
 in the campaign mode. It can take anywhere between 20-30 hours to truly complete the campaign mode. 
 But there's hell a lot of extras to unlock. So you can expect that lifespan to almost double. Then 
 there's the multiplayer, which is always good fun. It's disappointing that there's no Internet 
 play to speak of but the game does make great use of the Wi-Fi. You can play the game with just 
 one host and three other empty machines but the game isn't a proper war experience. You just play 
 as tanks and the objective is to get as many kills as possible. Of course, the best way to experience 
 the multiplayer is if everyone has a game and a DS of their own. As a package, this game will last 
 you for quite a while.
  
  Overall, this game will appeal to die-hard fans of the series but it doesnt offer anything really 
 new. If you didn't find the first two titles appealing, chances are you'll give this title a miss. 
 However, I suggest you at least give it a try because the game is highly addictive and has a surprising 
 amount depth to it. Though you'll be hard pushed to spot any new additions to the game, the game 
 plays remarkably well and makes the transition from GBA to DS extremely well. The only downside 
 to the game is the lack of any actual new features and the limited use of the DS capabilities. 
 It doesn't take the series to any new direction but it is a solid, well-crafted game that is one 
 of the crowning jewels for the Nintendo DS. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audiotycoon
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The main idea of this review is this: Advance Wars DS has great gameplay, and you will have a blast 
 playing it with your friends. Advance Wars I + II feature better plot and single player campaign. 
 I recomend giving all of them a shot.
  
  Fantastic: conceived or appearing as if conceived by an unrestrained imagination; odd and remarkable; 
 bizarre; grotesque
  
  That word sums up Advance Wars Duel Strike for the Nintendo DS. It is so fantastic, it is overly 
 fantastic, and the sheer fantastic-ness of the game take away from the experience. I won't ruin 
 the story, despite the considerable age of the game, but I found it incredibly unfulfilling.
  
  Gameplay: It is the same great gameplay you remember. It's better. It's not as good as I was 
 led to believe. The new units introduced are awesome. Combat mode is awesome, and great to play 
 with friends. The new story independent modes are awesome. Gameplay has never been better.
  Campaign is different. Levels come in 3 different difficulties: easy, moderate, and insane. Even 
 the latest missions can be easy, and the earliest ridiculously hard, which makes for a sharp learning 
 curve.
  
  Graphics: I'm not a fan of the new visual style, but nothing is seriously ruined because of it.
 
  
  Sound: New and Remixed themes make sound awesome.
  
  Value: This game has tons of replay value for completionists, and is still fun to crack out for 
 some combat multiplayer every once in a while.
  
  The reason for the bad score is everything that was a step down from Advance Wars 2. The story 
 is overly fantastic with a fusion of magic and technology gone wrong. Popular characters such as 
 Andy and Olaf and Kanbei are not even playable in story, (although Hard mode makes up for this.)
 
  -New Black Hole CO's trite, uninteresting copies of originals.
  - (Spoilers)
  Hawk doesn't play an important enough role, not to mention the fact that the two most evil character 
 from Advance Wars 2 become good. In fact, Hawke and Lash are both lackies to new Black Hole CO's, 
 while Adder and Flak are completly left out of the story.
  -Little character development overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRACY48
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  ADVANCED WARS: DUAL STRIKE score: 9.25/10
  
  Good: Strategic and tough, new modes and inovations Bad: Graphics are only GBA quality, dificulty 
 ratches up in later levels
  
  If I had to pick a game that I would have to play for the rest of my life, it would probably be 
 Advance Wars. The amount of game you get is huge, the depth here is simply unpareled. Nearly everything 
 about this game plays out so well, I can finnaly put the last two games back on the shelf. Its 
 too bad more games aren't as good as this.
  Despite being turn based, AW never seems to be slow. Sometimes battles can be blazzingly quick, 
 while other times you can be locked in a stalemate for hours. Either way the battles are never 
 boring because each one incorperates something new. Naval battles, air strikes, infanty invasions 
 and the deadly fog of war, they all pile up and in the end the game becomes realy deep. Its just 
 so newbies to strategy games can sink in, while more advance players can still enjoy it. Best of 
 all the game teaches you all these things at a gradual pace and you never feel overwhelmed by the 
 options.
  What you will feel overwhelmed by is the enemy AI. Seriously. One wrong move can lead to a total 
 restart thanks to the brutal stategy of the opponent. In fact, thats realy the only place the game 
 falters. The difficulty spikes up late in the game, and can leave some wondering why they played 
 so much, just to get slaughtered. Hardcore players though will rejoice with the unlockable hard 
 mode.
  The music here is classic military fare... with a Nintendo twist. I mean come on, can you remember 
 the last time the big N made a game that didn'nt sound great? If you play with your DS muted, I 
 highly recomend turning the volume up, or at least investing in some headphones. The art style 
 reaks of Pokemon, but I dont mind. If I wanted realism I would have bought an Age of Kings game. 
 Unless you hate cartoony graphics, theres no reason not to like it. The on-screen detail is minimal, 
 but it dosn't detract from the overall experience. Last but certinly not least, is the multiplayer. 
 Going wireless with a pal is pure gaming bliss, its too bad you cant use download play for the 
 main multiplayer mode. You can, however play a mini RTS game with up to 4 players with one game 
 card. If it had a wider varety of options it would be even better. Perhapes the next AW can make 
 this more fleshed out and less like a minigame.
  If you need a strategy game for your DS, Advance Wars realy hits the spot. If only the devs had 
 made the difficulty less erratic, this game would truly be a classic. Don't let this one pass you 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have played all the Advance Wars games, and I must say this is another great make. PROS:
  
  +Wonderful graphics
  +Double screen action!
  +Storyline +Lots of characters to choose from, 
 each with their own personality
  +Nearly the whole game +NEW UNITS AND COs!
  
  CONS:
  
  -Small units, makes it hard to see on the lower screen
  
  Overall, the new AWDS combines 
 different experiences, while enjoying that old-school feeling that the other games possessed. Furthermore, 
 with new COs and units to master, even Grand Masters at this game will have to adapt a bit. Extremely 
 versatile strategies, making it an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  well first the graphics are the same on all the other advance wars, &acute;&acute; stupid`` screen 
 sometimes, sounds are the same of all ways , the history is like allways in the same thing i think 
 im going to sell my ds i have a psp an every game is better graphics notes an everybody have one 
 at least here in my school.
  
  
  if somebody have a pspbplay one hour advance wars an then play field commander everythind is better. 
 the other thing, do the ds have 3d graphics all the game are in 2d or if is in 3d the graphics 
 are really weak is like psx but the psp is like grahics of ps2 that my review i hope somebody will 
 have the same idea of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  The makers of this game basically took everything good from the TBS games of the past and mashed 
 it all into this awesome title. The main things I love about this game:
  
  1. It feels so, so polished, everything, the music, the sounds, the graphics, the features, the 
 dialogue even.
  
  2. ASSKICKER - it has it's own mission editor! How many DS games have that?
  
  3. The levels 
 are well thought-out and later on in the campaign, they get real smart.
  
  4. Great multiplayer options, play 2 on the same DS or Download play of multi-cart. Just awesome.
 
  
  5. I mentioned it already but i just love the music!
  
  6. It has tonnes of units, therefore tonnes of possible tactics.
  
  7. The tag moves, kind 
 of like the super meters in SF2 or the SNK beat-emups.
  
  Basically i think this is best 1-player game i have played on the DS, and i'm only at the 10th 
 mission. If you like strategy games, this is a must-buy, if you like the DS, try it out, you won#'t 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DattebayosEpPo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Behold the best game of the series! Advance Wars is a masterpiece of Intelligent Systems and there 
 has been two games before this, Dual Strike. The DS maybe doesn't offer too much new to it, but 
 it still could not have been a GBA game, cause for example the DS-battles really work. Thats the 
 most coolest new thing. Again there are new CO also: Grimm (Yellow Comet) good attack, but stinks 
 a bit in defence, Javier (Green Earth) gets his powers from new COM-towers in the game and has 
 superior defense against indirect attacks, and much more... Playing the game with stylus works 
 but its much better without it, to a veteran for sure. AW: Dual Strike offers also more units such 
 as black boat, stealth-plane, megatank. But OVERALL its the best game in the series with awesome 
 gameplay, better graphics, good story, and it has very cool music also! This is surely a reason 
 to buy DS. (Only bad things would be Jake's Owned!: shouts :'D)
  
  believe me, this game is almost flawless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I was a little hesitant to try this game after watching my brother play Final Fantasy Tactics for 
 hours; the thought of playing through hours of battles with minimal breaks for story presentation 
 didn't seem overly appealing to me. However, after reading several glowing reviews - and wanting 
 something new to play on my DS - I took a leap of faith and purchased this game. What a wonderful 
 stroke of luck that was!
  
  Advance Wars Dual Strike has several things going for it: First, there is the sheer variety of 
 units. Aside from having a large number of different things to boss around, each one has a specific 
 strength and weakness - without rendering any particular one useless - which leads to many possible 
 strategies. There is not one win all unit (even the strongest tank in the game runs out of ammo 
 quick, is costly, and has vulnerabilities) so that you do not simply build up a mass of one unit 
 every war and bowl over the enemy. This results in a complete lack of levels where the goal is 
 to simply build up a larger army than the enemy while hoping that there isn't a massive wave launched 
 that will take you unaware, a very welcome thing. The inclusion of launchable missles, power-boosting 
 communication towers, and other things on the map keep things fresh.
  
  The graphics in the game, while not breathtaking or groundbreaking, are pleasant and serve the 
 style of the game well. It is strangely satisfying to watch as the two armies march onto the screen 
 and take shots at each other. There is a slight flatness in the look which might have been remedied 
 with the DS's greater graphic capabilities than the GBA, but one can only assume that the programmers 
 were intending to build on the familiarity of the game franchise. Indeed, there may have been an 
 uproar from fans had there been any changes is looks. There is adequate variety in playing fields, 
 including playable water and sky terrains.
  
  The sound and music are wonderful. Although not enough to make me rush out and buy a CD of the 
 soundtrack, the tunes in the game underscore the action well. There are satisfying explosion sounds 
 as well as gun, motor, and rocket sounds. I must admit that I smiled every time a city cheered 
 when my forces claimed it and groaned in defeat when occupied by enemy forces.
  
  The story is adequate to keep the action going from one mission to the next, although it does border 
 on clich&eacute;.
  
  Quite possibly the largest annoyance was the dialogue in the game. I don't know who the programmers 
 think talks the way a few of the characters do, but I found myself grimacing through several lines. 
 It isn't a major setback in any sense (such as the constant, dishwater philosophy that absolutely 
 ruined Drakkengard) , but rather a blemish on what is otherwise a wonderful game.
  
  In closing, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a fun, engrossing game that may bring you many sleepless 
 nights and offers a high level of replay value. It should be reccomended to anyone who owns a DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith500
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: There is so much more new stuff in Advance Wars DS that even those who have rpevious 
 installments should fork out the money for the newest one. Aswell as nearly 10 new units and about 
 10 new Commanding Officers to play as there is a Survival mode and a Combat mode aswell as the 
 original Campaign, War Room and Versus modes. 9/10
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound:
  The graphics are pretty similar to the 2 previous versions which appeared on GBA so it isn't really 
 graphically stunning. The game does look slightly better though especially with the brightest backlight 
 of the DS LITE.
  Sound is basically the same as the 2 versions before aswell just with added music themes for the 
 new commanding officers. So for no real boost in graphics or sound I would have to give this a 
 6/10.
  
  Value: This game will keep you entertained for easily over 100 hours so for the money it costs 
 for this game you will get alot out of it. Even if you have played the previous versions you still 
 have the new modes and the new campaign and commanding officers and units to use get ready to spend 
 alot of time playing war.
  
  Overall: The 2 previous games scored 9.1 and although this game is better then them because it 
 has the same but more I just feel it doesnt deserve around the 9.0 mark because of no real technical 
 boost in graphics or major gameplay. Also alot of people expected some sort of wifi with the game 
 and the Campaign to be honest is the worst of the 3 so the game gets an 8.3 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Dual Strike is the kind of game where a play session can last three hours without you even knowing. 
 One second it's 8 o'clock at night, and then you look up and it's pushing half past 10.
  One reason for this addictive gameplay is the seamless use of the stylus. Selecting and ordering 
 troops via touch screen makes battles noticabely smoother and quicker over the GBA versions. Every 
 now and then you may select the wrong unit or accidently tell it to sit and wait when you wanted 
 it to fire, but that stands as my major complaint.
  The gameplay from the last two version remains completely intact, modified to use the second screen 
 as another battlefield. The campaign is lengthy, but unfortunately, the story seems a bit contrived. 
 The characters are still slightly annoying, and there is a solid good-guy versus bad-guy situation. 
 Luckily, it isn't the complex story that drives one to play Advance Wars. And as a bonus to me, 
 the stat's kept by the game are immensly deep. BTW, I'm a stat whore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of strategy games for a while now, and Advance Wards: Dual Strike is an excellent 
 addition to the genre. Gameplay: The game is easy to play once you get used to how the units and 
 menus work. The stylus makes commanding your units very simple, although you can also use the + 
 Pad and Buttons to navigate and control. The characters are interesting, even though the use of 
 modern slang can be a bit over-the-top at times...
  
  Graphics: It may not be a cutting-edge game graphically, but the graphics are still good. The world 
 is alive with moving water on the ocean and weather. The Anime style of the characters adds a certain 
 amount of charm to the story as well. The battle animations are also fun to watch.
  
  Sound: This game has a very electronic / techno soundtrack. I enjoyed it at first, but the battles 
 last so long and the tracks tend to repeat after a short amount of time. I actually turned the 
 music off Sound effects are still of good quality. I especially like the gurgling sound when you 
 destroy an ocean unit :) .
  
  Value: This game is definitely worth the value.
  
  Multiplayer: While the game has multiplayer options, you had better have a long time to play the 
 multiplayer games. After the first few turns, it starts to take a while to plan and make your move 
 and if you have to stop short for some reason, you cannot save your game in multiplayer. (TIP: 
 Use the Versus mode with everyone set to Human Controlled characters and then do a pass-and-play 
 thing. If more than on person has a DS with the game, you can actually be playing multiple games 
 at once.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevedog07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the previous games in the series, but this is a great game with a great approach 
 to strategy. Reminds me a lot of the combat in the Shining Force games and, to some degree, Final 
 Fantasy Tactics. A lot of fun, and many hours of gameplay! Graphics are by no means great (in fact, 
 the combat part is basically icon-driven) but it's one of those games where the gameplay makes 
 you completely forget the graphics. One downside is that you can't do standard turn-based play 
 over single-card download, but you can still play. Also, you can buy it used for cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOA_Syndrome67F
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Advance wars, as Im writing, is one of the best, or the best DS game out there. No questions. STORY (reviwer's 
 tilt) : Black hole attacks again! It's up to you to stop them. Just as cheesy as that is, the story 
 is as shallow. Basically, you are put into the third person perspective of a small group of new 
 army officers in the orange star army. Eventually, you get more officers and the battles become 
 harder until you destroy the bad guy. The story just drags on and it fails to impress me enough. 
 But, there are many characters to stop the story from truly dragging on too much. The only thing 
 that could have been added are possible social conversations between characters for background 
 knowledge of the characters. The little other touches bring the score up dramatically like the 
 Pure essence of addictiveness, and sense of doing something somewhat important in the continent 
 of omega land. GAMEPLAY: Intelligent systems has made themselves a living using the turn based 
 strategy system. So why change that? you shouldn't. There are a set number of tiles in a battle 
 map. Each unit takes up 1 tile. Each unit can move a certain number of spaces or tiles each turn 
 or day. The terrain effects the number of spaces a unit can move in a good or bad way by blocking, 
 slowing and assisting the unit's movement. The different kinds of units include tanks, infantry, 
 reconnaisance units, a new thing that destroys anything it touches and other new and old units. 
 This is just a great gameplay system and deserves deep respect. GRAPHICS: Because this is only a 
 DS, I am cutting this game some slack. But even for a DS, the graphics are good, clean, and detailed. 
 The graphics give you all the information needed to atleast see what you are doing without the 
 blur of a lesser bit handheld system. The camera is also not a problem at all. the perspective 
 of sight is a birds-eye view of the battle field that is small enough to fit atleast 75% of the 
 map while large enough to tell different units apart. So in light of this, the graphics are pretty 
 well done for a DS. SOUND: The sound fits well throughout the whole game. Each character has their 
 own little theme song and the generic special attack songs are actually pretty good. The sound 
 effects are realistic enough to be believable. on comment on the songs is that they are really 
 well done. If you listen to them on headphones, you can identify each individual sound of the songs 
 being played while you're not trying to pay attention to them specifically. That proves alot about 
 the amount of quality of the tracks and sounds as they are so clear. VALUE: I logged 60 hours and 
 I'm still playing. The game has massive amounts of replayability. It has 5 game modes and you can 
 customize your characters with power ups and costumes. The modes are Campaign, the story mode (remember? 
 somewhat shallow?) , Survival, where you try to clear as many maps as possible with limited resources, 
 War room, where you try to get out of specific situations, Combat, where you take control of a 
 specific vehicle in real-time combat, and versus, where you compete with friends on one DS or a 
 computer (s) to win on a battle map. One final thing is the customization factor. Each officer has 
 an unlockable costume, and different colors for each one. While on the mapwise version, you can 
 literally create your own maps to battle on. All of that can really add up timewise and give this 
 huge amounts of replayability (and fun) .
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Story/other: 8- for okay story and sheer addictiveness.
  
  Gameplay: 10- for great gameplay 
 mechanics and well thought out concepts.
  
  Graphics: 9- for well done imagery for DS.
  
  Sound: 10- for specific quality and clear tone.
  
  Value: 10- for vast amount of replayability 
 and modes.
  
  Final: 9.3 out of average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  So, Advance Wars: Dual Strike, ridiculously addictive, charmingly presented and stretched to a 
 very respectable lifespan. Its a terrific game. The best in the series? Hands down. Is anyone 
 surprised? No. We all saw it coming. We all knew the critical acclaim this game would receive before 
 it even came out.
  
  Any fan of the Advance Wars series would know that. Like Harry Potter, its difficult to put down 
 and forget about. But praising the series aside, this third and latest instalment expands upon 
 a game that is already the cream of the crop and stands on its own merits. Heres how.
  
  In terms of the core gameplay, things just got a whole lot more interesting. The developers have 
 managed to somehow pack a tonne of new elements without tinkering with the fundamentals. New structures 
 are introduced: com towers that if captured increase your units power and missile silos that can 
 strike any desired spot. A surprising number of new units are introduced (after the second instalments 
 disappointing addition of only one) . The Stealth Bomber, the airs equivalent to the submarine 
 that can HIDE, the Black Boat, finally a unit that can repair damage, and of course, who could 
 forget the almighty MEGATANK. Its ridiculously powerful but it has major drawbacks in fuel, ammunition 
 and cost, a clever addition. (There are more by the way.) Perhaps the most monumental change to 
 the series (keeping in spirit with the new functions of the DS) is the theme of duality, being 
 able to control TWO things at once. You can control two war fronts showing on either one of two 
 screens, and send units from one front to the other. You can also control two COs during one battle 
 with the ability to switch after any turn. Now, this is where things truly get interesting because 
 once the potential of both full CO powers are ready to be unleashed you can attack one after the 
 other ON THE SAME TURN. As you may have guessed, this has the potential to completely wipe out 
 your enemy. (Imagine controlling Eagle and striking three times, geez.) The overall product is 
 a refreshing experience that differs oh-so-differently from its predecessors in the best way possible.
 
  
  In terms of the graphics, pretty much nothing has evolved. Its basically the same cutesy playthings 
 weve been seeing in previous instalments. Bad thing? No. With gameplay this complex its good 
 to keep things easy on the eyes as it already is. Besides, graphics are barely what this game is 
 all about. It runs a lot deeper than pretty pictures and doesnt substitute looks for enjoyment 
 on any level *COUGH*Doom 3*. Whoever the developers are, theyve made a smart move in not touching 
 the graphics. Theyre fine as they are. The sound is great. Once again, each CO has their own unique 
 theme and theyre all catchy. Sound effects, yeh sure theyre fine, pretty much what weve all 
 been expecting really.
  
  One annoying blemish is the terrible, terrible script. Let me give you an example. Upon his last 
 encounter with the ultimate boss, Jake sheds his wit:
  
  Consider yourself served with a subpoena of PAIN! Yeahthats lawyer style!
  
  Thats just 
 horrible. But Advance Wars Dual Strike lives dutifully up to its expectations as THE best handheld 
 strategy game out there and thats reason enough to pay good money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn_Jack
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  The third American release in the highly successful Advance Wars series, which had seen previous 
 incarnations in Japan under the title Famicom Wars, Advance Wars Dual Strike was one of the first 
 must-have games on the Nintendo DS. The gameplay remains almost unchanged from the previous incarnations: 
 it's a turn-based strategy game of the highest order. Relatively easy to get into, the learning 
 time merely reflects the depth of strategy involved once you get going. Many players suggest starting 
 with AW1 for its Training Mode, but you should have no problems starting with this game so long 
 as you pay attention in the early missions. There are several game modes: campaign, which is essentially 
 the story mode. War Room is next, and it's a portfolio of individual missions that are more challenging 
 than Campaign, but it's much better for honing your skills. Versus mode will keep you going for 
 longest, though, if you can find some friends. It allows multi-player matches on one DS, which, 
 of course, is facilitated by its being a TBS. Survival mode gives you a series of missions that 
 you must complete with a limit on you: either time, turns or funds. The final mode, Combat mode, 
 is a gimmick, quite simply, and I avoid it at all costs, especially since it is leftie-unfriendly. 
 But don't let that put you off: Advance Wars Dual Strike is a huge, immersive game, and when you 
 take into account the map design options, all the unlockables, and the medal system, there really 
 is enough to make this your most played game yet!
  
  *Concerning my scoring*
  
  Whilst the graphics and sound aren't great, they get the job done, and you really shouldn't worry 
 about them too much, since the game is focused on the strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike has proved to be a great game. As i borrowed it from my friend i didn't 
 know what to expect because i've never played a Advance Wars game. At first i was lost but as i 
 began playing it more i gained a better understanding of how to play the game. Its gameplay is 
 immense, but what really helps this game is having 2 screens. At first when Nintendo unveiled that 
 the DS had 2 screens people were surprised. But the 2 screens help this game a lot. Despite the 
 graphics being extremely similar to the GBA version it doesn't matter. Its the gameplay that counts 
 in this game. The music isn't bad either. The music is hard to describe but it fits with the game. 
 Value wise it is brilliant. Two screens, portable console. To be honest if this game was put on 
 a Gamecube or PS2 it would never be as good as the DS version. The story is down to Earth &amp; 
 simple which is important. Some games screw it up on weird stroylines but this is easy too understand. 
 Black Hole have risen again need to be beaten again basically. As with the gameplay its great. 
 You get sea, land &amp; air units which all have different abilities. There is fighter, bombers, 
 transport copters, battle copters &amp; stealth fighters. For sea units there is battleships, cruisers, 
 subs, landing ships &amp; aircraft carriers which can carry 2 jets at one time across the sea. 
 And there are many other lands units too pick from too. The A. I is very good, if weak they kind 
 of retreat &amp; will very rarely take unnessecary risks. There are 2 things which let it down 
 in my view. Bad dialogue between characters. Its a bit too cocky when talking. If you have won 
 your CO will start slagging the enemy off. Its bizarre. And the game could be a bit difficult for 
 certain players. But none the less a great game. Definitly iin the DS top 5 in my view. It also 
 has multiplayer including real-time combat mode, which is a nice addition to this excellent game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I want to begin by saying that I am an avid gamer (look at my collection) who is open to anything. 
 I have played turn-based strategy games before and overall am not a big fan of them, and prefer 
 real-time strategy. I had heard MUCH praise about this game and finally decided to pick this up 
 because it had dropped in price. Ever since that day I have been unable to stop playing it, even 
 though usually it is in short bursts. Anyway, let me walk you through the positive and negative 
 features of this game.
  
  Gameplay: This, in my opinion, is probably the MOST important part of a game and what makes a game 
 fun. It starts off with a few nice little tutorial missions that do a fairly good job of getting 
 you used to the game. The premise is basically you have a bunch of buildings on a given map, and 
 you get money depending on how many cities you have. You have to create units and take turns moving 
 toward the enemy and destroying their units along with capturing their buildings. It seems like 
 a simple concept but it can get strategically complex very fast. In essence it is like a very advanced 
 game of chess. The thing that makes this game really fun is the fact that since you really have 
 to think your way through each move, you really have a sense of accomplishment when you win, and 
 when you lose you usually understand why and can learn from your mistakes. The main thing that 
 draws from the fun is the very mediocre story. The reason why this still scored a 9 though is because 
 once you start playing, the story becomes irrelevant anyway. This also makes very good use of the 
 touch screen, making the game very simple to play without having to learn button actions. It is 
 basically point-and-click type of deal. Even better is that it still allows you to play with the 
 buttons, for those of you that have played the last two game on the GBA and don't really want to 
 adapt to a new play style (my friend who introduced me to this game is like that) . It may seem 
 like a small thing but the fact that this game gives you the CHOICE of different controls really 
 is quite nice, and allows more people to be able to enjoy this. Speaking of the GBA, that leads 
 us to the next point.
  
  Graphics: Really the graphics on this game are pretty much just a very slight upgrade of the GBA 
 games' graphics (In case you didn't know, this is the third game in the series, the last two of 
 which were on the GBA) . This isn't really a bad thing since the simple visuals and such get the 
 job done, and it isn't like the game is hard to look at because the graphics are horrible. The 
 colorful animations and sprites are simple to the point that you can't help but like them, and 
 it really fits the mood. Why did I give it a 7 only then? Well regardless the graphics are too 
 simple for a DS game. They could have at least done some sort of anime style cutscenes and left 
 the actual gameplay graphics the same, they don't really make use of the DS hardware in this category 
 which is a pity.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are simple but effective and the each Commanding Officer has his or her 
 own theme song, which is quite nice but I will admit some of the themes are annoying. Nonetheless 
 the music is actually overall nice but this is lacking a little in the sound effects department.
 
  
  Value: This game, frankly speaking, will last you a VERY long time. There is a lot to do after 
 you beat the Campaign (which is fairly long and actually is quite challenging as you move along, 
 which a lot of games these days lack) . As you win missions you get Experience Points for your used 
 CO (Commanding Officer) that levels you up and allows you to use various power-up abilities in 
 battle. There are many CO's to choose from too so there is a lot of levelling to do. Also coming 
 back to get S-ranks in all missions is very fun and then the new mode, Combat, is quite amusing 
 and adds another way to come back. Plus there are various maps to unlock to play in a skirmish 
 type of scenario. This game is almost endless in its fun. There is one main point I left out though: 
 Multiplayer. This game is GREAT because you can play with one game pack on one DS or with multiple 
 DS's and game packs. The multiplayer is just as fun as most of the best RTS games I have played 
 and never gets old.
  
  Overall this game is exceptional and if you own a DS, this should be in your collection no matter 
 what. I never leave home without this game, and the fact that it allows you to save mid-battle 
 is VERY nice. Try First or Buy? Buy. I honestly can't think of anybody that wouldn't like this 
 game (except for those who don't have ANY patience) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Duel Strike is the third game in the series. This game should have never been made. 
 The story is makes absolutely no sense. Maybe because I never played the first and second Advance 
 Wars games but still. The gameplay was alright but there just was not much depth. An easy way to 
 win was just build mega tanks and elt them romp across the battlefield. But even worse than the 
 gameplay was the characters and dialog. What is gamespot talking about? The characters may all 
 have personalities but they are all retarded. And the dialog was just awful. I think Intelligent 
 Systems was trying to make a Fire Emblem without the rpg part. Either way they failed. The whole 
 combat part where you played in real time was also really stupid. This game had potential but in 
 the end failed miserably 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was so highly rated, I really was expecting alot from it. I guess it's not fair but I 
 think my high expectations worked against this title. It is good but it didn't live up to my expectations 
 which were of a 9.0+ calibur title.
  
  Graphics are bright, colorful, and generally attractive, but I don't feel they make use of the 
 DS's available power, not to mention there is some pixelation, and attack animations leave alittle 
 to be desired. Overall though, graphics are good.
  
  Sound Is fine, it doesn't really stick out in my mind as being anything really bad.
  
  Gameplay 
 is solid, if you take the opportunity to learn all the nuances it is a fairly deep strategy game. 
 In fact I think the depth is perfect, anymore intensive and it would not be ideal for a portable 
 system.
  
  Storyline is alittle on the generic story and can be boring. The character design is good and at 
 least they have distinct personalities, but I never really cared about them.
  
  If you want a strategy game, then this is a worthile candidate, but do not expect a masterpiece. 
 This is a good, solid game, BUT it is not a AAA title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyroglex
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  With all the crappy games coming out on other systems, the DS's games are a refresher. And let 
 me tell you, Advance Wars Dual Strike is worth every penny. This is the best strategy game I have 
 ever played for any system. You quickly learn the controls in this game so you won't ever be confused. 
 There are tons of CO tag combos and different modes in this game, which gives you a large variety 
 to choose. The only thing I dislike are the cheap COs, such as Nell and Hachi, whose abilities 
 are a bit unfair. Otherwise, this game is great: I highly recommend it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I love chess. when this game came out, i instatnly bought this game like there is no tomarow. the 
 campaign is hard because you'll need a good stragity for this game. in the Advance Wars 2, my favorit 
 character was Eagle, the master of plains. now, my favorit character is called von bolt. my fried 
 told me about this game while im playing chess with him. after he told me the game, i could't consitrate 
 and lost the game. people who love chess like me or like stagitize, you should get this game nomatter 
 what. my favorite part is that you could move your unit with your styles or your finger (its hard 
 to use your finger) . every turn, you get to move your army one by one, thats the coo part. its 
 amazing how they created this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  this game i thought was fun off and on. i couldn't play it too much until i found it boring, but 
 if i wouldn't play it for a couple weeks i would start to crave it. but the gameplay is great. 
 but one thing it is lacking is wifi, if only they had wifi on it this game would of been the perfect 
 game. if you played the gbadvanced version of advanced wars you would know that it would use a 
 version where you run around and fight. with duel strike there is a combat version whiche is fun, 
 but difficult. and another new setting which is obvious from the title, you can use 2 different 
 CO's in a fight, and when both CO'S have super poweres its like they could have two turns but, 
 only during one turn. and you can also have two differnt wars at once. if you have never played 
 advanced wars or loved the last advanced wars this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPmaster1199
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  First, before I get to the good, here's the bad. The graphics and the sound are pretty much the 
 same as it's predecessers, not to say that it's bad. It's actually, it's pretty good for a strategy 
 game. also, the story isn't all that creative. Now, on with the good. The gameplay is super intricate. 
 Almost any type of army unit you can think of is here. The gameplay modes are great. Even the combat 
 mode is pretty good. The only thing that newbies would frown upon would be the insane difficulty 
 of the later levels of the modes. the AIs won't roll over and die for you. Other than some minor 
 flaws, AWDS is a must have for anybody, especially fans of strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirborneAce
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game spells perfection in my book. They took the original AW formula and added a LOT to it, 
 there are literally tons of things to do. This definately isnt one of those games you pick up and 
 are completely finished with a day or two later. This game can hold your interest indefinately.
 
  
  The difficulty has definately kicked up a notch or two from previous AW games. No longer can you 
 manipulate the AI into attacking your APC every time and no longer will the AI send every 1 HP 
 unit back to heal. You will definately get frustrated at times but for me, it just keeps me coming 
 back for more.
  
  If you dont have this game already, you need to get it now. Its a MUST-HAVE for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthkaiser
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the best strategy game Ive ever played. It has old elements from the other Advance Wars 
 games and it has a lot of new elements. The units for example; we can see new units such as Stealth 
 fighter, Carriers, the Pipe Cannon and the Megatank. Each one of these has their good side and 
 bad side. The Commanders; we can sea whole new bunch of commanders like Javier or Jake each one 
 of them with their CO Power ready to kick buts. The Campaign of this game is quite long enough 
 to keep you playing with your DS a LOT of time. Although the normal campaign is easy I cant say 
 that of the hard campaign it has some brutal difficulty.
  Another good point in this game is the replay value, if you want to complete the 100% of the game 
 you have to play like you were some strategy maniac. The thing I like of this game to is that this 
 game is pure strategy on the campaign, on the war room, on versus, etc. You have to move your units 
 very carefully if you dont want to get toasted by your opponent. The only bad thing of this game 
 is that it has no WI-FI connection.
  I recommend this game to everybody so if you didnt like the game after you read my review then 
 you havent played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly the bst DS game in current time. I have spent much time with this game and it 
 has kept me going for wuite some time. This game is just short of being a perfect game. I havn't 
 been more addicted to a DS game since Star Fox Command. The controls in this game aren't very complicated. 
 You can either use the buttons or your stylus, totaly optional. You will be controlling numous 
 amounts of men or vehicles. You wil fight on land, air, and water. The terrain in the game varies 
 throughout the story. You will encounter new and old weapons and vehicles. The gameplay does change 
 as you progress. Like at the beginning, you will be given a certain amount of troops to keep alive, 
 but when you get deeper into the game, you will have money to spend and you will have to capture 
 buildings so you can expand your army further more.
  
  The attck system is pretty easy to under stand once you tell your character of choice to go a certain 
 length, you will choose to attack. You will watch as your group of soldiers takes on the other. 
 They will have an amount of 10 to start with. The more you attack, the lower there number goes. 
 You will also be attacked. Remember this, some vehicles are for soldier transportation only so 
 you can not attack with those certain vehicles.
  
  You will will be in tag battles sometimes so when you get more and more kills, you can switch between 
 characters and see what they have to offer. If you keep beating the opposing force, you will get 
 a Power option. If you use it, your guys will gain power and there attack percentage will increase. 
 But, if you have the patience, you can wait until you get 2 Star Power and that will make everything 
 even more powerful. BUT, if you ignore that and keep up the fighting, you earn Tag which will let 
 you attack for 2 turns in a row. So the enemy will have a tough time when you are in Tag mode.
 
  
  This game goes through at least 30 missions whice will keep you playing for well over 15 hours. 
 Advanced Wars: Dual Strike is an imporvement from the current games in the series. Why? Well, this 
 game has more to offer. Like, the bottom screen with the DS. You also have a more extended story 
 and you will be able to duke it out with your friends via Multi-Card play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elie05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the best DS game I've played to date, and just like previous entries 
 in the series, it does not disappoint. It's a fun strategy game to put it very simply. You can 
 play it for 5 hours engaged in a grueling battle or for just 5 minutes playing the new Combat mode.
 
  
  The game has has amazing value: Highlights include the Campaign mode which is where the story plays 
 out, the War Room where there are many different types of strategic battles to be fought, an intricately 
 detailed map editor, Versus mode where you can play against a friend or AI, and Combat mode which 
 is intense action in one map.
  
  In my honest opinion, this game is a must have for all DS owners, unless you complete hate strategy 
 games. The gameplay is fluid, and can be controlled completely with the touch pen, the graphics 
 are great for a portable, and the longetivity for the game is extensive. Campaign is fairly easy 
 but there is a hard mode unlockable, and War room has very tough challenges as well. For the average 
 gamer, the game is relatively hard but it would be no fun if it was too easy. Advance Wars is hours 
 of fun packed into one tiny cartridge. It's an excellent game and definitely one of the best handheld 
 games ever created to date. It's gameplay is both addictive and immersive and I guarantee you'll 
 get hooked. If you want intense battles on the go mixed with strategy elements, Advance Wars: Dual 
 Strike is the perfect choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_General2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is my second foray into the Advance Wars series, the first being the 
 first game on the Game Boy Advance. This title takes everything that the original had and puts 
 so much more into the package, the value is astronomical. When boredom strikes on the daily commute, 
 or on a long bus trip, Dual Strike has saved me more than once. At its core, it's a turn based 
 strategy game played on a field of squares where each side produces units, captures cities or sites, 
 and tries to crush the enemy by attacking them. Though it sounds simple, the variety of this game 
 makes it surprisingly deep and complex.
  
  This game picks up where Advance Wars 2 left off. I had never played that game, but apparently, 
 the primary enemy (Black Hole) had been defeated. Of course, the threat arises again in a new part 
 of the world, and it's time for the four iconic armies (Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green Earth, and 
 Yellow Comet) to band together once again the drive the invaders out. The cartoony quality of the 
 characters and story makes them quite memorable and endearing, which is a relief since it could 
 have easily become annoying or repetitive. The characters themselves are great, and the dialog 
 they say to one another before, after, and during missions is quite flavorful. There's some pretty 
 funny and surprisingly witty writing in this little game; just don't expect Shakespeare or anything.
 
  
  The cartoon-style art direction even extends to battles, as it always has, and this ends up in 
 hilarious little matchups between infantry, tanks, APCs, Bombers, and a slew of other units. The 
 visuals on the map screen are simpler, but effective, and keep managing your army a painless affair. 
 The musical track that plays during your turn depends on the CO (Commanding Officer) you choose. 
 Most are pretty catchy, but some are downright annoying. Sound effects are pretty simple, but work 
 well in their context and don't get in the way of anything. Tanks sound like tanks, gunfire like 
 gunfire, etc. All in all, the game provides a very neat package of graphics and sounds which works 
 great for playing the game, even for extended periods of time.
  
  As said before, this game is a turn based strategy game. You first, however, get to choose a CO 
 which changes your army's abilities drastically. Some lower costs, and quality, whilst others raise 
 them. Some specialize in certain units, while others are more balanced. All of them have a unique 
 power which, when used, can have a decisive effect on the game. There are a lot of these varied 
 COs, and they're sufficiently different from one another to make the whole system really interesting. 
 Once you've got a CO you like, you basically take turns moving units, capturing sites, building 
 new units, and attacking the enemy. The inclusion of so many unit types, different unit strengths 
 and weaknesses, and the different kinds of terrain makes these "wars" really deep despite their 
 initial simplicity. The main campaign, which is quite lengthy, often raises the complexity further 
 with unique objectives, time limits, or even special units and sites. The camaign is certainly 
 fun, and at times provides a good challenge, but essentially boils down to a trial and error affair 
 if you keep losing missions.
  
  Still, that's not all to be found... not by a longshot. This game has individual missions, "challenge" 
 missions, multiple kinds of multiplayer, a scenario editor, and even a real-time battle minigame. 
 There's such an insane amount of content in this little package, one could probably play this game 
 alone for years and still not get absolutely everything. Plus, as you progress, you can buy all 
 kinds new content using earned currency from the Shop. It's the multiplayer which is the most prominent 
 feature, though, and it can be played wirelessly or turn-based on a single DS. It's certainly a 
 blast and if you have any interested friends it's more than worth picking it up.
  
  In the end, you've basically got a fun little game here. That game, however has broadened it's 
 scope so far that it becomes exponentially deeper and more interesting. It then packed on such 
 a ludicrous amount of content, you'll be happy until the end of time. It's pick up and play at 
 it's finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rico_06
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  This game was so good even though i clocked it a couple of months ago it was a experience not to 
 forget! The story was like just perfect to hard but i enjoyed it heaps and i recommend it to people 
 who like stuff with guns and massive machinery and all kinds of action!!! It's the best story line 
 well not the very best but it's excellent!!!! It's got heaps of colour and action packed pictures! 
 Story was mad and so very cool please you i reccomened this to you heaps!!!!! Also the other modes 
 are awesome like the one were you make your own map that is so cool and war room also a cool place 
 and after you clock the game you get the sound room and the art gallery!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Even though, I never played an advance war title before this point, I knew what the series was 
 about, and I jumped right in.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  I have to say I love the game play. Its turn based strategy at its best for a hand held. Rome Total 
 War this is not, but how the hell are you supposed to expect that out of a hand held. Anyway, you 
 build up an army, and fight other armies. You capture buildings with foot soldiers to make money, 
 airports to make air units, factories to make ground units. Missle Silos allow you to fire one 
 missle that is devastating. I found the game difficult, and enjoyed the fact that it actually makes 
 you think. What CO power is important, what beats what. Its all good.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Pretty good sharp 2D graphics. The graphics look like they could have been done on the GBA, but 
 it is still good graphics. None of the effects will blow you away, none of the sprites are particularly 
 superb. The game just looks sharp, from menu to game play.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is catchy. Other than that, your treated to some generic fighting effects that would 
 fit in any game. Though, it fits this game especially good for no real reason at all besides good 
 design.
  
  VALUE
  
  The game has a lengthy campaign and a level editor. There is also multiplayer, with bots, a real 
 time multiplayer that is worthless also. It will keep you busy for a long time with its difficulty 
 and multitude of characters and scenarios.
  
  TILT
  
  The games grab is what I comprise tilt of. The games story, is bland. So without a story to grab 
 you and make you keep playing, the game puts in addictive gameplay. The game would have been better 
 with a good story, and the tilt would have been higher, but overall, the game has a decent grab 
 to it.
  
  OVERALL
  
  If you have half a brain (or more in some cases) , and half a knack for turn based strategy games, 
 you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangent
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This is another great game in the small genre of turn based strategy on a mobile device. A lot 
 of fun, and deffinately worth the purchase. The main mission can run you as along as 10 hours, 
 though there is plenty to do after you've finished up the regular mission (such as an unlockable 
 hard mission, which is many of the same sort of beginning missions, just with the odds stacked 
 more against you) .
  
  I'm a very critical person, however dont take what I'm going to say as any reason not to try this 
 game out. Here were I noticed about the game: 1) The graphics didn't really get a boost from the 
 previous games. There are nice touch screen functions, but this game could of pretty much been 
 released on a GBA with the exception of its DS battles (Battles that take place on two screens... 
 two battlefields) .
  2) Every Commanding Officer (CO) has their own music. A very nice change from most games where 
 you're stuck listening to the same 5-10 tracks the whole game, though the songs do get annoying 
 sometimes if you play the same CO's too often.
  3) Being able to play 2 COs at the same time is a great idea and I'm glad they put it into this 
 game.
  4) Little work gone into creating a fun multiplayer environment. Multiplayer games are still slow 
 and not too fun.
  
  This is a great game, and a must own for anyone who has a DS and is looking for a good time. Worth 
 checking out even if not a fan of the genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T13SAMBRLNM
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series is one of the biggest sleeper series' to come in a long time. Advance Wars: 
 Dual Strike is the debut of the series on the DS. For those who don't know the series, Advance 
 Wars is a military turn-based strategy franchise which involves using various military units such 
 as infantry, tanks. APCs, helicopters, planes and battleships. The goal is to either destroy all 
 opposing forces or capture the enemy's HQ. The game takes place in Omega Land, where the Black 
 Hole Army has returned and has somehow came back with loads of units. The gameplay works like an 
 average strategy game, but it has some interesting gameplay functions. For example, you earn funds 
 when you have a lot of cities anf facilities captured so you can make more units... okay maybe that 
 isn't so unique after all. Some new units have been added such a Stealth Bomber and the Mega Tank. 
 Visually, this game looks similar to the other two games before it. But it's a charming look. The 
 sound is also unique. The sounds of movement and weapons firing are quite interesting.
  
  If you want a easy pick and play for your DS, this is the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best games of our time. For the DS alone, it has one of the most 
 accessable multiplayers as people who don't even own a DS can play the full multiplayer using 1 
 DS. With a combat system that is the best in it's class- this is the game to check out if you like 
 turn-based strategy.
  The characters all have their own special moves and attributes and can accomodate any situation. 
 The music scores, while choppy and blurred when the sound is turned down- are great battle symphonies 
 that blast from the speakers, from light happy tunes of blue moon's Sasha; to the dark foreboding 
 hyms of Black Hole. Graphics are most perfectly updated from the old games, and the characters 
 look great. At times it can actually look like the battle sequences are in 3d.
  To save time I will say this, multiplayer is totally customizable. You pick army, color, character/s, 
 terrain, weather, powers, etc. You can even make your own maps and trade them with other players.
 
  Single player is a trial on it's own, consisting of 20+ long missions. And when you knuckle up 
 and beat the relatively easy main mode- try tackling hard mode. The game also has many other playing 
 features; survival, combat, and war room. With all of these combined, I found out acouple days 
 ago- I have been playing this game for over 104 hours, and not even unlocked everything yet.
  To strategy fans like myself, if you can slip past the slow turn-base of this game, it is an awesome 
 buy that i reccomend to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked this game up when it came out, I really was a little unsure about it..... but 
 as soon as I played the game I knew it was the best purchase on the DS I had ever made!
  
  Gameplay: This game truly is the ultimate strategy game. To sum things up, you have a barracks 
 to create varied military units that capture other buildings, and you must find a way to either 
 completely topple your opponent or capture their headquarters. Those familiar with Fire Emblem 
 will easily be able to pick this up and play. The game features a top down view that displays the 
 entire map consisting of a grid to move your units on. While some of this may sound a little complicated 
 and confusing, it really is quite addictive. This game allows for more strategy than you can imagine 
 between tanks, recon, soldiers, planes, piperunners, battleships and tons of different unique CO's 
 (commanding officers) to choose from. For those who are familiar with the franchise, you will notice 
 two new CO's Rachel and Jake, two very skillful if used correctly CO's at that. Along with these 
 two new CO's comes a completely new system where you can have not just one, but two CO's commanding 
 a battle at once, hence the name Dual Strike (the title given to two powers being used at once) . 
 Two CO's obviously means twice the strategy, twice the power, and twice the fun! If your looking 
 for a complex story here, you certainly have one, even if a few parts of the dialogue could be 
 a little better and extensive. In between battles there are small cut scenes shown between character 
 animations. Yeah, it really doesnt sound like a lot, but considering there are around 30 missions 
 in the story mode it does add up. Keep in mind that all of this only includes the story mode, and 
 not the MANY other modes that are in this game like combat, VS., and War Room which are all unique 
 and fun in their own way. If you want a game with fun, addictive, and challenging gameplay this 
 is the game for you!
  
  Graphics: Screenshots really dont do this game much justice. To be honest, when your in the top 
 down view the graphics do look pretty bad, but if you look a little harder you will notice there 
 is a bit of detail involved in the environments. Also, the animations are great to watch in between 
 movements, and the character animations are wondeful and are noticably detailed. Overall, while 
 it certainly isnt the best looking game on the DS, it gets the job done and is still an improvement 
 over previous installments to a certain extent.
  
  Sound: The music certainly fits the game. If your in an intense battle and are in all out war, 
 the music will be fast paced and intense. If your building up units and everythng is calm.... the 
 music stays at a slow pace and matches the calm feel of the battle. The game's music fits in perfectly, 
 and I really couldnt imagine it being different. Developers could have switched it up at certain 
 points... but other than that there really aren't any complaints.
  
  Value: There are few games on the Nintendo DS that can match this games overall value. There are 
 so many unlockable things and different modes that I literally could not name them all if I had 
 to. Not to mention the multiplayer in this game is excellent assuming you have a friend to play. 
 Even if your friend weren't to have a copy of the game, you could still try out the combat mode 
 through download play.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike meets all expectations and even goes a step above that. It's addictive, 
 fun, and it's gameplay mechanics arent overly hard to figure out in comparison to other strategy 
 games. This could easily be one of the best strategy games ever. I would recommend this to anyone 
 looking for a good game on the DS...... trust me, even if you thought you didn't like strategy 
 games, this will change your mind about that within a few minutes of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakelhj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Ok, so, to let you know how great this game is, I bought it right? Not even a week later my boyfriend 
 stole it from me and I haven't seen much of it since. He has beaten the campaign mode and still 
 can't put it down!
  
  From what I've played of it (which isn't as much as it would be if I could get it back! ;) ) this 
 game is awesome! When you play the campaign mode it starts of easy (maybe even a little too easy 
 for you geniuses out there!) and gets progressively harder, though it's designed to aid even the 
 most timid of players into getting the hang of, and progessing further into the game. I'll have 
 to admit, the characters can say some pretty cheesy things during the dialogue, and none of them 
 are cheesier than Jake, but you can hardly consider that as a fault of the game, because the gameplay 
 is so brillant... you have to play it to see what I mean. When I was reading other reviews of this 
 game before I bought it, none of it really made sense to me, so I decided I would take a leap of 
 faith. If that's you right now, TAKE THE LEAP! YOU WILL BE GLAD YOU DID! Now, one of the first 
 thoughts I had as I started playing this game was how awesome it would be with multiplayer, though 
 I was quite disappointed to find out that you can only play the Combat mode with Download play, 
 which is fun for maybe one second, if that. I haven't had a chance to get with someone else who 
 has a copy of this game to test out the other multiplayer function, but I'll have to say when I 
 was trying to figure out how to do the download play, the instruction booklet was of absolutely 
 no use. It will tell you to go to another page for more information and when you turn to that page, 
 it tells you to go back. I figured out how to do it by a stroke of luck! But that seems to be the 
 only fault in the game. I'll probably update this once I can test out the DS to DS play with 2 
 cards.
  
  But even if you just play it with the computer, it's a rewarding game with tons of replay value... 
 and I would venture to say this game is a must for any DS owner to have, period! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_dude_666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok let's say you have a DS and your'e loking turn based strategy game
  this is youre choice withouth say. For those of you ho remembre the other two advance wars games 
 this is also a very good purchase. Only if youre already played trough the other two games the 
 campain is gonna be pretty easy but there is the unlockebale hard mode and the all new storyline, 
 missions and new CO will keep you entretaint for quite a bit. There are some new units like the 
 megatank the black boat and a bunch of other units. So there is this new story thats unfolding on 
 Omegaland. The black hole forces have a new commander in chief named von bolt and the story is pretty 
 intresthing,
  
  Like i said previous advance wars players are gonna now wath to do and the new story is not that 
 confusing. Yet I played the other advance war games and finished them but wen my freind came home 
 with dual strike i played like five hours straight ( man the game is realy addictive.)
  For those ho havent played the other games it can be frustrating at first but you will get the 
 hang of it pretty fast.
  
  So tere you are moving units around fighting capturing bases and stuff i may sound lame here (well 
 it did to me) but if you give it a chance theres a pretty good chance of you liking it. The game 
 offers you all sorts of new and old CO's each one with various strenght's and weaknese's and special 
 powers. The new feature is you can be two CO's at once (in a team) So this new "mechanic" called 
 Dual strike let's unleash unleash both youre CO's super powers and let's you have two turns wich 
 can easely turn a game around. There is also an new system wich let's you level up youre CO's so 
 they gain new abilities. There are also 2 new game modes.
  
  In the DS battle mode you wil command one front one the touch screen and the computer will command 
 the other one, or you can comand both. You can send units from one front to another to insure winning 
 on one of them, if you do that you will automaticly have an advantage on the other one.
  The other new game mode is like an real time arcade style game where you control your units move 
 them around capture stuff and shot at other units.
  
  Overall this is a great game and it's a DS must have
  
  Gamer dude 666 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Game play 10/10: The game play is just like the other Advance Wars but more features are included 
 which makes the game an even better game than it was before. There are 2 modes of play; normal 
 battles just like the previous games and a new mode called Combat. The original mode is great and 
 tends to make you think a lot and needs strategies to beat most missions. The other mode, Combat, 
 is a great installment to the series. It is fun and very quick and easy to learn.
  
  Graphics 8/10: The graphics department is the only flaw-ful thing about the game. The engine uses 
 the same as the previous Advance Wars and looks like GBA graphics. Still they are certainly not 
 bad, the artwork is great and keeps a clean lag-less look and feel.
  
  Sound 9/10: The sound is good in this game simply put. Every CO character has a theme song when 
 used on the battlefield and the music is catchy yet memorable. 
  
  Value 10/10: This game has so much depth! There are many modes such as, Campaign, War Room, Combat, 
 Survival, Vs, and other modes such as wireless play. The campaign alone is around 30-40 hours for 
 the average gamer to complete it. This game takes over 100 hours to complete the game fully.
  
  Overall 9.6/10: Overall this game is a must buy for EVERY DS owner. It has great game play, 
 great artwork, good sound and music, many modes, and will last a VERY long time. Buy it NOW if 
 you do not have it.
  
  Thank-you
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Revan_666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Advance wars : Dual strike is one of those games that you need give a lot of your free time to 
 master it. Even after 30 hours of play I've still not been able unlock many things because the 
 game is long and hard, if you're a patient person you will enjoy this game, if you're not then 
 this game will frustrate you.
  
  In this game there are 5 playing modes , the campaign, versus , war room , survival and combat. 
 The versus mode is more about practicing your commanding skills in the maps of your choice than 
 any other things , the war room is about earnings points (to buy stuff like maps ) on maps of your 
 choice , the campaign is about going through missions , the survival mode is about surviving with 
 a certain amount of money or turns and the combat mode is kind of shooter in real-time . All of 
 those modes are fun , the survival mode is probably the one you will play the less because of his 
 difficulty.
  
  The main default of the game is his difficulty but like I said you just need to be patient and 
 you will be good. The Graphics are OK but it could be worse. The sound are like the graphics , it 
 could have been better. Anyway the main reason you will buy this game is for this awesome gameplay 
 that need time to be mastered but with it all depth and the balance you can ask for.
  
  Finally , it's almost impossible to finish the game which is at the same a good and a bad thing 
 dependly of what type of player you are. It's not a game for everybody but it's sure a quality 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeppelin360
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series is a turn-based strategy game that's quick-paced and energetic, and absolutely 
 addictive because of all the little nuances in the game design keeping players on their toes. All 
 the action takes place on a grid map of different terrain, and the spots on the grid affect how 
 your troops handle the battle condition. Across land, sea, and air, you'll command a growing assortment 
 of troops and vehicles with one goal in mind: victory against the enemy armies. Even though the 
 game design is a turn-based affair, it does borrow a bit from the real-time strategy genre -- in 
 many missions players must earn revenue by controlling buildings within the set territory, and 
 convert those funds into troops to solidify and strengthen the lines against the opposing forces. 
 Missions can last anywhere from a simple couple of moves to several dozen before victory is had 
 by any side, and it's the player's mental skills that determine the outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squidward117
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well, for starters, this game is incredibly hard. If hard games make your brain hurt (like they 
 do mine) stay away like the plague. If you're a strategic genius looking for a challenge, go ahead 
 and pick this one up. But you can get this game play (Only a hell of alot more higher rendered 
 and sounds better) and more, in a game like Civ4. 
  
  AWDS is fun. I mean, It's a fun game. Problem is, once you get to the upper levels in the campaign, 
 it's almost impossible without some kind of guide. No game should ever be that difficult. The other 
 features, which offer some diversity, are fun bet get old mighty quickly. In arcade mode, you can 
 pick several maps and styles of gameplay with everyone against you. If you're a natural born George 
 Washington you should have little to no problem. There's also a multiplayer which is fun... If 
 you have friends that is.
  
  Let's talk about the plot and characters shall we? Well, albeit having extremely corny characters, 
 AWDS pulls off a stale plot. All having to do with fighting an organization called "Black Hole" 
 and saving Omega Lan from certain doom all the while earning new COs to help the fight along the 
 way... That's pretty much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series has been around in Japan for a very long time, but was only first introduced 
 to North America with the Game Boy Advance a few years ago. The game was a success, and it spawned 
 a sequel, Black Hole Rising, also for the Game Boy Advance. Dual Strike arrives on the Nintendo 
 DS and brings with it new modes, vehicles, and gameplay.
  
  For those who are not familiar with the Advance Wars series, it is a turn based strategy war game. 
 The gameplay is very simple in that you simply select your unit, point to where you want it to 
 go, and select an action depending on where the unit is in relation to its surroundings. There 
 are many different units to choose from, like infantry, tanks, rockets, jet fighters, submarines, 
 and transport vehicles. As you may guess from the mentioned units, wars can be fought in air and 
 on sea. Some new units in Dual Strike are carrier ships that can store and supply air units, a 
 bigger and stronger tank, called the Defender, and a powerful indirect unit called the Piperunner.
 
  
  Another feature that is new for this version is fighting a battle on two different fronts. Usually, 
 everything takes place on one screen, but with the second screen, you can fight a separate battle 
 at the same time. Not all missions will be like this, and there will even be a few where the AI 
 can only control the second front while you support it. This gameplay simply adds another layer 
 to the battles, and has you thinking about much more than you initially did in the previous two 
 games. 
  
  You can play as several COs, or commanding officers, and each one will have special abilities that 
 can help make the battle easier. As you battle, a power meter fills, and when it reaches specific 
 points, you can perform special attacks. Examples would be taking some health from all enemy units, 
 increasing movement spaces, or just getting a significant increase in attack power. Each CO has 
 his or her own ability. A new feature to this game is that you can fight with two COs at the same 
 time, and if you manage to fill both of their meters, you can perform a Dual Strike, which is going 
 twice in the same turn and using each COs power while doing it. Your COs will gain experience 
 points and level up the more you use them, and higher ranked COs can have extra abilities added 
 to them. 
  
  Although this may seem like a lot, it really is very easy to get into. The main campaign missions 
 teach you everything you need to know about how to play, and it does not give it all to you at 
 once. Even by the tenth mission, they will be introducing a new unit or gameplay element to you, 
 so it does a great job of catering to those who are new to the game. 
  
  There are literally tons of hours of gaming to be put into Advance Wars: Dual Strike. After the 
 main campaign mode, there is also War Room, Versus, Survival, and Combat. War Room is just a bunch 
 of individual battles that can be played over and over again to rank up your COs. Versus is pretty 
 much the same as War Room with some different settings. Survival will ask you to complete battles 
 with a set amount of money or within a specific amount of days. Finally, Combat is more of a real 
 time action version of the game, but you are only controlling one unit and can only change units 
 if your current unit is destroyed. There are so many maps to play in War Room and Versus, and even 
 more can be purchased using credits gained whenever you win a battle. 
  
  You can also create your own maps using the games map editor. It is all very easy to use, especially 
 with the touch screen, where you can just select and place and object wherever you want on the 
 map. The in game store will sell other items that you can use for your map, as well as cosmetic 
 things like background themes for the menu, and color schemes for each CO. You can use the created 
 maps, along with other pre-made maps, in multiplayer, where you can play with up to seven other 
 players over local Wi-Fi. 
  
  The graphics heavily remind me of the Game Boy Advance versions, and although everything looks 
 good, I know the DS can do much better. The same thing applies to the music. Many of the sounds 
 and tracks from the first two are recycled, with only a few new songs. It is not to say that any 
 of it is bad, but I can at least say that it could be better.
  
  I have always thought that the Advance Wars games were the best for people who are new to turn 
 based strategy games, and Dual Strike is no exception. With so many modes and maps to play on, 
 it will take a very long time to complete one hundred percent of the game. This game is perfect 
 for those who are new to the genre as well as the more experienced players. No veterans should 
 see this game as the my first turn based strategy game type of game. Sure, the campaigns default 
 difficulty was moderately easy, but several War Room and Versus maps simply have no mercy. I highly 
 recommend Advance Wars: Dual Strike to newcomers, veterans, and everyone in between. This is one 
 of the best DS games to date. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaman007
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This review might be somewhat biased. I am a big fan of the Advance Wars series. I had a friend 
 who owned the first Advance Wars, and he finally convinced me to try it out. I am a huge strategy 
 fan and this easily has to be one of the best turn based games I've ever played. 
  
  Shortly after, I bought a Gameboy SP solely for Advance Wars 2. I have never regretted that decision.
 
  
  I initially wasn't going to buy a DS, but when I heard that the next Advance Wars installment was 
 on it, I knew it would only be a matter of time. With the DS Lite being released, I figured now 
 was as good a time as any.
  
  I should establish this one thing. Advance Wars already has a solid system, well balanced gameplay, 
 and everything it needs to be the great turn-based strategy game that it is. After I beat and unlocked 
 all that I wanted to in Advance Wars 2, I did not think the game could get any better.
  
  Advace Wars DS takes the idea and blows it out of the water. Intriguing new generals, a host of 
 new unique vehicles, and new gameplay modes all combine to make this latest installment in the 
 series sky rocket beyond anything you could ever imagine.
  
  To veterans, the newest feature that is great is undoubtably the tag system. For those who haven't 
 played it, let me explain. You choose a CO (commanding officer) who is in charge of your troops. 
 Each CO has different strengths and weaknesses, as well as "special powers" that can affect the 
 overall battle. Knowing the strengths (and weaknesses) of your CO is critical to your strategy 
 if you want to win. 
  
  The new Tag system essentially lets you pick two CO's for one battle. At the end of a turn, you 
 can perform a "CO Swap" and tag your second CO into the battle. All the bonuses are immediately 
 changed to reflect the new CO's abilities. With this new feature, there are now several combinations 
 for CO's, whose strengths and weaknesses now have the potential to balance each other out, making 
 for some seemingly indestructible match-ups.
  
  For players new to the series, the game's tutorial is practically flawless. It explains everything 
 very well as you go, and you pick up on the nuances of basic strategy very quickly. The dialogue 
 of the story is a little corny, but otherwise the tutorial will teach you all you need to know 
 very quickly, leaving you to discover the subtle depth of the game for yourself.
  
  Other amazing new features include "Dual Fronts," where your top screen actually becomes a secondary 
 battle going on during the main one on the bottom screen. While the main battle is the one you 
 want to win, winning the secondary battle can help you out a lot.
  
  The other new mode is "Combat," a new real time shooting type scenario that is fun, as well as 
 a cool change if you want a break from the turn-based gameplay.
  
  An ok story, amazing gameplay, graphics and sound and a great tuned interface (I personally enjoy 
 using the stylus instead of the d-pad) all combine to make this a must have title for the DS. Whether 
 you enjoy challenging matches against the computer, designing perfect battlefields, or are able 
 to link wirelessly to play your friends, Advance Wars DS has something for everyone to enjoy, easily 
 making this one of the best games available for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmisImp
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutley perfect. This is a game you must buy if you own a DS. Advanced Wars DS 
 is the best game I have played on the DS. The price is a little high at 35$, but its worth every 
 penny, onsidering this game has an almost endless amount of game time. You can play through the 
 story, fight quick battles in the war room, play survival scenarios or even make your own maps 
 and play them. The multiplayer funtion is superb, its just a shame that its not on WiFi. There 
 is a ton of things to unlock, like wallpapers, new maps, new clothes and abilities for your COs 
 as well as other things.
  
  Overall, a DS masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loo-uk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Well i bought this game thinking it would be all its cracked up to be......... with such high reviews 
 and good recommendations . so i got the game and at first was happy and impressed......... but then 
 i hit a wall in the gameplay and found the flow of the game tedious and slow....... and i do normally 
 find Turn-Based Strategy games okay ...... but this one had no flare for me...... i regret buying 
 this now cuz i could of gotten bleach ds ...... now i cant ..... so just think about if this game 
 is really for you before you buy ...... and dnt just go wid other peoples thoughts !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noamatt128
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  In case you havent played any advance wars game yet, this on is the best one to start with. The 
 last 2 advance wars games have been hard to get in to because they were difficult for people who 
 have never played them. However, AW DS offers so much more than any other advance wars games.
 
  With all of the new modes, you'll be playing AW DS for hours a day.
  
  Unlike other AW games, this game has medals that you earn depending on what units you build and 
 destroy and pretty much everything you do. I don't quite fully understand the medals though, because 
 you sometimes just get them at random without them even appearing on the records. The only flaw 
 with the medals though, is that they dont show you what air or naval units youve built or destroyed. 
 Either, the medals will offer a huge ammount of depth to the game and keep you addicted even longer.
 
  
  AW DS also has more new units to choose from (my favorite is the stealth bomber) . Even for a turn 
 base strategy game, this game has ****loads of unlockables going from new characters to maps and 
 color sets. Beside with new unlockables, this game also has every single war room map from the 
 last game and offer difficulty for them also. The battles will last from 15 minutes to 2 hours 
 and still never get to the point where you want to throw your ds at the wall.
  
  The new features in this are the dual strike options, wich let cobine to CO powers (CO powers help 
 advance your units for a turn in case you didnt know) to make really powerful ones and extemely 
 devistating opponents. And now, the CO's can grow levels and get increased stat upgrades such as 
 higher mountain attack or road attack etc. But this is the only unbalanced part of the game because 
 you can just train a CO to level 10, and increase your winning chance by at least 30%.
  
  Overall, this is the best in the series and will keep you playing for hours on end. The extremely 
 well balanced game play is just what keeps this game so good. Some of the campain missions are 
 harder than others, but you shouldn' have a problem trying them 50 times. If you want a great ds 
 strategy game, this game has it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan175
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars for the Nintendo DS is a great sequel, to Advance Wars 2 for the GBA. It uses the 
 Dual Screens almost to perfection. Creating your own map can be loads of fun. The AI is not to 
 easy, so you're sure to get a lot of practice fighting them. Besides the creating of your own map 
 and the use of the 2 screens, there is not much more to this game, so if you don't get this, you're 
 not missing much. If you're a die-hard Advance Wars gamer then I highly recommend, this game, but 
 if you played the other 2 games, you won't have many surprises waiting for you. The wireless multi 
 player mode is pretty fun, and the DS ability to download info is pretty useful, if you don't have 
 a friend who has this game. The only thing that really upsets me is that you can't play this on 
 WIFI! If you are able to do this, can someone please tell me!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series comes to the Nintendo DS with this great title, Advance Wars: Dual Strike. 
 This strategy series has many fans from all around the world. With its cousin Fire Emblem, The 
 Advance Wars series is one of the best strategy series ever and will mark the video game history.
 
  
  Beaten off in the previous title, the Black Hole army profited of the few months next to their 
 lost to find another leader and more troops to attack the Allied Nations again. The Orange Star, 
 Blue Moon, Green Earth and Yellow Comet troops join together into the Allied Nations to fight another 
 time against the Black Hole and its evil leader. The wars here and you must lead your troops to 
 the victory.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike bring you in a military campaign of 28 missions. The first few missions 
 are quite easy and are used to teach you the game bases. You will meet gradually stronger units 
 to use and stronger enemies to fight against. The gameplay is the same than in the previous titles. 
 The upper screen shows you information about units and COs and is sometimes used to show special 
 thing like a missile trajectory. You use the DSs touch screen or the buttons to give orders to 
 your units, which move on a different map for each level. There are 3 types of units. The earth 
 units (infantry, tanks) , the boats (subs, battleships) and the flying units (bombers, copters) . 
 Some units can only attack other types of units, like the fighters which can just attack other 
 flying units. The foot soldiers can also be used to capture neutral or enemy cities and bases. 
 The captured building give you 1000 (money) per day. You will need the war fund to buy new units 
 from bases, airports and sea ports. To win, you can either destroy all your enemys units or capture 
 his HQ. In some missions, there might be some other goals like to capture a number of cities, or 
 to do something within a time limit. At the end of each mission, you will learn a little about 
 the games story. Advance Wars: Dual Strike features 19 old COs you can control and 8 all new COs, 
 each with all new abilities, strengths and weaknesses. All the COs have different Powers and Super 
 Powers with many useful effects. All the 19 old units, from the little tank to the powerful bomber, 
 can be used in this third title of the series. There are also 7 new units. The Aircraft Carrier, 
 the Black Boat, the Black Bomb, the Megatank, the Oozium, the Piperunner and the Stealth Fighter. 
 But the greatest gameplay innovation is the fact that you can now fight with two COs instead of 
 just one. By using the two COs Super Powers at the same time, you can perform a Tag Battle which 
 allows you to move your units two times. Some COs are better when paired with certain COs (like 
 Jake with Rachel or Hawke with Lash) . With the right combinations, your COs can perform very powerful 
 attacks when tagging with their partner. The Tag Battles can sometimes change the way the battles 
 going.
  
  The graphics changed just a little. On the maps, your units are still represented by little moving 
 icons and on battles, theyre represented with anime style drawings which shot at each others. 
 The developers tried to give and 3D aspect to the units icons on maps but it didnt work well. 
 The icons are smaller than in the previous titles and you sometimes confuse your units with others. 
 Your units have all 10 HPs (heart points) at full heal. The damages did are represented with percentages. 
 10% damages = 1 HP. When your units HPs are low, they have less firepower and are more vulnerable. 
 There are 3 ways to heal your damaged units. You can fuse 2 identical units to use together their 
 HPs and their fuel and ammo reserves or put your damaged units on captured cities. Each day (turn) , 
 the units based on cities will earn 2 HP and supplies of ammo and fuel.
  
  The sound themes and the sound effects are very better in this game than in the previous titles. 
 There are a lot more sounds than before and each COs have a different song when theyre used.
 
  
  You will need just 20 hours to beat the campaign. Thats quite short, but there are many bonuses 
 to get when you beat the game. You can play alone or with your friends the traditional multiplayer 
 game which consists of a normal battle against other armies. You play the game on maps and with 
 COs bought with Exp. Points earned in the campaign. You can also create your own maps with the 
 Map Editor and play with them in Multiplayer. Advance Wars: Dual Strike features also a minigame 
 where you control a unit in a real time action fight.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is an excellent game which uses greatly the DSs abilities such as the 
 two screens and the Touch Screen. This game is great as well in solo as in multiplayer. All strategy 
 players will love it, as well as the people who just want to know the games genre and have fun.
 
  
  Hope you like this review.
  
  Jacojac 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  The game is either the best or second best choice for anyone with a DS who doesn't know what to 
 get with it. The game is solid, and I could end the review right there. The game is worth the cost 
 due to all the replay value. It boasts a campaign mode, which is a staple in every game and is 
 very fun. It has the war room mode, which is just a quick set up game where you can play new maps 
 or ones you made yourself in the map editor. The map editor is very simple now with the touch screen 
 interface. It also has more of an arcade style action game where you actually control the units 
 on a map and go around like pac man with guns, avoiding enemies and stray bullets on your way. 
 And then of course you have multiplayer mode. Where you can play with friends on a single game 
 card or multiple game cards. This game unfortunately doesn't take advantage of Nintendo wi-fi, 
 but I am sure the next installment will. If you want to game to keep you occupied until the next 
 smash hit comes out, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Like many other portable titles out there, Advance Wars: DS unashamedly declares its loyalty in 
 the most conspicuous way. To those of you who insist that the abbreviation 'DS' must and always 
 mean Dual Screens, I'm sorry, the game's title proves a little too clever for you. Treat that as 
 a little fore-challenge though, as you should be well prepared: conquering the game definitely 
 requires a good amount of wisdom, strategy and wit.
  
  Wit is Advance Wars because DS really means Dual Strike in this latest installment of the popular 
 SRPG franchise, which was last seen in the GBA. Advance Wars: DS is definitely worth more than 
 a cheap pun, as sharing it's name with that platform which so effectively intensifies its beauty 
 is hardly its fault. If there's any example of how a perfect SRPG should be like, or how a DS should 
 be utilised, the game certainly gives us a pretty good hint on it.
  
  The war between the Black Hole Army and the Allied Nations sets the pace of this engaging journey. 
 Miraculously, the former was rejuvenated since the last game and they are now back with a greater 
 purpose: a new weapon which threatens to destroy the world. As the mother of all clichs, it will 
 be up to you to stop their evil doings. 
  
  Getting on the campaign mode is almost like a breeze; it unfolds in a story-driven, no-nonsense 
 manner. The first few missions serve somewhat as a tutorial for veterans and those who are new 
 to the game alike. You attack your opponents via three ways: land, sea and air. Regardless of which, 
 there is always a healthy selection of units for your shrewd planning. Balanced game play is key 
 to any SRPG, and Advance Wars is nothing but that. Whether theyre infantry units, tanks or bombers, 
 each has their own strengths and weaknesses. Infantry and mech units, albeit weak, are the only 
 ones who can capture enemy bases. Bombers are strong against units on the land, but they would 
 meet their doom in the hands of a nasty anti-air unit. Having a balanced array of weapons is key 
 to winning any battle, and mind you, it's no easy task.
  
  There are several ways you can win a particular battle. On any normal circumstances, you would 
 win the match if you capture the enemy headquarters or if you destroy all their units. Bearing 
 in mind that enemies also have that choice of building new units each turn, the textbook-style 
 of destroying everything and anything may not always work out well. Each battle is different 
 from one another, and you must have that flexibility to adjust to the un-foreseen. In addition, 
 with the inclusion of fog of wars and time-based missions, therere greater grounds for you to 
 flaunt your tactical capabilities. At the end of each battle, your performance would be graded 
 in three aspects: speed, technique and power, and you would be ranked accordingly. Depending on 
 the outcome, different amount of experience and war points would be awarded. Amid the huge fogs 
 of contents, the game seems to be moving in a direction -- brilliance.
  
  For all the convincing images of a real war which Advance Wars has been attempting to paint, they 
 most unfortunately fall apart here. A war is nothing without the commanding officers -- you. The 
 game first welcomes you with a pitiful selection of COs playable; Jake, a hot blooded teenager 
 who seems to have developed a liking towards internet slang, and Rachael, a feisty young lady who 
 insists that she's cute. Before you can scream "preposterous!", the game takes another reality 
 bite by introducing CO super powers. A paltry attempt to separate them from the rest, I imagined. 
 Anyway, you start each battle with an empty power gauge, and it fills up accordingly whenever meaningful 
 moves are executed. Most COs have access to two different super powers; one which can be unleashed 
 when the gauge is half-full, and a stronger one which is available once it hits the full scale. 
 The super powers are comprehensive, whether they're in the support, offensive or defensive categories. 
 
  
  Heres more good news to lovers of the genre. Each CO also has an innate strength and weakness: 
 some are strong in direct engagements, while others may falter in the ranged department. In Dual 
 Strike, as the name truly suggests, you would gain control over not one, but two COs at any one 
 time. To further entice us, their super powers can be tagged to form some devastating moves and 
 in its better days, would no doubt turn the tides of battles. Together with all the other tactical 
 considerations involved, the war is only for you to lose.
  
  Graphics looks inconsistent, though. Like a desperate attempt to match up with the colorful personalities 
 of the COs, the game does a similar, if not better job on their designs. In the most rebellious 
 way, however, the environments look plain and distasteful; threatening to undo the brilliance that 
 is said. The disparity seems so great you can be forgiven for imagining that the aforementioned 
 have to make do with a shared pool of limited palettes, such that over-usage in one results in 
 a shortage in the other. Perhaps the dull selection of colours serves as a justification that war 
 is ugly in nature, with much credit going to the grainy-like textures used in illustrating the 
 war-torn land.
  
  Ugly is however, not what you would associate with the battle sequences. The game relies on a heavy 
 dose of anime to paint their units, and the cutesy allure of the result looks somewhat like a satire 
 to the harsh reality that is a real war. Be it the sparks that shoot out of a firing rifle/cannon, 
 or the recoils that come with that, the game delivers us all the details. Like a seasoned war veteran, 
 the producing team wows us with their knowledge on wars; and with Advance Wars, it almost seems 
 that we too can play a part in it, without the hassle of any messy bloodshed of course.
  
  The game offers a good variety of scores, and each is tagged to a particular CO. That, everyone, 
 is a stroke of genius as it forces music to serve its rightful purpose: ambience. The compatibility 
 of the tunes to the CO is breathtaking; although taking breaths while playing Advance Wars: DS 
 should be the last thing on your mind. Sorry, but I've exaggerated a little. Be it the gung-ho 
 nature of an over-enthused CO, or the shy complexion of another, the scores accentuate their owners, 
 making these made-believed people all the more believable. 
  
  Again threading the line between reality and fiction, these tunes emulate the functions of war 
 cries: they set you in the mood. It influences the way you approach battles; a zealous score breeds 
 recklessness, while a judicious one throws you in a defensive mood. The brilliant music selection 
 almost overshadows other segments, which provide us with some convincing sound of gun fights. The 
 only complain I have here would be that over-employment of a particular CO would ring the same 
 tunes over and over again. But with an interesting cast of characters to boot, and a huge one at 
 that, it just prevents you from doing that.
  
  Long-suffering SRPG fans, your grieves are addressed. The painstaking control of a D-pad and buttons 
 combo is now replaced by the slick trio: touch screen, stylus and some nimble fingers. The easy 
 concoction of touching and dragging your units around is effortless. It makes us realize that touch 
 screens and SRPG is indeed a match made in heaven, never to be separated by those cursed X and 
 Y buttons again. The dual screens are put to good use as well; the upper screen provides some useful 
 information on terrains and enemy units without shifting your focus from the lower, the battlefield. 
 The way Advance Wars: DS abuses the platforms capabilities, you can forgive the untapped voice 
 control, its sole saving grace. When I now think Advance Wars, I think DS, much to the glee of 
 the game makers. Damned.
  
  To further insult other pretenders, Advance Wars: DS excels in terms of value, promising tons of 
 options and more importantly, fun. Besides the campaign mode, there is a war room for you to hone 
 your skills, and in doing so, trains your COs for some harsh roads ahead. A survival mode which 
 limits the amount of turns, money or time usable looks set to be the breeding ground for hardcore 
 gamers. With online game play, an achievement room, a design gallery, and a shop where you can 
 spend all those hard-earned war points, there is just so much to do with this game. 
  
  Advance Wars: DS brings out the potential of the Nintendo DS, and in doing so, it in turn embraces 
 the game with its welcoming arms. The game demonstrates the prospect of employing touch screen 
 technology on the genre skillfully, and that just may be the turning point of it in years to come. 
 Forget about rescuing the world, the game seems more likely to be saving the faltering genre that 
 is SRPG. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeerRosh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike has many more units, maps, CO's, a new type of power, dual front combat, 
 and a new story line. The game has gotten more difficult. The gameplay is different. New RPG style.
 
  
  Your CO's can now level up and gain abilities. However, your opponents almost never have abilities 
 of their own unless you give it to them. So the abilities are a way to make gamepley easier. Yet, 
 not using them can result in more experience.
  
  The graphics are cooler than ever. The CO Powers haven't changed, but the new Tag Power is an awesome 
 way to play.
  
  Their are more sounds involved. The old CO's still have their music, but thenew CO's have new music 
 that you probably aren't ready for.
  
  This game is definitely worth the money you pay for it. Just keep on playing to get these medals 
 that could get you Sturm if you acquire all 300 of them.
  
  Yet the game is getting farther away from real combat. A real soldier would laugh at it. Then again, 
 it is kind of funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaLoY21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: dual strike is a must have DS title for everyone. It offers awesome gameplay thats 
 easy to figure out and offers outstanding depth for an handheld game. The units are well balanced 
 the graphics are good and the game offers hours upon hours of gaming bliss. The characters in the 
 game are great and are very likeable but Jake is obviously a tacked on character by Nintendo to 
 appeal to the youth market. The game can be excruciatingly hard at most intervals but once you 
 beat one of these missions the feeling of accomplishment just astounds and leaves you coming back 
 for more. So all in all i urge every strategy an and DS owner to check out Advance Wars: Dual Strike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raver22boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Duel Strike was the first game that I picked up when I got my DS last summer and 
 I have been playing this game for months and have never really gotten tired of it. It is easily 
 recomended to anyone who is a fan of turn based strategy games.
  The gameplay in AW: DS is definately the best out of all the games in the advance wars series. Although 
 it might take a little while to get used to the gameplay, once you've learned it you will spend 
 hours making strategies and carying them out on the battlefield. The graphics in AW: DS are nothing 
 special, but they do the job for the game. I found that there are some nice touches with the graphics 
 though, like on water maps you will ocasionally see small sea birds fly across the screen.
  The sound in the game, like the graphics, does its job but is nothing special. This game will keep 
 you playing for a long time, due to the vast amount of game modes. This is easily one of the best 
 games for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylchew91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  this is the 1st turn based strategy that i played. hesitated on this game cos i have never really 
 like one. i bought on simply becos of its superb review.
  
  pro- game is simple to learn and graphics is interesting to view. there are many weapons available 
 and ea has its own strength against another. thought capturing more buildings can help get more 
 funds to build a stronger asernal of army, it takes someone who knows the strength/weaknesss of 
 ea unit in order to win fast and w a S (superb) rating.
  
  this game keeps me thinking even when i am not playing and makes me wanting to go back to the game 
 each time to try out my new strategy.
  
  definitely a must buy, a fun game that you can play even when on short journeys since its turn 
 based and you can save at any point of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpu1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  All you boppers out there better watch out for this game cause its got solid set of COs each one 
 heavier than the last. Sorry I've been playing The Warriors. I think this is one of the best handheld 
 game ever. There is just so many things to do, I'm actually playing advance wars right now! There 
 are 28 COs this time ( I think the original only had 14) each one has 2 powers (Sensei's super 
 power is my favorite) ,6 new units (the Stealth fighter is the best) and new tiles make this game 
 simply awesome. the only thing keeping this game from being perfect is Jake, with lines like "You 
 got served a bowl of hot smackdown soup" its hard not to hate him. But other than that its a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LJGPliskin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game brings the old formula from the GBA Advance Wars games and applies it to the DS perfectly. 
 It leaves the keeps the formula the same while making subtle changes to make the entire experience 
 much better. 
  
  There are plenty of unlockables and awards to keep you playing this game even after you've beaten 
 the campaign once or twice. Some of the new mecahanics in the game include Tag Powers, and dual 
 screen battles which add a whole new level of depth to the game.
  
  Pretty much the only gripe that I have with AW: DS is the fact that there could've been better 
 touch screen use. The entire Campaign I played without using the stylus. On the other hand, the 
 touch screen made it much easier to use the map maker / editor.
  
  I had high expectations for this game after owning and beating Advance Wars 2: Black Hole Rising 
 for the GBA. And I'm happy to say that AW: DS has met every one of those expectations and then 
 some. So the bottom line is: if you have a DS and don't have this game, buy it, now. And if you 
 don't have a DS, this is a very good reason to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2gamerz22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of my first for the DS and i was at first skepticle....
  but the more and more i played it it just seemed like one of the best out there
  
  It is a 
 very easy game to comprehend..... and the comptetion i have with my friend and his younger brothers 
 is crazy!!
  i play this game a lot theres no end to it
  once u beat the campaign there is hard campaign to keep u going
  
  Although the AI can be hard 
 at times, there r lots of guides out there to help!!
  i just feel it is a must-have game for anyone with DS on them
  it is also easy to unlock characters 
 and you can grow them lvls... making the fun just not end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red-Neck
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  I really was expecting much more of strategy game for the DS, than this one, a friend and I often 
 discussed how we would be able to use the stylus as the mouse, on the PC, to do RTS games. When 
 we get the new the game is going to be in turns. The first thing we should think is, will it have 
 various game modes? will it have a multiplayer that kicks butt? Will it be as complex as Civ. games 
 can be?
  The answer for this question regarding AWDS is no. Maybe it`s because its hard to implant such 
 creativity into a handheld. Maybe it`s just the developers style of game, but seriously, it has 
 easily been converted from the GBA. No changes witch makes us go WOW, and im afraid to say, barely 
 any upgrades at the graphics. Nintendo says that the DS, is capable of reaching a mature level 
 of graphics, but only developers can make that possible, and in this case they didnt. 
  For me, to a turns strategy game to be good, it has to ROCK like the Civ. series did. Otherwise 
 it is pure rubish. Or, it is just not worth your money. Maybe not even worth renting it. 
  
  And I`m sorry gamespot, these game doesnt have any similarity with Harvest Moon.
  None, at 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgnurules
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Since i heard about how fun and good this game is from other people, i decided to buy it. this 
 game is more streamlined compared to age of empires ds and other turn based strategy games, but 
 it lacks the gathering of resources other than just capturing cities. Needless to say, the gameplay 
 is great and balanced by the many different types of units.
  
  The graphics are okay, but they aren't amazing. If anything, I would rather have liked to see some 
 type of 3d engine rather than a gba style graphics.
  
  The sound is pretty good, with mostly different noises per weapons like the rockets of artillery 
 or the cannons of tanks.
  
  This game has many modes for you to set high scores, play in an arcade style real-time fights and 
 single and multicard options which are great in terms of value. considering i bought the game a 
 couple of days ago, i've already logged many hours into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is one if not the most addictve ds games in the world! I just fined it 
 on my new ds lite... but really this game looks like a gba game but the game play makes up for 
 it 10 fold. The chartacters are really fun to follow and blow to he11 and back again. The sounds 
 are perficty placed for this stly of game play. They made great use of the stlyest and other uses 
 for the ds but not the mic : ( There are tons of little games that you can play even thoe some of 
 them...... well suck. Well there is only one really. but over all thing game is the game to get 
 for the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  I believe this game does so well cause they keep it simple and fun to play. It gives u a nice variety 
 of units at your dissposable without it being over bearing on which units to create. Helps you 
 concentrate on strategy instead of unit planning. The CO's are cool, gives u an edge and a different 
 look on strategy also. They can turn a battle your way if your losing. Plus it adds the cool factor 
 to it. Fun also. Your not just playing a War strategy game, but also your units have character 
 and you want your CO to do well. They can earn experience and help you in future battles. Dont 
 miss out on this game. Getcha one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulwillocks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I bought Advance Wars originally on the GBA, it was fun so I felt I'd give its sequel a go. Initially 
 I enjoyed what I was seeing and playing. Visually its great, Japanese stylised characters and vehicles 
 etc. Once I got into the game though I seemed to hit a wall, the difficulty suddenly increased 
 to a frustrating level and no matter what tactics I used the computer always seemed to have an 
 endless supply of units. I'm by no means a newbie to these kind of games but the learning curve 
 on this game is annoying, so much so that I put the game down and never went back to it. 
  
  Its not a bad game but it has some minor flaws, try it, you might like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordracozero
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those thinking strategy games, where you must put all of your focus into planing 
 your next move and getting to your goals. Anybody who played the others know what fun comes from 
 this war-based series. Any newcomers will get into interest, seeing on how the action is fast-paced, 
 yet still delievers an excellent joy to videogamers. You can choose from among 27 COs, some of 
 which must be unlocked. On the battlefield, you create units day by day, capturing buildings to 
 increase your funds, while also trying to get through your opponent's forces on the way of success 
 in your own. The battle plays in a kind of rock/paper/sciccors format, where some units are just 
 stronger than others. Each CO has a power and SuperCO power that they can use as the battle progresses. 
 This can decide the fate of the war and maybe even what seemed to be a losing battle, to a change 
 of momentum to victory. The game can be difficult at first to people learning to play, and even 
 after that, mastering the skills of turn-based combat can still be tricky, but as you get more 
 into the game, you'll find out more and more skills of how to face battle. There is also a nice 
 little mini-game type mode where you control a unit and try to get the end each little battle. 
 There are many extras to unlock in this game, from new COs, to leveling up you COs for new skills. 
 With this game, you won't need to buy another DS game for ages to come. Just play, have fun, and 
 enjoy. This is pure entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerik7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series have been a huge success since they first appeared on GBA. Advance Wars 
 carries on the tradition with the same great gameplay and familiar characters (and some new ones) . 
 The game can be played with the stylus or the d-pad. The gameplay is outstanding and the new dual 
 strike and two CO's is a great addition. Now in battle you switch between CO's to take advantage 
 of both their powers. If you save up both CO powers you can unleash a powerful Dual Strike that 
 will let you use both CO's in one turn! All of your units go twice and you use both CO powers. 
 Also a new type of battle is a dual-screen battle. In this new feature you have two battles going 
 on at once, one on the top screen (the second front) and the main battle on the bottom screen (the 
 first front) . The second front can be human or computer controlled and units can be sent from the 
 first front to the second front. When you win the second front all unit are used to charge both 
 your CO meters. Not only will you have a second CO while your opponent has one but you also will 
 have a possibility to do a dual strike. The campaign is a fairly long and entertaining, plus if 
 you beat it you can play a hard campaign. If you are tired of doing the campaign you can play War 
 Room or Vs Mode. Vs Mode is like War Room except you can change the computer players to human controlled 
 or make other changes. There is also survival mode where you can play through different strings 
 of maps in 3 different modes. The modes are money, turns, and time. Also there is a new mode named 
 Combat. In this mode you can battle through a series of levels in a real time shooting battle. 
 When you complete maps (except in Vs Mode) you earn points. You can spend these points in Battle 
 Maps, where you buy new maps and unlock new characters. You can also design your own maps and change 
 your CO's looks. The graphics in the game are pretty bad considering its on the ds and the graphic 
 looked better on the GBA. Then again the graphics do fit in gameplay. Still some changes could 
 have been made. The music is still great. Each CO has their own theme which plays when its their 
 turn. The songs are catchy and fit right in with gameplay. The game has great value as I have play 
 over 100 hours on it. Right when your think you have unlocked everything there is still more. Also 
 there is a medal system where there is a total of 300 medals. These medals can be earned by killing 
 a certain amount of units or building 500 mechs. In the end the game is one of the best purchases 
 I have ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitomanez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best games for DS. When I first bought this, I was afraid it might 
 not turn out to be as good as everyone says, but it truly is!! 
  
  Graphics - The graphics we a bit disappointing because they could have done a bit better, but instead 
 they used the same units from the old ones. They did add a 3D Look to the maps, which makes it 
 a lot more interesting. While that may be true, the battle fights while you are attacking are simply 
 amazing and very entertaining. They did add a 3D Look to the maps, which makes it a lot more interesting. 
 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay to this game is THE BEST turn-based strategy game. You have to take turns 
 with the very competitive AI thinking about the best strategy and moving your units so you can't 
 possibly lose. This game is like Fire Emblem but the best thing about it compared to FE is the 
 fact that when your units die, you can just create new ones instead of that character dieing forever. 
 The Commanding Officers are also very well drawn and each have their unique personality. Also, 
 each CO has there own theme music that you hear during that Co's turn.
  
  Value - As for value, this game will last you ages. It has a very good storyline, as well as 5 
 other modes including deevsigning maps. That has to be one of the most fun things about this game 
 besides campaign.
  
  This is a must have game even if you don't like turn-based strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Developed by - Intelligent Systems
  Published by - Nintendo
  Released - August of 2005
  Rating - E (everyone) for Cartoon Violence
  Genre - Strategy / turn-based combat
  
  Box Art 
 - 7/10 good, not the best ever but it does a good job of representing what the game is all about 
 (aka fighting the BlackHole army)
  Manual - 9/10 superb, in color, thought a bit overwhelming for newcomers because there is so much 
 material but over time it begins to make sense.
  Player's Guide - Recommended for those who are new to the series such as myself.
  
  -Game Modes-
 
  *Campaign - 1 player - Main mode of the game. The game works through missions and features short 
 dialogues between missions to progress the plot.
  *War Room - 1 player - Choose individual maps and conditions to battle and level up your COs.
 
  *Survival - 1 player - Money, Turn, and Time modes
  *Combat - 1 player - A real-time action minigame of sorts
  *Versus - Normal Battle - 2-4 players 
 multi-card play
  *Versus - DS Battle - 2 players multi-card play
  *Versus - Combat - 2-8 players single-card play
  
  -Positive Notes-
  *Long campaign mode 
 equals a long lasting game
  *CO portraits are detailed and very artistic
  *Characters have well defined and developed personalities
  *Music (I recommend a good set of 
 headphones) is superb
  *Tons of modes and extras
  
  -Negative Notes-
  *Can be difficult and overwhelming for newcomers
  *Rebuilding new units and using factorys by 
 both the player and the CPU can lead to drawn out battles and can try you patience
  *Only Combat mode is available in single-card download play for multiple players
  *Difficult 
 if not impossible to rebound once things start to go "downhill"
  
  -Suggestions for a sequel-
  *Include a "easy mode" in campaign for beginners
  *More pictures 
 or illustrations to accompany dialogue 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of the series, then you should definetly check this game out and play it. This is 
 by far the best advance wars game i have ever played. with rich colorful graphics and innovative 
 and great gameplay, this is a hell of a turn based strategy game. This is also by far the best 
 strategy game I have ever played to. I actually think this is better than field comander for the 
 PSP. The only weakness in the game is the sounds which arent as great but that doesnt stop this 
 game from being as great as it is. This is one game that not only fans but newcomers should try 
 out for them selfs. the game is very deep and is pretty lengthy. Though the game is very easy. 
 That mught upset hardcore fans but still its a great game. you will wanna go through this game 
 tons of times. It has alot of replay value which is really great. so if you are a fan or a newcomer, 
 you should definitely check this game out if you are a DS owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flan_Man
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the reason I bought my DS. I have been loving Advance Wars since the 
 first one came to America. If I could read Japanese I would probably be sending away to get the 
 rest of them. Dual Strike plays a lot like Advance Wars: Black Hole Rising in borrowing COs, units, 
 and a host of many other mechanics. It feels a lot like an expansion of the original, but that 
 isnt a bad thing. Imagine battle chess with little army men and tanks fighting on an uneven board 
 riddled with rivers, mountains, and forests.
  The game plays nearly identical to previous incarnations with a few differences. Some missions 
 have you waging war on two fronts. No, not on the same map, but on top and bottom screens. Completing 
 the objective on the bottom completes the mission but winning on the top gives you some added bonuses 
 to the bottom battle. This is also helpful when you get to use 2 COs at the same time. Only one 
 can be dominant at once, but both still gain their power. Swapping between COs ends your turn, 
 but allows you to change strategies in the middle of a war. Yeah, that and you can use both Super 
 CO Powers at once and get to move all of your units twice. Imagine a game of chess where you are 
 allowed to move all of your pieces twice in one round and you will see how devastating this can 
 be. There are also a few new modes of play to accommodate the dual screens. Multiplayer lets four 
 friends tear each other apart and even wage two wars at the same time. There is Combat mode, where 
 you move one unit in real-time. You run around trying to decimate the opposing army or capture 
 their HQ. Quite a fun, if short, addition. There are harder difficulty settings to the main campaign 
 which helps you make your way through again and again. As you win battles, you collect points to 
 be spent in a store to buy new COs, costumes, maps, and modes.
  The game is chuck full of sounds and music from previous Advance Wars outings. So not much to work 
 with there. They do sound nice and the music gets a little catchy when using Sensei or Colin. Other 
 than that, the music and sounds leave you alone. The same can be said of the graphics. The game 
 looks and feels just like the previous games. Granted, the map appears to have some mode7 things 
 going on with the clouds and seagulls, but it looks the same. No graphical ramp ups, but it still 
 feels right. I guess I am a sucker, but the graphics seem to add to the fun despite the lack of 
 an upgrade.
  The story sounds nearly identical to the previous Advance Wars, too. Black Hole army is at it again 
 and it is up to some kids in the middle of nowhere to lead thousands of soldiers to their death 
 in an attempt to stop the evil forces at any cost. Just how old are these COs anyway? The story 
 unfolds with little snippets of dialogue between friends and foes with their little portraits expressing 
 whatever heated emotion they are feeling at the time. Sometimes you get a little slideshow, but 
 nothing fancy.
  The game feels a little like a rehash of previous games and the AI can be overwhelming or reclusive 
 depending on how much damage you cause. If you stay out of their base then they are a monster but 
 as soon as you get a tank or two near their HQ they make nothing but infantry and try to mow down 
 your mid tank with machine gun fire those pour souls. Aside from all of the reused resources, 
 the only downside is I want a campaign creator so I can make my own custom scenarios against Black 
 Hole Army and challenge my friends to stop three Black Cannons side to side. Seeing as how that 
 would be difficult to put into a game, I have to concede that point to them.
  Questionable material? Well, there is that one scene where Jake gets a little to close to Lash 
 if you know what I mean kidding. The game, despite its war theme, is so very friendly to all that 
 you really cant get mad at it. There is one really sadistic choice at the end, however. So, if 
 you are so afraid of violence that you quit watching Sesame Street because Oscar the Grouch threw 
 something at Elmo then you should hide in your bathroom while singing songs to keep yourself sane. 
 If you are offended by lack of violence, then you will still like this game if only to see how 
 many of Samis infantry it takes to kill one of Maxs mega tanksIm not telling.
  This game is fun, even though it didnt grow in terms of sound and graphics since the last installment. 
 Now that Ive played it and beaten it and seen how many of Samis infantry it takes to kill one 
 of Maxs mega tanks I would have to say that I would buy a DS all over again just to get Advance 
 Wars: Dual Strike. For anyone who owns it, I say one thing: Drake sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValKilmerStyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Building on the formula laid out by the previous two Advance Wars games, Dual Strike adds new CO's, 
 new units, new modes of play, and new maps. In short, this game preserves everything that was great 
 about the first two games while adding enough new features to make it all seem fresh again.
  
  The graphics and sound, while nothing to write home about, fit the vibe of the game perfectly. 
 The sprites are all smaller, which allows more of them to be shown on-screen at once. The animations 
 have been touched up a bit and the characters have retained their cartoony image, keeping the game 
 lighthearted. Each CO also has his or her unique theme music. This really doesn't change the gameplay 
 at all, but some of the tunes are pretty catchy. Add in the quintessential explosions and gunfire 
 and you've got yourself a pretty decent audio package.
  
  You can control the game old-school by using the D-pad and buttons, or you can make use of the 
 touch screen to control everything. No scrolling across large maps ups the pace of the game a little 
 and makes the task of managing a large army easier. Again, this doesn't alter the gameplay too 
 much, but it is kind of nice.
  
  The new content in Dual Strike is what puts it ahead of the first two AW games. The there are several 
 new units and CO's (about a half dozen each) , and they are all incorporated into the game flawlessly. 
 The Campaign mode introduces you to all the new features in the game, such as missions that have 
 you managing different armies on each screen. These DS battles work pretty well, although you're 
 not always able to control your units on the top screen (the A. I. will usually do a decent job) . 
 The best new feature is the tag battle, in which you use two CO's to control the same army with 
 the option of swapping them at the end of any turn. By building up both CO power you can unleash 
 a tag power, allowing you to attack two turns in a row. Different CO combinations have different 
 tag powers of varying effectiveness, and using one of these at the right time can completely change 
 a battle around. On top of everything, all the old units and CO's are still available, as well 
 as all of the old War Room maps.
  
  Aside from the classic Campaign, War Room, and Versus modes, there are now Survival and Combat 
 modes. Survival has you clear a set of maps under certain time, turn, or money limitations, while 
 Combat is a real-time action game. Both modes are fun if you want a break from the lengthy Campaign 
 or the endless array of War Room maps.
  
  Overall, this game succeeds in almost everything it attempts. The new units and CO's are great 
 and, together with the new DS and tag battles, they add a whole new layer of strategy to the already 
 complex world of Advance Wars. Dual Strike is not only one of the best strategy games available, 
 it's also arguably the best game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Urgh... I gotta sit through another tutorial built into the storyline that I can't skip?!?!?! I 
 wish there was a way to skip the 'tips' but oh well...
  
  Thats it folks, my only gripe with this one!
  
  The game plays out pretty much like all the 
 previous ones, but with some nifty enhancements! The dual screen mode that lets you fight in two 
 seperate zones is probably my favorite part! The new CO tag-team fuction... pure sweetness! 
  
  Havn't gotten to any new units yet, but have been devlivered an amazing challange, thats fun, 
 manageable, and not frustrating. The best upgrade from the GBA versions is the ability to use the 
 touch pad to move your units, this not only speeds up gameplay, but makes it more fun too. (why 
 I don't know... it just does!)
  
  The unlockables are great, and the mutli-play is also fast paced and exciting. The new Real time 
 action mode is different.... but fun once you get the hang of it! 
  
  Currently my top DS pick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has a highly addicting gameplay, a nice control style and easy-to-follow dialogues that 
 drill you into the game. This is everything strategy lover needs! The game has nice graphics, sound, 
 story, and characters. WIthin 5 minutes of playing you will find yourself constantly draining your 
 batteries over the game.
  
  Pros:
  - 4 different modes to play : Campaign, War Room, Versus, and Combat.
  
  - Supports multiplayer 
 (both regular and combat modes) and download play (only combat mode) .
  
  - Map Editor.
  
  - Use different CO powers and Tag Battles to increase your odds of winning.
  
  - No knowledge 
 of the previous Advance Wars games needed (I didn't play the others) .
  
  Cons:
  
  NONE!
  
  All gamers should get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike for the Nintedo DS is the third installment in the Advance Wars Series, 
 and is probably the easiest. This game plays out almost the exact same as al the others, but with 
 the touch screen controls (optional) . I's like to say that this is the best in the series, but 
 i'd be lying.. Sometimes the touch screen controls may make you cause mistakes in placing or moving 
 troops, and will cause extreme frusturation, that is why I like to play, old-school, with the control 
 pad. There is about 30 missions in this game (PM me if im wrong plz) and they are all fairly easy 
 compared to its earlier counterparts. Although there is a hard mode unlockable by beating the game, 
 it isn't much fun to play the exact same game but alot more harder. There is also combat mode, 
 which has you traveling around in a tank, or soilder, duking it out against a friend or computer 
 in real-time. But where this game explodes is value, There are a ton of things to unlock, andmedals 
 to collect and many different modes that will last you a very, very, very, long time.
  
  Heres the review.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10 It would of gotten a 10, but that pesky stylus screwing 
 me up, and no "back", or cancel option.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10 It looks a tiny bit better than The GBA ones, but thats about it.
  
  SOUND: 
 9/10 I actually loved the music, but the sound effects sound reused and just old.
  
  VALUE: 10/10 I mean this game will last you for about 2 years if you play it through everything. 
 A definite Plus.
  
  Bottom Line. You should definitly have this game in your DS collection, no matter if you hate RPG's, 
 you will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series has always used a cursor-based system - so it's no surprise that it's come 
 to the DS or that using the stylus to move your units around feels so natural. Not only that, but 
 you're free to use the dpad and buttons and pretend it's a GBA game.
  
  You wouldn't be too fooled, either. Advance Wars: Dual Strike doesn't really look like a DS game, 
 and in complete honesty this game could just as easily have been done on the GBA. The dual screen 
 mechanics are neat (and in many cases a great way of getting terrain/unit information without clogging 
 up your main screen) but are never something that couldn't have been done by tapping a button and 
 switching views. Still, you can't really fault the game for the most logical use of the second 
 screen.
  
  And once you start playing, you won't care. This version of Advance Wars plays exactly like the 
 others, so if you're coming in from Advance Wars or Advance Wars 2 everything will feel familiar. 
 Where the second game added Neotanks to fill out your arsenal (and that of your enemies, of course) 
 this one expands on that and hands out a number of units of varying usefulness.
  
  First up is a stealth fighter, an air unit capable of attacking air or ground targets as well as 
 cloaking itself like a submarine. It's quite useful for sneak attacks, although the unit itself 
 is extremely frail. Best paired with that fighter is an aircraft carrier, which functions like 
 the cruiser except will transport and refuel aircraft instead of only helicopters. It's also capable 
 of a massively long-range AA assault.
  
  More conventional and also more impressive is the Megatank. The best way to describe it is to call 
 it a battleship on treads (albeit one with only direct-fire capabilities) . It is - by far - the 
 most powerful unit in the game, able to inflict enormous damage on pretty much anything. Its caveats 
 are a tiny ammo reserve (3 shots without being resupplied) , high deployment cost, and a short movement 
 range. Of course, those are all costs that can be dealth with, given the damage the megatank can 
 take as well as dish out.
  
  The other 'units' are the piperunner, black bomb, and oozium. The piperunner is a long-range (very 
 long range) unit that can only move on pipes, the black bomb hits like a missile silo but can be 
 moved as an aircraft, and the oozium is best left a secret. Suffice to say, once you run across 
 them in the campaign mode you'll either laugh or cry.
  
  The game itself - as mentioned - has remained relatively unchanged. Battles boil down to capturing 
 cities to earn funds, deploying units in order to overcome the various weaknesses of your opponents' 
 units, and then an all-out attack and/or sneak mission where you push an APC or T-copter around 
 to your foe's base and capture it. Where it does differ is with the title's 'Dual Strike' mechanic. 
 On maps with it, you choose two commanding officers instead of one. At the end of each turn you 
 can swap back and forth (ideally you choose COs with abilities that compliment one another) , and 
 the delicious burst comes when you fill up both COs power meters and execute the Tag command. It 
 gives both COs a small power boost as well as their own brand of super power, and lets you swap 
 COs without losing your turn - in essense, the Tag ability lets you attack and move units twice 
 in a single turn. Couple that with a CO like Eagle (whose power lets you move vehicles twice in 
 a turn) and you can push three movements of your units before your opponent has a chance to counterattack.
 
  
  That new addition to the game is quite satisfying, and (like they tell you during the briefing) 
 can easily change the course of a battle. Naturally, moments during the game when your opponent 
 fires off a Tag move will fill you with despair as you watch your own units torn to shreds.
  
  The other 'new' mechanic involves dual screen battles, which in all honesty is barely worth 
 mentioning. Some of the war room maps and some of the career maps take place on two screens - you 
 assign a CO to each, assign AI orders (defend, general, attack, etc) to the top screen as you can't 
 directly control it, and have at it. You are free to send units to the top screen at your discretion, 
 but once that battle is won all the units there will be converted into star power as that CO comes 
 down to join you (or join your foe, in the unlucky event that you lost the top screen battle) . 
 They are never essential to winning the main mission, although losing them will certainly make 
 your life more difficult, as your enemy will have access to his tag power and you won't.
  
  As it is an Advance Wars game, the gameplay is addicting as always, the CO selection is diverse 
 (there are a number of new ones, and many returning faces) , and there are plenty of maps and unlockables 
 to dive into. Your overall score on each map is added to a stockpile of points that can be spent 
 on whatever you want in the battle map room, from new COs to maps and other bizarre goodies. Each 
 CO can also be allocated a set of skills depending on their level - earning 1000 points with a 
 certain CO will level them up. Hit level 10 and you'll give them full access to every skill as 
 well as an alternate costume. There are dozens of COs, so it would take an awfully long time to 
 level them all up, as well as earn enough credits to purchase everything. No doubt you'll play 
 enough to do this eventually, and once you complete the initial campaign you'll get access to a 
 hard version with slightly modified maps - completing levels there will earn you twice as many 
 credits as normal.
  
  To round out the package (as if it needs anything more) are a number of endurance missions, where 
 you race to complete levels under a timer, with limited deployment funds, or under a set number 
 of turns. There is also a bizarre combat mode that plays like the old multiplayer game Bolo, where 
 you move your units in real-time and fire with the stylus. You only have access to four types of 
 units and have a limited amount of money to buy them, and there are maybe six or seven levels to 
 complete, either by destroying the opposition or parking on their headquarters long enough to capture 
 it. You won't find any long-term enjoyment with the combat mode but it is an amusing diversion.
 
  
  Finally, the graphics and audio. The sound is great with headphones, tinny as expected through 
 the built-in speakers. The graphics are what you'd expect - sort of. During the overview map and 
 the battle clips, there is a slight 3D effect. Depending on your view of that, the graphics are 
 either tolerable or kind of ugly. That 3D effect shrinks further away units and enlarges closer 
 ones, and the resolution of the DS's screen just can't handle it - the unit graphics become slightly 
 distorted. It doesn't cripple anything, as the graphics are still serviceable, but it doesn't look 
 as clean as the GBA versions did.
  
  In terms of value, though, Advance Wars DS is unbelievable. The campaign itself is a bit on the 
 short side (and easy side) compared to the past games, but the hard mode offers a nice challenge 
 and there are more war room maps than you'll know what to do with right away. Add to that a ton 
 of great unlockables and you'll find reason enough to play Advance Wars DS religiously until they 
 churn out a new one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  After playing advanced wars 1 & 2, I can easily say that this is the best game in the series. Though 
 the regular campaign might not be as hard that is more than made up for with the copious amount 
 of content, be it the War room, versus mode or designing a map, there is so much to do that sometimes 
 you might feel a little overwhelmed. While the single player is great the multiplayer varies depending 
 on how good the people around you are at the game, in my case this make the multi pretty boring 
 since none of my friends are any good at the game, in the next advanced wars I hope they use the 
 Wi-Fi feature. Taken as a whole this is the best DS game out, it has replayability only matched 
 by Animal Crossing and is just plain fun to play.
  
  The game plays great, with many option available from the start, from Versus mode to Combat mode 
 to the War Room, this game has it all. The one mode that you notice immediately as being new is 
 the Combat mode, which is basically a gimmicky use of the DSs touch screen to play advanced 
 wars in real time. Its pretty fun and at times its easier to do this mode is quick spurts than 
 get into a lengthy battle. Another mode that is new is survival mode, which is actually one of 
 the best new feature added. Basically there is 3 different types of ways to play survival, the 
 first is money, in which you only get a limited amount of cash to beat a certain amount of maps, 
 the next is turn, which is the same thing but with a set amount of turns and the last is time in 
 which you race against the clock to complete a certain amount of maps. This is very fun and enjoyable 
 and unlocking the hard courses for these challenges is fun. The next major part of the Campaign, 
 which the first time around only has a couple of tough missions. But once you beat it and unlock 
 the hard campaign it gets a it harder, overall the campaign is fun and has a variety of missions. 
 There are many other modes and types of play, like the design room, in which you can change the 
 appearance of Cos and create maps. One fun addition is medals, in which if you go to your history 
 room, which records thing like how many of each type of enemy you have destroyed and how many types 
 of a certain unit you have created. There are many other feature to be explorer in this game, some 
 are hidden, but most all of them are throughly enjoyable.
  
  The game, like most strategy games, is not marketed as the next new high-def gaming experience, 
 but then again the style is so distinct that it more than make up for it. First some might not 
 like the somewhat tilted view that this advanced wars introduced but after playing for awhile you 
 wont notice anymore. Each unit is so bright and each unit type is so distinct and different 
 from the other that you can easily tell what unit is what, unlike the clutter than often happens 
 in games like Age of Empire (DS) . Also, the battle animations are generally nice, they are fun to 
 watch a couple of times but like a lot of turn based strategy games ( except for Fire Emblem) you 
 will end up turning them off after awhile of play, if not just to save time. Overall the graphics 
 are there more for function than for form and in that regard they succeed, I just hope in the next 
 iteration of this series, they bump up the graphics a little, though that would indeed destroy 
 they series trade mark charm.
  
  The sound in the game is great and generally doesnt interfere with the game. But stopping 
 and listening to it for awhile and you realize that it is actually really good, most of the beats 
 dont make you want to kill yourself and many of them just add to the experience. But I wish 
 that you could maybe make a list of songs that it could rotate through during play, because after 
 a bit some of the tracks become tired after hours of play. Other than that one flaw the music is 
 great and it is throughly enjoyable, and after unlocking the sound room it gets better, if you 
 happen to be the type to want to listen to certain tracks, like the great ending credits track.
 
  
  This game has legs, you could play it for hours then come back a couple days latter and want to 
 play it again. Sometime you will just be feeling like a quick game so you can just pop into the 
 war room and have some fun, maybe trying a new strategy with one of the many Cos. Also after playing 
 this game for months, you can still go back to it and play, without getting bored of it, and that 
 I think is were this game succeeds most, from the fact that its replayability is very high. And 
 with the included map editor, it is very easy to make a new map to play, maybe making a map that 
 is more difficult than the ones already provided. One thing though is that the map editor could 
 have been more fleshed out, like I wish you could make the computer have certain behaviors and 
 such, but that is more coming from PC games than a problem with the map editor included. If you 
 are looking for a DS game that will last awhile, I can easily recommend this one as one of the 
 best out on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_Ookami
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars is a must own for stratagie buffs who own a DS. This game has great graphics and they 
 managed to improve on the time honored formula without sacraficing anything. Really long and engaging 
 storyline and solid multiplayer options make this a must own stratagie game.
  
  The game is easy to learn even for those who are new to the whole stratagie bit. The first few 
 missions walk you through all the different units and types of battles you may encounter. After 
 that they cut you lose and you can play the way you feel. The game feels akin to old GBA games 
 like Tactics Ogre or FF Tactics. Only modernized a bit, and the DS shines in the graphics department 
 (especialy if you have a DS lite) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I took me a while to finally go to myself "right i'am getting a DS", but then i had to ponder about 
 which game I should get. And then it hit me... Advance Wars. And may i just say that after playing 
 it, i'm glad i got a DS.
  
  Advance wars: duel strike is awesome in it's execution, it's really easy to get into, despite the 
 fact that i played advance wars on the GBA. But the way it slowly feeds you information on how 
 to play makes it very user friendly. This however leaves us Advance war veterans sitting through 
 6 missions of nothing but NPC's telling you how to move a basic infantry unit.
  
  But then after a while your introduced to some new weapons, such as black bombs, black boats and 
 more... (pause for dramatic effect) . And it's this new content that will keep the game from become 
 stale.
  
  Apart from new units Advance wars also brings in some new modes of play, you now have survival 
 mode, where you are given a certain challenge such as, win 10 battles using only 50,000 gold. There 
 is also combat mode where you basically take control of an actual unit, such as an infantry or 
 a tank. You then run around in real time around the battlefield blowing up other enemies. Although 
 this may seem interesting, it tends to get a bit boring after a while, and it doesn't seem to have 
 the same amount of depth than the turned based game.
  
  Overall Advance wars: duel strike is a great game, you could probably get about 10-15 hours out 
 of the game, and thats if you don't go onto the multiplayer (which could of done better on the 
 single card download) . I would recommend advance wars: duel strike to anyone who loves Turn based 
 games and of course to anyone who has played the advance wars on GBA, because it's just one fo 
 those games that gets the formula right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre32593
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game I've seen that was truly perfect. There is no down fall
  about this game. The idea was simple, but they put new spins in the game to 
  make it one of it 
 one of the best games anyone could play. The different skills
  each CO has puts a lot of strategy in this unforgettable game. This game is pure fun that anyone 
 can put up. This game can get so hard that one level can be played over and over again for like 
 three weeks. This game is not for renting, you would have to buy this game to get the much amount 
 of fun out of this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Superb strategy game. Best iv'e played.
  
  Graphics - Awesome, they suit the game down to the ground
  Sounds - Great!! Everything there 
 what you expect.
  Gameplay - What can i say other than SPOT ON!!
  Overall - I pity PSP owning, close minded people that see the DS as second rate, poor graphic device... 
 Cause this, like most DS games is way more enjoyable than any PSP game ive yet played.
  
  By the way........ My PSP is being used as a book stop at the moment, the DS just has too many gr8 
 games!! lol!
  This game really is just plain awesome.. and a must have for any DS owner. If your a hardcore strategy/puzzle 
 gamer, get your hands on a DS asap!!
  =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfTheTower
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Advance Wars Series, but this was really a let down, you would expect that 
 being on a DS and being the newest version to the series that there would be a lot more units added 
 and obviously better graphics, thats where it went wrong.
  
  If you already own a GBA and any of the previous Advance Wars games then I would strongly recommend 
 not buying Duel Strike, not unless the price was brought down, because you will find you are playing 
 the same game again with just a few extra features and new story line, thats it. The units are 
 all the same as in the first two games but with about 5 new units, pipe runners, Mega tanks, Stealth 
 Bombers, B-Ship and a Black Bomb.
  
  So now on to the graphics... AHHHH, they have tried to make everything seem to be 3d by making the 
 closer units bigger, but these are the same units as the ones in the middle except they have been 
 enlarged and so as you can guess they are pixelised (meaning that you can see the pixels and so 
 it will look all square shaped) , didn't even bother trying to make the units more detailed to fix 
 this, oh no just leave it as it is, and the same for the back units, they have been re-sized smaller 
 and so they look weird because they are missing pixels that were there before. In all fairness 
 I must say that the GBA versions had better graphics than the DS version.
  
  New features: The Duel Battle Fronts (one on each screen)
  Most people would think that having 
 two battles going on is better than having one, unfortunately that is not the case with this game. 
 They have tried so hard to make this game better than the previous ones, but they really have gone 
 the wrong way about it. Having two battles going on at once just annoys people because they only 
 want to concentrate on one battle, it really does confuse people about the tactics they are gonna 
 use with each battle and usually get them mixed up and really puts them off from playing it in 
 that mode. The only possible good thing about is that you can have two maps exactly the same but 
 you can try out two different ways of trying to complete them and see which one was most successful.
 
  
  One thing that is quite good, but makes it slightly unfair for others, is that you can improve 
 your CO's level which can be use to get special abilities i. e. increased attack for direct combat 
 units, so they haven't completely gone wrong.
  
  There are other features new to this game that are quite fun like the combat mode were you take 
 control of a unit i. e. a tank, and you can drive/walk it round the map destroying other units, 
 capturing cities and protecting your base, this feature is quite addictive and so that is another 
 thing that they should be praised for.
  
  Pros: Some New Addictive Game Options
  New (but not may) units to use
  New Ability To Train Your CO's
  Great New Sound Tracks And 
 Theme Songs
  Quite Easy To Learn
  
  Cons: Not worth your money if you already own a GBA and the other
  Advance Wars games
  Graphics 
 Are Really A Shocker For A DS Game
  The Duel Battle Fronts Are A Really Bad New Feature
  Should Of Had More Units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eidens1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a imence sttratagy baced game. You'll need to be mentally sharp to suceed in in this challenging 
 game. It will make you use that gray matter more then the hardest university exam ever will. You'll 
 have to know when to attack and know when not to. The selection of units is great. From using the 
 submarines to sneak up on enemy islands to using battalion of stealth jets to bring down a Black 
 Bomb to taking over a foe's Com Tower with the humble infantry, AW: DS always remains fresh. And with 
 the new modes, such as the exhillirating Combat mode, a real time gameplay expeirience which puts 
 you at the frontline, you'll be coming back for more everytime! It is just such an imencly good 
 game I can not even begin to describe it. So in all I have two words for you. Get.... it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the 3rd game in the Advance Wars series. It is one of the must have 
 games for the Nintendo DS. If you've never played an Advance Wars game before or if you're a seasoned 
 veteran in Advance Wars you will love this game if you're a fan of turn-based strategy. While the 
 number of unit types between Advance Wars DS and Advance Wars: Black Hole Rising (part 2) is not 
 a huge improvement. The game play has been improved with a couple of new game play mode, including 
 a dual screen combat mode and a real-time action game.
  
  When playing in the campaign mode you'll start off with about 3 commanding officers, each with 
 different advantages and disadvantages. The first few missions include an in game tutorial which 
 explains the games concepts and how to play. The game play is pretty much similar to the other 
 Advance Wars games, you'll build different units and capture building and then defeat the enemy 
 or enemies. There are multiple types of tanks, infantry, aircraft and ships. There's a great balance 
 between the different unit types that makes each it an even battle. While there are many unit types 
 most of them are in the previous games. The new units include a stealth bomber, an aircraft carrier 
 and the mega tank. My favorite of the three would have to be the stealth bomber, which allows you 
 to go into stealth mode and attach the enemy. The only thing that can get you will be other stealth 
 bombers and jet fighters.
  
  After playing and winning a battle you'll be rewarded with points based on your performance. With 
 these points there are many things you can buy such as bonus maps and custom colors for commanding 
 officers. Getting all of the bonus will take a long time. I've been playing the game for months 
 now and have logged about 102 hours of game play. I've gotten all of the custom colors for the 
 commanding officers and most of the maps. But, there's still more things available, such as wallpapers. 
 To get each wallpaper you would need to pass the campaign with each commanding officer in order 
 to get his or her wallpaper. 
  
  Overall Advance Wars DS is a great game for the DS and it should be a part of your collection if 
 you enjoy a good turn-based strategy game. It has a lot of replay value and bonus features which 
 makes a great investment for your gaming dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptofreak120
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike (ironically enough, it's Advance Wars: DS) for the DS improves just about 
 everything for the series, adding in more characters, new CO Powers (otherwise known as a Dual 
 Strike) , new devices, and even takes the battle to the top screen. You choose two COs to battle 
 Black Hole once again. Von Bolt, the new leader, is actually a real challenge, but is worth it 
 once you get him. Everything is back... tanks, soldiers, planes, boats, and even a few new things 
 you haven't seen yet. The single player mode will almost definitely leave you feeling awesome when 
 you beat it. It's challenging at first (in fact, the hardest in the series) , but becomes slightly 
 easier once you figure things out. The different types of missions are back, from the volcano to 
 avoiding cannons. New weapons like the Black Bomb and the Heavy Tank will give you one hell of 
 a fight.
  
  The multiplayer remains as awesome as ever. It has all of the original levels, as well as plenty 
 of new ones, and the level creator. Set up the match of your dreams and duke it out any way you 
 want! Why not? It's all under your control (save adding cannons and volcanoes) .
  
  To be honest, if there's a future game, they should add the ability to add the cannons and volcano. 
 That's about my only complaint, and it's not really a complaint.
  
  AW: DS is truly the best of it so far, and deserves a spot it your roster of DS games. Buy it and 
 never give it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2entertainment
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  I, personally am not a fan of the advance wars games. I have the played the original two before 
 but never really enjoyed them. With the new ds features I was expecting a very good, possibly 3d 
 strategy game... Boy I was wrong. The only new features in the game play are a few new units and 
 a pretty boring ds mode... apart from that it was quite hard. I have played many strategy games 
 and can deffinately say that It was just me. So In conclusion, I wouldn't really buy it unless 
 you are a fan of the games... which, why would you be a fan of these games anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you fire up Advance Wars for the DS the bright menu, hypnotic music and wealth of options 
 let's you know you're going to get your money's worth playing this game. There's so much value 
 in here: a scenario editor, a huge cast of unlockable generals, earning all your medals, a real 
 time strategy mode and a lengthly campaign only scratches the surface.
  
  Gameplay is balanced, tactical and incredibly fun. The battles are kept interesting thanks to variables 
 like covering the map in a fog or controlling up to four generals battling on two fronts (dual 
 strike) . The campaign has a good story and excellent dialogue with a stylized, anime feel. The 
 battles themselves though are all war, deep and lengthly scenarios against very competent A. I.
 
  
  The graphical presentation of Advance Wards DS, unfortunately, simply isn't up to the standard 
 of it's finely tuned gameplay. For all the fast paced style thrown at you, this game is ugly. It 
 looks like a GBA game, frankly. While the experience to be sure is no less fun because of it, a 
 truly updated look and Wi-Fi compatibility would have really made Advance Wars DS stand out as 
 something special. As it stands, it's just an incremental improvement over it's already excellent 
 predecessors. Hopefully these few remaining problems will be addressed in the inevitable sequel. 
 
  
  Easily recommended. Probably the best Advance Wars yet, good for newcomers and veterans alike. 
 Always a guaranteed time waster, the series takes another step towards portable perfection on the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkd
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  this game came highly recomend by a friend and i'am so glad that i took his advice this game is 
 amazing the way they use the touch screen is astounding i know this my sound weird but it seems 
 like they were planning this for a while and boy does it show the way the story unfolds is amazing 
 the enimes are fun and changling at the same time and u will never get bord playing espicaly when 
 u start to use the dual commanders that was probly the most fun in a game so far then the multi-player 
 is fun and exciting (espicaly when u make a mao just for ur army) and the download play is a nnice 
 touch and is very fun to play espicaly in spanish class :P so all in all this game is a must for 
 some one who has played the orginal and for those nw to the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wpgamefreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this I got drowned in tactics and awesome dialog. It has many diffrent levels 
 with many diffrent strategies. The graphics are not perfect but they amuse serious gamers. It also 
 adds the ability to choose Commanders that have diffrent abilities and bonuses. New commanders 
 include include Jake, Rachel, Kindle, Jugger, Coal, Von Bolt, Sasha. The campaingn is amazing and 
 the hard campaign is well hard. It adds many diffrent units into the fray each with there own strengths 
 and weakneses. It made me bloodshot it was sooooo good. I really hope they make a sequal. So pick 
 this up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is the 3rd Advance Wars game in the series, and it has come to the DS 
 with all of its goodness and so much more. The game leaves off where Advance Wars 2 ended. You 
 battle in the on the continent of Omega Land, the black hole army has returned again and now it 
 your job once again to defeat them. There will be new CO's that you will have to use this time, 
 each one them has there own special abilities and what they specialize in. All of the other CO's 
 return to, but they don't play a major role in this AW game than they did in the past. The black 
 hole army has some new weapons and devices that make even more strategic than before. From the 
 destructive Megatank, to the giant bio weapons called Oozium, the enemies are much more lethal 
 this time. Besides having new Co's that you can control, the enemy also has new CO's that are more 
 tougher and menacing than before. Dual Strike will put you in a lot of different battle situations, 
 weather if its defeating all the enemies before a missile hits the continent, or taking out a death 
 arc, the games challenges are very good. There a some new modes in this one as well. One of the 
 interesting mode on this game is the survival mode. This mode allows you to control your units 
 in real time instead of turn based. If you liked the other Advance Wars games, then you will enjoy 
 Advance Wars Dual Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  The DS has seen many highly innovative games that use it's touch screen capacity to its fullest. 
 However, Advances Wars: Dual Strike, the third itteration in the advance wars series, does no such 
 thing, but it still manages to be one of the greatest DS games to date.
  
  The game continues the story from the past 2 advance wars games, telling the tale of the COs from 
 The red star, blue moon, green [something] and yellow comet armies teaming up to defeat the black 
 hole army for a second time. It is a fairly good story, and gives plenty of reasons for interesting 
 scenarios. However, the story (as in most strategies) is less important than the gameplay.
  
  And gameplay is something AWDS has in massive portions. It focusses largely on the combat and 
 completely takes out the researching, building and upgrading, and replaces it with capturing, CO 
 choices, abilities and powers.
  
  The main gameplay change is the addition of the fact that there are 2 COs per army (in most battles) 
 and the addiition of"Dual Strikes", where the 2 COs powers are added and you get 2 chances to move 
 you're units, build, etc.. These are relatively simple, and any Advance Wars players should have 
 little difficulty picking them up.
  
  This gameplay is hugely complimented by the massive amount of missions, side missions, scenarios, 
 game modes, COs, achievements (medals) and options. It really offers as much gameplay as you want 
 it too, and is easily the longest DS game thus far because of it.
  
  Unfortunately, the multiplayer is a huge let down, the only single pack mode is a dull attempt 
 at an RTS with AW units. It's a moderately interesting distraction... for about five minutes. Other 
 than this, there is a multiplayer mode where you hand the DS around for up to 4 people, that uses 
 the turn based engine. However, it is nowhere near as good as it should be because you end up waiting 
 for hours to get the ds back, and end up losing th4 whole feel. Multi pack is easily thte best 
 option here, but it's still a bit disappointing.
  
  Advance Wars DS is a great DS game and is reccomendable to anyone, although it may be dissappointing 
 to any hardcore Turn Based strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  this game rocks. there is no other way to put it. its just the best game out there for the ds, 
 excluding mario kart ds, cause that game pwns all. i love how they can have such a good game so 
 portable. before all the strategy games that i played were on the computer, and then this little 
 jewel from heaven came down and answered my call for a good handheld strategy game. it is even 
 better than the first advance wars games, and those were pretty good, even though at the time i 
 thought they wouldnt be. the bottom line is, you have to play this game regardless if you have 
 a ds or not, find a ds and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  While I absolutely detest RTS games (well not "hate" but its my least favorite type of game, and 
 the exception of Lost Magic) Id have to say that this game is great for an RTS. While very difficult, 
 you do get the hang of it, and it can be fun, given you dont hate RTS's (like me) . There is a wide 
 selection of charecters, and of course, stratagy, and in real time (err... whatever that means) . 
 There is many things for you to do, such as co-power, and spending your money wisely, and you unlock 
 better, more expensive aircraft, troops, etc... which all cost more. Overall, I cant explain it 
 as well as Id like to, but it is a great game, despite me disliking it (but thats just because 
 I dont like RTS... I guess it is because it takes so long, and Im not good at it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avatar_Taxidous
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike has straight forward visuals just like the previous games of the Advance 
 Wars series, but this is not a problem at all. The sound effects are amazing and the music for 
 the most part sounds fast paced and is generally fun to listen to.
  
  I only have one complaint with the game but it isn't a major one. The story and characters feel 
 extremely childish, and this in my opinion prevents the player from truly becoming involved with 
 the campaign. The campaign was fun, interesting, and challenging at times, but when playing it 
 I didn't feel excited as to what would happen next. However I do accept that this game's audience 
 is vast and can be enjoyed by just about everyone, so I don't dislike the game for that reason 
 because the gameplay more than makes up for it.
  
  Advance Wars: DS overall is a really fun turn based strategy game that works perfectly on the DS. 
 Extra features such as battles happening on both screens and making maps with the touch screen 
 add to the experience and make it blend with the system extremely well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lVIrNguyen
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Very simple gameplay yet fun and sometimes challenging. Advance wars dual strike, the latest game 
 in the awardwinning turn based strategy series, unleashes the power of the Nintendo DS! Direct 
 new commanding Officers and familiar faces into battle against the nerfarious black hold army.
 
  
  Dual-scree battles rage on two fronts whilte your troops rally behind two COs at the same time. 
 
  
  With Touch Screen control and wireless multiplayer gameplay, war has never been more fun!
  
 
  Command powerful new COs and units, including shadowy stealth fighters and hulking megatanks.
 
  
  Prologue
  Several months have passed since the war in Macro Land. Thanks to Andy, Nell, and the other Cos, 
 the Black Hole Army was defeated. The people there can finally live in peace. But in the far-off 
 continent of Omega Land, trouble was brewing. It is from here that Black Hole launched a massive 
 invasion. The enemy army has replenished its might with remarkable speed under the command of a 
 new leader. The last great war left many questions unansweredm and so Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green 
 Earth, and Yellow Coment have joined forces to create the Allied Nations. Determined to free their 
 homeland, they launched a counterattack.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  
  Advance Wars. Remember the first one? Wow. My first gba game ever. I was so proud of that game 
 and all my medals and extra COs. I've been a loyal Advance wars fan for a while, and this installment 
 doesnt dissapoint. 
  This game includes all the same Cos you have grown to love and care for, but it also includes many 
 new COs (one more for each faction and like 3 more for black hole) and a few new units. The Megatank, 
 is curiously strong, and the new black boat, can transport infantry soliders, and repair adjacent 
 units by one point. The aircraft carrier is also a new sea unit that can fire rockets at air units 
 from great distances and can also transport airunits of all sizes. The stealth bomber, is a slightly 
 less powerful bomber that can "hide" much like a submarine. This unit can also attack other air 
 units.
  Using the stylus is nice, but i found the conventional directional pad and "A" button a little 
 more satisfying; call me old school. The DS screens are generally not used except for dual front 
 battles where you and an ally can send each other units from friendly cities. This is a cool new 
 addition to an old classic, but its nothing that you cood have done with one screen. 
  There are new integrations to gameplay so battles are a little more sophistacated. New units and 
 new COs and powers can cause you to analyze a battle andto watch your back rather than to just 
 burst in with like 30 neotanks. (but that can work too) If you are a loyal fan of advance wars, 
 or u take really long plane rides and u are looking for a few good hours of entertainment between 
 the man whos belly hangs over the hand rail, and the guy who won't shut up, this game will be able 
 to entertain all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papanoel123
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 2, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game with some pretty high expectations and it succeeded for a while. Then i realized 
 the repetitveness of the game. It is the same thing over and over again and i eventually got bored. 
 The replay value died pretty fast for me. Although my friend enjoyed it a lot more than i so you 
 probably would all like it if you like these types of games. I dont play it anymore however and 
 i even thought of selling it at one time. However, i keep it just to play those occasional multiplayer 
 battles which do take forever! It also fulfills my every once in a while urge to command massive 
 armies and kick ass. Its just the american way... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final13
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I have never had or played Advance Wars one or two. I really wish I had because I would probably 
 like the game even more. Anyway the review. This game at first is very addictive. The tutorial 
 is great. There are a good amount of missions. You have more then enough commanders to select from 
 each with their own powers. The game also has a double power selection with allows, hopefully, 
 to get back in the game or keep kicking evn more butt. After play for awhile though you start to 
 get a little bored. When that happens you may think you have nothing to do.... wrong. There are 
 different kinds of battle modes you can select from and try to beat those instead. You also have 
 a pretty good amount of units to pick from. If you plan to play multi-player make sure you know 
 someone else who has the game, because the download play is not really that much fun. Thank you 
 for taking your time to read this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The almost limitless possibilites of Advance Wars really shows soon after you begin to play it. 
 Rather than gradually becoming boring it becomes more and more addictive, simply the further into 
 it you go, the more you want to play.
  
  The formula is perfected, every unit having a weak side which can in turn be countered by another 
 unit, but which also has a weak side turning a very simple game into a frenzy of thought to create 
 the ultimate plan to lead your forces to ultimate victory. This victory is sweet enough in story 
 mode, but in multiplayer it calls for instant mockery as the competitive streek steams to an end 
 with 3 losers, but only 1 winner. 
  
  If you are however frightened of being overwhelmed by complex gameplay, the story mode will gently 
 guide you in untill you yourself have become a master tactican. You will swell with pride as your 
 first plan comes into being and succeeds leaving the enemy force in tatters ready to be finished 
 off with one clean blow. On the other side if you are familiar with the two GBA Advance Wars you 
 will easily trundle through the Story... But only to unlock a "Hard" mode, satisfing even the most 
 competent player with plenty of planning and fighting to be done, but what a great prize awaits 
 you at the end of your efforts...
  
  Cunning, simple yet deep and a great premise. If you have a DS just go and buy it now and pray 
 for Advance Wars DS 2 to be Wi-Fi enabled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippers957
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike has a lot of resemblance to the first two of the trilogy. Lets list a 
 couple. The game play is the same, graphics are a little better, and the weapons are about the 
 same with a couple new units like the Megatank; and, you guessed it, Black Hole is once again trying 
 to take over another big chunk of land.
  
  So what makes this game so much fun?
  
  I bought the game because my brother insisted on it. He already had the game and was wildly crazed 
 with it. So I took a shot, bought the game and popped it in. I assumed that it was going to just 
 be a time consuming tactical based game based on its predecessor, and would have yet another set 
 of bad guys that, as said before, would try to take over the world.
  
  I had the story set pretty much to par and was somewhat correct on the game play, but I never in 
 my wildest dreams wouldve thought that it would be such an incredibly engrossing game. I literally 
 did not put the game down for four hours after I bought it. After I had beat the first 6 levels, 
 I had to put it down. I checked the clock and it was 2 A. M. I went to bed
  
  The next morning my mom had to pry me from my DS and make me get out of bed, it was 1:30 in the 
 afternoon.
  
  The reason its so good is because of its hypnotic game play. The game itself is just really good 
 because of the story. I wouldnt recommend it to anyone who didnt play the first one and/or the 
 second one, only because you have to have some understanding of the game before you play it because 
 of its difficulty level.
  
  Over all, Dual Strike is a really great game and worth any penny. But if you do choose to buy it 
 before you play any of the other games, you dont need the game book.
  
  I rate it a 9.2/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_grasso
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Addictive is one word to describe this game. I can also say its awesome and betters the originals 
 combined on GBA. With its great battle animation , sound effects and good tunes its the best strategy 
 game out on DS. This game really benefits from the touch screen with seamless controls and has 
 challenges at every corner so its not for mediocre gamers. This game has heaps of replay value 
 hence the multiplayer which is really addictive so get a couple of friends with single card play 
 and battle it out!
  
  This is definitely a value for money game and should be an essential DS game in anyones collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garin2010
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is a DS game that puts you as a commander in a raging war. You command units, tanks, 
 choppers etc. turn by turn that is. The first couple missions are pretty easy for you in order 
 to show how everything works. But then the opponents difficulty quickly is accelerated. During 
 your match you gain power. After gaining enough you can use a special power. From earning more 
 kash to gaining more ty on a single turn. Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a fantastic game, bt there 
 are a tiny bit of letdowns. The repetition rate is what hits you the hardest. and after a while 
 the music gets a bit annoying. And saying that i give Advance Wars: Dual Strike for the Nintendo 
 DS an 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  this game is just an ok game its not the best game ever but its definitely not the worst. some 
 times it can get to be boring and some times it is great fun. i think that if you can you should 
 face a friend in ds to ds play because it is the most exciting part of it. one good thing about 
 this game is that there are like 30 levels and then after that there is another campaign which 
 makes it even more of a long type game. one bad thing is that some of the levels are really hard 
 and get frustrating at times. overall this is a game that you buy and one year later you would 
 give it back to get like twenty bucksof it but it is a good game to play when you are waiting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Yes, before the hate mail raineth down upon mine head, let me just say: this is the FIRST review 
 I have written for something that is not an Xbox 360 game. I have said many, many times in my reviews 
 that I am not a "fanboy" for any company. Today, I decided to pick up a handheld system. It was 
 either the DS or the PSP. After brief review, I've come to the conclusion... Sony has officially 
 lost their mind if they think I'm paying $200 - $250 for a handheld when I can get the PS2 for 
 $129. That said, I haven't played a handheld since way back in the old skool Game Boy days. But 
 the DS looked innovative, which is Nintendo's whole mantra, so I went with it. This was one of 
 the two games I picked up to go with it (the other being Trace Memory) . I have to say, I was impressed 
 to see this game in action. The only complaint I have is that they didn't put a warning label on 
 it to tell you just how addictive it is. If you've read my reviews, you know how I do them. But 
 if you haven't, here's the section where I break this game apart and tell the tale of the tape 
 in a totally non-biased fashion. My Game Breakdown on this one goes like this:
  
  Graphics: I'm very very limited on my exposure to the DS, as this is one of my first games. So, 
 just comparing it to what I was expecting, I'd say the graphics are par for the course, although 
 when the battles ensue and the camera shows the actual units, it's a little more impressive than 
 what I was expecting. I apologize if this review seems a bit short, but I'm finding that with handheld 
 games, its pretty cut and dry as to the description of the graphics, sound, etc. So I'll just say 
 I was impressed.
  
  Sound: I really liked the sound in this one. The battle music is quite cool I thought, and sound 
 effects are what you would expect. 
  
  Control: A breeze. At first, the interface may appear to be more complicated than it really is, 
 but after just a very few minutes, you'll be ordering units around like a true general. I liked 
 how they give you the option to use either the stylus or the D-pad to maneuver around the screen.
 
  
  Gameplay: Straightforward really, but still very strategic. I love turn-based strategy games, so 
 this one came sailing right up my alley. If you play your cards right, you'll come out on top. 
 But if you make just one mistake, you may never recover. It really plays like chess, but just alot 
 more fun. I have not played any of the previous Advance Wars games, so I really am not qualified 
 to compare it to those titles. I will tell you this though: I spent about 2 hours straight playing 
 this one, which I believe says something for it.
  
  All in all, I feel I definitly am getting my money's worth out of Advance Wars. The battles can 
 be tough, but they are always fun and interesting. This is indeed a game that you can either play 
 for a couple of hours, or merely a couple of minutes. Perfect for in between college classes, which 
 is the main reason I picked it up. Let me reiterate that this is my very first review for a handheld 
 game, so I apologize if you're reading this and feel I did not answer some questions you have about 
 the game. Feel free to message me if you have a specific question. Bottom Line: I can recommend 
 this one for purchase easily. Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgxtremist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the third installment of the Advance Wars series and the first on 
 the Nintendo DS, and I feel the transition was made smoothly.
  
  The game introduces the player to Omega Land, where the Black Hole army is at it again. This type 
 around though, Sturm is out of the picture, and the Allied Nations must figure out what is going 
 on with the planet and how the Black Hole army recovered so fast.
  
  All modes from the first two return in this game. Campaign takes you through the main story. You'll 
 receive points for each battle after you have been graded and be able to spend them at Hachi's 
 store to buy more maps, or new COs. Once you beat Campaign, you can buy Hard Campaign and the cool 
 thing is you can choose any CO for the battle you want. Besides new COs, there is a slew of new 
 units, which is good compared to the one new unit that appeared in AW2. Black Boats are like an 
 APC on water, and they can repair units. Other new units are Stealth Fighers, Black Bombs, and 
 more. Also certain attack patterns have changed from previous AW games (like Cruisers are more 
 powerful against air units) . This does some good in giving sea units more firepower compared to 
 the previously dominant air units.
  
  A new concept is apparant in AWDS (after all, it's in the title) . Now 2 COs can be used under one 
 army to give you a variety in how you fight. You can switch between them whenever you want. Also, 
 besides CO and Super CO Powers, if both COs gauges fill, you can unleash a powerful Dual Strike. 
 This gives you army two times to attack in one turn. Certain combinations receive power boosts 
 to their Dual Strikes. Veterans may experience problems to adjusting to this new power (like me) , 
 but you'll find this a devastating new tactic.
  
  New modes besides War Room and Versus would include Survival, which is a challenge of certain aspects 
 such as Money or Turns, and tests you to beat the requirement and be graded. Combat Mode is a step 
 away from turn based and allows you to fight enemies with a poke of the touch screen. It should 
 also be noted that the turn-based fights can be done on the touch screen, but are slower and easy 
 to make a mistake at. Combat mode isn't too special, but it makes for a nice little distraction 
 if you like. There is also the ability to look at your history of any little detail you could think 
 of say what number of Tanks you've destroyed, or how much money you've used. You can also listen 
 to music or look at a Gallery.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is in no way a departure from the original, but it's nice to find more 
 added this time around then AW2. Veterans might not like the lessened difficulty again, but the 
 new concepts do add some fun and challenge. This is a must though if you own a Nintendo DS and 
 will eat up plenty of time, and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rey013
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect for the DS. The touch screen allows you to select units, move and attack faster 
 and more efficiently than the other Advance Wars for the GB Advanced. 
  
  You get to choose from different "Commanders" with unique skills. It's up to you to choose the 
 right commander for each mission. They also level up and learn new abilities which makes the game 
 addictive. The story mode is pretty long but not boring. That will make you wanting to know what's 
 gonna happen next. And after you clear the story mode you unlock Hard mode which is more challenging 
 but will keep you playing.
  
  So if you are looking for a DS game with good replay value, good multiplayer and hours of true 
 fun, you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraxx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Advanced wars has always been able straight-forward, no frills, addictive strategy gaming. This 
 DS version takes the winning formula and just kicks it up a notch (bam) . Here's why:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Virtually flawless turn-based gameplay. It's as simple to learn as rock-paper-scissors, 
 but it has the complexity of chess. 
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  The graphics are quite bland, even for a DS strategy game. The cutscenes are nice at least.
  
 
  Sound: 8/10
  The sountrack is decent though nothing special. The combat sounds are quite good actually for a 
 portable system. The units weapons' pack a big punch (aurally) .
  
  Value: 10/10
  This is what value is all about. The single-player campaign is lengthy (approx 30 hours) . Then 
 you can replay it in hard mode which changes the maps and (obviously) makes it harder. You can 
 select different COs and as a RPG element build up their stats through repeated plays. There are 
 tons of random maps to play as stand-alone. The battleshop encourages you to play well to buy specials 
 like new COs, Maps, Mode, Sounds, and Wallpapers. Oh and of course there is the multiplayer as 
 well.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  While I love the entire series, this is definitely the best of the bunch. The overal value is terrific 
 and the addition of the dual-strike adds whole levels of new complexity. This is the reason why 
 I own a DS and anyone who likes even simple strategy should do themselves a favor a buy this game.
 
  
  If you haven't played an Advanced wars game yet here's a quick run-down. The gamplay is turn-based 
 strategy the honestly plays more like chess. It has the usual strategy-building trappings but unlike 
 most other games every unit has its purpose and strategy. Yes a tank kills infantry, but the infantry 
 can capture bases. Furthermore you can use multiple infantry as a wall to block the tank while 
 artillery shells it from behind. The complexity of gameplay in such a simple-seeming game is amazing. 
 Generals of each side (COs) have special powers that can be activated to give your army an important 
 boost at a decisive juncture. Some COs also give certain benefits and penalities to units (one 
 of my favorites Grit gives all ranged units +1 range and + dmg but - dmg to all non-ranged.) which 
 can result in reliance on completely different strategies in the same map. New additions to this 
 version include the dual-co/dual-strike where you actually have 2 COs that you switch off in per 
 battle. Once each maxes out their power bar instead of unleashing a CO power you can unleash a 
 devastating dual-strike which means you get to attack with each CO (and a fresh army for both) 
 in one turn utilizing each COs max power. Just as important is the pairing of COs, some COs give 
 each other a boost when paired, some actually hinder each other (not friendly) . COs can also gain 
 experience and use this to level up and equip special abilities that further adds further layers 
 of strategy. Battles can occur on two fronts as well (top and bottom screen) so you can have an 
 air and ground campaign with 2 different COs at the same time (with the outcome of one affecting 
 the other) . Also in replay of the game you can carry over CO experience so the more you play, the 
 more abilities you can unlock. Basically this game is pure strategy bliss. It is so straightforward 
 in presentation, yet so layered in depth that it is nearly flawless. My biggest complaint is the 
 graphics, the literally recycled the graphics from the GBA versions of the game even though it 
 is now on the DS. Hopefully a little more visual pop will show up in the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfjeNL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is one of the best strategy games for the Nintendo DC. This game is not 
 the game that you need to play 20 hours straight or something, you need to pause after you played 
 two levels or something or else it is getting boring, at least that is my opinion. I expected that 
 the creators of Advanced Wars changed more in this game, but they didn't, they added the dual co 
 mode and stuff but they didn't put more infantry or tanks in the game. Overall this game is fun 
 to play and it will bring you hours of fun, i really recommend this game to strategy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miketheroman142
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a very good turn-based game. Veterans form the old series will especially 
 love this game. It keeps the base of the exciting gameplay intact and improves upon it. Since the 
 new platform, the Nintendo DS, allows for double screen gameplay, this game takes advantage of 
 the technology and improves the game with it. The main thing is that there can be 2 fronts in one 
 battle. Another new critical thing to touch up on is the TAG abilities. It allows for two co's 
 (commanding officers i believe) to fight together and come with their built up co power to take 
 two turns AND use their powers at the same time. There is also a new camapgin that introduces you 
 to the series and also challenges you. There is also 'Comabt Modewhich is a real time game where 
 you fight others and ther are no turns. Another thing, Surival ,makes you surive courses of money, 
 turns, and time. There is also an abundance of new co's. If you are unfamiliar with the series, 
 i will start from scratch. This game is military turn based game where you command your units varying 
 to humble infanrtymen to air craft carrierers to the mighty megatank. A co power is the power your 
 selected general has to help his or her army. For example, one of the co's power heals units after 
 they have been damaged. Overall, this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game. The mechanics and everything are great, but it is just way too hard 
 to have fun with. I really thought I would give this game a review in the 9's, but once I got to 
 the 8th lvl I'm like "Holy god this level is impossible." So, I look at the strategy guide, AND 
 I'M STILL STUCK. Then I give up on the game and let some of my friends borrow it. They liked it 
 until the eighth lvl. The graphics and music suck too. So, if you've trained to be a military tactician 
 you'll love this game, but average gamers, if you buy this game prepare to rip out your hair in 
 frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deputyjim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  AW: DS expands already nearly-perfect gameplay with not just more of the same, but a well-designed, 
 thoughtful sequel to the previous games. The NDS platform compliments the game design and implimentation 
 very well. The sounds are natural and appropriate, and the graphics, while not stellar, perform 
 the job admirably. The scenarios and campaign are playable in manageable periods, like waiting 
 for the metro or a doctor's appointment. In the end, the game offers dozens of hours of quality 
 and compelling gameplay. It's a worthy addition to any game/NDS collection. Indeed, I have a fairly 
 extensive collection of games and this is one I'll constantly come back to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Izuki_Ghost
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  I'm slightly biased in my oppinion (being a strategy games junkie of the worst kind) , but Advance 
 Wars DS is much better than AW2. (I don't know how it measures up to AW1, as I've never been able 
 to find it)
  The Graphics aren't very updated compared to the GBA versions, but (as before) they do the job 
 of telling you what is going on very well.
  The Sound is much better than I expected, and fits what is happening on screen amazingly.
  The 
 gameplay is (aside from Combat mode) exactly the same as in AW2, aside from the new unis and COs. 
 That isn't a problem personally, but I would recomend getting a cheap copy of a previous Advance 
 Wars game before you shell out for DS, because I know quite a few people who hate Turn Based Strategy 
 games. However, if you've played and enjoyed a previous AW game, AWDS is an essential game for 
 the collection.
  Around now, I'd mention Combat Mode, aside from the fact that almost all 200+ hours of my gametime 
 have been spent in the War Room or on Campaign. Best to pretend the badly designed "ZOMG Realtime" 
 mode doesn't exist.
  
  In conclusion, AWDS is easily the most played game in my collection of DS games, and that isn't 
 an insult directed towards Nintendo.
  The only problem I can forsee with AWDS is it being marked as some form of super-addictive-digital-crack, 
 and Tony Blair banning it's public use.
  Hopefully, he'll be voted out before that happens..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSerker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The moment you start up the game your given so many options to play on. The campaign will last 
 you a while, unless you give up and decide your ready to face the computer. There are several different 
 gaming options, each with different preferances, so you'll never run out of things to play, or 
 records to beat. The gameplay is the same as the others, except you get the Tag options along with 
 Super Power and CO Power. The images of the units and such are used from older games, and are therefore 
 pretty pixelated, but besides that, the graphics are bright and eye-pleasing. This is definatly 
 a must-have for your collection of DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mja2k3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I had never even heard of the series itself. I just saw it in the 
 stores and a guy next to me said it was a really good game. So I was like what the hell, why not. 
 Now this was in November, now it's April and I still can't stop playing this game. I play it for 
 hours on end.
  
  Gameplay wise this game is so much fun. At first it took a while to figure what everything and 
 every button does. But once you get the hang of it the control is very easy. In campaign mode the 
 first 8 levels are fairly easy. But after that... boy you're gonna need some real strategy to defeat 
 ths game. I'm not sure about the multiplayer because I don't know anyone else who has this game.
 
  
  Graphics wise, it's alright I guess. The graphics are very similar to the GBA version but then 
 again why fix something that ain't broke. It's fine the way it is.
  
  Sound wise it's great. Great music and sound effects they really go good with the whole war feeling 
 that this game has. After typing up this review I kinda wann play it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars has finally taken the step up to the DS with its latest title Dual Strike, showing 
 us what this series can really do when it has the hardware available to it. Dual Strike builds 
 on what the previous games have done and makes everything that much bigger and that much better 
 in pretty much every area. Fans of the series will feel somewhat comfortable here; the game follows 
 the same pattern as the ones before. However now there is much more depth to the gameplay and the 
 story; it very much feels like the last piece of the jigsaw has been placed. 
  
  Anyone who is unfamiliar to the turn-based strategy genre the concept is simple. You take turns 
 to build and control an army which you will ultimately use to go to war with your opponent; building 
 various infantry, vehicles and buildings on your way to victory. Each unit within your respective 
 armies has their own unique abilities complete with their own strengths and weaknesses, the key 
 to success is knowing what unit does what best. Advance Wars holds a nice balance, no unit feels 
 ultimately better than another. The Megatank is a prime example of this. It will pretty much destroy 
 anything in its path yet it is very slow, has low maneuverability, limited ammunition, high fuel 
 consumption and most importantly costs a fortune to build. Its getting the balance within your 
 army right which is the key to any battle, every move you make could have possible repercussions 
 later on in a battle so use the turns you do have wisely. 
  The campaign may start off like your standard Advance Wars campaign however as it develops you 
 realize youre playing something that is much deeper and much more diverse than anything you have 
 done before. It throws twists and turns at you faster than an F1 race track and keeps you on your 
 toes from start to finish. This is most definitely the games strong point, it creates equilibrium 
 between story and action and will keep you entertained throughout. You dont just feel like youre 
 playing skirmish after skirmish , it actually feels like it has an overall point to it all. You 
 actually feel for many of the characters and live the experience along with them. This is thanks 
 to a story that is very well written and intertwines characters old and new into the plot with 
 exciting consequences. 
  
  This game offers a whole host of new modes for you to enjoy, not only do you get a huge campaign 
 but also a harder campaign upon completion of the first. This is not easy by any stretch of the 
 imagination and will put even the most experienced of players in their place. In addition to this 
 the game also offers a Survival Mode, a Versus Mode, a Design Room, a War Room and a Multiplayer 
 mode which sees you battling your friends using the DSs wireless functionality. You will only 
 need one copy of the game; which seems to be a common theme amongst DS games of late. The WiFi 
 can also be used to trade user-created maps with friends that you have created via the Design Room. 
 While this isnt the most creative of map makers it gives you just enough options to make it interesting 
 for the user. 
  
  There are an array of new battle types for you to sink your teeth into here, there are Tag Team 
 battles. No longer will you need to rely on one CO to lead you into battle, you now have the option 
 of using two. This adds absolutely huge depth to an already deep game, you can now mix your COs 
 to suit your gaming style or the way you want to approach a battle tactically. These abilities 
 can now be key to winning any match as you have to find that right balance, its no good having 
 a CO who is good at close-range combat if youre miles away from your opponent and being bombarded 
 by their artillery. A quick tag could now see you switching to a CO with long-range attacks or 
 good maneuverability in order to get to your opponent; ultimately tagging back to crush them with 
 your powerful close-range attacks. 
  
  As well as the Tag Battles you also have the addition of Dual-Screen battles, this sees you battling 
 with both screens simultaneously. Before you just used your bottom screen to view the battle; now 
 you will have to manage both. This sounds pretty overwhelming at first but just like everything 
 else the game guides you through it at a comfortable pace. Once you have got the hang of it you 
 will begin to realize why this is such a welcome addition, it opens up so many more options within 
 a given battle. With a Dual-Screen Battle you can choose between controlling the second screen 
 manually or you can command the computer to do thy bidding. There are different variations of these 
 battles, both screens may be part of the same area and moving up from the bottom screen will simply 
 take you to the top screen. Alternatively there are some battles in which sky and land battles 
 are going on at the same time. Sending troops such as planes into these sorts of battles will aid 
 you in your attempt to defeat whatever challenge you may be facing. What happens on the top screen 
 will usually have some impact on what happens on your primary screen, for example destroying an 
 orbit controlled force-field will then allow you to attack protected units in your land battle. 
 
  
  There are many more units available here than in previous editions and this adds huge variety to 
 the gameplay. The type of map you battle on will also have a major impact on proceedings, different 
 maps will suit certain units and even certain COs. Different types of weather will change the 
 tide of battles also, for example you could become engulfed in a sandstorm which will slow your 
 units down and drain fuel faster than normal. Fog of war maps add an even different challenge again, 
 your vision will be severely restricted and hiding amongst trees will give you the advantage in 
 battle; plus the potential opportunity to carry out an ambush. 
  
  The games AI is frighteningly good, it takes advantage of what forces it has at its disposal and 
 then proceeds to exploit your weaknesses with them. They will attack when they need to attack and 
 perhaps more importantly they know when they need to back off, you wont find the computer marching 
 mindlessly at your defenses here. It is so important in a turn-based strategy game that AI like 
 this exists, so many games attempt to incorporate it into their games and fail spectacularly. It 
 makes for a much healthier challenge, dont let this put you off though. The game takes you from 
 the beginning and holds your hand as it guides you through the basics of battle. My only criticism 
 of the AI within this game is sometimes the computer can be a little excitable with its powers, 
 infact any time the computers power bar is full they will unleash it; regardless of whether the 
 time is right or not. 
  
  Theres no doubt this is a great looking game, it has impressive artwork, some great 3D effects, 
 wonderfully smooth animations and is all put together into one neat handheld package. Unfortunately 
 the game does use a lot of the same old pictures, animations and textures already seen in the last 
 two games of the Advance Wars trilogy. The soundtrack is suitably entertaining and makes for a 
 rousing backdrop in the heat of battle. Each CO has their own individual theme too and some of 
 them are actually really pretty good and match the respective CO pretty well. A lot of the sounds 
 have been recycled too but they still sound as good as they ever did and thats good enough for 
 me. 
  
  If all that wasnt enough you have a lot of unlockable content here too, this can be purchased 
 as you earn points through the various modes the game offers. This again adds huge value to what 
 is already a huge game and will surely keep even the most hardcore of gamers busy for a good few 
 weeks. Most importantly the gameplay is there to back it up and can become highly addictive, all 
 this adds up to a very solid handheld game. If youre a veteran to the series this is going to 
 give you a big challenge, if youre new to Advance Wars this is also a great starting block into 
 the series and will gradually improve your skills as you go. 
  
  Gameplay - Same addictive gameplay with new modes and huge depth. 
  
  Graphics - Impressive 
 by DS standards, does what it sets out to achieve. 
  
  Sound - Great soundtrack that fits the theme of the game pretty well. 
  
  Value - Huge value 
 here and I mean huge, so much to see and do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndjedinak
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Kudos to this team which seems to keep churning out fun games in the Advance Wars series. The DS 
 version adds slightly better graphics, some new gameplay options, and a decent storyline to keep 
 it fresh and interesting. Gameplay is (as always) polished and excellent.
  
  The series is getting a little stale for me, though; the little differences here were enough to 
 make it a worthwhile purchase, for sure, but the series isn't really "evolving" like Age of Empires 
 (the DS version notwithstanding) . It's more a little spitshine here, a little polish there, voila, 
 "new game!"
  
  I'd like to see this talented team do more with the next version. Until then, still the best portable 
 strategy on the go for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorax73
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is the Sequels to Advance wars 1 + 2 for the GBA. It keeps the proven 
 great formula of those 2 games will adding enough to keep the game feeling fresh and new. New tag 
 battles let you use 2 COs in battle and switch on the fly to utilize eachs powers and abilities. 
 The graphics are pretty much the same as the GBA games and the sound is just as good as the them. 
 The multiplayer is pretty fun even though its dissapointing this game is not wifi if you find a 
 friend with a DS you can play together, its even better if he has his own copy of the game. Multiplayer 
 does require alot of patience but its great destroying a friends army wirelessly. While the game 
 might not be enough to attract new fans to the series old fans will love it and its new features. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  dual strike is the best strategy game ive ever played (and i hate strategy games) and is the best 
 ds game available with castlevania: dawn of sorrow!
  its alot of fun yet it can be frustrating and tests your mind lets get to the grading system
 
  
  gameplay: challenging ai and tough boards really make your blood boil and can give you satisfaction 
 or give you a stroke and the strong gameplay plays like most strategy games except with a few differences. 
 you can use special powers to boost up your forces and kick a** also u get to use 2 co's at once! 
 this is were the touch screen comes in when both co's have their power gauges max they can perform 
 a dual strike were thier troops take 2 turns in a row and become alot more powerful! the strong 
 tough gameplay is the strongest point of this game and makes it very addictive and hard to put 
 down. my only complaint is they could have done more with the touch screen but still is awesome!
 
  10/10
  
  graphics: 2d!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! damn! but still the graphics are extremely detailed and colorful and 
 the sprites look great
  8/10
  
  sound: a lil dedede and a lil dedede its pretty solid for a ds title but it still could be better 
 and could use more variety
  8/10
  
  value: the campaign is extremely lengthy and can take 15- 25 hours to complete but the story isnt 
 strong enough for a second go however multiplayer, map editing, purchasable extras like bonuse 
 maps and costumes, and a score mode make this a long lasting title
  9/10
  
  tilt: i had a hell of a time and you should too
  10/10
  overall advance wars is the best strategy 
 game out the and is a must have for ds owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_555
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Controls: You can use the stylist of the button on the DS. Both are perform well but the stylist 
 can mess up and you could end up picking the wrong order and lose the battle because of it.
  Graphics: I expected a little more use of the house power in the DS but still the 2D graphics look 
 good and clean.
  Sound: Best part of the game not kidding the best part of the game I love Jake's and Andy's theme 
 songs
  Learning curve: You will learn all there is to know in every mission until mission 19 or so out 
 of 30 missions.
  Alright if you have DS and you have not pick up this game then whats wrong with you its like $30 
 if you don't have that much go to Eb-games or something and buy a used one for $15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corrax8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike for then Nintendo DS has to be the best in the very popular series. This 
 game has it all. There is a fairly in depth single player mode and the multiplayer is also great 
 too. This game still stays true to the series in the game play and graphics. This simple, but yet 
 fun strategy game will keep you coming back for more.
  
  The single player mission mode does have a great challenge to it. It starts you off slow, doing 
 quick and easy missions, which is great for those who havent the other games in the series. Dont 
 be disappointed at first because the game will gradually build up adding more challenges such as 
 the fog of war, which is when the map is covered in a grey haze that limits your ability to see 
 enemy movements. This game will surely wet the appetite for all gamers who are looking for a challenge. 
 The mission mode also has a very basic story that is the journey of different armies and COs banding 
 together to tackle the evil foe known as Black Hole. The single player is all about the game 
 play and not the story.
  
  In addition to the Mission mode is the War Room. The War Room is a collection of pre-made maps 
 and you have the ability of playing them. When you win a battle in the War Room you gather points 
 which can unlock costumes and new maps to be played in the War Room. One of the great things about 
 this mode is that you can do what ever type of strategy that you whish to use. This is where the 
 game truly becomes addicting, because you can always redo battles to get a better score or you 
 can play to unlock more content. 
  
  Advance Wars also offers a great custom map editor. You are able to create any map that you want, 
 ranging from air and naval battles, to large city invasions. There are many options that are at 
 your finger tips such as adding river and lakes or having preset troops. You also can bring your 
 custom maps to multiplayer to battle your friends with. 
  
  The multiplayer in this game is also very fun to play. Again they did a great job of having tons 
 of options such as bots and the amount of money you get each turn. There is also is 150 maps for 
 multiplayer play on top of any other custom maps. The multiplayer supports up to four players. 
 If you dont have four friends around to play, you can also play with bots, which also can be very 
 challenging. However it is a little more satisfying defeating your friends to see their reactions. 
 
  
  The graphics in this game are very simple and arent very pixeled. The characters also have a sort 
 of anime style to them which is very cool looking. The simplicity of the graphics makes a very 
 clear display of the battle field. When you are attacking or taking fire, the game zooms in to 
 the units and you see projectiles fly across the screen hitting their targets. The animations are 
 smooth and crisp with no slow down. However the styles of the graphics are nice but they not exactly 
 breathtaking, so dont expect too much. 
  
  The sound of this game is also very basic. There are no voice-overs or fancy songs. Theyre still 
 nice, but they may get on your nerves after playing for a few hours. Id suggest to instead plugging 
 your headphones to your MP3 player or CD player. Like the visuals of the game, the sound is nice 
 but it wont sweep you off your feet.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the primer strategy game for the Nintendo DS. The simple game play 
 and tons of unlocks will keep you wanting more. This is also one of those games with tons of replay 
 value that you can always get back into after you have played through most of it. With the War 
 Room in place, there will always be a challenge awaiting you. I would recommend this game to any 
 one who is interested in strategy games or is a fan of the other installments.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyGoomba
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Difficulty - Gosh... this game is pretty hard! Try to complete the hard campaing and try to play 
 versus hardcores players... You're going to cry...
  
  Time Spent Playing - 40 to 100 hours... What?!? Yeah, if you want all medals you'll spend something 
 like 85 hours (you have to play 50 hours to win time spent medal)
  
  Learning Curve - It's a hard game to learn everything (it's similar to a chess) ... So I say something 
 like 1 to 2 hours...
  
  Classification - Best in series of course! Double screen, double COs, double fun!
  
  Gameplay 
 - 10! 10! 10! You're going to sleep with your DS!
  
  Graphics - Okay.. Okay... It's a strategy game, but it's to similar to AW for GBA... So I say 7
 
  
  Sound - Dude... those musics are great! I use super CO power only to hear the music!
  
  Value - I was thinking to give a 10, but it's the same thing all time... So I give a 9.
  
 
  Reviewr's Tilt - A big 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike may not reinvent the series, but the enhancements make the gameplay so 
 much better from the already near perfect series. The most noticable improvement by far is the 
 touch screen stylus control which makes the game, like I said before so smooth. But, theres even 
 more, such as the new challenge mode and the NEW Dual Strike features which allow multiple COs 
 to team up and pull off Devastating Dual Strike attacks which enhances the gameplay. Also added 
 are new RPG elements so the more you use a CO the more powerful they become. Dual Strike is great 
 because it manages to improve from its origins in every way, 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agtgtbacsp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Even though I have never played an Advance Wars game before, I had heard that it was good so I 
 bought it. Now I can't stop playing it. There is so much to do on this game, that you can even 
 create your own levels, that alone creates unlimited gameplay because if you get bored of one level, 
 you can always create another one. The graphics don't look different than game boy advance graphics, 
 but still that leaves more room for gameplay, and keeps it looking like the other advance wars 
 games. The gameplay is perfect, it puts you in perfect control of the game, and the story is easy 
 to go along with, plus it does a good job of explaining everything, or telling you how to play 
 the game as you go along. I had to rely on this because I had never laid hands on an Advance Wars 
 game before. If you have never tried an Advance Wars game and are a fan of games like Fire Emblem 
 (the controls are similar) or even if you haven't, then you will definitely love this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seffora
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm a lon time fan of the Advance Wars series and had been hotly awaiting the DS debut as it was 
 one of the reasons I bought a DS to begin with. Here's how it stacked up to my expectations;
  
  Advance Wars Dual Stike takes the game mechanics from the past two installments and somehow 
 manages to refine it farther. It has a level of polish that is unmatched in any other portable, 
 console and even some PC strategy games. In essence it uses a sort of rock/paper/sissors approach 
 but with more complexity. For example the Bomber is effectoive against almost all ground and sea 
 units but can not touch other air units while it can also be destroied easily by anti air ground 
 units or fighter jets. In turn the anti air units can be desimated by tanks or other missile totting 
 units. Or the Artillery can attack at long range but can not move and attack in the same tunr and 
 although it can not be countered it also can not counter anything that attacks it at close range. 
 It seems like a complex system at first but it's quite easy to learn although extemely difficult 
 to master. The game has a pretty lenghty campaign to tackle and they seem to have addressed the 
 issue most people have had with past Advance Wars cmapigns being too hard. This may upset some 
 hardcore fans of the series since the challenge was one of the best parts since it required a lot 
 of skill to truly master the game. Lucky there is still a hard mode for vets and on top of that 
 the War Room Mode is as hard as ever. The biggest new addition to the game is the new Tag Team 
 system that can be a hit or miss for fans. Almost every mission you are given the choice of a number 
 of COs. You can have two COs command your amry at a time. Each CO has their own special traits 
 that rub off on their army (one may have improved firepower and range with long range units but 
 reduced direct firepower while another has stronger sea units but weaker land units) as well as 
 two super powers that can be used to infulence the battle by crippling thier foe or enhancing thier 
 own army (for exapmple Drake will cause damage to all enemy units ans well as cut their fule in 
 half) . To unleach these powers you must first fill up your power gage which fills by taking and 
 dealing damage. It has two levels; COPower and Super COPower, the Super Power usually just beinga 
 more powerful version of the basic power. 
  As for the Tag team battles you can have one CO command at a time and switch between turns. This 
 adds an extra layer of strategy and foreward thought as you have to think which two COs would make 
 the best team. The real strength lays in unleashing their Dual Strike. If both COs Super Power 
 gage is full you can activeate a Dual Strike, by doing which you are able to take two turns and 
 unleach both Super Powers which can easily turn the tides of battle and turn a hopeless situation 
 into victory. 
  On top of the main story there is also the War Room, a series of unlockable maps that put your 
 strategic thinking to the test and gives you a ranking based on preformance. Survival Mode is sort 
 of like a series of strategic puzzels where you have limited time, turns or money. Versus mode 
 lest you battle it out with friends, the AI or both. Combat is a bit of an oddball mode since it 
 plays out more like an arcade style top-down shoot-em-up usings ome of the mechainics from the 
 strategy mode. On top of that you can also customize CO uniform colours and even build your own 
 maps from scratch for use in the Versus Mode. there is a level of replay value that is unheard 
 of in most games, especially portable ones, and you can easily spend upwards of 100+ hours in the 
 War Room alone. 
  
  the real downfall of the game is it's audio visual presentation. Although it certainly looks better 
 than the GBA versions it still doesn't look like a next gen handheld game and it's a bit of a shame 
 with some of the more graphic intensive games around like Animal crossing, metroid and Mario 64 
 DS. Most of the music is actually pulled from the past two Advance Wars games with a handful of 
 new tracks. the music is upbeat and catchy and does waht it was meant to do but doesn't really 
 take advantage of the DS sound quality. 
  
  Overall, it's not the best looking or sounding game on DS but if you're looking for a portable 
 Strategy game nothing else compairs. It has a level of quality gameplay that simply is unrivaled 
 on any portable platform. if you ahve any interest in strategy games this one is made for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  I haven't a clue why, but I love this series. It reminds me somewhat of the game we call command 
 and conquer. So I was somewhat depresed when I lost it. Now this is a game I would fork out more 
 cash for, but in that lies a problem, I er have no money. So I am doing this review from memory.
 
  
  The good side of this game is the fun factor. All the way through you are kept on a solid storyline 
 with cunning twists. It's a massive improvement from advance wars 2, but I feel it is nigh time 
 we saw the end of black hole. They are starting to drag on a bit. The pros well a fun game and 
 many features makes it good enough. The cons, It's got a few new crap cos in black hole whoom I 
 have never used and the cartridge is so small I can't find it.
  
  The only way to make this game perfect would be to stick it into wifi mode. Actualy why didn't 
 you do that? Why wasn't this the ds wifi original? WHY? WHY?!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCMan13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Now there is lots to say about Advance Wars: Dual Strike, well lets not even go that far yet, first 
 I would like to make a statement about the Advance Wars series, "It kicks ass". I even enjoyed 
 "Battalion Wars" for the Gamecube. Now AWDC (The Game) is in my opinion the best game in the series, 
 why? Because there is so much to do, many options to try units to built, maps to play and even 
 make and also the element of learning about all of the CO's. Also the sound is good, and for a 
 DS game the graphics and tilt are pritty damn good. I recomend this game to anyone who has or wants 
 to get a DS so thats why I give it a 9.1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The same formula you remember, tons of content, nice map editor, great single player 
 or multi-player game.
  
  The Bad: Looks and sounds like the GBA versions.
  
  Introduction: Advance Wars is a strategy game that is available on the GBA. It is also one of the 
 GBA's biggest hits. Well now the third game in the series hits the U. S., and its on the Nintendo 
 DS: the next generation of platforms. Sporting the same stylized look, with cute looking characters 
 destroying each other like madmen, its no surprise this game appeals to so many! Well here it is; 
 quite possibly the greatest DS Games available, this game is pure brilliance.
  
  Presentation: Everything in Advance Wars DS is great, and gives you the classic feel of the previous 
 games. The menus are easy to navigate (by the stylus or the standard buttons) . There is nice dialog 
 in the game, and Intelligent Systems really does well in terms of storytellings (particularly Fire 
 Emblem POR) . This game just serves well to the classic series.
  
  Story: Yes, there is a story in Advance Wars Dual Strike, but it only pertains to the Campaign 
 Mode. The story is not what is considered original , but at least there is one that isn't what 
 you may consider corny. Well this game takes place after Advance Wars 2: Black Hole Rising (on 
 the GBA) . The Black Hole army has been defeated in their plot to take over the land, and were thwarted 
 be the Orange Star, Blue Moon, Yellow Comet, and Green Earth Army. Well they have returned, with 
 new technology and more Commanding Officers (CO's) than ever before. They are plotting something 
 big, and by means are trying to take over Omega Land. The Black Hole Army is immense, and the only 
 way to defeat them is by combining the four armies into one organization; known as the Allied Nations. 
 Led by two new CO's, Jake and Rachel, you must help thwart the demonic plans of the Black Hole 
 Army, before its too late...
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are GBA Quality really. The animations are smoother, and there 
 is some more detail on the units and map in which you navigate. It still could have used more, 
 but then again, why mess with the formula when its not needed right? Besides, the graphical art 
 style is what sets the series apart from other Strategy and War games, and it really is pretty 
 intuitive as well.
  
  Sound: Just like the graphics, the sound isn't top notch for the DS. However, its not what you 
 would call bad. The music is done very well and sets the mood nicely for the game, and the sound 
 effects are done greatly; it gives a nice sense of war on a portable system (with cartoony characters 
 of course)
  
  Gameplay: Here we go, the longest and most important section of the review- Gameplay. Well, as 
 of March 23, 2006, Advance Wars Dual Strike is my favorite DS game ever. The game is addicting 
 as one can think of, and the game is just fresh so that it never gets boring. It is an amazing 
 RTS game and definitely one the best, so heres why: Well, when you start the game, you are on a 
 map. The map sports different terrains by which affects different units, etc. For one, you have 
 a Head Quaters, or HQ. This is your main base, and is important to keep an eye on at all times. 
 The next thing to keep an eye out for is cities. There are allied cities and neutral cities. Cities 
 help determine the amount of funds being added to your inventory at the start of each turn. You 
 can capture cities with Infantry Units (later) , and it depends on how strong the Unit is to determine 
 how long it takes to capture the city. Cities are important for control in the game, a sort of 
 King of the Hill, so to speak. But of course, Infantry Units can capture an HQ as well. Once they 
 do that, you or the opponent loses. It is extremely important to keep you HQ guarded at all times, 
 otherwise it can result into defeat. But of course, there are other ways to defeat an opponent, 
 and this cant be done without Units. But you can produce Units without funds now can you? Well, 
 based on what I said earlier, you get funds based on how many cities you have in your possession. 
 You will have limited number of funds per turn, and you can choose to spend them during your turn. 
 If not, then you can keep your funds and add them to the new sum on your next turn. However, funds 
 can be automatically decreased. When a Unit is damaged for example, they will try and recover their 
 HP at your bases/cities, and this costs amounts of money. It depends on the strength of the unit 
 however, as stronger Units cost more money to repair. Now on to the Units:
  When you play Advance Wars DS, you have buildings that can produce Units. You either start out 
 with an allied base, or you must capture one to produce a Unit. There are three different Unit 
 types in which you can produce, Ground Units, Air Units, and Naval Units. Ground Units can only 
 move onto the ground, which are built at a Factory. They include Units such as Infantry, Tanks, 
 Anti Airs, and long range vehicles. Infantry and Mech Units are considered Ground Units, and are 
 the only Units that can capture cities/bases. Mech Units are stronger, but have a shorter distance 
 of movement and cost more to produce. These two Units are keys into capturing territories to gain 
 money, and they are also the cheapest to produce. So its important to keep them coming if you want 
 to survive. The next Unit Group is Air Units, which are built at Airports.. These include Battle 
 Copters, Bombers, and Fighters, etc. They can travel farther than other Units and are very useful 
 for taking out opponents. They however are expensive and consume fuel quickly (later) . They can 
 however travel over any type of terrain, with no limitations. The last Unit Group is the Naval 
 Units, which are built at ports. These can only travel amongst the ocean. They are blockaded by 
 Coral Reefs, and cannot travel in rivers. They attack other Naval Units, however other Units, can 
 attack from Long Range (later) . They also consume fuel while floating amongst the ocean, so it 
 is best to keep them at a Port if you want to keep their fuel from decreasing. What is the point 
 of fuel anyways? Well each Unit has an amount of Fuel in which it uses, and determines how long 
 the Unit can stay afloat, above sky, or moving. When you are constantly moving on land, it consumes 
 fuel. Different terrains also consume more fuel than others. They can be replenished by staying 
 in cities, or being refilled by an APC. APC's are transport units that can transport Infantry much 
 farther then they are designated to travel. They also resupply ammunition, which is also another 
 part to a Unit. Units that attack have ammunition, some with more, some with less. When they attack 
 Units from time to time, their ammunition is decreased. APC's and Cities can refill them. Keep 
 in mind though, that Air Units and Naval Units burn fuel even if they do not move. If they run 
 out of fuel, then they are destroyed. Now this wouldn't be Advance Wars if you couldn't obliterate 
 your enemies right? Well here are the basics for battling. The game map is set up like a grid system, 
 and it determines how far your Unit can move, or its attack range. Units (not including Long Range, 
 (still later!) attack Units from one grid space away. But it depends on what Units you use that 
 determines your strength, a lead to victory. For example, there are tens of Units to choose from. 
 Tanks, Recons (or as they can be used in slang, Hummers) , Infantry, and more. Well, there are also 
 different strengths. Infantry Units are obviously the weakest, because they are just men running 
 around with assault rifles. So obviously, a Tank will have the advantage. There are different types 
 of Tanks that can be produced, with stronger ones obviously having a higher cost. But this is only 
 half of it, the other half is the Units HP. HP also determines a Units strength. For example, if 
 two Tanks were to head into battle against one another, a Tank with 8 HP v. s a Tank with 3 HP, 
 the Tank with 8 would obviously win. Its not all sticks and stones however. The Attacking Unit 
 will have a slight advantage. If a level 10 Recon attacks level 10 Recon, the Attacking Recons 
 HP would be reduced to about 7, and the defending about 5. Now when the 5 attacks the 7, it becomes 
 a 4, and the attacking becomes a 3. If there is a small difference in terms of HP, then you can 
 attack and still have an advantage. If there is a marginal difference, then you will be doing small 
 amounts of damage but be destroyed as well. It is a complex system at first, but is easily learned 
 after playing the game for a few hours. Now when Air Units attack, they can inflict damage to Ground 
 Units. Bombers can attack Ground Units and deal much damage. HOWEVER, Anti Air Tanks can still 
 attack the Bomber. In this term, it really depends on who attacks who first. Now the next part 
 is Long Range Units. These Units can attack other Units from space that is not near the attacked 
 unit. They are generally strong as well when attacking, but have weak defense. They are good strategic 
 points when attack powerful Units that are difficult to defeat (due to lack of Units or funds!) 
 Each Unit has their own strengths and weaknesses, but all of them play a key into helping you achieve 
 victory. Its important to learn about the different Units and such, so that you can experience 
 what and what not to use in different situations. Another factor to look for in Advance Wars is 
 the Terrain Effects. When playing, there are many different types of terrain, such as Grassland, 
 Roads, Cities, Beaches, Mountains, etc. These are important to look for because they lead to higher/lesser 
 consumption of fuel, and also provide defense for your Units. Units that are in the Forests attacking 
 Units in the plains have higher amounts of cover, so they will have an advantage in battle. The 
 amount of cover is determined by Asterisks which are displayed on the battle scenes. There are 
 limitations too, such that Infantry and Mech Units are the only Ground Units that can traverse 
 Mountains. They however provide strong cover/defense, so they are useful even though they have 
 movement limitations. Again, there is another factor that can determine battle, and this is the 
 weather. Rainy weather creates a little thing called Fog of War, in which Opposing Units are camouflaged 
 into surrounding,; this is also the same for your opponent, so you may run into enemies when you 
 are least expecting it. Also there are snowstorms and sandstorms, and these conditions reduce movement 
 and increase fuel consumption.
  Another thing to look for in battling is the CO's being used in battle. Each CO has their own different 
 strengths, and even special abilities. By attacking and doing well in the battlefield, your selected 
 CO will achieve special powers through Star Meters. When your Star Meter is half way full, you 
 can use one of your powers, when full, you can use a much more Special Power- and even something 
 more special (in a second!) . These powers really can turn the tide in battle. They may do things 
 such as heal Units, reduce Terrain Effects, Strengthen Units, or even spawn more! There is alot 
 of variety in the COs, and its very important to keep an eye on what they are doing. Well whats 
 different about Advance Wars DS is that now you can use two CO's during battle. This is extremely 
 engaging to the gameplay, because different CO's work well with each other more than others. Rachel 
 for example works best with her sister Nell (from the first game) . But the big key here is Dual 
 Strikes, hence the title. When you Star Meter is completely filled on BOTH CO's, you can achieve 
 a Dual Strike. This lets you attack two turns in a row, and have the effects of the special ability 
 added on both. The powers are also strengthened when CO's have a better relationship with one another. 
 Its always good to check which CO's work well with one another. But keep in mind that you can only 
 play with one CO at a time, or one CO gains more experience in their Star Meter. Thats why you 
 can choose to swap your CO's when you want the other to gain experience. It is extremely engaging, 
 and the Dual Strikes are very powerful, so you better watch out. There are many Game Modes in Advance 
 Wars DS. The first is Campaign, in which you battle through the story. Next is the War Room, where 
 you can achieve a ranking/score for your data and your CO's record. Then there is Versus, in which 
 you can challenge a friend via Multi Card Play Wirelessly, or battle a computer. Next you have 
 the Combat Mode, which is a completely different way of playing Advance Wars. It is very basic 
 once you play it, so theres no need for me to explain it. But let me just say that you control 
 you own Units, via Control Pad, as opposed to directing them. Next you have the Survival Mode, 
 which is used a basic game with limitations, such as beating your opponent in a certain amount 
 of turns, or with limited funds.
  Then you have a Battle Maps Mode, in which you can purchase many things by the points you've earned 
 while playing the game. This ranges from new COs, new Maps, and even New Clothes.......? Well in 
 another place called the Design Room, you can choose to fit your COs in clothes of different colors. 
 Theres no point really, but it can have a bit of fun to it. As well, there is also a Map Editor, 
 in which you create you own Map to be used in Versus. You can add anything you want on the map, 
 but their is a limitation for the number of buildings. It is a great mode, as you can make levels 
 completely for Naval Units, Air Units, os just Ground Units. I have spent hours in this mode making 
 new maps, which you can save on your game (and then play them!) .
  
  Whats New: Well Advance Wars DS seems simliar to its other games in almost every way, so whats 
 different about it? Well, for one, you have the option of using two CO's in battle, as well as 
 the Super Power Dual Strikes. This makes the game fresh and fun, and you even have the option to 
 turn them off in Versus Mode. Next, you have some new Units. You have a Stealth Fighter, which 
 can attack all Unit types and has a Cloaking Device so it is not spotted by an enemy. You have 
 Cruisers, which can launch Missiles at Air Units, and house its own AIr Units to replenish fuel. 
 And then you have a Mega Tank, which is the most powerful Ground Unit in the game. It is nearly 
 unstoppable, and obliterates everything in its path. Too bad it costs about $30,000 (which is quite 
 a number in Advance Wars... which may be a standard SUV in the real world!) . But what else is different 
 is the Dual Screened Battles. When playing, you can choose to battle on two screens at once. You 
 can pick two CO's and one may battle on the Top Screen, while the other controls the Touch Screen. 
 You can choose to have it so the AI controls one of the battles, while you control the other. If 
 one CO on one of the screens wins, then they will join and help fight with the other CO on the 
 other screen. Which is pretty scary now that they can use Dual Strikes. You also have linking battles, 
 in which Air Units are above the clouds (Top Screen) and Naval, Ground, and Air Units are below. 
 You can send Air Units to the clouds above to join in the battle, and that is important to keep 
 them coming (there are no Airports in the sky now are there?!) There are even more battles, whether 
 it be a satelittle ready to fry your city or Missiles ready to attack your land, Dual Screened 
 Battles are fresh enough to keep this series from getting a dull moment. Multiplayer: Yeah, Multiplayer. 
 Extremely engaging and tense, what a better way to play a game then by blowing up your friends? 
 You need two game cards to play a normal Advance Wars Game, but you can play Combat Mode with a 
 Single Cartridge. You can event trade maps (two cartridge) , so that keeps the Multiplayer experience 
 fresh and fun.
  
  Value: Well what can I say? This game is just amazing. The best DS Game I own and is just great. 
 The Campaign itself will last you around 15 hours to complete, and there are hundreds of Maps to 
 play with in War Room or Versus. The Multiplayer Mode can last you for hours, and the ability to 
 share and battle on Maps makes for endless possibilities. This game is well worth the purchase 
 and truly sets a mark by how great Strategy games should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dualstrike is straight the best stratergy game in the nintendo platforms. The game 
 is easy and it also puts you to the test. Of all AW games this is definetly the best. There are tons 
 of missions, and there is also combat, which puts you right on the action phase. The graphics are 
 pretty good and the gameplay is top. Although AW DS is a great game, I only play it when I have nothing 
 to do or when I want to stratergise my killing attacks. The game is good, but I'd put it as a side 
 game. Great for any stratergy gamer and one of the best DS games yet. Stop waisting time, and go try 
 it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  We definitely do not get enough thought provoking situations throughout the average day. Whether 
 it be sitting in college mindlessly daydreaming on how you can ignore the next upcoming class or 
 watching that same anime rerun you have seen thousands of times, there just has to be something 
 that can be both intriguing and difficult. Simply put, there is really only one particular genre 
 out there that seems to be on top of things when it comes to these aspects. It wasn't soon after 
 I asked myself these questions, that I came upon Advance Wars: Dual Strike.
  
  Titles belonging to this particular field always seem to be let down by one problem or another. 
 Slowdown, units that do not properly do as they are told, boring money saving -- the list goes 
 on. My doubt soon vanished though, as each week slowly passed by. My pre-emptive cause for concern 
 being unnoticeable compared to the intense combat stages and flawless presentation of one of the 
 greatest real-time strategy titles available.
  
  Welcome to duty.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike does what really no other game in the genre has done. Take its best qualities, 
 including an interesting storyline, balanced units, and excessive combat options, and add a touch 
 of innovativeness using the system's primary strength -- the touch screen. While this may sound 
 like a repetitive point and click venture, the sheer number of options and commands you have at 
 your disposal, bring about a sense of immersion behind the roles of the characters you will be 
 working with. By the way, have I mentioned that most of them are completely insane?
  
  Jake: Alright, looks like we have got them on the run.
  
  Max: That's right, run you freaks!
 
  
  Jake: Get out the dinner plates because you just got served.
  
  Rachel: Okay, settle down Jake.
  
  Pretty sure the troops are thinking each and every day, 
 "Why the hell am I risking my life for these idiots?" Then you realize once you get past Mission 
 2, that the villains of Black Hole, are even more insane. Brains in tanks, women with hair styles 
 that defy gravity, and pale faced gremlins that make up the majority of your antagonists, will 
 have your soldiers feeling a lot better about their superiors. You really get to know these characters 
 as time passes and choosing the right one will give you something to hysterically laugh at, with 
 the added bonus of an advantage in the war zone. Since not only can you choose from several CO's 
 for each mission you accept, but you can take advantage of each of their powers as well. For example, 
 grab Sensei when you want more bonus capabilities for your air force or perhaps Rachel to give 
 some extra artillery support. The game throws situations at you at every turn and the decision 
 making begins even before the battle.
  
  Once you get the hang of it, you will also be able to distinguish between units and select which 
 one is the perfect match-up for the oncoming opposition. Even though shuffles involve a little 
 rock/paper/scissors, thinking ahead will save less defensive units like rockets and anti-air, from 
 biting the dust early. So, instead of wildly sending that tank in to crush that weakened transport 
 vehicle, why not use your missiles first to destroy that hidden helicopter? Then circle around 
 and use the tank's full assault on the reconnaissance, while a couple able mech troops can annihilate 
 that battered jeep. I love when games throw stuff at you like this and taking circumstances turn 
 by turn will be the difference between victory and getting your ass swiftly kicked.
  
  Unfortunately dominion by clearing out the masses of your foes is not the only way to take home 
 the win. Taking over a diverse type of buildings, doing this before the enemy, and winning before 
 a certain time limit are all ways to be rewarded even further. Airports, tank factories, radio 
 centers, all are neutral when you and your squads move into each territory. And having your infantry 
 capture each center will promise you more funds for your team and the more you have, the easier 
 it is to wear out your competition. Money takes a large part in the art of war and depending on 
 how much of it is in your possession, could be the difference in purchasing a 7,000 gold basic 
 tank or the 22,000 gold monster that is the Neo-tank. Big difference, eh?
  
  Putting those economics skills to their maximum potential though will come into play once your 
 commanders join up for a little tag team fun. Twice the command, twice the firepower, and twice 
 the game-play options. This is where the DS's shining feature really comes through.
  
  Now while it is usually unnoticeable, the top screen is primarily used as a window for progress 
 stats, unit stats, and so on. While convenient, it is nothing you could not really figure out for 
 yourself as you watch the fray play out. That is, unless you failed every math class since grade 
 school. However, this all changes when two commanders get in the driver seat and open up a dimension 
 of the game that will double the strategy and difficulty. It is affectionately called dual strike 
 and will give you the option of controlling two teams of units at once. As two commanders join 
 up and wreak havoc on both their respective land masses, their powers will continue to heighten 
 until your power meter is full. Also, based on the compatibility of those two COs, will result 
 in different destructive motives. Giving your team two turns to advance and attack, sending a wave 
 of energy to pick at weakened units, or spreading hellfire ravaging across the landscape to engulf 
 your poor adversaries, are all options at your fingertips. Isnt being in control fun?
  
  Though whats not fun is the occasional difficulty spike and by spike I mean a three thousand foot 
 wide canyon violently being torn apart by a tremendous earthquake. This mostly takes place in the 
 War Room, a scenario based mode that gives you and the other side a set number of units. Your job 
 is to take their bases and wipe out their force, as the campaign previously suggested. What makes 
 things rough is that sometimes you will feel that what you are given is not nearly enough. This 
 would all be stand-able if it werent for the fact that the challenge seems inconsistent. Level 
 two could be easy, three could result in a hole in your wall, and four ends up being but as simple 
 as the second. Of course if you are a pro at these types of games or a quick learner (which I am 
 not) , the problems may not feel as hazardous as it seems. Nevertheless, expect replaying the same 
 mission several times throughout, as there seems to be a pattern to Advance Wars: Dual Strike. 
 A puzzle that is just waiting to be solved. A lock waiting to be picked.
  
  If you have undoubtedly followed the series since its debut on the Game Boy Advance, then the visual 
 difference is not too apparent. Battlefields are colored about with each unit having its own distinctive 
 feature and artwork. Nothing is too difficult to distinguish and the Fog of War missions that 
 spring up now and then are fantastic. Characters have a very anime-ish feel to them and have their 
 own expressions based on the mood their in. Complimenting the fast paced feel to the game is an 
 explosive soundtrack with a rocking introduction, mysterious themes, and upbeat battle compositions. 
 Just a couple little things that transform the whole package into something a little more. And 
 that right there is what signifies everything that is the Advance Wars series. Taking an original 
 concept and transforming it into just what the genre should be.
  
  In the end, what it all builds up to is a strategy game that doesnt hold back from being different 
 and it is this unique feel that gives this gem such energy. The personality of the individuals, 
 the strategy to each mission, and the various modes of play are phenomenal. Whether it be taking 
 over that final tower with just a handful of men or using your jets to rip through the last defenses 
 of the Black Holes fortress, the game rewards you with a sense of relief and accomplishment. Even 
 when trouncing the AI is not good enough, you and a friend can square off and decide which one 
 has to buy the other lunch for the day. In conclusion, what more can be said that hasn't been said 
 already? If you are new to the series, buy it. If you are a veteran of the series, buy it. Both 
 intelligent and compelling, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is far and away the best title on the DS 
 and one youd have to be delusional not to grasp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsgames111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is a fun, turn-based strategy game that can be very addicting to most gamers, including 
 yours truly. You start out by selecting units to deploy depending on your limited funds. You get 
 tanks, infantry, all sorts of boats, all sorts of planes (depending on whether you have land, air, 
 or water deployment sites, and you take over cities to gain more funds for more expensive units. 
 Then you seek out enemy units and either take out all the enemy units or capture their Headquarters 
 to win the round. Each turn is a day gone by. This game keeps your statistics, and you will check 
 them later on after you beat the campaign.
  I started by beating the campaign. This is no easy task, but with the affliction of addiction, 
 it gets done (sometimes in the wee hours of the morning!) . It is after the campaign mode gets beaten 
 that you realize the vastness of this game. There are multiple modes to keep you busy even after 
 the campaign is over. Survival mode lets you play a certain number of maps and your game is done 
 when you are defeated. This mode is HARD. War Room has the vast selection of maps for use with 
 one, two, three, or four COs. Battle Maps is the store you buy stuff at like more COs (commanding 
 officers) , maps, and galleries/soundroom. All this stuff is welcome since you won't want to put 
 this game down. 
  The Dual Strike utilizes the 2 COs you will use by letting them take turns on the SAME turn (inflicting 
 twice the damage as usual) . Also, the dual screens add a great aspect of letting you play the battle 
 on two fronts. What happens is you can play one front on the bottom screen, and another with another 
 CO on the top screen. You can either play both yourself or let the computer play the top screen 
 for you. When you win the top screen's front, that CO comes down to help your CO on the bottom 
 screen, or "main front". This is obviously new to the series, and is a great usage of the dual 
 screens (dual strike is DS, afterall!) . 
  There is also a real-time mode where you can play with a set number of units (which you buy with 
 a set budget beforehand) and move your units around, one at a time, firing away bullets and shrapnel 
 and trying to take out the enemy units and take down the HQ. This is a neat distraction for a change 
 after you're DS'd out, although I must say I prefer the turn-based strategy. 
  All in all, you'll spend so many hours with this game that it'll eat up your life. It's a great 
 game, and a must-buy for DS owners. One suggestion: if you're married, get a headphone jack for 
 your DS: you'll be playing in bed at night alongside your spouse and you don't want to wake them 
 up!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samigarnett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series has paved quite a road for itself in route to its debut on the Nintendo 
 DS with Advance Wars: Dual Strike. The first Advance Wars for the Game Boy Advance caught many 
 off guard as they didnt expect such a simple, cartoon-ish game to have so much content. And with 
 its latest release, the series does not seem to be losing its touch what so ever.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a turn-based strategy game in which you must defeat your opponent 
 by either capturing their main base, completing some set objectives or destroying all of their 
 units (which can take a long time) . The game brings a lot to the table including a variety of game 
 play modes, extras, and some new characters. The most entertaining part of the game is probably 
 its campaign mode in which the Black Hole Army has come back and has become strong than ever. It 
 is up to the Allied Forces of Omega Land to unite once again to defeat Black Hole. You will be 
 introduced to the new characters, Jake and Rachel, right at the start of the campaign. When the 
 campaign begins youll be taken through a series of easy tutorial maps in which it will ease you 
 into the games plot and increasingly difficult levels. Veterans of the Advance Wars series might 
 find the beginning of the campaign a bit boring but they wont suffer long as the battles move 
 quickly at first.
  
  Besides campaign mode there are some other playing options such as the war room, versus, survival, 
 and combat modes each offering fun and addicting game play. In the war room you play against the 
 computer and save your score after each battle. This is a good way to help beginners of the series 
 practice and eventually be able to take on even a pro. In versus mode you can play your friends 
 and see how you really match up. In survival mode you have to battle your way through maps in which 
 you will have limitations on what you can spend, the amount of turns you are able to take, and 
 how much time you will have to complete a series of maps. And in combat mode you can take control 
 of a unit through a real-time arcade-like battle.
  
  Some of the more notable additions to Advance Wars Dual Strike are some of its new units and the 
 addition of the new CO tag-team battle system. While in a tag-team battle, you are able to use 
 and switch between two different COs. In some battles you will have to use one of them on each 
 screen of the DS. If you build up both COs powers you can perform a Dual Strike with your characters 
 and take two turns in one. Your enemies also have the fine privilege of using a Dual strike against 
 you, how exciting!
  
  Apart from the other games in the series Advance Wars: Dual Strike has a noticeably improved A. I. 
 which might surprise some veterans. This in turn makes the game more challenging and less predictable 
 than the previous two installments. And with the all annoying weather effects players must now 
 think twice before they make a critical move.
  
  All in all Advance Wars: Dual Strike is an extremely interesting and exciting game. The Dual Strike 
 is a great addition to the game play as it can completely turn the tide of battle. If you are a 
 dedicated strategy fan, a loyal veteran of the series, or someone looking for something new, Advance 
 Wars: Dual Strike is a must have.
  
  Written by samigarnett 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying that I have never played the Advance Wars for GBA so I cannot compare 
 my experience to those. That aside this is the best turn based strategy game I have ever laid hands 
 on. There are exactly enough different types of units to keep it interesting and cover all the 
 necessary types of units needed, but not so many as to confuse things. I always knew exactly what 
 kind of unit I needed to suit a particular task. The difficulty was perfect, some maps are beatable 
 the first time, and some required much more planning and took me several tries to beat. The storyline 
 was a little on the lame side, accentuated by the bad dialog, but that is easy to overlook since 
 most of the time you're playing instead of reading. There's several different modes to play in 
 besides the campaign - multiplayer, resource limited maps, etc. Tons of stuff to work on, beating 
 this game 100% could easily take you 100 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemonAid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Omega Lands is threatened by a fast growing and strong army, Black Hole army. Rachel, currently 
 in charge for the Orange Star army, and Jake must prepare themselves for several battles. Their 
 villains are strong and their army and strenght are growing incredibly fast. Omega Land is slowly 
 turning into a desert and the reason why is mysterious and unknown. Orange Star and their allies 
 join forces again to help eachother.
  
  The story itself is ok, nothing really special happening. AW: DS is part 3 in this series. All the 
 characters are very unique and lots of fun! Eventhough in the toughest battles, you'll always find 
 some humor and suprises. Some quotes are so funny! I haven't played the other games, but you get 
 certain hints about the characters relationship to eachother.
  
  If you simply love good old 2D graphics and charming sprites, Advance Wars: DS is the game for 
 you. The Characters sprites and other pixel images are higly detailed and comes in tons of colors 
 and versions. You can earn points for "battle maps" and you'll be able to change your characters 
 colors, get new maps and plenty of bonus material.
  
  At first you start to learn the basics of how to battle in the game, which is really helpful for 
 those who haven't played the Advance Wars games before. Later on you learn new tricks and tips, 
 of course. The characters, those called CO's, have different abilities and can team up with another 
 CO. Some of them are a superb team, some simply don't work. Always keep an eye on the CO's informations 
 and abilities, it will really help you out. Some are experts in tanks, field battles, planes, etc. 
 The pairs often have the opposite strenghts, but don't let a minor detail like that stop you. When 
 they "tag" eachother during a battle, your units surely will become a lot stronger and have many 
 more possibilities. Do look over the battle field before a battle and figure out who you should 
 use as CO's.
  
  You've probably understood by now that you can use two different CO's during a battle, but at the 
 very beginning you can't. No big deal, it's not that difficult at the beginning. When you attack 
 or get attacked some kind of "power meter" will slowly, but sure, charge up. If the meter is half 
 way to full-charge, you're able to use a CO power, but it is worth the wait for the meter to charge 
 100% up. When it's 100% you're able to use super CO power! If you have two CO's and both of their 
 power meters are fully charged you can start a tag battle. It allowes you to move your units twice 
 during one day with both COs. You'll get a power boost depending on how well the CO's co-ops with 
 eachother.
  
  The battles can be incredibly frustrating and difficult if you're not used to such strategy games 
 (like me!) , so having a lot of patience will help you through it all. Fiddle around, find the CO's 
 you like to play with and simply kick grass! Putting the campagin mode aside, there are other things 
 too you can do. in the other modes you can gain new skills and xp points. With all these stuff 
 to do, Advance Wars: DS can offer you 20+ hours of puzzling battles and fun!
  
  At first I didn't think Advance Wars was a game I could understand, but the story, characters and 
 gameplay turned out to be super fun and I grew more and more interested. Now I'm completely addicted 
 and I'm kind of sad that I've finished the game, but fear not! After completing the normal campagin 
 you'll get access to the hard-mode! Good luck soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oaky180
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. They could of had more levels in the normal campaign. The normal campaign starts 
 really easy but gets harder at around level 19-20. This game is the reason I bought the Nintendo 
 DS in the first place. I wish They would have added more new units and maps. If you are looking 
 for a great game and you love strategies, you won't want miss out on this one. I like how they 
 added some more COs but I hate how they took out the coolest, Sturm. The dual screen adds a great 
 touch and so does the tag teaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nibbleyDUDE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This is a really good sequel on the Advance Wars on GBA. It still posseses all the origanal characters 
 (except Sturm) and has a good storyline. You start off in Omega land. Completly different place 
 in Wars World. There's a new Commanding Officer called Jake and then taught the basics by Rachel 
 (Nell's little sister) . Both of these are new characters. All of a sudden Black Hole come back 
 with a mysterious new weapon (SPOILER) ozzium/hellium that you find in a later level. You need 
 to regain control over Omega land after the new Black Hole army turn everything in there path to 
 desert and red water. There is a new option which allows you to switch characters and even use 
 your Tag super power, this allows both CO's to attack in the same turn. 
  
  There are tons of other options including medals you can get these by doing tasks for eg. destroy 
 100 infantry units. Also there is Survival where you are required to do an number of maps in a 
 certain amount of time, money or turns. Vs is still the same. War room is also the same but with 
 a number of new battle maps you can buy at Hachi's shop. 
  
  Also there's the new leveling system where you can gain experience for each battle map you do and 
 gain bonuses you can modify. When you reach level 10 a new costume becomes available for your CO's.
 
  
  There are a few new units including the two best (in my opinion) Megatanks and stealth fighters. 
 Megatanks can destroy almost destroy any other land unit in 1 turn although can't move far and 
 have low ammo. Stealth fighters can turn invisible to all except other Stealth fighters and can 
 drop bombs but also the invisbility drains it fuel quicker.
  
  All in all this is a must have for all DS owners. Commander nibbleyDUDE signing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kboy23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  levels were you wait for something fun to happen with a great AI system and slow and boring gameplay 
 but with some fun xtras to play like combat, i personally injoyed this , the campaign is okay but 
 gets boring and repitive after a while but with fun dual strike mode it actually got better . Characters 
 look cool when you change the uniforms and colors . Fun war mode that ups the gameplay so you can 
 practice and gets your hot streak going for campaign so you can kick some black hole butt . The 
 design maps area is fun to play with because you can completley destroy your oppenants are go against 
 odds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kr4zyst3v3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  If you don't already have a DS, this game should provide every reason you need to go out and buy 
 one. Its addictive, fun, and provides hours of entertainment. The campaign starts newbies off 
 easy, but a hard mode is unlockable for previous Advance War fans. The new Cos, maps, and units 
 make game play even more exiting. The game also has a secondary screen where battles can take place 
 in duel screen battles. But the overall best improvement is the tag team battles, which allow the 
 battle to shift in a single turn. In conclusion, the game is a must have for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moonbank
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  First off. This game is the best strategy game, and could be the best game for the DS (depending 
 if you like strategies) . 
  
  If you have played this game before then you can skip this paragraph, otherwise read on. This game 
 is a turned based strategy, you have different units including: Infantry, Tanks, Helicopters, Jets, 
 Battleships, Subs, APCs, Anti-Aircraft, and plenty of other units. You characters move through 
 squares like in chess. Each unit can move a certain distance and as a certain amount of firepower, 
 defense, and fuel/ammo. Their are also factors that play in like Hindering Terrain ex. Mountains 
 and Forests. The Hindering terrain also provides bonus to defense. Their is literally an endless 
 amount of strategies and choices. With all of these units and terrains you also have your C. O. 
 (Commanding Officer) . These C. O. s each have their own unique style of fighting and advantages/disadvantages. 
 They can also unleash co-powers which have powerful unique advantages.
  
  Their is a lot of options and things you can do. First off is Campaign. In Campaign you face off 
 against the black hole forces again. They are using Crystals to suck the life force out of the 
 earth. The campaign plays out pretty easy, it might seem a little tough at first but its actually 
 pretty easy, if you've played previous versions of this game. 
  
  Other modes of gameplay include: War Room, in which you play challenging matches against the computer 
 player. Versus, where you can play many maps, and and others that you've unlocked, plus completely 
 customizable matches. Survival, where you play through stages of matches in which their are limits, 
 ex. limited funds, limited time. Combat, Where you play an arcade style combat with a selection 
 of different characters and units. 
  
  The Gameplay is great well balanced and entertaining. Graphics are also very good, not the best 
 top-notch graphics but very artistic. The sound is also well with different music for each C. O. 
 and cool sound effects for the guns and such. The Value is the best considering their is Hundreds 
 and Hundreds of hours of gameplay.. Tilt, not very more unique from the originals but very large 
 drastic enhancements.
  
  My final statement for this game is that it is great. It is definitely worth the 30 - 40 dollars 
 it costs. Basically the only downfall to this game is that the touch screen isn't really that important, 
 It basically just adds a different way to move your troops, but it really isn't that great. Nevertheless 
 it is Great beyond all expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater02468
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a terrific game simply because everything works.
  The graphics are very nice and detailed. The gameplay is awesome because it grows on you, there 
 aren't many games like this around these days. The music is absolutely perfect, the sound effects, 
 music, and everything else. This game would definiatly be fun to play over again because it's such 
 an awsome game in the first place, and the piles of unlockables. What can I say, I highly recommend 
 you buy this game if you have a Nintendo DS, and if you don't, well get a DS and buy this. This 
 is easily the best game ever that can fit in your pocket, but if you don't believe me then play 
 it for yourself and you'll see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorrogue
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  In 2001, the first Advance Wars took pretty much everyone who played it by surprise. Who knew that 
 this unassuming little turn-based game with its light-hearted approach to war would turn out to 
 be such an addictive, strategic experience? A couple of years later, Advanced Wars 2: Black Hole 
 Rising (also for the GBA) , was released. It held all the attractions that made the first Advance 
 Wars great, but was slightly disappointing as it had an expansion pack feel, rather than that of 
 a full-fledged sequel. Well fans, don your four-star cap and prepare to lead your forces to victory 
 once again: the Wars are back, with Advance Wars: Dual Strike! This is by far the best in the series, 
 as it offers a solid amount of new content and features, while not compromising the foundations 
 of gameplay that makes the series great.
  
  Much like its predeccesors, Dual Strike is a turn based strategy game set in a modern time with 
 an ever-increasing flavor of Science Fiction. Each player takes turns maneuvering their forces 
 across the battlefield, while attacking the enemy along the way. As in previous titles, wiping 
 out the opposition or capturing the opponent's command center is the standard goal. In this title, 
 however, maneuvering troops can now be accomplished with the stylus and touch screen instead the 
 traditional D-pad. Personally, I've found this a little uncomfortable, but doable.
  
  All of the previously mentioned units can be found in the game's five factions; Orange Star, Blue 
 Moon, Yellow Comet, Green Earth, and Black Hole. While most of these sound very cheesy and like 
 some sort of subliminal advertisement for Lucky Charms cereal, it is the Commanding Officers (CO's 
 for short) that make each faction memorable. Fans will be delighted to know that the game retains 
 all those found in the past (except Sturm) , along with eight new COs. Unlike in some strategy games, 
 these are not just colorful avatars to add flare. Each CO is remarkably different in strategy, 
 and also - thanks to some sharp dialogue - in personality. Take Yellow Comet's new CO, Grimm, for 
 example. He has a loud, lively personality that compliments his unit's emphasis on firepower over 
 defense. It's also worth mentioning, players now have the ability to rank up COs and earn the ability 
 to choose a new skill to customize them. The variety and balance of units, coupled with the many 
 unique COs, allows the game to offer an unbelievable amount of strategy - almost unheard of for 
 a handheld game. Of course, experienced players know that's not all there is to the COs...
  
  During a battle, your Commanding Officer's star meter fills based on how much damage he's done 
 to the enemy (or they to him) . By filling it all the way, you can unleash the CO's super power, 
 which can turn the tide of a battle if you're a tactful player. This feature adds more action and 
 tension to the old turn-based genre, and keeps the series from becoming stale. To keep you on your 
 toes, the new ability to tag team COs (use two COs at once) is also available. I've found it allows 
 your army and the enemies' army to adapt easier to battle situations or compensate for a COs weakness. 
 If both of the COs' meters fill, you can unleash the devastating "Dual Strike", that allows you 
 to take two turns at once. I was surprised to find how much care and attention was put into this 
 new tactic. It helps ensure that no combination could be used unfairly, and so the game doesn't 
 boil down to simply racing to get the first Dual Strike to win the game.
  
  While Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a deep and complex game, new players need not worry about being 
 overwhelmed. The beginning of the main campaign contains an intergraded tutorial that should ease 
 greenhorns into the fray, though experienced players may find it a little tedious to trudge through 
 this fairly unchallenging learning campaign. Naturally, after beating the campaign, a harder difficulty 
 is available to offer a better challenge. 
  
  Although you won't see this early in the game, the already great AI has been improved since past 
 Wars titles; this time around it can no longer be tricked by the old APC feint. The computer will 
 exploit the weakness in your army and then repeatedly strike quickly and without hesitation. The 
 AI shows signs of impressive aggression, but it also knows when to retreat. This makes for a fun 
 and challenging opponent, despite that it's slightly overzealous in using the special CO powers. 
 
  
  You will fight this very capable AI with an impressive list of nearly every classic type of military 
 unit. Infantry, various sorts of tanks, rocket launchers, fighter jets, helicopters, and battleships 
 are just the half of it. In Advance Wars 2, players were likely disappointed with the addition 
 of only one new unit. In Dual Strike, six new units arrive on the scene. Despite the fact that 
 this does not seem like a lot in general strategy gaming terms, it is in Advance Wars terms. As 
 expected of the series, each and every unit is meticulously balanced. Every type has a purpose 
 on the battlefield without being gimmicky. Here's an example: the new appropriately named Megatank 
 can wipe out medium tanks in one swift blow, but only packs enough ammo for three strikes from 
 the cannons. It also lacks the fuel capacity of regular units. In short, all of these clever balances 
 ensure no single "beat-all" for any situation, making hectic battles rage on.
  
  Even with all of these variables to consider, the game contains many terrain variations and weather 
 effects that alone can change the feel of a battle. Playing with weather settings can really add 
 a lot of replay value in a "versus map". In addition to weather and terrain, the new COM towers 
 add a little more spice to gameplay. For example, they will increase you army's overall firepower 
 when captured. While the COM towers are a good addition, they are not nearly as satisfying as the 
 Missile Pad addition was in the previous installment. They seem tossed in at the last minute, and 
 maybe they were; the animation of the infantry capturing the structure is exactly the same as the 
 one capturing a city. Nevertheless, these are minor complaints compared to the overall quality 
 of the design as a whole.
  
  Just for kicks, the game features combat mode, which is an arcade-like action game. Players get 
 to control one of the basic Advance Wars units in real-time, while fighting an outnumbering force. 
 This game is also available in multiplayer (think old school Bomberman... with guns) . It is not 
 the greatest of game modes, but it can be fun. In addition to this, there is a plethora of unlockables 
 and medals. Three hundred medals to be precise, which can be earned by doing normal tasks over 
 and over, which are tracked in the "Battle History." Whether or not you get a prize for earning 
 all these medals.... your guess is as good as mine. Nevertheless, this is a nice touch for fans 
 (or just addicts) . 
  
  Once you're done fighting the computer and unlocking all there is, you can take on a friend via 
 wireless LAN or Wi-fi. However, this is not for everyone. A fair amount of patience and/or fandom 
 with Advance Wars is required. Unfortunately, Intelligent Systems needs a little more design experience 
 with multiplayer games. Matches can last many hours and players waiting for their turn can't do 
 much more than send quick messages to others. It would be nice to browse the maps or close the 
 DS during wait time. To add to these negatives, you can't save. If you try to leave the game, it 
 will end for all. Despite these shortcomings, if fans have the spare time and the patience, multiplayer 
 can be a blast.
  
  All of these elements add up to an amazing amount of replay value, but all this would be worthless 
 without solid level design and choice of game modes. Advance Wars Dual Strike delivers in spades. 
 To begin with, the game will challenge your with numerous tactical situations in a lengthy, well-done 
 campaign. Afterwards, plan to spend lots of time in the War Room. These maps offer a greater test 
 of player skills than simple multiplayer maps because they offer well-designed maps favoring the 
 opponent. Dual Screen maps are also new to these modes, and they challenge you to manage two different 
 battles at once by using both of the Nintendo DS screens. This is a good twist, adding even more 
 of a frantic challenge. For even more replay value, the game also includes a survivor mode which 
 marathons you through a series of maps fighting against a limited amount of time, turns, or money. 
 Once you're done with that, there's a host of versus maps catering to those who just want to play 
 by their own rules. Want more? Make your own map! The game contains its very own solid map editor 
 for those artistic and experimental gamers out there... and with the stylus, maps are easier and 
 more fun to make.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike has a lot to offer, and it looks and sounds better than ever. The game 
 has the same traditional look as before but from a more isotopic perspective, which gives a nice 
 3D appearance. Little details like seagulls flying across an island map or cloud shadows floating 
 by are a polished addition. The new artwork for all of the Commanding Officers is nicely done, 
 giving the game its own unique and memorable personality. Another nice touch is the many uses of 
 the DS screens. The top screen is used mostly for displaying terrain, game, and unit status, helping 
 to keep the lower screen uncluttered. Sound wise, the effects are fairly the same as the old, but 
 fans will enjoy some slight enhancements. The music for the new and old COs is catchy as always; 
 however, it is noticeable that the new CO's themes take more advantage of the Nintendo DS hardware. 
 
  
  This is simply an outstanding title and a perfect reason to buy a Nintendo DS, if you haven't already. 
 If the original Advance Wars on the GBA was Super Smash Bros 64, Advance Wars Dual Strike is Super 
 Smash Bros Melee. Don't be put off by the fact that the game is about war or a turn based game, 
 if you give it a chance, you are more than likely to enjoy the experience. Players of the other 
 Wars games know exactly what I mean. Regardless of complaints about the multiplayer facet, there 
 is a ton of surprising content to be found in this title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Advance wars has always been one of my most beloved games to date on Nintendo's handhelds, and 
 intelligetn systems does it again with AWDS. It still has all the same units, gameplay, CO's, and 
 style that the originals did, but with added units, maps, campaigns, CO's, graphics, gameplay modes, 
 and new features. This game is now officially able to be played anywhere anytime anyhow, there 
 being over 300 unlockable medals and several game modes you can play against your freinds with 
 only 1 cartidge. Everything is the same as the last games, only one change..... its on the DS! mprovements 
 were made, but seriously, you owe it to yourself to head to the store right now and purchase it 
 if you haven't already. I'm  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Once I picked up this game I was so excited, Ive heard many great things about it, and once I turned 
 my DS on, it was the best game I have ever played on my DS, it has a nice, long storyline. The 
 gameplay is perfect, there are many COs to choose from. This game has kept the Advance Wars series 
 going by introducing new things to the game such as tag powers, two battle fronts, and new gameplay 
 modes like combat, and you can also create a map. The only bad things about this game are: 
  
  -sometimes the sound comes out crappy on the DS speakers, but if you plug in headphones, it 
 sounds crystal clear
  
  -sometimes the single player campaign is almost impossible to beat (well, for me)
  
  -some battles 
 can take a very, very long times to end.
  
  I definitely reccomend this game for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriceOfGas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike stays true to it's roots, while not becoming stale like most games would. 
 This is the typical attack, wait, attack, wait game, but thats just the simplification of the game 
 as a whole. You have a cornucopia of different units at your belt, well base, from tanks, to foot 
 soldiers, to bombs and artillery. Some quirky weapons too. Advance Wars takes whats great about 
 it's parent titles, and adds things like CO swaping. Normally you choose your one cheif officer 
 to go into battle with, but in Dual Strike you choose a partner to do-si-do with on the battlefield. 
 As you go through the game you get your CO power, but when you have 2 COs on your side you can 
 use your TAG power to go twice in one turn which deals a big blow to those foes of yours. Now I 
 should say that this game is at a higher difficulty then most games these days, and some maps will 
 last you a good 3 or 4 hours sometimes so it's time consuming, but hey in this era of shows like 
 24 and games like WOW you guys have time. So, in the end, Advance Wars is just as good and even 
 better then it's pre-DS games and no DS owner should be without this game.
  
  +Fine tuned, quirky, addictive turn-based war!
  +Will keep you entertained for days on end
 
  +Delightfully Challenging
  -I'm not playing right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in the game is really flawless, I think that the game creates such an easy going and 
 fun environment to which the player can enjoy. The game uses simple controls, good story, and fun 
 caracters to create one of the best DS games that has come out. The only thing I would have liked 
 to see in the game would have been the touch screen more involved in the game. You do have the 
 option of using the stylus to move the troops but I found that I use the buttons more
  
  Graphics:
  These graphics are about GBA quality. The graphics are by no means staggerring, but 
 I like the way that the game is presented. The one good thing about the Nintendo handhelds is that 
 they allow players to play old-school games. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is your standard Nintendo handheld music. The soundeffects are pretty good but there 
 is not any voice acting. There aren't any hinderances in the sound in the game.
  
  Value: 
  The game has a long story mode which will keep the player very busy. This is a game 
 that really can be played multiple times by the player and thus is a good buy.
  
  Pros:
  Great Strategy
  Old School Gaming
  
  Cons:
  Music is pretty bland
  Lack of Touch Screen
 
  
  I would definitely buy this game because it is simply one of the best games out for the Nintendo 
 DS and a great old school strategy game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_flood
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I have not played AW 1&2.
  
  The DS had a lackluster launch and, so were the next couple of months. However this game chaged 
 all that. Basically, it's a game that does pretty much everthing right, and you will read why.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much simple, yet has a lot of depth. You see, you merely move around units, 
 and capturing cities and bases and destroying other units. However, the game itself is deep when 
 you look at all the units. Each unit has strengths and weaknesses. For example, infantry are cheap, 
 have decent movement, and can capture cities, but are weak. Tanks are powerful and fast, but succumb 
 to artillery. And artillery can deal great damage from a distance, are worthless in direct fighting. 
 This game forces you to make sure each unit isn't alone or is backed up another unit.
  
  Graphically, the game looks nice, but looks a lot like a GBA game. It's dissapointing that they 
 might have added some 3d, even backdrop in the fights, but they didn't. However, the artstyle is 
 very nice, looks great.
  
  Sound wise this game is better, since it has nice tunes and great sound effects. It's just the 
 quality is again, like a GBA game.
  
  This game has a Lot of stuff to unlock, and I mean it. You can buy new CO's, hone your skills in 
 War Room or Versus, and play a little RTS-like minigame, which I am not too fond of. (Though some 
 people might like it.) You can do a lot after you finish the normal campaign, including a harder 
 version of it.
  
  Overall, Advance Wars is one of the best for the DS. Advance Wars DS is a game that has the right 
 things: Depth, simplicity, challenge, and heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Advance wars DS is a stategy turn by turn war game which is probably the best handheld game youll 
 ever play. ill explain why this is better than the previous advance wars games on the GBA.
  
  This game looks almost the same as the GBA versions, but thats not a problem because if youve 
 played the previous games, youll know everything, where everything is and how it works and its 
 good, i like it the same. its not completely the same though, there are some 3d touches to it which 
 is nice and the actual battle scenes look better.
  
  The game does have wifi play which is nice, but no internet play but theres enough on 1 player 
 to keep you occupied forever, such as levelling up, combat mode, survival mode, campaign and the 
 war room which will keep you playing again and again to get a higher grade on a certain level.
 
  
  Of course there is the tag team feature which is probably the biggest and best thing about this 
 game, each CO can have a certain tag team with someone and can do tag moves where you move twice 
 in one turn, doing crazy abilities and doing more damage, which can completely turn the battle 
 around in your or you opponents favour which is great.
  
  This game is sounding good too with the different background music for each CO and certain times 
 and the theme and the shooting and the movement of the tanks and all sounds similair to the GBA 
 but is better, and of course you can play the entire game with the touch screen, no need for the 
 control pad whatsoever which is nice.
  
  Youll find your DS running out of batteries again and again when you play this game, youll be hooked 
 and you wont be able to free yourself anytime, this game needs to be played by everyone even if 
 youre not a fan of the genre or the series, just play this, youll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okami_kon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Just Wow
  
  Although I cant compare this game to any other of the other Advance Wars Games (Because this is 
 the first Ive played) . But this is an awesome game. It makes good use of the touch screen and 
 provides many features. Like the create-a-map function this part is really fun especially when 
 you get a few friends and each of you make a map and if youre in a big house you play like 5 rounds 
 and have everyone really far away from the other people.
  
  It has a lot of other good features like the RTS game. It also has a solid story mode. Id have 
 to say though for me the multi-player is the highlight of this game even though it was probably 
 the story mode most people enjoyed. But its an awesome game overall (I still havent beat it. LOL) . 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CairAndros
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  While not completely revolutionary, Advance Wars: Dual Strike takes a deep strategy series and 
 uses the power of the Nintendo DS to take it to new heights. Advance Wars is known for its colorful 
 graphics and dialogue. This is both refreshing and awkward, to say the least.
  
  The game makes great use of the dual screens by allowing you to tackle two maps at once, and adds 
 even more depth by allowing you to now use two COs on a map. Not only is there much to be enjoyed 
 through the campaign, there are many maps for you to further challenge yourself against the computer.
 
  
  Now if only there was Wi-Fi support for the game so that you could play other people and challenge 
 yourself even more like you are able to in most computer strategy games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NerokuTheMaster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. It is a long running turn-based strategy game that originally was on 
 the GBA for two games, and now makes a break for the DS. The game's subtitle is Dual Strike, for 
 3 reasons. First, you can now control 2 co's at one time, with enhances gameplay by a large amount. 
 Second, you can fight on the bottom screen and the top screen on two different maps. FInally, Dual 
 Strike shortened is DS (clever, no) . The campaign is long and can get hard after a while. But, 
 you will never get bored, because there are 5 factions with a total of 27 co's total. Also, you're 
 co's gain experience which can get them better skills to use. After you get to at least level 10, 
 it is good to try someone else. Also, with the old Co Powers, there is now the Tag Power. It is 
 where both co's can attack in one turn. That means everyone of you're units attack twice. That's 
 what is bad. There are two co's in the game named Eagle (a airborne master) and Sami (her infantry 
 are insane) . Eagle's superpower lets you attack again with everyone again. Sami's superpower lets 
 you capture buildings in one turn. You get three moves with everyone, plus you can capture the 
 capital in one turn. Of course... it's my favorite combo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesedslover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  this may be 1 of the hardest funest games ever made for the hand held. its combinds all the battle 
 types from other advance wars games yes its may have the same story battles bcut it offers 2-on-2 
 battles in whick you can unleash special abilaties and hav 2  
 yea its good really really good yes its good yes its good* * * * * * * * * * * * * * get it now 
 get it now im  
 to make 100 word this is hard help me now help me me me me me me me me me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gridogn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!! First I'll talk about the main campaign mode which is the meats and potatoes 
 of the game! The introduction talks about the Black Hole army, the evil dudes in the game. They 
 have caused havoc over the four main countries in the game and are trying to rule the world. The 
 main army that you will convey is the Orange Star army (North America) . The three other armies 
 are Blue Moon (Russia) , Yellow Commet (Japan) , and Green Earth (France) . All four armies have created 
 the allied nations to take down the Black Hole scum. 
  
  Your first mission introduces you to a CO (Commanding Officer) that goes by the name of Jake. Jake 
 is new to the Orange Star army, so he'll have to get some advice from his assigned adviser, Rachell. 
 Rachell is the younger sister of Nell who is the head of the Orange Star army in the two previous 
 games. After Jakeis ready to go, he travels through Omega Land to stop the Black Hole army, meeting 
 up with the allied armies along the way. 
  
  The bulk of the game play is to take turns to either wipe out your opponent's troops, or capture 
 the opponent's HQ (Head Quarters) with in infantry unit. There are many units in the game such 
 as bulky Mega Tanks and Bombers. The units are either land units, air units, or naval units. You 
 can capture properties and gain money. You can also build units if you capture or own a base. (You 
 build air units at air ports and naval units at harbors) . You also have to manage your units fuel 
 and ammo. This causes for extremely tactical play! Also, each CO has strengths and weaknesses, 
 and they also haave powers you can utilize!
  
  There's also the War Room, here you can plat an opposing CO in a match for points to spend on new 
 units or maps. This is something like the campaign without the plot. 
  
  There are many other modes. In the V. S. mode, you can face an opponent on a single DS. In combat 
 mode, you play an arcade real time game. In survival mode you can do things like beat certain maps 
 in lets say 100 turns. You can also connect with eight other players, build your own maps, and 
 customiz the CO's. There's also a Hard Cmpaign mode, for the truly skilled.
  
  The ability tag CO's, move units with the stylus makes the game even better! If you want a challenge 
 this is the game! Viva la Advance Wars! Note that I rated this game hard. It really is abit less 
 difficult (the computer that is) but it is not at the "just right level!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  AWDS is one of the hardest games for the DS. But is also one of the funnest games for DS also.
 
  The gameplay of AWDS makes use of the 2 screens. Fight in the air or fight on the ground. The 
 gameplay is very hard. But with about 5 game modes and custom maps you'll never get bored.
  The graphics of this game aren't the best on the DS. They don't stray away from GBA style graphics. 
 The graphics are minorly 3D. 
  The sound is TERFFIC!!! At a point in the game you unlock the sound room. The sound could have 
 made use of MIC. and use it to command your troops (I'll talk about this in the VALUE) but the 
 SOUND is terffic.
  Only 2 games that are out (that I know of) make use of MIC. (Nintendogs and WARIOWARE TOUCHED!) 
 I has hoping to see AWDS make it on the list. But AWDS doesn't make list. My wish never makes any 
 list. AWDS or AW3 is a great collection to any gamer's shelves.
  
  GoB AUGUST NEWSLETTER 9.3 
  MY SCORE: 9.0
  This game is a must buy for any gamer.
  GAMEPLAY 
 10
  GRAPHICS 8
  Sound 10
  Value 9
  TILT 8
  OVERALL 9.0 superB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  First of all this was my first DS game and I'm very happy I bought it. Now, this game rocks it's 
 so addictive, I'v found it hard when I first tried it and wanted to give up, but. I played story 
 mode and it explains alot I mean alot, now I think the game is awsome and I can never put down 
 the DS until the battery dies to recharge it. I liked the way Nintendo set the battle scenes great 
 job Nintendo :) and the CO's are kool like that dude Jake he's awsome, my favorite character. So 
 if you like war games that gives you many ways to win, this game is for you. It was my first Nintendo 
 DS game and I'm very happy I chose it, you should do the same it's a very good game, you will not 
 be dissapointed and if you are you're crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan_Lee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the latest installment in a series of excellent turn-based military 
 strategy games and, in my opinion, the best of the series.
  
  Advance Wars: DS offers more modes of play along with the usual fare. You will have your Normal 
 Campaign, an eventual Hard Campaign, the War Room skirmishes, and Versus multiplayer along with 
 two new modes: Survival and Combat. The Survival mode challenges you to complete a series of battles 
 within one of three conditions (win using only a defined amount of money, win using only a defined 
 amount of turns, or within a given time limit) while the Combat mode is an interesting 'real-time' 
 take on the Advance Wars engine.
  
  The campaign's story takes place in Omega Land (where the previous installments placed you in Cosmo 
 and Macro Lands) where the Black Hole Army (the bad guys) is, again, up to their devious plans 
 of conquest. This leads to the Allied Nations' (Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green Earth, and Yellow 
 Comet) armies to once again foil their plans. You will be introduced to Jake and Rachel, two new 
 Commanding Officers (CO's) for Orange Star, and as you work way through the campaign, you'll be 
 introduced to a lot of familiar faces from the previous series along with some new ones as well. 
 One of the great thing about the Advance Wars series is that it is rife with CO characters and 
 it is likely that will find yourself favoring certain ones depending on how you play and/or your 
 personal liking.
  
  For those new to the series, you will be in control of one of many CO's alternating turns (presented 
 in days) with your opponent's CO and moving units and issuing orders in a grid-like map with terrain 
 features and structures such as headquarters (HQ) , cities, bases (factories) , etc. Available units 
 offered include ground, sea, and air with different capabilities. Each CO will have their own special 
 strengths and weaknesses. For example, Sami (my personal fav) of Orange Star has superb infantry 
 but her non-infantry units are weaker. Each CO will have a power meter that fills up during the 
 battle that will allow each to use one of two unique powers, a regular and Super, (depending on 
 how much of your meter is filled) that can turn the tide of battle rather quickly.
  
  The combat loosely follows a rock-paper-scissors system but one where it would make sense (for 
 example, Anti-air units are exceptional against ... air units (no way!) and infantry but are weak 
 against tanks) and when entering combat, a battle animation is presented showing the exchange (this 
 can be turned off if you like to speed things up) . On most maps, you will be able to accumulate 
 resources via cities and be able to produce additional units to reinforce your army. The conditions 
 of victory follows the usual destroy all enemy units or capture the opponent's HQ but will vary 
 with some of the campaign mode. There are also weather effects which can impede (or benefit at 
 times) your forces and, of course, the fog of war but, for the most part, you will have a clear 
 perspective of the battlefield. You will be ranked (graded) on how well you've played in battle 
 and are awarded with points that can be used to unlock additional items. But these facets, with 
 the exception of new units, weather effects, etc. carry-over from the original series but there 
 are some new interesting features.
  
  One of these is the tag option (the titular Dual Strike) where, in some battles, you will be in 
 control of two or more CO's. At the end of your turn you may switch over to your other CO which 
 can be invaluable or detrimental depending on the situation. This also adds a new element to the 
 CO power as well: when both of your CO's have their power meters filled to the maximum level, they 
 may issue a Tag Power, where their Super Power will be used and then will alternate to the other 
 CO after the first is finished. Additionally, some CO's work better with others which can increase 
 the effectiveness of each CO's power. Another great feature is the rank and skills option where 
 your CO will accumulate points, rise in rank (levels) , and will be given the option to assign skills 
 that can help enhance damage, defense, movement, cost, etc. In some way, this adds a strategy/RPG 
 element to the game. At times within the campaign mode and stand-alone dual-front battles, you 
 will have to fight two battlefronts (one neat implementation of the dual screen) where a CO will 
 be in control of either the primary or secondary (bottom and top screens respectively) . You have 
 the option of having the AI handle the secondary front with pre-set protocols or handle the action 
 yourself (of course, the latter is recommended) . You can also send units to the secondary front 
 but, unfortunately, once the secondary front is finished, the units sent are not returned to you. 
 Once the secondary front is completed, the CO assigned to it will return to your side on the primary.
 
  
  The War Room offers stand-alone missions and you're also given a points modifier depending on how 
 you want to play them. You will get more points if you don't use skills and one CO than you would 
 by using skills and two CO's. The new Survival mode is a nice little test on how well you manage 
 your battleplan given the conditions presented to you. The Combat mode is interesting and a nice 
 little departure from the actual game where you will control a number of units in real-time action 
 to destroy all units or capture the HQ, the same conditions with the regular game but, in my opinion, 
 doesn't have the same charm as the turn-based game. However, again it's not a bad implementation 
 and is a good break from the original style of play.
  
  Once you start accumulating points, you can purchase additional CO's, maps, and other features 
 in the Battle Maps section run as usual by Hachi (carry-over CO from previous installments) . You 
 will also earn medals in three-tiers for each category ranging from how many of a certain unit 
 that you've destroyed in your battles to how much money you've spent and even how many battles 
 you've lost. Earning all the medals will be a feat-and-a-half since it encompasses almost everything 
 within the game. A good example is that you have to earn a number of each rank from your battles, 
 so you'll need an X amount of S, A, B, and C ranks. On that note, the game keeps record of nearly 
 everything that you've done.
  
  Of course, being the DS and all, the controls can be handled via gamepad or the touch screen. EIther 
 works well but for those who have played the previous two installments heavily my find the stylus/touch-screen 
 a bit awkward but it's still feasible.
  
  The graphics haven't changed all too much and some question this with the DS' graphics capabilities 
 but, in essence, this is one of those games where gameplay heavily outweighs any aesthetics but, 
 again, there's nothing spectacular with the visuals (asides from the new character portraits ... 
 which are anime/manga inspired natch) . Believe it or not, I love the Advance Wars: DS soundtrack 
 since it covers many genres and somehow fits each CO where themes are concerned. Some of the themes 
 are carried-over but are remixed. The sound effects have the usual machine-gun/cannon fire, flying 
 planes, sailing ships, etc. and are pretty much the same standard fare.
  
  In all, this game will appeal to strategy fans but is not so entrenched in complicated options 
 and micro-management to turn off anyone new to the genre. if you've never played a turn-based strategy 
 game, then this is a good one to start with as it is easy to learn, fun to play, and can be quite 
 addictive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonoy619
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I like the story to this game it was really good. The graphics was ok. Not the best I have seen 
 on Nintendo DS though. The Difficulty was a little too easy. The vehicles looked pretty cool as 
 well as the characters. The game was a litlte too short for how easy it was. I think if it had 
 more intersting options in it like to beable to drive a vehicle and go from one place to another 
 like the GBA game DragonBall Z" Buus fury" it would be more interesting to play. It would be great 
 to have the nintendo WI-Fi capability for this game. Setup your own army and go against other people 
 on WI-FI head to head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The series we all know and love from Intelligent: Advance Wars. Featuring some of the best gameplay, 
 AI, multiplayer, and portabilty for a turn-based strategy to date, this one really shines.
  
  You start out with a few gameplay tweaks such as new units, enhanced COs (and a few new ones) , 
 and a better game. But then you notice how well the game is flowing and you're running through 
 your turns at blissful speed. Touch control, used in many previous DS games, seals the deal in 
 this installment of the franchise. Though a little touchy at first (what a terrible pun) , the stylus 
 control is seamless. It plays almost like a PC game.
  
  All menus and gameplay can be controlled with the stylus. Everything! And not to mention the map 
 editor! And with the massive menus concealing all the little extras of this game, I am happy to 
 have that little black "pen."
  
  The game features new Tag Powers. This is when a team COs initiate their Super Powers on the same 
 day. It is like having two turns, and often ends the battle, if not immediatley. Also, pairing 
 COs who are friends, family, or just work well together gives you an attack bonus, and a tactical 
 advantage too. Eagle and Sami are notable. You can move an infanrty unit in an APC for two days 
 worth of movement, then capture the enemy HQ is one day! Or you can just kick major butt for a 
 day with Grit and Max. There are many possibilities. 
  
  Some new COs aren't much different, but there are some who are very unique. Sasha, Colin's sister, 
 recieves 100 extra funds from properties. Or Javier, who gets a big bonus from Com Towers (a new 
 building that increases attack when captured) and has increased defense against indirect attacks. 
 New Black Hole COs are virtual clones; Jugger is like Flak and Koal is like Adder. 
  
  All the old COs are there too. Hawke and Lash are actually big players in the campaign. And even 
 if they're not in the campaign, you can still use them in war room or perhaps use them in the campaign 
 later...
  
  New units are abundant, unlike AW2. There's Megatanks, who can destroy a Neotank twice over at 
 full health. Also is the Stealth Fighter. It can attack any unit and can hide like a sub! And the 
 Black Boat, an invention of the new Black Hole CO Kindle, can repair units and transport infantry. 
 The list is three times longer than that.
  
  The graphics have also been revamped, which is great news. The resolution is better and you can 
 choose from a variety of terrain types. The CO models are also redone. They have more of an anime 
 influence this time around, but trust me, they look nice. And if you rank up a CO enough, you will 
 unlock an alternate costume, some that are pretty funny looking.
  
  And as promised, Intelligent Systems has given us a substantial "real-time" mode called combat. 
 It's very arcadish, but it's fun. This is the eight player mode. And by playing this mode enough, 
 you can get more unlockables.
  
  The Versus mode has shed no glory as well. It reamins intact, with all classic maps, lots of new 
 ones, and a dual-screen battle mode where you essentially control two armies on -- you guessed it -- two 
 screens! If you win on the top screen you can finish out the bottom screen with both of your COs.
 
  
  The sound in this game is as suprisingly enjoyable its GameBoy counterparts. With the DS's superior 
 speakers and power, all the COs tunes have been tweaked to sound as if they are an actual song. 
 And most songs are three minutes long, like a real one. In battles, you hear the normal crackling 
 of machine guns in the distance and explosions and comic sound effects of infantry being blown 
 to bits. It's amazing how immersive this game is made by the sound. It can actually be taken seriously 
 as a war game if you try!
  
  All in all, it's the best ever. Eveyone should buy a DS and play this game. That's why I wanna 
 see DS total sales skyrocket to over 7 billion after this review. World peace could be achieved 
 through the tactical perfection and glorification of gameplay that Advance Wars: Dual Strike achieves. 
 If you are not willing to spend thirty bucks on the best time of your life, at least play it at 
 a friend's house who is willing to treat himself to heaven on two screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7Red7Raven7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a great strategy game. There is always things to do. Bored of campaign? 
 Not a problem! The campaign can get boring or to difficult. So you can play other things like Versus: 
 A mode when you play some battles with yourself, computers, or friends on one DS. War Room: A mode 
 when you play at a specific place, with a specific enemy, and it adds to your COs score and rank. 
 Survival: A mode when you fight as many battles as you can with a limit of time, money, or turns. 
 Combat: A mode when you play several battles with a limit of units that you choose. Than it gives 
 you more exp. and points. You can all of these things wirelessly with friends. Also it has DS download 
 play. You can buy designs for COs, maps, combat characters, and more in the Battle maps store. 
 You can view your history. You can also design your own maps! Thats not all, but the rest is all 
 for you to find! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Vimes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a great game. It isn't very easy, but it is immensely satisfying after 
 you beat a level with perfect score. The main campaign has 25 missions plus three bonus levels. 
 The main campaign took me about ten hours to complete, and in addition there's probably close to 
 100 hours of other material. Everything is infinitely replayable too, since your computer opponent 
 never gives you the same battle twice. The only gameplay option I didn't like was the combat mode, 
 which tried to turn the main game into a real-time overhead shooter. It's fun for a while, but 
 it wasn't that great. I also thought the graphics could have been better. Almost the entire game 
 is 2-D with occasional 3-D effects. I just think this game could have made better use of the DS's 
 power. Despite that, Dual Strike is a great game and I would recommend it anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites for a handheld. It has the strength to be a great game even without 
 advanced graphics. It just kind of sucks you into every battle, end it feels like you've accomplished 
 something when you've won. It uses the two screens well to quickly see unit and terrain stats (rather 
 than having to look through a menu as on GBA) . The second screen also opens up a 'second front' 
 strategy that challenges you to think about two separate battles in some situations. The tag-team 
 element is interesting, but it seems too easy for one player to use the power and clean up on the 
 other. Having two COs doesn't seem to help win in most situations. Maybe I'm just not doing it 
 right. The game's 'dialogue' is as annoying as it is prevalent, and it's impossible to skip. If 
 you could choose a text speed to get it over with, it might stay entertaining, but it kind of makes 
 me hate the characters after I hear Jake say 'owned' a couple hundred times. The game has a lot 
 to keep you entertained, and it gets very difficult in the later levels, which gives it a good 
 deal of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  I have never really been a great fan of 'turn based' games, they have just not interested me in 
 the slightest. That all changed though when I acquired an import of Advance Wars: Dual Strike.
 
  
  I remembered playing the GBA version of this years before, it was OK but not something that kept 
 me coming back for more. So I was not too sure what to expect when this version arrived.
  
  Plugging the game in I started of on some of the tutorial missions and within half an hour I was 
 hooked. This game is superb.
  
  The style of gameplay will not suit everyone, that much is for sure but I think that this game 
 actually benefits from being turn based. It gives you the chance to look at the whole situation 
 that you are in and make the correct (or more usually incorrect) decisions on how to complete the 
 scenario.
  
  The developers have really thought of everything with the game, there are plenty of single player 
 and multiplayer game modes, enough to keep you playing for a long time.
  
  Graphically and sound wise the game is OK and what you get does the job nicely. To be honest, it 
 does not need to be too flashy, this is all about gameplay and fun, not how good it looks.
  
  So I would say give it a try, it is very good and will keep you entertained for some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike brings in a great franchise game from the gameboy over to the Nintendo 
 DS system. It brings many new characters into the fold while continuing the storyline of the main 
 game itself. With the use of an additional screen (the DS has two screens so to say) players are 
 given much more control over the entire game. On the top screen they can see stats on all their 
 units, while the lower screen depicts the small ingame fights that we all love to enjoy (although 
 this option can easily be toggled off) The game itself is similar to all the previous Advance Wars 
 games and does not fail to disappoint, players who play this game should generally leave happy 
 with the game as a whole. However there are some flaws to the game that should also be pointed 
 out. Hardcore Advance Wars fans and fans who have played the previous series could get a bit ticked 
 off with the same graphics and designs for the units which have not recieved much of an update 
 at all. Also those who have played it so much have probably mastered the agme and Advance Wars 
 probably would have been too easy for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike introduces new techniques of playing to the series that makes this game 
 stand out from the rest. AWDS uses the dual screens of the ds to their best. In some scenarios 
 there will be two battles going on at once, one at the top and one at the bottom. The second front, 
 the top screen, is by default controlled by the computer. This option can be changed so that the 
 player can control it if they would like. I prefer having the CPU control it so i can concentrate 
 on the primary battlefront. This new add on is unique and keeps the game interesting. What also 
 is new in this advance wars is that the player now uses two CO's on one front. This gets really 
 really fun, especially when you use a tag power, which uses both CO's super powers in one turn, 
 allowing double the dmg to the opponent. 
  
  The graphics are similar to that of the gba titles. This game has around 25 missions in the campaign 
 mode. Other modes are included, such as combat and survival. The game has a lot of value.
  
  Overall this is a must by for anyone who enjoys AW titles, or anyone who owns a DS that likes 
 strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loafofmonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  just so you know here is my review advance wars 2 black hole rising
  
  
  advanced wars 2 is the pinacle of on the go stradegy and is a good choice for fans of rts and turn 
 based games. buy it!! 
  advanced wars 2 is the pinacle of on the go stradegy and is a good choice for fans of rts and turn 
 based games. buy it!!
  
  This game is good for instant fun in the war room or vs. mode anda good story and good introduction 
 in campaign. its also got a link mode for people who actualy have a link and use it, but if you 
 dont you can pass back the system which is anyoing at first but when you get lots of units you 
 dont have to pass it back that much. its also got a map editor so you cant make maps and share them 
 with freinds with a link. this is ok because on the go you dont want to use a link but if you take 
 the game to a freinds house and upload maps to use later. its a great game and might even take 
 some time away from starcraft or even halo if you get in to the game. even if you dont like stradegy 
 this is a good chocie for a fun clean game. kids can play it but so can anyone it does a great 
 job of including people of all ages in the fun.
  
  In short its hard to go wrong with advanced wars 2 black hole rising, and with thae all ready low 
 price of $15-$17. get it now. seriously. GET IT NOW!!!!!! 
  
  Now that you nkow how I felt about the last entrie here is my new review.
  
  If you played 
 the first and the second you know the second was pretty much an expansion pack for the original, but 
 a good one at that. THIS IS NOT THE CASE. If you dont want another expansion buy this game. THIS 
 IS A NEW GAME. TREAT IY AS ONE. Several new units and modes make this a game not to be missed. 
 Wi-fi makes the multiplayer as good as ever and the stylus make the game and map editor much easier 
 to use. This game is as deep as ever and a lot better than most pc stradegy games. IF YOU LIKE 
 STRADEGY OR IF YOU JUST HAVE A DS, THIS IS THE PERFECT GAME FOR YOU.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: feelgoodinc2005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game is not the greatest game ever, but it is really fun. It's easy at the beginning, but 
 then it gets harder, and harder. The only problem is it doesn't use the stylus really well. It 
 barely makes a difference. Fans of the earlier games will love this. It has a few good modes, like 
 campaign, versus, and battle, but something like survival is still boring. This game doesn't have 
 andy as the main character, but the main character has kinda the same personality. The controls 
 are hard to get at the beginning, but it gets easier. A great strategy game anyone can play. You 
 have to have a mastermind. I don't really think it's the greatest game on the ds, but i think gamespot 
 got the rating correct. it should get a 9.2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gobbob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  The Game is the Best apart from Mario Kart. Buy it or you will be eaten alive by Ooziums a. k. a 
 Slimey thing on the game! I am currently writing a Walkthrough for it and will be in 2 formats:
 
  MS Access
  Note/Wordpad
  MS Word
  
  Once I have finished the First part, I will post it here and there and everywhere!
  
  I have 
 voted the Graphics high because it would be the same without it's trademark 2D graphics and the 
 bits of 3D are great.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic as it easy to learn but hard to master.
  
  Sound is not perfect but the buts of rock music are awesome.
  
  Most Games are 30 so I'm 
 not bothered about the price.
  
  Verdict: Buy this Game!!!
  
  -Gobbob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-A
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike, unlike battalion wars, doesnt try to wonder off the beaten track an 
 awful lot. it's basically the same idea as the originals with a few ds upgrades. and this can only 
 be a good thing. firstly, having a touch screen makes the whole process much more efficient and 
 natural. and the second screen means no more button pushing to find unit stats and terrain info. 
 but that's just the tip of the ice berg. it's called "Dual Strike" because of the nifty ability 
 to use two co's at once, trading between them at will. This means that you can use Grit and Max 
 together and allow them to compliment each others abilities, or Kanbei and Colin to a similar effect. 
 additionally, when both co's charge up their super co power, you can use a tag power, whereby both 
 co's strike at once, using both their powers. Theres also a half a dozen new units, and most of 
 them are pretty ingenious. some of these include the piperunner, which can traverse the otherwise 
 impenetrable terrain, and the aircraft carrier, which has a huge attack range. Additionally, Dual 
 Strike has the deepest and most interesting story line of any advance wars game to date. The only 
 flaw of the game is that advance wars veterans will be able to speed through the game fairly quickly 
 until they open up hard mode. But all in all, this is probably the best ds game yet. I highly recomend 
 this game to fans of the originals, or even vague fans of the turn based strategy genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefHalan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I like this game and the real time thing is great but to easy. Turn based multi-player should be 
 better but still good. I wish there was more for capture the HQ but realy all you got to do is 
 kill all you see. Map Design should have let you make the top screen for DS mode. Making your own 
 level is easier all around. The game has better graphics but not by much. More things to use and 
 shoot. Needs a better story. WWII is getting boring. Other than all the problems I listed fine 
 game. Must have for DS. Now they just need to make a new one that fixes everything I said was wrong 
 and add Wi-Fi and that will sell faster that a blind man selling sunglasses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll_jackal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars has always been one of my favorite series. Addictive gameplay, strategically fun and 
 CO powers have always been enjoyable, and it was easy to learn that I was playing friends within 
 10 minutes of them picking up the game.
  I was really excited about Dual Strike, and it didn't disappoint me. It has 6 new land sea and 
 air units, 10 new CO's and all the addictive gameplay and then some.
  It is now even easier to play because the top screen displays a lot of strategic information (e. g. 
 number of bases, terrain and unit information) that means the turns go quicker as you don't have 
 to go through menu's to find how much income you recieve. The sound effects are still good, and 
 a few new ones have been added. The isometric view on the bottom screen is nice, but it does look 
 a little bit trashy sometimes. However, this game really shines in the strategy department.
  New features that have been added include a semi-customization for your CO with different skills 
 (e. g. +5% direct attack power) , of which up to 4 can be equipped. 2 CO's can now tag on the same 
 map, although in my opinion Dual Stike can be improved (at the moment, both CO's use their super-powers 
 as in 2-turns. My suggestion is that it should either be their normal, usually weaker power, or 
 you don't get to move units twice, but just change and use units not used yet) . Of course, both 
 CO's can split up over two battlefields (primary and secondary front) , with winning on the secondary 
 front meaning you can use two CO's, and the powerful Dual-Strike on the primary front. The War 
 Room cmap collection has also been changed, and sea battles are a bit more fluid as the Cruiser 
 can fire on other ships now. Survival is also another nice feature, having to complete a set of 
 maps in a certain amount of time, money or turns. There is a real-time combat mode, but it isn't 
 really that great. The campaign, although still fun, is still a bit of a devolution from Advance 
 Wars 2's free flowing campaign.
  Overall, it will satisfy fans of the series and is still addictive to new players. Wireless combat 
 with 2+ players is allot more fun, as well.
  
  http://spaces. msn. com/members/trolljackal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  I got told that this game is realy realy good, and seeing from the reviews alot of other people 
 found it good.
  
  I think this is one of the greatest Handheld game todate, the game sounds hard and looks hard to 
 master, but its quite simple to understand, this is my first time on Advance Wars and i picked 
 it up with ease.
  
  So far the story is great + Deep and you control an army called 'Orange Stars' (also some others) 
 and you must fight aginst the Black Holes in a place called Omega.
  
  I dont know if this game is easy or not, seeing as i hav'nt been on others, but im a begininer 
 so i find the game pretty difficult but easy to understand and master.
  
  Great game, deffently recamendable (I've been searching all over Yorkshire for this for over 2 
 weeks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Ah, Advance Wars. The great series that sapped hours of my life away like a parasite, and turned 
 me into an anti-social dough-faced tank commander. As soon as I heard that there was an Advance 
 Wars coming to the DS, I knew I had to get one. And the first game I got for DS happened to be 
 this one. And given I have the opportunity to review this game, I thought I'd oblige, and if you 
 have a decent attention span you'll know how good I think this game is. 
  
  Before I start gloating that this was the best overall strategy game of 2005, behind the godly 
 Civ4, let me get the cons and disappointments and silly niggles out of the way. Firstly, the graphics 
 aren't up there with the best on DS, in fact they're almost identical to the first two. There's 
 a slight scaling slope effect on larger environments, and there's a few added special effects, 
 but virtually the truth is, they're the same as Black Hole Rising, even if they do do the job. 
 Secondly, most of the battle maps are recycled from earlier games, which isn't necessarily a bad 
 thing, as these maps are great tactical battlefields, but it would have been nice if there were 
 some new ones to play through. And lastly, I thought playing with the stylus was a bit fiddly, 
 and if you make one wrong move you could well find yourself mowed down by the opposition, simply 
 because your fingers slipped and you moved your prize unit into the range of a rocket launcher. 
 
  
  And that's virtually it. This is a near-flawless achievement on DS, even if there's a fair bit 
 of nostalgia in the mix. There's plenty of new and advanced features to give Advance Wars aficionados 
 a reason to go down to their local game store and pick up a copy of this game; firstly there are 
 new dual-front battles, for example you can control the ground units while a computer CO can wreak 
 havoc thousands of foot in the air with fighters and bombers. Then there's tag battles, where you 
 can swap between 2 CO's to adapt to the situation, and if these are timed right you can easily 
 turn the tide of a gruelling skirmish. And then there's an all-new neat use of the dual-screens, 
 where most of the intel is displayed on the top screen instead of it all untidily stacked up on 
 just the one. To top it all there's the stylus control, which you can use at your own risk, an 
 all-new campaign, which is as Gamespot said a bit too easy for Advance Wars hardcores, and a hefty 
 load of new modes like Survival and Combat. The great Map Editor returns, along with the wealth 
 of multiplayer capabilities and functions that demolished many people's lives on the GBA. 
  
  In case you haven't played an Advance Wars game, there's a nice learning curve to it, but it 
 can be a hindrance for players who have been playing Advance Wars since the franchise was born. 
 It lasts throughout the first seven or eight campaign missions and these are simply a wedge of 
 revision for those who are already able at playing Advance Wars. The interface of the game is simple; 
 most of the important information is displayed on the upper screen this time for less confusion. 
 So is the concept; it is literally a simple strategy game when you get stuck into it, but it's 
 one with incredible depth and infinite possibilities for victory or failure. It's an oddly satisfying 
 game, even though when you get down to it all you're doing is moving some tanks, infantry, ships 
 and aircraft around an environment and trying to destroy any other units that are a different colour 
 to you. This game adds loads of new features to an already substantial strategy game without ruining 
 the golden, basic formula that made the series so bloody good in the first place. 
  
  So if you own a DS, and you want a great, immersive game with excellent gameplay elements and will 
 last longer than your own lifespan, you really should make Advance Wars your very first port of 
 call. It's a highly addictive, infectious strategy game with a wealth of game modes and multiplayer 
 features that you really should own if you have Nintendo's unique handheld. Highly recommended 
 for n00bs and hardcores alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alien100000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a terrific game simply because everything works.
  The graphics are very nice and detailed. The gameplay is awesome because it grows on you, there 
 aren't many games like this around these days. The music is absolutely perfect, the sound effects, 
 music, and everything else. This game would definiatly be fun to play over again because it's such 
 an awsome game in the first place, and the piles of unlockables. What can I say, I highly recommend 
 you buy this game if you have a Nintendo DS, and if you don't, well get a DS and buy this. This 
 is easily the best game ever that can fit in your pocket, but if you don't believe me then play 
 it for yourself and you'll see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  I would say the biggest problem it has going for it is that I find it hard to play it on the go 
 because it gets me so focused. Definately a game for long trips with few interruptions, or if need 
 be, just sitting on the couch playing it at home.
  
  I first tried out the single match modes in which I had my rear handed to me a few times by the 
 AI. After that I decided to give the campaign a go in order to figure out what I was doing. Once 
 you learn all the units and how they opperate, the game becomes playable, and very enjoyable as 
 well. You'll find all sorts of great new ways to mobilize your units for the most effective offense 
 or defence.
  
  The stylus for this game is excellent. In fact I don't even touch the game pad when I play Advance 
 Wars. I think that the DS is amazingly well suited to these kind of games in the same way that 
 the PC works well for RTS games.
  
  Overall this game is well balanced, has good design, excellent controls, and a fun premise if you 
 like strategy/war games. The strategist in you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is really hard. if you dont like hard games stay away from this one. i know thats kind 
 of a turn off for most people but if you can get past that its really a good game. strategy is 
 a must for the whole game. if you dont attack before the computer, then you will surely perish. 
 the ai is brutal and they are unforgiving. the powers of all the characters are to confusing and 
 not that important. there are many units to play with. they all have there own importance. like 
 sea will be really useful if you want to attack the enemy from behind. its very tactical and thats 
 what i like. this is not the game for the casual gamer, you have to be hardcore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homiejoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game i may not own it but i did play it. The battles and war setting and 
 all that seems pretty good also you ge to kill your enemys and thats cool but it sucks when they 
 kill one of your soliders but you have to lose some to win some. Also they ds battle you can play 
 with your friend is hella fun. So whe you kick there butt its all i killed you sucka. It's hella 
 fun now i really want a ds. So yeah its really good but i want to play some person thats really 
 good because my friends are too easy to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This new advance wars game has made a GREAT! apperence on the DS and never is disappointing! This 
 is an advance wars game that needs more thought then previous games in the series cause the battling 
 on two fronts and using sometimes to CO'S! There are more units with more types of missions with 
 more commanders and more ways to play ( Wireless) ! The war room has all of the classic war room 
 maps and more giving you over 200! and there are more ways to make maps! This game keeps giving 
 you more fun every time and this series will never get boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanker12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  i have a particular weakness for this type of game, i always have a strategy game in one of my 
 systems or more usually on my pc which is so old i can no longer play the newer games on it, oh 
 well - i don't care when i can play this, it's simple but superbly balanced and tremendous fun.
 
  i personally don't like to use the touch screen for this game, though it works alright, i must've 
 got used to the gba versions and i'm much faster using the dpad and buttons. 
  graphically it isn't much of a step up from the gba, but use of the two screens, especially in 
 the two-fronted battles, is very innovative and well implemented.
  earlier levels are too easy for experienced players, they do get harder later on but i wish the 
 difficulty curve had been steepened slightly as quite a lot of missions were a total formality. 
 i would have liked online compatibility, something maybe for the next one? but all in all, i'm 
 well impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is the first time this series has been on the DS handheld. I personally 
 have never played the GBA counterparts, but I don't need to to be able to say that this game does 
 the series proud. There is so much to do in the game, so many different modes, battles, units, 
 just so many possibilities, that there is no reason to but this game down for a long time after 
 getting it.
  
  Gameplay- 10- Its impossible NOT to give this game high marks for gameplay. The touch screen use 
 of using units works great. The AI for the opponent COs are tough, but not cheap. And with the mission, 
 war room, and many other modes, there is more than enough to experience to not put this game down 
 for a LONG time!
  
  Also, the different abilities each CO has really gives playing as different characters a completely 
 different feel to each battle. The interactions between players also alter how they work during 
 a dual strike, whicdh just gives the game some added diversification.
  
  Graphics- 8- The game looks good for 2D, but this is the DS... it'd be nice to see some 3D graphics 
 on the next game, maybe with some cel-shading to units to allow some nice 3Ding of the game.
  
  Sound- 9- Many sounds & music that all fit the game very well
  
  Value- 10- So much to 
 do & so fun to do it, this game deserves every point
  
  Tilt- 9- It deserves a 9, with some 3D and an online battle mode on the next one, this game series 
 could reach perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culturejammer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is not for everyone. There is a reason that the "wars" series (as well 
 as the fire emblem series for that matter) flourished for a decade or so in Japan before making 
 the jump to the states: Americans typically lack the attention span to appreciate strategy games. 
 Only after we learned to play and enjoy them on PC were any of us willing to put down our platformers 
 and shooters to try these games out. Since the release of Advance Wars for the GBA four years ago, 
 Nintendo discovered that these games could finally sell in the states. Since then, there has been 
 a fairly steady stream of these strategy games from developers Intelligent Systems.
  
  But I digress... This game is not for everyone. If you do not like chess, if you do not like to 
 think about what you do before you do it. or if you do not like to be utterly frustrated with a 
 game at times, this is not likely a game that you would enjoy. If you do enjoy strategy games, 
 then there is no greater bang for your buck that this game. I have played for just over 100 hours, 
 and I have at least twice that much left in me before I finish the hard campaign mode and clear 
 the overwhelming number of war room maps. It is hard to describe how much there is in this tiny 
 little cartridge.
  
  There are eventually 27 COs to choose from to lead your army. Each of these COs has their own strengths 
 and weaknesses, special abilities and powers, and can utilize new powers as you use them and level 
 them up. You can combine these characters in a seemingly limitless number of ways to adapt to whatever 
 situation you're faced with. The campaign is 28 maps long, there are 49 other maps to play for 
 a rank in the war room, as well as 138 maps in the versus mode for mulitplayer or to play against 
 the AI. There are challenge modes to clear maps with limitations on the number of turns you have, 
 how much money you can spend, or how much time you're allowed. There is even something of an action-oriented 
 mini game to pass the time when you feel a little burned out on the larger, more difficult maps. 
 Bottom line: I can't imagine getting any more game to play on a portable.
  
  If you are a follower of the series, the graphics and sounds are largely unchanged, and I will 
 admit that I was a bit disappointed about this initially. However, the graphics grew on me, especially 
 after playing Fire Emblem on the Game Cube. Intelligent Systems is not in the business of cranking 
 out graphical powerhouses of games, so I must commend them for exerting their efforts toward the 
 development. It would be nice for the followers of the series if we could get some new sounds eventually... 
 I've heard the theme songs of the original cast for hundreds of hours at this point, so I find 
 myself turning the volume off at times to maintain sanity. This wouldn't be a problem for newcomers 
 to the series though.
  
  This is the most balanced game of the series. It has the best campaign mode of a "wars" game to 
 date, and it definitely has more game to play than any other installment of the series. The tone 
 of the game still shows its Japanese roots as the characters and dialogue are a little over the 
 top at times but. even if this is a problem for you, its hard to let it get in the way of such 
 a well crafted game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenOath
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Admit it, all these stategy war games bore you to death with real life wars and predictable campaign 
 missions, well here is a game we all been waiting for, and heres the catch its on the DS.
  
  The DS finally gets it Advance Wars game in the form of Advance Wars Dual Strike, though this 
 game may nor stike most peoples intrest its still a great game through and through.
  
  They continue the story of the evil force of the Black Hole army is trying to take over the world 
 and you have got to stop them, well this time your on the omega land and they bring together all 
 four nation into the allied nations.
  
  Enought the story, to the gameplay, the gameplay is very basic but the controls take some getting 
 used to whether or not your using the stylus, but h=thats the great part, insted of going through 
 the frustration of using the D-Pad and slowly goin across the screnn, you can now just point and 
 click. The Uits are diverse, but there is no unit vhanges from country to country, but the CO's ( 
 commanding officers) have their own special abilities ranging from damaging enemie units and healing 
 your own to boosting movement range and getting cash for inflicting damage. These are split up 
 on power levels by basic and super power, and the new TAG, where when your using two Co's and thier 
 power is fully charged you initiate TAG and devistate the feild with your first commanding officer 
 and their super power then without having to wait another enemy turn you can just flip over to 
 your next CO and it allows you to use your units over again and the second CO use his/her super 
 power. The graphics are smoother, but not by much. You also get the War Room which lets you do 
 a quick battle and Versus mode, and batlle mode which is a action game of six maps where its all 
 live ad you must control it by theD-Pad and fire with X or B. The newst addition is the map editor 
 where you can now make your own maps and trade them with your freinds.
  
  If you love strategy and using your brain this is a must own, but if your looking for action and 
 something to test your reflexes and low levels of thought, Stay away, but even if you dont lke 
 strategy games, this ight be the one to get you into them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great adittion to thw series of advance wars. the graphics in the game are ok although 
 they could have been more flashy. the gameplay is excellent. this is a fire emblem fighting style 
 game. even if u have never even heard of advance wars this game is a must get. you dont really 
 have to play the before games even though id recemend it. with the tag team co addition, strategy 
 gets even more harder. with a plot engaging with the black hole again it hasnt lost its story line 
 plot. id say this is a must get game for the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars 1 and 2 are the best games to ever hit the Game Boy Advance. So the fact that Advance 
 Wars Dual Strike is even better says a lot.
  
  This is maybe where the game lacks the sence of perfection. The graphics are almost exactly as 
 they where on the previous GBA games. It's very cool that the action now unfolds on two screens, 
 but that is mainly the only improvement from Advance Wars 2. 
  
  The music has always been great in Advance Wars. I'll allways love Jess's theme, it's just so incredibly 
 cool you'll wan't to play more and more and more. All the previous theme songs from AW are appearant 
 in Dual Strike, only they've been updated to stereo and better sound quality. There are also new 
 songs to every new CO and the menu and so on. The sound effects have been improved too. The explosions 
 during the battles have been greatly improved, but the whole game still has the cartoony sence 
 to it, which is very good.
  
  Advance Wars Dual Strike is a lot bigger than the previous games in the series. You still have 
 the great campaign, war room, VS and shop. But you now also have "survival", with three different 
 game modes in. And "combat", which turns the game into a realtime strategy game! The game also 
 features the ability to use two CO's at the same time, and then strike Dual Super Power which is 
 just awesome! You can then play on two battle fronts (screen 1 and 2) and you can send units from 
 the first front to the second. The CO's now also gain experience from battles and level up. You 
 then also have the ability to give the CO's abilities such as +5% in direct attacks, and this is 
 really great. In the war room you can choose if you want to play with one or two CO's and if you 
 want to use their abilities. This affects how much money you'll earn from the battle. The new campaign 
 is also great, with the black hole army returning to full strength. It's pretty much easier than 
 the campaign in AW 2, but that's okay cause that one was so incredibly hard. Advance Wars Dual 
 Strike also introduce us to six new units, and they are all very well balanced and fits perfectly 
 into the game. I won't name them all, but I can say that one of them is the Mega Tank, and it's 
 enormous in size and kills everything in its path! The new game modes are also great. Survival 
 is about surviving as long as possible with a given amount of time, money or turns. Combat works 
 very well, and is a great variation in the gameplay. Advance Wars DS also features a history recorder 
 that gives you medals for many things, such as how many enemy tanks you've destroyed and so on. 
 You also earn upto 5 trophies for how much of the game you've completed. Advance Wars Dual Strike 
 will last forever, and is a must buy for every fan of the strategy genre. It's easily one of the 
 best Nintendo DS games to date. 
  
  +
  They've improved upon the gameplay, which I though was impossible! The music is very good. The 
 game is huge, with more game modes than you can handle. The new units are awesome. The action now 
 unfolds on two battle fronts. All the stats!
  
  -
  The graphics haven't been much improved since AW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmymann
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  this is the shidigi:
  
  Graphics: Are nothing special. until you look close. you cannot grade this game on its graphical 
 powress because it has none. that's like grading chess on its graphics. you can't. which brings 
 me to my next point. which is after what else I have to say about graphics. when you start a mission, 
 it looks really cool, with the zoom in thing. the people are cute and cartoony, but it doesn't 
 distract from gameplay. so that's good.
  
  Gameplay: great. this is why you bought the DS. or if it's not. it's the reason why you can tell 
 other people you bought it. with its campain (spelling) mode, you have some awsome and well thought 
 out maps. but hey, have you ever wanted to have the bad guy's side of things? in versus you canon 
 diffrent maps. speaking of maps, there are a ton. TON! from great newbie types, like "little island" 
 to great new kinds, like "four acers" the maps are all truely well thought out. the Duel Screen 
 maps are fun too. not to mention the two CO's deal. the RT mode is only a distraction, a real work 
 in progress. but that's like dissing Queen because their drummer got the snare wrong once. (i'm 
 sure he did, it happens.)
  
  Sound: the music? um.... can't have everything! other than that, the sound is great. the tanks 
 sound like tanks, more so the mega tanks, and the gunfire sounds like gunfire. the music's ok... 
 but mute it. or turn off your sound.
  
  Value: gives reason to a $120 purchase for only $30-$35? now THAT'S value.
  
  overall this 
 is one of the best DS games ever. which isn't saying much, but hey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  On paper, Advance Wars: Dual Strike may seem like an incredibly tough game to get into, and you'll 
 also worry if you're wasting your time and money on this game. Well, to tell the truth, that's 
 exactly what I thought at first. I was looking for a fresh, engaging and exciting new game for 
 my DS, and after a long thought, I decided to chance it with AW: DS. And quite frankly, I have 
 never regretted it since.
  
  When I said that Advanced Wars seemed like an incredibly tough game, I was partially right. Yes, 
 there are tough maps and exceptionally smart AI in the game, but once you get the somewhat-long 
 learning curve, believe me when I say that you won't put this game down when you pick it up.
  
  The main objective of Dual Strike when you're playing against another CO, is to either destroy 
 all of their forces (in some maps, you will have to capture their factories to do so) , or capture 
 their HQ. The easiest way to defeat your enemy is to capture their HQ, but it is also hard as well. 
 You'll have to make sure that no enemy forces are near you so that they won't decimate your trooper.
 
  
  But how do you capture the HQ? It depends on your infantrymen's health. If it's at 10, you can 
 take it in 2 turns, whereas if his health is lower, it'll take longer to capture. Take note that 
 ONLY infantrymen and mechs are able to do this ability. But that's really not the only thing you 
 can capture, really. You can also capture buildings, factories, and airports that are colored white, 
 meaning that anybody can take it. You can also capture the enemies buildings, but you'll also have 
 to watch out for other opposing forces in the area as well. 
  
  Now you are probably asking, "Okay, I captured this building/factory/airpot. What do I get in return 
 for my troubles?". Well, you won't go empty-handed if you do this. For example, if you capture 
 a building, you'll get extra funds for your team, factories allow you to purchase more troops and 
 vehicles, and airports allow you to buy copters and transports. So as you can see, it's not all 
 about fighting to the death. You WILL really need to get these buildings to get an edge in battle.
 
  
  One of the most interesting aspects of Dual Strike is that at the top left corner of the bottom 
 screen, you'll see a line of stars next to your CO/CO's. What this means is that every turn you 
 take, the stars will fill up depending on how well you do your turn. When all of the small stars 
 fill up, you can use that CO's special power, turning the tide of battle in your favor. If you 
 fill the whole line up, you can unveil the CO's Super Power, which is well worth the multiple turns. 
 But if your playing with 2 CO's and you fill both of the stars up, you will unleash the awesome 
 power that s, the Dual Strike. This means that you can use BOTH of their super powers, and you 
 can also switch between CO's without ending your turn. When you unleash Dual Strike, it will DEFINETLY 
 turn the tables in your favor, so be sure to use the stars wisely.
  
  Aside from the Campaign mode, which seems easy and hard at the same time, there are other modes 
 that will quench your thirst if the story mode left you wanting more. There's Survival mode with 
 three different types of gameplay:
  
  Money: Complete a series of maps using a limited amount of money.
  
  Time: Complete a series 
 of maps in the alloted time.
  
  Turns: Complete a series of maps in the amount of turns listed.
  
  
  And then there's Combat 
 mode, in which you play through a compiled list of maps using only the amount of troops and vehicles 
 your given. This means once you lose an infantryman or tank, you can't get it back and there are 
 no factories to purchase more, so you'll have to plan out your strategy,, and plan it out well.
 
  
  Versus mode let's you play aganist another opponent while letting you customize how you want to 
 play it.
  
  And finally, there is the War Room. You can also play on any map you choose, decide whether you 
 should play against 2 CO's by yourself or with another CO by your side, and so forth. As you can 
 plainly see, you'll be stuck on this game for quite sometime. 
  
  The War Room, Combat, and Survival mode will also earn you "funds" in the process, allowing you 
 to buy other CO's, maps, accessories, etc., so make sure you have spare time.
  
  Graphically, it looks like a standard GBA game with some nice graphical touches, but some parts 
 are noticably recycled from the last games in the series. There really isn't much to see here, 
 but it looks good nonetheless.
  
  Soundwise, it also sounds like a GBA game, only better. The music has a nice, upbeat tune to it 
 and the sounds of tanks rolling and gunfire spewing about is great to listen to as well. Nothing 
 really outstanding, but it's simple enough so chances are you'll never be bothered by it.
  
  Overall, with a lovable cast of characters, a variety of modes, a deep storyline and a HUGE 
 amount of replayability, AW: DS is highly recommendable to any strategy freak or casual gamer. 
 If you've been waiting for that one DS game that'll suck in most, if not all, of your free time, 
 AW: DS is definetely the game you've been waiting for. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawcan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  Nice. Takes everything that was good in the previous parts of the series and adds more of it. New 
 units, more missions new and old characters and so on. Lots of stuff to do and if the game appeals 
 to you it will keep your DS going for weeks and weeks. 
  
  The graphics are basically the same as before. That could be a plus or a minus depending of what 
 you think of it. Its clear anyway. The sound is decent with catchy tunes. The story... well its 
 your anime average. It kind of makes me sick from time to time. I also would liked to have seen 
 a better use of the second screen. 
  
  In the end this game is only about one thing. STRATEGY. In a very purified and hardcorish way. 
 It really works too and if you win luck has got nothing to do with it. I like it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clay20
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game its the most time consuming game ever. Its Challenging its fun and its great to 
 play with freinds. although the new combat mode isn. t the best its still enjoyable. this game would 
 be great online multiplayer if nintendo could get its head out of its but ad give us real online 
 game play they might actually have something other than cheaper cost and whip PsP in the butt. maybe 
 some kind of profile would be nice. Other than that I think advance wars is a great game i love 
 the set up I love all the weapons and the challeng it brings you when you are bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chzmunkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  this game was a disappiontment. i like a good strategy as much as the next guy, but this one was 
 a little too tedious for my taste. the main game was pretty fun, except that i was always losing. 
 maybe i just suck, but still. it was a hard game. really hard. i enjoyed the multiplayer modes, 
 and combat was really fun. the level of gameplay was high, but it isn't my cup of tea. a sa a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irmeleeman5995
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Good- Great and addictive gameplay, lots of replay value, interesting variety of characters and 
 units, cool and cute graphics.
  
  Bad- Can be a little unforgiving, no online play (although its a bad sign when were that expecting 
 of a handheld game, isnt it?)
  
  Varying difficulty, learning curve is 0-30 minutes, time spent playing is irrelevent becuase of 
 all the replay value, and it is the best in the already great series. Advance Wars: Dual Strike 
 is a sequel to one of the best and most original games out there. Its a strategy game about war, 
 and it captures it in a very cute fashion. That isnt to say it isnt violent, heck, when you use 
 a megatank to destroy a recon unit its overkill of overkill. But it has a very cute and likable 
 feel to it, and thats part of why its so cool. Gameplay is addictive, plain and simple. Its a 
 turn-based strategy game, where the objective is to destroy all enemy units or capture their headquarters. 
 The only time you want to stop playing is when youre losing, which, thanks to the adjustable and 
 intelligent A. I., isnt a rare occurrence. This game is nothing short of a challenge. Its got a 
 good variety of modes, both single and multi player, and it is just plain fun all around. Graphically, 
 it has a cartoony look to it which helps the cutesy aspect along well. It looks really no different 
 than Advance Wars 2, but it seems to run a tad faster, so I guess that counts for something. Sound 
 is not bad, but not incredible either. When you play without sound, your minds sound effects seem 
 to sound a bit better in my opinion. But, the varying themes for the different characters are missed 
 once you hear them and turn the sound back off. The bottom line, this game is fun, addictive, has 
 great replay value, and shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coofoo31
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game i bought because i loved the first 2 for the GBA. Let me tell you i was not disappointed 
 at all!! this game is by far one of the greatest RTS out there. Its trully stunning. All the great 
 features of the first 2, but with added strategies, units, maps, gameplay and more. Its graphics 
 are not altered that much from the GBA versions but even still its not that bad. Sound quility 
 has been improved vastly, the troops machine guns sound really nice, everything really sounds great. 
 You have so many features to as well. Create a Map, Single Card and Multi Card multiplayer, and 
 much more. Do your self a favor and buy this game, it will honestly bring you hours of fun and 
 more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycoonmike
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps one of the best strategy games for a hand-held to date, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is an 
 excellent game for DS owners, if you have the patience to deal with losing battles and restarts 
 after an hour-long battle. 
  Advance Wars follows the adventures of different CO's (commanding officers) from each of four nations: 
 Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green Earth, and Yellow Comet, in a sort of World War in Omega Land, against 
 Black Hole, the antagonist of the previous two Advance Wars games. Black Hole had mysteriously 
 recovered its military might and goes on a rampage across many different theatres, including deserts, 
 plains, forests, the open sea, and the skies. There are also fog of war battles that will limit 
 your vision, like in most strategy games. Each battle is divided into days for each of the factions 
 warring, including your allies, and, when applicable, the second front. The second front is what 
 makes this game different from its predecessors. In the second front, you can either leave it to 
 the AI or control it yourself, in later battles, and a win on the second front is almost certainly 
 a win on the main front. The battles themselves are very intense, especially if the opposition 
 uses its special powers, and later tag powers, to hamper your war efforts. These powers grant movement, 
 attack, or defensive bonuses to the units of whomever used the power. The tag power, however, is 
 the most controversial. With it, you or your enemies can tag out and move again with a different 
 CO and have the "superpower" of the corresponding CO. Speaking of CO's, all the CO's have their 
 own specialties and personalities. For example, Jake, the first CO you're introduced to, is the 
 typical teenager, using slang such as "word" or "owned" in rapid succession. Rachel, the other 
 starter, has the supporting attitude of a best friend, which is evident in her special power, granting 
 her units a repair bonus. All the other CO's have their own personality and powers, such as Max, 
 who prefers in-your-face combat, and Colin, rich-kid heir to a fortune, who can buy his units cheaper. 
 And speaking of units, there are multiple units to be utilized and destroyed. Most of which can 
 come from modern warfare, but a few, ie. the neo-tank, come from the future. Each has its own specialties 
 and weaknesses. The sound is pristine and fits the bill perfectly. For most of the characters from 
 Orange Star (Jake, Rachel, Max, Nell) , rock is the music you'll hear. For Blue Moon (Sasha, Colin, 
 Grit) , you'll hear music that suggests wealth. For Green Earth's Javier, you'll hear music that 
 suggests futility, for Jess, machine rock to suggest her ability with tanks. For Yellow Comet, 
 mostly it is music that is reminiscent of 40's big band, or rock. But for most of the game, rock 
 is what you'll hear. The visuals are not overly fantastic, but are just right (think fire emblem) . 
 Overall, this game is one of the must-have games for the DS and is a great game to compliment its 
 predecessors and rivals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Honestly a great game, difficult enough for the average gamer and is easy to understand. Great 
 gameplay and easy controls, a lot of CO's to choose from and great new units. Overall a great game, 
 to hell with a PSP when you can get great games like this on the DS. The enemy has all sorts of 
 new units and techniques to suprise you with. It is very addictive and a lot of fun, lots to do 
 if you have friends and want to play wi fi. Overall a great game, good graphics, interesting story 
 line and great game play. There is also a lot of replay value with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master2dragins
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  All i can say about this game isWOWIts a quite addicting game with interesting strategic 
 gameplay. Player who enjoyed the final fantasy tactics advance game will love this one. The story 
 mode is hard to catch up too if you let someone beat a level for you. Sadly this game starts slow, 
 treating you like a noob (wait you are one..... nevermind) but after the first few mission you get 
 a factory. (thank god for that) The factories enable you to create units so your not stuck on the 
 crappy ones you start out with. AW ds offers advance wars fans new units like steath's, mega-tank 
 and others. This game should be played by all ds players as it uses the touch screen really good, 
 but if your tired of touch then you can just play with the four-way thingie ?Don't delay, get it 
 now because it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  When I first saw some screenshots from the early version of Advance Wars: DS I thought I was going 
 to cry in anger for the miss-use of the capabilities of the DS. 
  
  Yeah, that was before I even checked it out properly. A time after I saw those screenshots I thought 
 I have to check the game out and get a clue why it got it's nice reviews, when I did check it out 
 it became obvious why. 
  
  Even when I played the GBA version I changed my mind the second I even turn on the device. Everything 
 was correct, terrific design, the most in-deeph gameplay I've ever seen on any game ever. What 
 became really important when I checked games from that day was not to check for the most graphical, 
 cool stradegy or any other games out there, this simple game is the best there is. 
  
  And later on when I got the DS version of the game the first thing I saw was the very fast, firm 
 framerate and more options for battle animations and quicker movement for the units which made 
 the game quicker which is also a good point with the game, it's quick, but in the same time you 
 have to think through you're decisions wisely or else your enemy lurking in the woods, even the 
 CPU players is very good, they do some mistakes all the time but that could be a stradegy for them 
 to gain CO power more quickly and in that way get something good out of it. But anyways, the AI 
 is excellent in this game ans you'll find yourself in a good Campaign with nice story and charathers, 
 and if you're one of those who can't stand the text-messages of the charathers speaking you'll 
 only have to press the Start button to get on going into the combat. 
  
  I got Advance Wars: Dual Strike the first day it shipped here in Sweden and it really blew my away, 
 I never really turned off my DS, I started a match and got the machine running until I got to school 
 and play during the breaks there, it's really handy. For total I played this game about 130 hours 
 before the Mario Kart: DS got the most of my attention.
  
  Advance Wars is a game all DS owners should at least try out, do not be fooled by it's simple look. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargemer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars DS is a turn-based strategy game which can be played with the touchscreen. 
  
  Graphics
  
  It's looks are simple, but effective. You shouldn't expect amazing graphics, but 
 just clear 2d icons in a 2d battlefield. If you attack somebody else you will get a split-screen 
 on the touchscreen and you see your forces attacking the enemy's forces, or the other way around. 
 This looks pretty nice and cool, but it is a bit repetitive after a while (so you can pass it by 
 pressing the A button) . There are cool movies if you use a superpower, which is a bonus activated 
 by your CO once you've done well in battle. Un the upper-screen you can see info about the thing 
 your cursor is on, or if you play a DS-battle (a battle with 4 COs) you see the upper battlefield 
 where the two other COs are fighting. 
  
  Basic rules
  
  Most of the time you start with one headquarters, which you have to keep save from the enemies, 
 a few cities where you gain resources and some barrack-like places where you can train units. You 
 can win a battle by taking in the enemy's HQ, or defeating all the enemies. Sometimes it's better 
 to do one thing and sometimes better do the other. It's not a very easy game and you can't just 
 put your units everywhere you want, because the enemy will crush you. Because it is turn-based 
 you have to really think what you do in your turn, because you can't change it in his/her turn. 
 You have to try some missions over, but you'll probably never get really stuck.
  
  Controls
  
  On the touchscreen you can click on all these things and that works pretty good. 
 But if you are in a car and you're a little shaking around you often miss the precise point you 
 should hit, which can be very irritating. I tried to do it for a while, but in the end I couldn't 
 keep it up and started using the buttons again. This is a good advice, don't use the touchscreen. 
 
  
  Characters
  
  There are around twenty CO's to play with and each and everyone of them has their weakness and 
 bonus. Choose wisely in every battle before you start.
  
  Variety and multi-player
  
  There is enough variety in the game. There is a big campaign with 28 missions in total and later 
 you can do it over in hard mode. There is also the war room and you can even design your own battlefield. 
 You can buy new colours for characters, new maps and new characters, so win your battles as good 
 as you can, because you'll get more money. There also is a little feature called combat, but you 
 shouldn't waste your time with that. It could only interest me for half an hour. This game doesn't 
 support wi-fi, but you can play up to 4 people wireless and even play that combat-thingy. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  This is the first great game on the DS and you should own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tartarus117
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  just had gotten the game, but I love it. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  You can't beat this sort of game for TBS. Tieing with Fire Emblem as the best battle system (which 
 I know comes from the same company) . The game challenges you to balance how many troops to fight 
 with, and how many to reinforce your ally with. 
  
  To be honest, I like the dual COs. It adds some strategy to the mix. Will you go for the Tag Powers 
 with their built in dual strikes? Or will you put others together for CO ability combos?
  
  The only problem with the gameplay is that you have firepower bonuses with your COs. I hate how 
 the game has become based around the powers, not more on your abilities. On the other hand, putting 
 tedious battles together does get boring.
  
  Campaign Playability 9/10
  
  The campaign, although horrible in storyline, has great missions. For those too impatient to read 
 the instruction manual and haven't played any Advance Wars games before, it gives some easy missions 
 to base your learning off of. Then, after, it starts putting you against some allied COs like Sensei, 
 and Jess. This was one of the best parts of the AW1 Campaign. 
  
  However, the only drawback is, you always get the same missions, you don't have choice like in 
 AW2, and you can't get different maps for different COs like AW1. This drawback is probably the 
 only one.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  I don't actually use battle animations, so basing off of the maps, there were a couple flaws:
 
  
  1) On maps like the Black Bomb Lab mission, I thought that the Bomb squads, which Lash "convenietly" 
 lost, were able to leave their cages and head for the heart of the battle, so I spent 10 minutes 
 trying to figure out why I couldn't get my bombs to move
  
  2) Some of your old and favorite COs went odd. Adder somehow, against all hope, got uglier. Kanbei 
 went back to his old self and looks creepy. Nell looks weird... and Eagle looks like a war hero.
 
  
  Music: 9/10
  
  Some themes got better, some worse (Lash's old theme sounded better) . However, they still do carry 
 the theme of the battle. And now, the weapons actually sound like weapons. Missile Silos make a 
 tremendous BOOM upon impact. 
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  To be honest, the touch screen doesn't to a thing for me, I use the D-pad an all that. However, 
 for those who like a PC-like game, take out your thumbpad, and start your tapping!
  
  Replayability: 10/10
  
  If I can play AW1 for 2 years, AW2 for 1 1/2 years, I'm sure you can 
 also make this game last.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Great game, beating AW2, and tieing with AW1
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  Rent for those unsure of 
 the game. Buy for the rest
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowJustin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Not to brag but I beat this game a day or two after buying it. Of course it is the best in series. 
 This is my second game for the ds and it's really fun because you can play a real time combat mode 
 where you can be as a tank, artillery or so whatever. It is to the hardest one in series which 
 I have to surrender every match from mission 20 to 26 to know many suggestions of CO's. You can 
 also use tag teams which takes good advantages and which makes it hard too...... When I beat this 
 game I heard of hard campaign mode, then I buy it, wow!! it is pretty eough tougher than the last 
 mission (for me! of course) .......... One last thing I have to say about this game............... 
 OWNED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! HAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  ARGH! Such a difficult game!
  
  Well this game is pretty fun. The difficulty is well balanced this time round, starts of easy then 
 gradually gets hardcore, yes, hardcore. No not hard... hard-core! : (
  
  Ok, maybe there is people out there who are amazing at strategy games like this and can probably 
 complete it within... an hour ;) But im not that sort of person... but i'm not exactly crap at this 
 either ;D BUT it IS very difficult : (
  
  Good news though, it was the first Advance Wars game i completed! ;)
  
  Good features, and 
 good extra features! The story line is basic as usual, i expected more from the map editor... i 
 would love to add triggered events but man, that would make your DS explode or something.
  
  In anycase GREAT game, i can see how it can become addictive, however the difficulty later 
 on and the patience you need for some missions may deter others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  There are a number of changes from the previous AW games that defintely bring out the best in Dual 
 Strike. The Tag Team battles add much more depth into the game, especially when it allows the use 
 of dual screen battles. It also adds an advanced strategy element to the game, with finding complimentary 
 COs that will best help in the battle. The Tag power is also a huge change, which can literally 
 turn the tide of a battle. Survival and Combat mode are also great additions, adding to the longevity 
 and overall fun of the game.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Unforuntely, the graphics are barely, if at all, improved. Its still the same old 2D map view, 
 and the same old engagement view. Nothing new, special, or flashy. It makes it feel like your just 
 playing an expansion pack of the game, instead of a whole new one. This defintely hurts the enjoyment, 
 and makes it seem very repetitive at times.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The sound is also the same, always the same song for each faction. And the same explosions and 
 shots from before. This again makes the game feel too repetitive compared to past ones.
  
  Value: 10/10
  Overall, you will not be dissapointed if you are an AW fan. There are still tons 
 of maps and features to unlock, as well as a great expansion to the multiplayer mode, adding hours 
 of play time.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  My favorite new feature of this game was how difficult the AI is. This may be frustrating at times, 
 but I know that once I've mastered the game, I'll always be able to come back to a challenge in 
 a normal 1v1 match against the computer, without any need to give them a handicap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_frek1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  another sequel from the underrated advance wars series. is it worth the 30-35 dollar price point? 
 is it as good as BHR? is it a good TBS (turn base strategy) ? hell yeah. this game is awesome. its 
 as good as BHR. it has the same graphics but some tweaks, the 3D back ground, so its basicly gba 
 sprites on a 3D background. the units also sound really stong. like one of the long range artilery 
 or missles sound freakin' nuts. it has new units including the freakin' awsome MEGATANK, to the 
 sneaky stealth bomber, to the piperunner and so on. some of your favorite co's from two years ago's 
 instalment have returned while leaving some out for some new ones javier, jugger, koal, kindle, 
 sasha, grimm, jake, and rachael. everything about this game is the same as the last two games except 
 for one. the difficulty. yes. no joke. i actually find this one easier than BHR. BHR's difficulty 
 from a scale of 1-10 would rate a 9.5 (theres some games harder than this  
 while this should be a 9/10. yes BHR's ai is incredibly hard and merciless. while this ai is relentless 
 on attacks but isn't as smart as BHR's are. the new tag specials are sorta 50/50. its freakin' 
 sweet for you to do them (if your units are placed right) while its total devistation for your 
 opponent to do them. there are some gimicky and dumb things in this game. one dumb thing is jake's 
 slang. he sounds like a conceited 13 yr old that has been playing too much online games like CS 
 with first graders. a gimicky thing in the game was the combat mini game. driving around shooting 
 with a selection of four vehicles and quite a few maps. while playing this game on DS download 
 is cheaper, you only get the combat minigame with four levels.... another problem is that every 
 mission in this game takes ALOT of patience like BHR to beat, but it pays off in the end. while 
 this game is one of the best TBS games out there, its one of the best games for the DS so far. 
 the game might lose it's value after a few weeks or days though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis19920624
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Overall : Advance Wars : Dual Strike is best played in short brusts. Even if you complete the normal 
 campaign mode, War Room, Survival, and Hard Capaign will keep you busy! A very very very long lasting 
 game. For those kids whose parents are strict, you can said that this is a constructive game! It 
 really is!
  
  Gameplay : 10/10
  Really deep mechanics, no doubt that this game was made by Intelligent System (the same developer 
 of Fire Emblem and Paper Mario) ! For those who played the series before, new interesting maps are 
 added. Computers AI are enhanced by the Tag move, the day just gets harder and harder! New units 
 keep thing interesting.
  
  Graphics : 8/10
  Even though you can notice a few sharp spots, especially on the map, the overall graphics are really 
 great. Animations are detailed to a movign of a small tire. Good enough for a portable.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  This is my favorite part. I tend to like game with "Sound room" better than those 
 without. I don't know why, sometimes, I Just say in one spot in order to hear the music. AWDS's 
 music is really awesome! Some musics and sound effects tend to repeat a bit, but trust me, you 
 will get a song stuck in your head.
  
  Value : 10/10
  Can't say anything for a portable this good.
  
  Tilt : 10/10
  The longest lasting game I 
 ever had. In fact, I just finished the first Advance Wars! So proud of my self on getting all S 
 on every single mission and maps. Oh ya!
  With the addition of "medals" in Dual Strike, you will want to collect all 300. Which means you 
 have to play all maps and get all S rankings! I love this series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmario3590
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:34 am PT
Review:  This game is a modern day chess, and will be an instant classic in near anyone's library.
  Advance Wars Dual Strike is a nearly perfect game. It has plently of characters and unlockables 
 and a compelling story that you can easily get into.
  Dual Strike Plays quite well with the new touch screen gameplay. However, occasionally you will 
 hit the wrong selection because most of the units and selections on the screen are a bit too small. 
 But it still works superb, if you're careful.
  This game will have you coming back for months. With so many unlockables, 300 medals, an RPG like 
 system with your commanding officers, where you can raise their ranks allowing you to give them 
 new abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTHALOFAN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars: Dual Strike has added a whole new twist to the series. The ability to partner up 
 and use an attack called a "Tag Power." A Tag Power is when 2 COs on the same team attack on the 
 same day, dishing out twice the damage. Something the other Advanced Wars titles didn't give you. 
 Depending on the 2 you chose, the tag power can be more devastating. Of course, the Black Hole 
 COs have gotten smarter too, and they also partner up to take you down. Once you beat Campaign, 
 you can once again play Hard Campaign, which is pretty much what it is. Campaign, but harder. Oh, 
 and you can also use any COs that you bought from Hachi at the Battle Maps store. To buy COs and 
 maps, just play missions from the campaign and battles from the war room. Survival is also a great 
 way to get points and to level up your characters. All in all, this turns out to be another solid 
 addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumSkills
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  A yo man this game is off the hook, even though I dont know how far I am. But when I first bought 
 this game and the guy at Toys'R Us told their were no refunds I had to think buy it or not. So 
 Afterwards I asked the guy "hey is it true this game is good or what" and he's all likeyeah 
 man my friend bought this game and he says it's real cool plus I heard about the reviews and i 
 got positive feedback on the game" or he said something like it. If your not a huge strategy game 
 person and doesnt like the military this game is not for you, but if you do it is. oh yeah there 
 is also wireless DS play on this game. Up to 8 people can play without your 7 friends even needing 
 the game. Oh yeah and I havent beat the game and this is about all I know about the game so buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is a nearly perfect game. It has plently of characters and unlockables 
 and a compelling story that you can easily get into. There are many things that Advance Wars improved 
 on when making Dual Strike. The best thing is probably The Map Maker option. You can make your 
 own map, then, you can battle on it with the many characters that are provided. The graphics are 
 pretty cool, yet lack a little bit of 3D. The gameplay hasn't changed much, but the cool thing 
 is that you can use the touch screen to move the guys around. Music... Awesome! :) Although you 
 really don't pay attention to it that much, (at least I didn't until I did for this review!) Overall, 
 the game succeeds in making another memorable DS game, which is the best in the series. With games 
 like this, who needs a PSP? A must buy for all DS owners, even if they haven't played the previous 
 games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foresti
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Advanced wars Dual Strike is a solid addition to the advanced wars franchise. I enjoyed all the 
 new units and commanders. The Dual battle mode was awesome. Multi-player could have used a little 
 more work as any battle you were working on is lost when either of the people playing close their 
 DS. The campaign was fun but I would have like a little more for the advanced campaign, like they 
 had in AW2. It was the same length as the easy one. The new costumes were somewhat silly and the 
 story is as usual very corny. Overall I would say if you enjoyed any of the other advanced wars 
 titles this is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagismunch95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  For all of you that think that you have all the good DS games and you don't have Dual Strike you 
 are terribly mistaken. It is overall good and is defintely worth buying .
  
  Gameplay
  Great. But if you don't like turn based games stay away. there is no real action unless you turn 
 the cartoons on. i awesome feature is the map editor.
  
  Graphics/Sounds
  
  can't say much about the sound. The graphics aren't the best but are pretty
  good
  
  Value
 
  
  95% worth it. its crappy online and the corny dialouge (such as: i am gonna whip you like a phat 
 beat) take away that 5% 
  
  Overall 
  
  A good game. definetly worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrvl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  Advance wars is one of the best game series I have ever played, and this one is obiusly the best.
 
  
  this game is an improvement on Advance wars 2 because it includes all the war room maps of the 
 previus game and all the characters too, plus new war room maps and new (and interesting) characters.
 
  
  It is also and improvement because the new featuers like the ds batles and the batle mode are all 
 welcome, but maybe, the best feathure in the game it's the "dual strike" which is a special atack 
 you can use by charging your two CO's power metters at it's maximun, so you can use your 2 CO's 
 in a single turn, with their respective CO powers on, which also means that you have a juicy extra 
 turn to take advantage of!
  
  the canpaing mode it's kinda shorter than the last one (something like 20 hours or less ) , but 
 it has a very interesting story that has some really unexpected plot twists and a even better scripted 
 dialoge that will keep you playing for hours.
  
  But the main thing is, that even when you beat the canpaing mode, you still have lots of things 
 to do, not only you'll have to play a harder canpaing, but there still are all those war room maps 
 (wich are a LOT) that are waiting to be completed, plus the new battle mode that looks so interesting 
 and you'll have to collect all the 300 medals that are special awards that you get by 
  fullfilling centrain requirements like time spent playing, number of tanks destroyed, number of 
 boats destroyed, number of stealth units destroyed, and the list goes on and on...
  
  so it's obius that most people won't even care abut getting all the medals,
  but thats what I 
 mean saying that it's so huge you'll never finish it, but still there are those war rooms maps 
 that are a constant an very fun challenge for the gamer.
  
  The miusic of the game it's great, all the old tunes plus some very new good ones, the only thing 
 I'm a little disapointed are the graphics, they could have been much better, even 3d maybe, this 
 is because the graphics didn't chage at all, these are EXACTLY THE SAME as the previus games in 
 the series, but at least they are not bad.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kira1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  A realy Addictive Game so read on^^!
  My first Review To !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay 10-10 ^^ Perfect Score
  The Gamplay is awsome let me tell you theres so many new units 
 not like in AW 2 only 1 new unit but here theres over 5 new units like the MegaTank which is the 
 strongest Unit now can destroy an NeoTank in one shot sometimes to which is great but it's slow 
 and costs 28,000 realy a lot right but worth it it's good for defeance or if you have an Base near 
 you enemy cause of it's movment rate and the Slealth Fighter it's liek the Fighter but can attack 
 ground Units and can be hidden tho wasts double Fule Units. The Battles are same as always but there 
 Great tho. Maps there the original Maps and many new ones for the extra Fun^^ and now you can use 
 2 CO in an battle and use Tag Powers which is when both CO's Super Power fills you get to use Tag 
 Power and you get two turns two, Tho the game isent that hard for AW pros and stradegy pros but 
 the Hard Mode is somewhat hard tho!
  
  Graphics 9-10
  The Graphics Stayed from AW1 and AW2 they just tilted it a little so not a lot to say here tho 
 but the Unit are sprite based so they are nice the graphics are nice but are 2-D but still nice 
 and the battle graphics are realy nice to and fun^^ 
  
  Sound 10-10 
  Theres not much to say but the Sound is AWSOME just plain AWSOME the theme songs for the CO's are 
 awsome to and every song in the game is awsome!
  
  Replay Value 10-10
  The Replay Value is awsome with so many old maps and so MANY new maps i believe theres 15-30 new 
 maps!
  
  Overall Score 9.5-10
  It would be perfect if they made the game somewhat harder tho other than that an Must have for 
 DS owners and AW fans or stradegy Fans!
  
  Hope you liked my Review on this game exept more soon!
  COMING SOON=Advance Wars DS Duel Strike 
 FAQ
  COMING SOON=Animal Crossing Wild World DS Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdriverz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  this rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night 
 mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must getthis rules 
 along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour 
 a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with 
 yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a 
 must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh 
 night mare troubadour a must getthis rules along with yu-gi-oh night mare troubadour a must get 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanng1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  This is the first advance wars game i played and i must say that it's actually good game. I like 
 strategy games but i never played anything this good.
  
  The gameplay is good it's highly addictive and you require loads of strategy to destroy your enemy 
 because the AI is very competitive as it took me a few over 30mins to get use to the game. The 
 AI is competitive at times as it destroyed me few times but i always manage to hang in there to 
 pull out a win.
  
  The graphics is very good it uses the contrast of 2d and 3d gameplay applied into the game.
  
 
  The sound is great. It's got good sound effects fitting into the destruction i inflict on the enemy. 
 The sound effect i most enjoy is the celebration, which is played when you complete a mission.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes complete competitive strategy game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raidenseven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  ok i played advance wars on GBA and really liked it, i was going to buy a GBA just for it and then 
 i heard that DS was getting a brand new one. 
  
  so i decided to toss in extra money for a DS and it was worth it just for this game. 
  
  Gameplay: 
 if you have played advance wars before you know what to expect, addictive gameplay, and deep strategy, 
 this game can compete with PC strategy games, the maps are well made, you can make your OWN MAPS, 
 and the computers are as good as real players (even though it is nicer to play against someone 
 else once in a while) this game will keep you busy for a long time with single player alone. multi 
 is great, i have tried it out twice, i like that 4 people can play on one DS thats just cool. the 
 only thing that brings down value is no internet multi player which would of been really nice. 
 
  
  Graphics: still 2D really nice 2D but its still 2D, if it used somewhat 3D i might if gave it a 
 9 but yeah its graphics are pretty and really cool, but its still 2D, but i really dont care cause 
 it doesnt detract from the gameplay at all, it probably even makes it smoother. 
  
  Sound: great sound, just great, and it doesnt annoy you like other strategy games usually do after 
 a while. 
  
  this game could be the only reason to get a DS, its addictive fun to play with friends and on long 
 road trips (which is good reason to buy a handheld) the only thing that really i can find a problem 
 with is no online multiplayer, hopefullly the next one will have that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvulcan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  possibly the best turn based strategy game this year. when you first pick it up (if you are new 
 to the series you will know what i mean) its seems alien but after about an hour you will learn 
 all of the current strengths and weaknesses in every unit. you will find yourself drawn to play 
 it. a stack of modes and unlockables await the players who can stick with the game for long enough. 
 now more about each mode.
  
  campaign 
  simple as that. this is the games narrative campaign. some levels are unessesarily hard but most 
 of the supremely hard levels have a simple solution to them. play each mission differently if you 
 current tactics do not work.
  
  war room
  you verses the computer on a map of your chioce. this is probably the hardest mode in the game 
 as defeating the computer is very difficult. but the experience points are available in abundance
 
  
  verses
  this is the non-wireless multiplayer. due to the turn based nature of this game up to 4 people 
 can play against each other with only one console.
  
  combat
  this is a very hard and very small real time combat game. unlockable harder difficulties are available 
 to anyone who can beat the normal mode.
  
  survival
  simple as that
  complete as many maps as you can with limited funds, turns or time. extra champion modes are available 
 for those who complete the standard course. these survival modes are the best source of experience 
 in the game as it is possible to aquire 2000+ experience pionts in the champion modes.
  
  the equivilent in experience points is added to you credit total. you use these credits to buy 
 new CO's and Maps for the war room and the additional modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidstebbins
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is my first Advance Wars, and I'm never going back again. This game could 
 have been gaming nirvana if it wasn't for the artificial intellegence.
  
  Now don't get me wrong. The AI is very capable. TOO capable, actually. It's like trying to do math 
 better than a computer; you just don't stand a chance. The computer will tear you limb from limb 
 if you so much as send an infantry unit one to many or one too few spaces to the right. Eventually 
 you find yourself focusing all your resources towards protecting your headquarters, knowing that 
 you're in a stalemate and cannot win.
  
  Everything else is done perfectly. The graphics are nice and colorful, the sound is rich, and the 
 gameplay engine (not the gameplay itself) is very complex and requires you to think. Of course, 
 the artificial intellegence sucks every ounce of fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remorseful_kid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:38 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the first advance wars game on the game boy advance, I was so hyped, playing it day 
 and night, finishing the training mode. Once i beat the game, i realized i needed more. That time 
 ended when i bought the sequel and i was crazily insane, ignoring all the new games and just focusing 
 on this one. I bought a DS (although the PSP was on sale) because the nintendo titles were dedicated 
 to this console hence super mario and metroid prime... Therefore, i had to get this handheld for 
 the third sequel: Advance Wars DS... Baby this game is awesome.. the graphics are so-so, but it 
 has a great story line including the original characters from the past advance wars. What really 
 hit me the most was the 'tag power', which is when u have two COs at once and u release both of 
 their CO power. The gameplay is amazing. The graphics are surprisingly Good and it is extremely 
 addictive. If you like strat games, this game is for you. Beware, it will suck you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdude9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Advance wars dual strike is the sequal to the great Advance wars black hole rising. Not much has 
 changed in the sequel though, what is changed makes all the difference. the best improvement the 
 game play is the tag team matches. having Two CO's to use at once adds a lot of statagy to the 
 game. You can switch between your two CO's at the end of your turn and use the benefits of both 
 effeicently. The new units in the game are great. The megatank is the best addition. The megatank 
 is so powerful it can kill a neotank easily, but its pricetag makes it difficult to get. The stealth 
 bomber is also a great new unit. As its name implies, it can hide using stealth much like the submarine. 
 For the water an Aircraft carrier was added on. though not used often, when it used effeciently 
 can turn the tide of a fierce air battle. the graphics are mostly the same as the other games in 
 the series but are sharper now. its hard to think of any problems with the game. the only problem 
 would be that it still has the built in tutorial that is not needed since most people have played 
 an Advance war title already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendomaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is let me say with no doubt the greatest Handheld Stradegy game ever. You can't explain 
 how addictive the game is. Advance Wars Dual Strike is one of the best DS games of this year. The 
 sprites are not amazing but when you attack and enemy it's shows some nice footage of you attacking. 
 Which helps the game be more appealing. There are so many CO's and it's blast playing with 4 people 
 with only 1 DS!!!!! Most of my friends don't have a DS so it's perfect. Let me say this again Advance 
 Wras Dual Strike is one of the best DS game of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus_37
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  First time Ive played this game, had my doubts about it but heard good things so i bought it. Was 
 so worth the $$$. Its challenging game but also fun. Once you learn the gameplay and get into it, 
 Advance Wars gets really addictive. The missions are lengthly most of the time so have some time 
 to spend when you start this bad mamma jamma up. You get few diffrent Army Allies throughout game 
 to help you out, each with diffrent techniques to help you out, depending on mission will depend 
 on who you want to use and how. Strategic game with lots of potential, a MUST BUY game for the 
 DS. You cant go wrong with this game. Certain missions will get you aggravated sometimes but you 
 just need to take break than come back later with a plan and demolish the enemy. Learning curve 
 not to bad, i picked it up within half hour and ive never played till now. So dont be afraid to 
 check this game out if you havent played it before. Advance Wars Dual Strike is a must have for 
 your DS collection and will have you dreaming of how to blow up the enemy even better than before! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexalexaelx_10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This is an awsome game it is a most have for the ds. If you have played any of the other advance 
 war games in the series you know how fun they are. ANd this one is even better. It has more modes 
 and features some of which in clude the new survival and combat modes.
  
  I highly recomend this game even if you have never played an advance wars game before. It is my 
 favorite in the series Its one of the best games on the ds so if you want a good game for the ds 
 get this one. This game is so cool but if you dont like turn based stragety games this is not the 
 game for you.
  
  The game is just right i cant think of any thing nintendo could have done better. THis game has 
 many new characters also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radical_punk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I think overall Advance wars dual strike is a game that most people will like if they like turn 
 based games. 
  
  Some ups about the ups game are: the new combat mode lets you control a unit and shoot with it 
 and that is probably 1 of the awesome features. You also use the touch screen to move your units 
 and it can make things allot quicker. The storyline was also pretty good.
  
  Some downs of the game are: The story isn't that hard and then the hard campaign is really hard. 
 I think everyone should have different skills instead of the same so when they are at level 10 
 they dont have all of the same skills.
  
  This game requires strategy and lots of patients for sometimes the computers take a while.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekirby45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike score 8.5 out of 10
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  P: Nintendo 
 D: Intelligent Systems
  
  Welcome to adv. war review this game is so hard one of my friend said it is not that is because 
 he likes fire emblem for GBA so he thought it was easy. But I didn't play fire emblem so much so 
 that why I say its to hard. The good: the Graphics are good 2D not much different from the GBA 
 and now you can be 2 at one so you can die beat down style or you beat down the 2 people who attack 
 you in the first place but the bad part of the is the Graphic such be in 3D everything today such 
 be in 3D and the other thing that it doesn't take advantage of the touch screen that much but still 
 it is a great game so I give it a 8.5 OUT OF 10 S: THEKIRBY45
  
  visit my site for more review at freewebs. com/thekirby45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostchant
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot has this game pegged right. This game is a modern day chess, and will be an instant classic 
 in near anyone's library. You'll be hardpressed to find a game that will keep you coming back for 
 more as much as this title. The only short-comings of this title is really the lack of improvement 
 of visuals from the GBA. Graphics aren't everything, but its still a score. Recycled graphics don't 
 win high scores, but the fact that they still work and look smooth saves it. If you have a DS and 
 haven't tried this game you really haven't gotten your moneys worth from your DS yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The only game that surpasses this in strategy is starcraft. This game truly radiates with good 
 characters, cheesy yet delivering storyline, and a great sense of pride upon winning a turn based 
 battle. With many units at your disposal all with unique startegical placing and roles. Great soundtrack, 
 though it tends to get repetitive. Very difficult and frustrating at times, but that all fuels 
 up to an enormous sense of pride when you get a long fought victory. Very fun multiplayer accessible 
 through mutliple ds's and a even more fun map creator.
  
  Gameplay : 9 
  Wonderful gameplay, great use of dual screen's and the convince of the touch screen, although i 
 will admit, it really could of had more innovation. Major drawback.
  
  Graphics : 8 
  Looks like GBA, but it works for it to an extent. Somewhat disappointing however.
  
  Sound 
 : 7
  Great soundtracks, but to little and eventually grow very annoying to the point i can't stand it. 
 
  
  Storyline : 8 
  Very cheesy, and unexplained ultimatley. Yet its satisfying nonetheless.
  
  Length : 9
  Long 
 enough to keep you entertained well worth the buy.
  
  Overall : 9.1
  This game is a great highlight, well up to 40 hours of high class entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazbot_
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Right after I got nintendogs I went out and got Advanced Wars DS. Now I had already had the GBA 
 version of the game so I knew what the game play would be like, but from the moment I turned it 
 on I knew what the biggest problem of the game would be. The game is way to close to the GBA vision, 
 and when I say this Im mostly talking about the graphics. I know that they changed the story, 
 added new units, made stylus incorruption, made a RTS type mode, better multiplayer, more characters, 
 and a tag team CO system, but thats why Im giving it a good rating on value and game play. I 
 know this may sound shallow, but I bought a DS to play games with better graphics, not content 
 enhanced GBA games. Another thing is that the sound can be cool sometimes, is no were close to 
 as cool as Meteos. Even thought the story mode is great it starts out really great difficulty level 
 wise, it really gets to difficult near the last 5 missions. I think a lot of people might even 
 give up on the story mode just because it gets so difficult. 
  Well my final word is if you liked the GBA ones youll want to check this one out. Otherwise you 
 might want to look somewhere else for you turned based title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I decided to check this game out because all the reviews said that it was a must have.
  So I picked it up about a month after it came out.
  I can't say I wasn't disappointed, but I 
 wasn't to happy.
  
  Pros- A lot of modes, it really makes you think, one of the loudest games out for the DS, good 
 use of the touch screen, the computers know what they're doing
  
  Cons- Graphics arent a large step from Gameboy Advance, song tunes get old, it takes a long time 
 to figure out how to play, Rachel and other characters talk to you too much and teach you how to 
 play even though you are already more than halfway thtough the game, some of the modes arent really 
 different from one another
  
  Graphics- Easily could be done on the Gameboy Advance
  Sound- Loud, but tunes can get annoying
  Gameplay- Offers a lot, but can take some getting used 
 too
  Value- Wait for the price to drop before you buy it
  Tilt- Didn't amaze me, controls were decent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I really think this is one of the funnest multiplayer games ever. Though it is not on wifi it is 
 still extremely fun LAN. The story can be challenging at times but really who does want a challenge? 
 There area also a ton of unlockables which adds to the fun. Many many levels to play and the story 
 will last you a while. A must have for DS owners and Advance War lovers. Only problem was that 
 there was no improvement in graphics. But the touch screen came in handy. I really rather just 
 not use the touch screen but it was nice to have. 2 screens made it alot more easy to see what 
 was going on. This is a great game for the price so get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lajinnsolo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow; what a game. The worst thing I can think of about it off-hand is that one of the main characters 
 has an annoying way of talking.
  The game play is great. It is easy to learn the basics, but you can keep on getting better and 
 better for forever. 
  The graphics work very well with the Nintendo DS. All the units are clear and separate; the attacks 
 look great; the menus are clear and cool-looking.
  The sound is perfect. The attacks and songs are all very unique, and they work very well with their 
 settings.
  The game is well worth it's price.
  I say, yet another triumph for AW. The best game in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunmetalman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is the latest installment of the Advance wars series. Fortunatly the orignal 
 parts that made the series a great sucess is alive and well but with new and additional gameplay. 
 The new types of units such as the megatank and stealth carrier offer more way to conquer your 
 opponents. The tag powers are a great idea however it is somewhat unnecessary. The a. i is smarter 
 than ever and fun to go against. The long storyline and the massive amount of unlockables to get 
 will keep gamers hooked for hours. What was disapointing was the lack of usage of the touch screen 
 and the support for single-card play. But Advance Wars is still a game every DS owner should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars returns to the DS in an absolutely brilliant sequel to the previous GBA games.
  This game brings back all the original magnificance of the first 2 games but adds plenty of new 
 material to keep you involved. It introduces the new tag team CO. wars where you can control 2 
 COs at once and switch between them whenever you wish.
  Sturm (the villian in the first 2 games) isn't featured in this game but instead you have to defeat 
 a tougher opponent called Von Bolt. With his henchmen Kindle, Koal and Jugger he will try and get 
 rid of Omega Land.
  Story Mode starts with new COs Jake and Rachel who will join up with COs from the previous games 
 to win this fight. The COs can now level up with the experiance they earn during the story mode, 
 war room or survival mode.
  New Modes are introduced in this game like survival mode where you are limited to a certain number 
 of something and you must complete a set number of maps to win. The new combat mode allows real 
 time attacking but it is a bit strange when you first play it.
  Each CO has thier own unique powers aswell as a super power but in this game they can team up with 
 thier partner and perform a tag power. A tag power is where one person uses thier power but then 
 instead of clicking end you click change and the other person uses thiers straight away letting 
 you attack twice in one day.
  This game is an brilliant addition to this amazing series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Review: Advance Wars Dual Strike
  
  Advance Wars is a series that first appeared on the Game Boy Advance, and was in my mind one of 
 the first truly great games for the new platform, the game had an excellent sequel in Advance Wars 
 2 Black Hole Rising, and now finds its self in the position of being the first strategy game on 
 the Nintendo DS, as it had been on the Game Boy Advance. Will Advance Wars Dual Strike for the 
 Nintendo DS have the same quality as its predecessors, or will it be the black sheep of the family?
 
  
  Story:
  You start the game as one of the new Commanding Officers for the Orange Star Army trying to defend 
 your home from the new onslaught of the Black Hole Army which was thought to be completely wiped 
 out. Why are they attacking, how did they recover so fast, and why is part of your country mysteriously 
 turning to wasteland?
  
  
  Graphics: Advance Wars Dual Strike keeps the 2D graphics engine used in Advance Wars 2 alive, which 
 for fans of the series is a good thing, though for a system (the Nintendo DS) that can easily handle 
 3d graphics it would have been nice to see some 3D models used in this game, or even some rendered 
 movies instead of the usual cutaways for battles might have been nice. Still the series has never 
 let the 2D graphics get in the way of game play and the graphics are every bit as well done as 
 the rest of the games in the series.
  
  
  Music:
  The Music is as good as any of the other games of the series; each character has their own theme, 
 and can be quite catchy and memorable in their own respect. You will often find your self humming 
 along with the game on many an occasion. The sounds are as excellent as they have been with the 
 rest of the series and will welcome you into the action the first time you blow away your first 
 squad of troopers.
  
  
  Control:
  The control is every bit as good as the rest of the series and the new features do not detract 
 from the game play in the least. The player has the option to control each unit like they did in 
 the previous games or they can use the stylus to issue commands though the stylus. It should be 
 noted that the stylus has trouble interacting with units at the top of the screen or the corners 
 but this is a hardware difficulty not a flaw in the game and does not affect the game much in any 
 major ways.
  
  
  Design:
  Fans of the series will find that many of the old strategies of the game play still apply but new 
 units add new strategies to be learned and mastered, add to the ever growing atmosphere that the 
 Advance Wars series already exudes. But what sets this game apart from the rest of the series is 
 all of the different modes, unlockables and, and extra goodies included in this game. Some of the 
 new modes include Survival where you have a set monetary amount to win a war, and Combat, which 
 is a live action version of the strategy game, there are different backgrounds to unlock, as well 
 as Commanding Officers, Multiplayer Maps, Single Player Maps, and a special surprise if you have 
 your game packs from the first 2 games in the GBA slot to say the least this game has a million 
 and one options, that will keep you occupied for months, if not a year.
  
  Nintendo DS owners have been waiting for a Killer App for their little Handheld, and as it was 
 for the GBA, Advance Wars Dual Strike is the Killer App for the Nintendo DS, not only is this game 
 a must own for DS owners but for on the go gamers every where.
  
  Advance Wars Dual Strike:
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics
  Fun Game play
  Great music sound 
 effects
  Infinite Game play
  
  Cons:
  No 3D Graphics
  No Charicter Voices
  Only For Strategy and RPG gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbiggy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  AW (advance wars) is following the other 2 AW games. The new abilitys of this game is the touch screen 
 to control units and build maps. The game is easy to fughure out. Stop the bad guys from controlling 
 the fictional world this is based in. Each co (these are commanders) has their own powers , abilitys 
 , moves to atack the enemy. With one cartridhe you can have a one on one match. You can unlock 
 skins for the menu and characters whisch you can custimize the co's colors. overall this game is 
 good and iy is a must have for any portable gamer. Later on in the game you must really think about 
 stratagies and ways to overpower your enimies. There is dual screen batlles ( one ground and air 
 or ground and ground) . You may have to repeat levels to figure out stratagies. This is a great 
 game so go out and buy it!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is a great game! i havnt played enough of the GBA versions so when i bought it, i did so without 
 any foresight as to whether or not itd be that great. well guess what?! it was!! super fun multiplayer, 
 the storymode is awesome, im not to big into warroom or playing just for the heck of it but if 
 you are, then youll love this. but if you like missions and goals, you love it too! its alot of 
 fun and shweet, the soundtrack is great too!
  When using the stylus you might make a unit "wait" or attack without meaning too but other than 
 that, its definiatley a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILIKEMAGNETS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Advance wars :dualstrike is the third installment to the series and has alot more to offer. The 
 A. I in this game is very decent if u mange to finish the game u unlock hard mode and thats very 
 very very hard the matches will take u twice as long as they did on normal and u will be very frustrated 
 but over all u get your moneys worth. The game offers a single player campaighn which has 28 missions 
 to complete, map creator, war room, sound room, survival mode, combat mode which is more than u need 
 but its a great value then. The sounds could have better tunes and not as repetertive but it grows 
 on u. This is one of the best rts games ive played all year and has pretty decent graphics but 
 look very simmilar to advance wars 1 and 2 but i belive that makes the game more orginal. 
  
  Buy this game if u want your moneys worth lots of fun frustrating moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  
  good: solid adicting game play . somooth graficks. whirles conection is freaking awsem.
  
  bad: nothing relly ( i relly wish it had online -_-') 
  
  this is the first advanced wars 
 game i have ever played and i have t o say its very fun. basicaly the hole game is about war, u 
 start of with your comanders and units ( which the game has a crap lode of both ) and use them 
 to fight on a map which can have sevral propertys that can affect the battle. the co's affect the 
 battle too, which adds a very deep level of stradigy to the game. and the units ( which there are 
 over 30 different kinds rangeing from t-copters to megacannons to stelth fighters to pipe runners) 
 add more add the most bepth and blends with every thing els in the game to make it very good all 
 togeather. 
  
  side note : a very deep game.... ( i relly wish it hade online) recomend it to aney one who has 
 a ds 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  theres always that game that makes you buy the console or handheld, well here you go advance wars 
 will even be liked by people who dont even like strategy games. the game is very focused on stratgey 
 it takes a basic formula and just makes it fun and even brings in new elements, basically the objective 
 is wipeout your enemy but heres where it gets intresting all the the objectes can be taken down 
 in so many ways the level desings are just so simple and amazing even casuals will understand how 
 to plan out strategys, but just cause its overall a simple game doesent mean that ai is simple, 
 the ai will take all sorts of strategys such as cover heavy on defense and when it needs to take 
 offense it does, the AI is very unpredictible and tough to figuer out wich postion to take meaning 
 offense our defense. like i said the level desings are just so good that you taking different paths 
 is easy and offers tons of replay value and i mean tons. the sound is kinda weak but doesent hold 
 this game back from nothing and i mean nothing. the text reading is easy to skip through if you 
 dont want to read it, the grapics are vey good for a ds and just a ds. micro managment isint a 
 pain like most strategy games and just more fun. all i can say is if you want a ds then you better 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechaJDI
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Advance Wars game; it was fun and excrutiatingly difficult, so I played for well 
 over 20 hours getting medals way earlier in lower missions. After about that much play, it does 
 in fact get boring despite the many modes it offers. I'd probably recommend this game to AW vets, 
 but for new comers, you might want to start with the older ones first, because this one is the 
 hardest in the series. But during those 20 hours, it is extremely fun, yet difficult. What would 
 discourage almost any new comer is mission 8. Its has to be the hardest out of the whole campaign, 
 right when you start to get used to the game. If you don't have a strong will, your joureny will 
 most likely end there (I eventually beat it after about 5 hours and some tips from a stretgy guide) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike has come under much criticism for not being a giant leap up from the 
 first two instalments of the series. These criticisms however, are purely based on a technical 
 level and, in relation to Advance Wars 2, this third game in the popular turn-based strategy series 
 is a vast improvement upon its predecessors.
  However much you love this game, you cannot deny that in terms of the aesthetics, Advance wars 
 DS does disappoint. The visuals are barely improved from the GBA games and not much effort has 
 gone into the lacklustre menu screens either. Fortunately though, it has lost none of its charm 
 in the transition from GBA to DS and the characters have as much personality injected in them as 
 ever.
  The gameplay is as tactical as ever with decoys galore as you try to outwit the computer. The new 
 Megatank provides a harsher adversary and the Stealth planes deepen the already loved dog fighting 
 element. Intelligent Systems certainly havent messed with the gameplay, so no disappointments 
 there. I found the touch screen a bit fiddly and preferred the D-Pad myself.
  Where Dual Strike does improve upon the GBA incarnations is in terms of its options, which range 
 from mildly diverting to almost as good as the main campaign. The combat mode, involving real time 
 movement, falls firmly into the mildly diverting category and is entertaining to a point, but certainly 
 wont be occupying an abundance of your overall playtime. Speaking of which, overall playtime is 
 but one of the many stats which are updated throughout the game, complemented by a medal system. 
 This is an excellent feature and provides much incentive to play through the good as ever War Room. 
 This is where the majority of your playtime will form, as there are numerous 2,3,4 CO maps and 
 DS maps to play through.
  DS maps, you say. This is where the dual screen comes in as in some of the levels of the campaign 
 mode require two fronts, a primary and a secondary front. The primary front proceeds as normal, 
 however win the secondary front and the CO of that front moves to the primary front and you can 
 utilise a dual CO power. This is where you get two turns with CO powers to wreck havoc.
  The survival mode consists of a number of small mini-levels with a limited amount of time/money/turns 
 in which to win. It proves more successful than the Combat mode, however the War Room and Campaign 
 are where its at. The Campaign lasts approximately 20 hours, not including the Hard Campaign and 
 the incentive to get an S rank. The War Room could pretty much last forever and youll always come 
 back for a quick game now and then for years to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-I normally do not play TBS games or any type of strategy game but when I picked up this 
 title it gave the genre a whole new meaning. I had always thought strategy games were tedious and 
 confusing (most are) but this is an exception. Just select your guy, move and attack. TYhats all there 
 is to it.
  
  Graphics-These graphics really surprised me. Combining great looking war units with charming cartoony 
 characters is genious and I love it. I bet you will too. Very pleasing to look at.
  
  Sound-Along with great booms and explosions from the hulking tanks and stealthy fighters are some 
 amazing and catchy beats that range from light metal to breezy tunes you cant help but hum along 
 to.
  
  Value-Great to newbies and series fanatics. If you have a DS, you owe yourself to play this addiction, uh, I 
 mean game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer_9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Its all that a good RTS shoudl be, it definately lived up to the name. This game is everythign 
 its predecesors were and then some. The new real time gameplay was a great edition, I would like 
 to try it out multiplayer sometime. The single player is the same great RTS campaign its always 
 been. Its definately worth the money. If you enjoyed any of the previous versions you should try 
 this one out, its the best yet.
  
  The editions of new CO's and units, and the multi screen modes make it a worth while purchase. 
 It has alot more new content than say the second game in the series did (they only added one tank 
 in that one) . If I had more time I would play this more, sadly I must admit games liek this are 
 very time conduming so I suppose that is a downside to a great rts like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remaGloohcSdlO
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I actually didn't even know I was a strategy game fan until the first Advance Wars game. I got 
 so addicted to it that it was embarrasing... and this DS version is even better!
  
  This game has an almost identical look and feel but the second screen (battle front) adds some 
 depth.
  
  The graphical style seems to turn some people off thinking it's just to "kiddy" for me but don't 
 let that fool you, this game has some serious battles in store.
  
  As far as replay value you would need to play it until the end of time in order to unlock everything 
 and get all the rankings... I don't know who they think we are, but the value here is amazing.
 
  
  It plays just like the others in the series but adds a few new vehicle types and so on.
  
  I can say after all the hard work though the final battle seemed way too easy, almost a reward 
 for even getting that far.
  
  Just watch out for those enemy Battleships though... sneaky attack range.
  
  Graham 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Duel Strike Review 
  
  
  
  Your heavily damaged Mega Tank wont survive much more fire; enemy soldiers are closing in on your 
 headquarters; and your resources are running drythe transport helicopter being escorted by your 
 last Stealth Bomber is your only hope. In a final act of desperation you destroy the remaining 
 Black Hole soldier defending the enemy HQ, clearing a path for your copter to drop off infantry. 
 As long as HQ defending troops hold out for two more days you have a clear road to victory. Ironically 
 just as success becomes inevitable the evil Black Hole Army Commanding Officer begins taunting 
 you; you put a swift end to his foolishness as you capture the enemy headquarters and postpone 
 the enemies dastardly plans of domination. Fully realizing and nearly perfecting the turn-based 
 strategy genre, Advance Wars returns for its third installment in the form of Duel Strike for the 
 Nintendo DS. 
  
  
  
  Taking control of several newly introduced COs (Commanding Officers) , and plenty of classic characters 
 as well, Duel Strike gives you a large and open choice of character-selection. This is just one 
 of the many easily accessible and skillfully executed subtle strategic elements that make Duel 
 Strike an excellent game. Each CO has strengths and weaknesses that will make large differences 
 depending on a number of variables: the type of landscape the battle takes place on, the type of 
 enemy troops youre facing, how many (if any) bases and airports you have, etc, etc. A new ingredient 
 thrown into the mix is how well two COs work together; thus the title Duel Strike. In the battles 
 that take advantage of the 2-CO systemyoull take control of one CO at a time, with the ability 
 to switch between turns. When utilizing a COs special power after their star-bar has been filled, 
 you have three options: You can use a regular power, super power, or if both COs bars are filled 
 at the same time, a tag attack. Depending on the two COs compatibility the power will deal damage 
 accordingly. But probably the most significant effect of a tag attack is gaining the ability to 
 take two turns in a row. It takes quite some time for each COs energy to build up enough to use 
 a tag attack, but in one fell swoop it can change the tide of most battles. 
  
  
  
  Orange Star Army Commanding Officers Rachel and Jake take the center stage for this adventure, 
 where their homeland of Omega Land is being terrorized by the revived Black Hole Army. In some 
 mysterious way Black Hole seems to be sucking life right from the planet, making Omega Land a wasteland. 
 As Jake and Rachel move along they pick up the welcome help of many other friends, new and old. 
 Max and Sami make triumphant returns to the battlefield, and new characters like Colin and Nell 
 join in. Each character has a vastly different personality, and although the translation for the 
 game is excellent you shouldnt be expecting any truly dynamic dialog. This is a light-hearted 
 game, both in story and style and the majority of the dialog is humorous and well-written enough 
 to warrant reading. The series has nearly flawless gameplay, and to back it up is a pure and simple 
 charming style that is fully appealing to all ages. 
  
  
  
  In any given battle youll take control of a multitude of combat unitstanks, apcs, infantry, 
 battleships, helicopters, fighter jets, bombers, the list goes on. The new units available in Duel 
 Strike range from the Stealth Bomber, excellent for getting behind enemy lines undetected, but 
 dangerous to fly too far from an airbase because of fast fuel consumption. Or the Mega Tank, a 
 mammoth monster of a unit that will obliterate anything of the ground standing in its way, but 
 runs dry quickly as well. The balance of these units is what makes this strategy game so enjoyable, 
 because there is no individual unit that will destroy your enemy single-handedly. You will win 
 the battles by out-smarting the enemy, and using your units in conjunction with one another. You 
 will find yourself constantly contemplating and mapping out the effects of each action you take. 
 Moving your tank into that position and destroying that nasty rocket unit sounds like a good plan, 
 but will that tank then be positioning itself in the perfect position to be shelled by that incoming 
 Bomber? Equally important is the landscape, and the especially vital bases, ports, cities, air-bases, 
 etc, etc. The Advance Wars series takes some extremely deep gameplay and makes it not only straightforwardly 
 accessible, but gives it a very simple and elegant look that grabs and holds you.
  
  
  
  In synthesis to the dualistic-theme Duel Strike is reaching for youll not only have the Double-CO 
 system, but obviously be utilizing both DS screens. In any normal battle the top screen will display 
 the information on any given selected unit, showing how much fuel and ammo remains, information 
 on the type of defense the unit has on the current terrain, and so on. This is quite useful because 
 you can keep an eye on the battlefield as this valuable information is being displayed, painting 
 a clearer image of your next move. The second screen is also used for the new Duel-Screen battles. 
 Certain battles will have you select two COs, but those COs will be fighting different battles, 
 one taking place on each screen respectively. They call the top-screen battle the Second Frontand 
 this is either another land-mass, or sometimes can take place in the upper-atmosphere as air-only 
 battles. By default the computer a. i. will maneuver your forces on the second front, and you can 
 either change the general strategic attitude the a. i. should take, or simply take control of the 
 second front yourself. On the bottom screen you have the ability to move units to the second front, 
 and once the second front has been won youll gain the advantage because your second CO will rejoin 
 the original battle. Yet another complex and yet uncomplicated strategic element just creating 
 even more remarkable battles. 
  
  
  
  The campaign consists of 26 missions, and should take at least 15-20 hours to complete, and after 
 that you have a number of other modes to check out. The War Room is perfect for staging your own 
 battles on any map you choose, using any combination of COs, difficulty, and various rules as 
 well. Its more than likely you spend countless hours coming back to the War Room given the entertaining 
 and fun gameplay at your disposal. The new Combat mode is hit-or-miss, throwing turns out the window; 
 the survival mode and vs. are also enjoyable. (I was unable to check out the Wi-Fi multiplayer 
 over multiple DS systems, so this review cant take that into account) The longevity of Duel Strike 
 is virtually unlimited with not only several game modes to choose from but countless unlockable 
 content. The only thing missing from this otherwise complete package is the Wi-Fi internet play 
 that has just begun on the Nintendo DS with games like Mario Kart DS. Its a minor gripe, if one 
 at all. The series has potential for online play, but Duel Strike lacking it is hardly a smudge 
 on its great value. 
  
  
  
  Duel Strikes presentation is excellent on every front, but possibly slightly too familiar if youve 
 played the previous Advance Wars games. Unless you directly compare Duel Strike in a side-by-side 
 evaluation with one of the previous GBA Advance Wars games it should prove difficult to truly see 
 any notably large differences. However, after time youll begin to appreciate details along the 
 lines of birds flying over the landscape, and the simply cleaner and smoother animation and graphical 
 effects that the DS hardware can produce. Possibly the best part of the graphical presentation, 
 proving to be even more impressive for a handheld strategy game, is the sleek and minimally used 
 menus. Although many strategy games are more elaborate than the Advance Wars series, calling for 
 more menus, the Advance Wars really does strike this perfect balance, never bogging the player 
 down with layers and layers of menus and always keeping the game fun. The sound as well is greateach 
 character has their own theme which is played during their turn and adequately reflects their varied 
 personalities. The sound effects are always great. 
  
  
  
  Even with all the excellent titles available for the Nintendo DS, Advance Wars will surely be occupying 
 your system for months at a time. The amount of content offered as you first turn the game on is 
 more than most games present to you in their entire life-span and yet Duel Strike has an immense 
 amount of content hidden away for your finding as well; not to mention a great map-creator thats 
 easy to use, especially with the touch-screen-stylus. Newcomers will finally come to realize that 
 Advance Wars is not only one the best series to grace handhelds but will go down in gaming history 
 as simply one of the greatest series ever; and fans of the Advance Wars series will feel right 
 at home with Duel Strike and will immediately welcome the bountiful new content and refinements. 
 When it comes to the strategy genre youll be hard-pressed to find any game as fun, long-lasting, 
 and accessible as Advance Wars: Duel Strike. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: co-hawke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  this is the third advance wars game i own, and it just might be the best one. 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay hasn't undergown any real changes since the first 2 parts on the gameboy 
 advance, and that's only a good thing. altough the stylus control might be a bit tricky, the d 
 pad control makes up for that. with easy to navigate menus, distinctive control and some clear 
 explanation you'll get the hang of this game pretty easily. and that's one of the big problems 
 of AWDS. the normal campaign is fun, bur for the AW vetty it is a tadbit too easy, and altough 
 there is a unlockable hard campaign, that's still not a good thing. the gameplay is surprisingly 
 deep and challenging.
  
  Graphics and sound: the graphics have little changed since the previous game, just like the gameplay 
 and sound, but that too is a good thing. catchy tunes, some nice 3D twists and easy to recognize 
 units are shown under the bright colors of the 5 countrys, Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green Earth, 
 Yellow Comet and the nefarious Black Hole army. 
  
  Value: nothing much to say here. the gameplay is just so deep that you can just play for dozens 
 of hours without gettin bored. different modes are: versus, campaign, war room, survival, design 
 maps (let's you design your own maps, greatly adding to the replay ability) , and the real time 
 combat mini game 'combat mode'.
  
  overall: this game is great, it will definatly be a game you shall love and play for a long, long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrandyk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  im sure you are interested in picking up the latest advance wars game which is why you are reading 
 my review of one of the greatest ds games to date. ill start off with the graphics of this game. 
 it surpasses its predecessors easily with details to the battle field, for example when you are 
 in the desert you can see clouds floating over head which i thought was a nice touch. the sound 
 is pretty good but i found the music on the menus annoying. the sound effects for the weapons being 
 shot off at people is great. the sound of a recon mowing over a group of infantrys would be priceless 
 if they wouldve added in the sound of people screeming and shouting. the gameplay in this game 
 is great, after all thats what strategy games rely on. the game is not that hard on normal campaign 
 but hard campaign is just way too hard for me. im sure that in a bout a week you can have normal 
 campaign done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDRkid36
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  if you want this game get it
  i reluctantly picked it off the shelf
  which i regreted when i got home
  but when i started playing it it brought amzement to my eyes
 
  i didnt know beetween heaven
  after that i was so glad i got it
  i pitty anyone who doesn't have this game
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
 
  GET THIS GAME
  GET THIS GAME
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmmwantsyou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Game-play: There isn't really much to say here, except that the game has similar game-play to its 
 predecessors. Although there are so many characters and new courses to choose from, I personally 
 found theDual-Strike" feature unfair. I was also pleased to see new units and such added into 
 this game more so than "Black Hole". Overall game-play is incredible. 9/10
  
  Graphics: The visuals were pretty impressive, apart from the fact that there was much a change 
 and that the system was capable of much much more. I still did enjoy that the look still gave that 
 same advance wars look. Well done. 9/10
  
  Sound: I just can't get enough of the catchy themes that the advance wars games deliver and they 
 continue to do so in this game. The new CO Jake can be a little on the annoying side, but the "Dual-Strike" 
 theme is very enjoyable and catchy. And of course those tanks never sounded better. Superb. 10/10
 
  
  Value: This is where the game truly shines through will the re-play value. Trying to raise the 
 rank of your favorite CO's can be quite fun, but it takes some time. However this game can be played 
 again and again and again. Perfect. 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200163796
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I am going tell you now that this game is like crack. You will play for hours and hours, and you 
 will keep on playing because there is so much content. I have owned all the games in the series 
 and this one is the best, although the improvements are minor. The graphics are same as the GBA 
 games, which totally brings down its great gameplay. There are many units like choppers and tanks. 
 New vehicles include pipe runner, stealth, Black boat, black missile, and megatank. The Story mode 
 is quite easy compared to Black HOle Rising, but its still fun. The map design is better than ever 
 and you should buy it if you liked any other game in the series. If you are an RPG fan you should 
 buy it no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4MER
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:05 am PT
Review:  The PSP has ruled the handheld market for awhile since the release. The DS needed something 'good' 
 to overthrown the PSP, other than a dog simulator. So the DS came out with the strategy game, Advanced 
 Wars: Dual Strike. 
  Advanced Wars: Dual Strike starts you off as a young boy named Jake. He can be annyoing sometimes, 
 since he says "Go get the plates, because you got served" and the popular internet term "Owned". 
 Once you get used to his almost 'poser' style of speaking you'll be fine. So Jake meets up with 
 a girl named... I can't rember but he meets up with a girl and she's the commander of the army that 
 you control. So she trains you a bit and before you know it you're off to battle.
  So you're fighting battles against the dreaded 'Blackhole' you're fighting and you meet new people 
 and such when you fight. So you can switch people according to what the situation is, like if you 
 are in a fight with mainly airplanes and naval ships, you'll want a airplane and nalval based guy. 
 Plus you can do tag team. So you can have one guy completely air crazy, and the other a water freak. 
 
  During a battle you can gain power points, that go towards a power boost. There are three different 
 types of power. The "power" attack, the "super power" attack, and if you have a tag battle, the 
 "tag team" attack (I think) . If your attack is succesful your power move can overturn the entire 
 battle. Battles can get tough too, your going to want these, since the enemy can also use them.
 
  Those are pretty much the basic of gameplay. Graphic and sound wise this game is supurb. The game 
 is sort of 'cartoonish' yet stays serious if it has to. This game even though the rating "E" and 
 the cartooon style is pretty much for everyone. It can get pretty tough, and it isn't a little 
 tike title. The sound is also great. The sounds of the planes dropping bombs, the sound of the 
 rifles going off on each other, are pretty accurate. Much better than the beeping and booping of 
 the original Gameboy.
  If you want a fun, unique stratagy game, with plenty of choices of ways to beat on the CPU, or 
 even your friend, with multiplayer. Pick up a copy of Advanced Wars: Dual Strike. You won't be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WFCHurricane
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:19 am PT
Review:  This was the first (real) game I bought for the ds. When i bought it i tought: wow, im going to 
 be addicted. That never happened. I liked the concept of the game, controlling tanks and infantry 
 to capture the opponent hq or just destroy it. But in someway I didn't play it after 2 or 3 weeks. 
 I guess thats just me.
  
  Gameplay is pretty good, but i dont use my stylus because i think working with a d-pad is easier 
 and quicker.
  Graphics are good, not very good but just good. The battle animations are nice but I think the 
 ds can handle better graphs.
  The sounds are ok, nothing special.
  
  And again: I didn't play the game very long and I think it isn't as good as I hoped. But i'm sure 
 thats just me, its a good game for those who love strategy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike marks the third triumphant contribution to the stellar Advance Wars namesake. 
 A stable of endearing characters, a terrific backstory, and rock solid gameplay come back full 
 swing, conquering a few missteps along the way, showing the gaming world once again that for strategy 
 fanatics, it doesn't get much better than Advance Wars.
  
  Advance Wars: DS' gameplay is identical to its predecessors', which can only be a good thing. Like 
 Advance Wars 2: Black Hole Rising, and the original before it, Dual Strike utilizes a rock-paper-scissors 
 mechanic that balances simplicity and depth beautifully. On paper, it doesn't seem like much. You'll 
 take turns with your opponent deploying units from friendly bases, capturing neutral and hostile 
 properties, and attacking units until you either destroy all of your enemy's forces or capture 
 their HQ -- or until they do the same to you. In actual practice, however, the ensuing battles 
 will have you mustering all your military prowess and tactical know-how for hours and hours on 
 end. Even better, up to four players can get in on the action on one DS for countless hours of 
 fun and endless replayability.
  
  Advance Wars: DS addresses the chief complaint many had with Advance Wars 2 in that it comes armed 
 to the teeth with new COs for each of the five armies and a boatload of new ground-pounding, airborne, 
 and nautical units. The gameplay has also received a significant tweaking by having the player 
 command two COs' armies at once, and allowing them to switch out at the end of each turn. And since 
 every mission will see you in charge of two COs instead of just one now not only can you unleash 
 a CO Power attack after filling your power meter (which fills automatically when you attack or 
 defend) but you can dole out some serious pain with the Dual Strike attack by allowing both of 
 your forces' meters to fill. This allows for some seriously brutal attacks, and some great strategic 
 opportunities that effectively allow a player to take two superpowered turns at once. It's a fun 
 mechanic to be sure, but it certainly does tip the balance in favor of certain CO combos over others. 
 Naturally, some COs share an elevated level of synergy, and figuring out how to best utilize everyone's 
 unique abilites on a given mission applies a great puzzle element to the strategy. 
  
  For the first time in an Advance Wars game, the ability to level up your COs is available. For 
 better or worse, leveling up COs effectively means having a wider selection of "abilities" (Vision 
 +1, Direct Attack +2, Capture +2, etc.) to choose from at the onset of each match. Whether you 
 find this exciting or not will depend on your own tastes, but die-hard fans will likely see these 
 "abilities" as training wheels, and you'll eventually realize they render some COs rather useless. 
 On the topic, the COs themselves are often hyperextended to the point that they're almost charicatures 
 instead of characters. Toward the end of the game, you'll notice Jake can't say anything without 
 cramming in some funky hip-hop slang, ala "you got dropped like a phat beat", Sensei's comments 
 usually revolve around him being extremely old and decrepit, Max and Grimm don't want to touch 
 anything unless they can crush it, and Kanbei wants to defeat anything and everything -- samurai 
 style. Sometimes it's funny, but too often it's grating and a bit painful to see our beloved characters 
 behaving so idotically. Max's "let's kick some Black Hole" was priceless though.
  
  The Nintendo DS hardware also lends itself to new gameplay twists. Some missions will take place 
 on both screens under a variety of scenarios. For example, sometimes a battle will take place on 
 two fronts and you'll have to deploy units from the main front to the secondary front to help solidify 
 its advance. Other times the secondary front will consist only of air power whose sole mission 
 is to take out a devastating weapon on the top screen before the ground forces on the bottom screen 
 can advance. Finally, a couple of missions use the top screen as a timer and nothing more. Touch 
 screen funcionality is available for all areas of gameplay, but the only time it beats out the 
 traditional method is in the design room. Once you accidentally tell a mech to attack a megatank 
 instead of a recon a few times you'll understand why. 
  
  Unfortunately, and quite curiously given the circumstances, the Advance Wars graphics of yore did 
 not hold up nearly as well as the gameplay did during the jump from Game Boy Advance to Nintendo 
 DS. Intelligent Systems has employed a quasi-three-dimensional effect to the overworld maps as 
 well as to the individual units. It appears the intention was to provide a sense of roundness to 
 the levels, so that they resemble a very large globe as opposed to a flat map. The result, however, 
 is jaggy, sloppy, lifeless images whose "details" are so far from discernable it might make die-hard 
 Advance Wars fans take a moment of silence. The bad kind of moment of silence. Word to the wise: 
 jaggies do not look cool, even if they do produce a weak scaling effect. On the up side, however, 
 the silly animation sequences that occur between feuding forces are still as nice and sharp and 
 endearing as ever, so the graphical package is not entirely wrecked.
  
  Audio accompaniment is top-notch in Dual Strike, providing not only crafty musical arrangements 
 for each and every one of the game's 27 COs, but songs of victory, defeat, and everything else 
 in between. Newcomer Sasha's theme song is a dainty arrangement of xylophone and bells with a two-step 
 beat, old-timer Sensei still marches to his thump-clap-thumpa-clap trumpet and tuba mix, and too-cool-for-school 
 Jake rocks hard to his own surprisingly cool rock riff. Listeners with a keen ear will also discern 
 subtle differences in the lesser sound effects as well. A scrappy recon unit moves with a high-pitched 
 whine befitting its stature, while the mighty megatank churns forward with a low, devious grumble. 
 Likewise, the difference in explosions varies among vehicles. To put it simply, bigger vehicles 
 sound bigger and cooler when they explode, and that attention to detail marks the difference between 
 a "blas" and "blazin'" sound set. It's a small miracle that the sound technicians were able to 
 conjure such a variety of music and effects then put it all into one tiny little package, but they 
 did. And they did it with style. 
  
  Overall, Advance Wars: DS comes chock full of enough goodies to keep you coming back again and 
 again. Between the normal Campaign, Hard Campaign, War Room, Design Room, Map Trading, character 
 development, and the almighty multiplayer mode, Advance Wars: DS has enough fully realized goodies 
 to warrant your attention for as long as you own your DS hardware. 
  
  What we wind up with here is yet another solid game in the Advance Wars lineup. There are a couple 
 of missed gameplay opportunities, some minor issues of imbalance, a few perplexing additions, and 
 some downright fugly graphics, yet the charm and classic gameplay secure Advance Wars: Dual Strike 
 a spot among the best strategy games around on any platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Whoa! Now this is one game that is hard to put down. Once you start playing, you begin to feel 
 the crave of destroying all enemy tanks, soldiers, aircraft, and whatever else is out there. Pretty 
 soon you've played tons of missions that steadily get more challenging and intense. With great 
 graphics that add a nice 3D touch, you'll appreciate this game from the moment you start playing 
 'till the moment you finish the game. Plus, it also has nice multiplayer features and an easy-to-use 
 map editor that continue to make the game more fun; even when you have beaten it. Overall, if you're 
 looking for a fun DS game that will last you a lifetime (well....) , THIS IS THE GAME FOR YOU!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_loser15
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  This game is proberbley the finest example that the DS can provide a varied gameplay experiance, 
 yes fair enough that alot of elements in the game are from previous games, the game does build 
 on this e. g the Dual battles are not a gimick but a refreshing and actually doubles the thinking 
 needed. Forget about one screen and your going to struggle.
  
  Gameplay will feel very similar to Advance war veteran's however anyone who has not played this 
 can easily get into it as long as they are into stratagy not button bashing.
  
  Graphics have not evolved from the GBA versions much but at the end of the day most advance wars 
 fan's will appricate the style. And people who can consider 2D as good graphics will be fine here
 
  
  Value is the best part of the game, this game takes months to complete fully and thats if your 
 a very hard-core fan, casual gamers may never finish the game (and many gamers aswell)
  
  In summary this game is one of those great none gimicky DS games that all stratagy gamer's need! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baylon452
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the older Advance wars games will pick this up and love it in every way. It is exactly 
 what youd expect from and Advance Wars games. For new comers to the series Advance wars: Dual 
 Strike is a great first time experience with and Advance Wars game. This is down to the easy controls 
 and the game-play which easies you in gently.
  
  The basic formula of Advance Wars is that you are in control of an army and you square it off against 
 an enemy army in a range of battlefields. The basis of which battles play is that, it is turn-based, 
 and you take your turn while the enemy takes theirs afterwards. There is a wide rage of units to 
 be deployed for your army (infantry, tanks, planes, battleships, artillery, to name a few) and 
 all have a tactical significance to winning a battle.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike offers many different game modes to keep you entertained. The Campaign 
 mode will last you around 20 hours spanning nearly 30 missions. War Room, is a part of the game 
 where there is a great number of maps to play on where you, the player, have a disadvantage on 
 the battlefield and it is a challenge to win. There is also Vs maps to play where you and a friend, 
 or you and just the computer, can battle it out. The new editions to the series survival mode and 
 combat mode. Survival mode is where you have to survive on money, time or turns and have to complete 
 a number of missions. Combat mode scraps the turn-based part of the game that is usually played. 
 You control a unit in real time and can touch the touch screen to fire at enemies. All these game 
 modes could possibly keep you hooked to the game for well over 100 hours if you have the patience 
 to play them all completely.
  
  Graphics and Sounds wise AW: DS gives you what you expect. The battle animations look crisp and 
 clear and the sound of units moving and firing is spot on.
  
  Overall, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is one of the best you can get on the Nintendo DS and will keep 
 any fan of Advance wars and turn-based-strategy entertained for hours. New comers to the series 
 may have a pleasant surprise when they find out just how highly addictive and great this game truly 
 is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The Advance Wars series has always used a cursor-based system - so it's no surprise that it's come 
 to the DS or that using the stylus to move your units around feels so natural. Not only that, but 
 you're free to use the dpad and buttons and pretend it's a GBA game.
  
  You wouldn't be too fooled, either. Advance Wars: Dual Strike doesn't really look like a DS game, 
 and in complete honesty this game could just as easily have been done on the GBA. The dual screen 
 mechanics are neat (and in many cases a great way of getting terrain/unit information without clogging 
 up your main screen) but are never something that couldn't have been done by tapping a button and 
 switching views. Still, you can't really fault the game for the most logical use of the second 
 screen.
  
  And once you start playing, you won't care. This version of Advance Wars plays exactly like the 
 others, so if you're coming in from Advance Wars or Advance Wars 2 everything will feel familiar. 
 Where the second game added Neotanks to fill out your arsenal (and that of your enemies, of course) 
 this one expands on that and hands out a number of units of varying usefulness.
  
  First up is a stealth fighter, an air unit capable of attacking air or ground targets as well as 
 cloaking itself like a submarine. It's quite useful for sneak attacks, although the unit itself 
 is extremely frail. Best paired with that fighter is an aircraft carrier, which functions like 
 the cruiser except will transport and refuel aircraft instead of only helicopters. It's also capable 
 of a massively long-range AA assault.
  
  More conventional and also more impressive is the Megatank. The best way to describe it is to call 
 it a battleship on treads (albeit one with only direct-fire capabilities) . It is - by far - the 
 most powerful unit in the game, able to inflict enormous damage on pretty much anything. Its caveats 
 are a tiny ammo reserve (3 shots without being resupplied) , high deployment cost, and a short movement 
 range. Of course, those are all costs that can be dealth with, given the damage the megatank can 
 take as well as dish out.
  
  The other 'units' are the piperunner, black bomb, and oozium. The piperunner is a long-range (very 
 long range) unit that can only move on pipes, the black bomb hits like a missile silo but can be 
 moved as an aircraft, and the oozium is best left a secret. Suffice to say, once you run across 
 them in the campaign mode you'll either laugh or cry.
  
  The game itself - as mentioned - has remained relatively unchanged. Battles boil down to capturing 
 cities to earn funds, deploying units in order to overcome the various weaknesses of your opponents' 
 units, and then an all-out attack and/or sneak mission where you push an APC or T-copter around 
 to your foe's base and capture it. Where it does differ is with the title's 'Dual Strike' mechanic. 
 On maps with it, you choose two commanding officers instead of one. At the end of each turn you 
 can swap back and forth (ideally you choose COs with abilities that compliment one another) , and 
 the delicious burst comes when you fill up both COs power meters and execute the Tag command. It 
 gives both COs a small power boost as well as their own brand of super power, and lets you swap 
 COs without losing your turn - in essense, the Tag ability lets you attack and move units twice 
 in a single turn. Couple that with a CO like Eagle (whose power lets you move vehicles twice in 
 a turn) and you can push three movements of your units before your opponent has a chance to counterattack.
 
  
  That new addition to the game is quite satisfying, and (like they tell you during the briefing) 
 can easily change the course of a battle. Naturally, moments during the game when your opponent 
 fires off a Tag move will fill you with despair as you watch your own units torn to shreds.
  
  The other 'new' mechanic involves dual screen battles, which in all honesty is barely worth 
 mentioning. Some of the war room maps and some of the career maps take place on two screens - you 
 assign a CO to each, assign AI orders (defend, general, attack, etc) to the top screen as you can't 
 directly control it, and have at it. You are free to send units to the top screen at your discretion, 
 but once that battle is won all the units there will be converted into star power as that CO comes 
 down to join you (or join your foe, in the unlucky event that you lost the top screen battle) . 
 They are never essential to winning the main mission, although losing them will certainly make 
 your life more difficult, as your enemy will have access to his tag power and you won't.
  
  As it is an Advance Wars game, the gameplay is addicting as always, the CO selection is diverse 
 (there are a number of new ones, and many returning faces) , and there are plenty of maps and unlockables 
 to dive into. Your overall score on each map is added to a stockpile of points that can be spent 
 on whatever you want in the battle map room, from new COs to maps and other bizarre goodies. Each 
 CO can also be allocated a set of skills depending on their level - earning 1000 points with a 
 certain CO will level them up. Hit level 10 and you'll give them full access to every skill as 
 well as an alternate costume. There are dozens of COs, so it would take an awfully long time to 
 level them all up, as well as earn enough credits to purchase everything. No doubt you'll play 
 enough to do this eventually, and once you complete the initial campaign you'll get access to a 
 hard version with slightly modified maps - completing levels there will earn you twice as many 
 credits as normal.
  
  To round out the package (as if it needs anything more) are a number of endurance missions, where 
 you race to complete levels under a timer, with limited deployment funds, or under a set number 
 of turns. There is also a bizarre combat mode that plays like the old multiplayer game Bolo, where 
 you move your units in real-time and fire with the stylus. You only have access to four types of 
 units and have a limited amount of money to buy them, and there are maybe six or seven levels to 
 complete, either by destroying the opposition or parking on their headquarters long enough to capture 
 it. You won't find any long-term enjoyment with the combat mode but it is an amusing diversion.
 
  
  Finally, the graphics and audio. The sound is great with headphones, tinny as expected through 
 the built-in speakers. The graphics are what you'd expect - sort of. During the overview map and 
 the battle clips, there is a slight 3D effect. Depending on your view of that, the graphics are 
 either tolerable or kind of ugly. That 3D effect shrinks further away units and enlarges closer 
 ones, and the resolution of the DS's screen just can't handle it - the unit graphics become slightly 
 distorted. It doesn't cripple anything, as the graphics are still serviceable, but it doesn't look 
 as clean as the GBA versions did.
  
  In terms of value, though, Advance Wars DS is unbelievable. The campaign itself is a bit on the 
 short side (and easy side) compared to the past games, but the hard mode offers a nice challenge 
 and there are more war room maps than you'll know what to do with right away. Add to that a ton 
 of great unlockables and you'll find reason enough to play Advance Wars DS religiously until they 
 churn out a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is just plain fun. If you own a DS and don't own this, then get it. Get it now!
  The graphics are good and you can distinct which units are which.
  The gameplay is very easy 
 to pick up and use and you can decide to use the stylus or D-Pad. Which ever one is fine.
  The sound is pretty good. The music is nice theres alot to listen to, but the characters are so 
 annoying and take too long to talk, luckily, you can skip it.
  Theres plenty to do here after your done with campaign, like multiplayer, war rooms, and other 
 great stuff. Basically you can't put your hands off of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcortese
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Advance wars DS is a great game that involves alot of technique and style. The game revolves around 
 how well you can use your predicting skills and your knowledge of the game. The sound isn't the 
 best, but there are many catchy tunes and good sound effects to hear. The graphics are just slightly 
 better than the graphics on the GBA advance war, but do a good job of representing the advance 
 wars style. The game play is fun and lasting. Ive played for over 30 hours and ive still got hundreds 
 of maps to clear, things to buy, CO's to control and other unlockables to get.
  
  If you are into the Advance wars series, this is definitely a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolsinkler
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Out of the two DS games that I have (this and Super Mario 64) this is my favorite. That isn't too 
 much of an accomplishment, I'm sure. But it's true nonetheless. If the review wasn't an average, 
 this game would be a 10. The production values are what bring it down.
  
  I'll start this review off differently, instead of following my traditional Gameplay, then Value, 
 then Graphics, then Sound, then Tilt. Why? Because I feel that Graphics and Sound are the only 
 disappointments of this game. Although I love this game, I can't give Graphics a high score. Most 
 other reviews do, just out of love for the game, including gamespot's review. Had a game like Super 
 Mario 64 DS had graphics like this, I can see the game have been rated a 4/10 by everybody.
  
  Love blinds those people who play this game, literally. These people who give Graphics higher 
 than a 6/10 must be blind, and this leads me to wonder how they played the game in the first place. 
 The figures on the screen are barely distinguishable. I'm only on mission 23 (which is close to 
 the end) , but I still confuse Infantry and Mechs sometimes. Sometimes you'll have to select a unit 
 just to know what it is. Now that I've played for a while, I can usually tell my units apart. One 
 redeeming factor is that there are no noticeable drops in framerate... but that doesn't matter, 
 does it? Framerate won't affect the game at all. I could play this game at 5 FpS if I had to. There 
 are also no slowdowns.
  
  The main reason that this is worth more than a 1/10 is that there are brief scenes showing detailed 
 drawings of your Combat Operators. However, they never move, so that doesn't really help the game. 
 The only thing that really moves is your units when they attack or get attacked. You'll be given 
 an animation of both units shooting each other, and this is kind of interesting to watch. You're 
 always given a wall of text to read before missions, and this gets rather tiresome.
  
  Graphics: 3/10 (Different units barely distinguishable. Boring animation, except for battle scenes. 
 Wall of text before missions)
  
  The sound in this game can be interesting at some times. Each CO is assigned their own music that 
 plays during the duration of a turn. This music is often repetitive, and gets annoying by around 
 the 10th day. You can turn the music off, but that kind of ruins the point, as without the music 
 this game would get an even worse score in sound. Each unit has a sound that plays when moving, 
 but some of these are used for more than one unit. When weapons are fired, each weapon has a unique 
 sound too. There is music that plays when a CO power, Super Power, or Tag Power is performed, but 
 that music will be the same for everybody.
  
  The sounds are all quite repetitive. What really brings this score down, though, is that none of 
 the music is good. You can't notice any different instruments... there isn't a balance of sound. 
 Coming straight from a Band Geek himself, the music is no good. Sound effects aren't really important, 
 and I couldn't care less about them. The music is what's bad, though.
  
  Sound: 5/10 (Boring, oftentimes repetitive music. Sounds overused, but I don't really care. Each 
 CO has unique music)
  
  Now, on to Gameplay. Since this is my first Advance Wars game, I was a bit skeptical when opening 
 it. To tell the truth, I played the first mission, got bored, and started playing SM64DS. After 
 that though, I came back to play this game and don't regret it. The gameplay here is flawless. 
 There are several different units, and the game gradually introduces them all to you. And the best 
 part is that no units are really required for anything. Each unit will have certain advantages 
 and disadvantages. In example, a strength of both the Mech and Infantry is that they can both capture 
 buildings. A strength of the Infantry over a Mech would be that Infantry can move 3 spaces in a 
 turn, and Mech can only move 2. However, the Mech makes up for this with stronger firepower, and 
 the fact that it does high amounts of damage to most ground vehicles.
  
  The story of the game is that Omega Land is being attacked by the Black Hole army. The BH army 
 are sucking all of the energy out of the Earth, and using it to produce a stronger army in order 
 to obviously conquer the world. You can probably guess what your goal is from here - destroy the 
 Black Hole army. The first missions are relatively short, but some of the later missions can take 
 a few tries, and sometimes can take hours to beat. After spending 32 hours, 22 minutes and 12 seconds 
 so far on this game, I can safely say that the campaign is hard.
  
  But the campaign is only one part of it. You can produce your own maps, which is a fun thing to 
 do, and then you can save them. You can play on these maps against the computer, or against your 
 friends. My only complaint here is the limit to cities on a map... why should there be? Are they 
 afraid of slowdown on a game this simple? I'd be surprised if that were the reason. Perhaps the 
 reason is laziness. You can create some fun scenarios, such as a water-based map, or a map where 
 you defend one Army with pipes, and give them a strong army and tons of resources, then pit the 
 other three armies against that army. You can also buy maps, characters (for versus mode) , and 
 new units to place during the map-making mode.
  
  There is also a RTS game... sort of. You choose which units you want, then try to kill all of the 
 other units using only one unit at a time. This mode isn't that interesting. I'd tell you what 
 it was called if I weren't too lazy to run up my stairs and grab my DS. But it doesn't take away 
 from the game at all, so it doesn't lower the score. Really, though, there are much more fun things 
 that you can do with this game, so you might as well ignore it.
  
  There are 300 medals that you can earn. Some are earned by destroying enemy units, building units, 
 total playtime, capturing structures... you name it. Almost every possible award is included. If 
 you want them all, you're gonna have to spend a ton of time on this game, which is a good thing. 
 I only have 31 awards... mostly because I spent so much time on the map editor and versus modes.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 (So many different things to do, long campaign mode. Difficult game at some times. 
 You will become obsessed with this game.)
  
  Since I've basically already covered value...
  
  Value: 10/10 (Lots to do, long campaign, fun 
 multiplayer mode. Lots of things to collect)
  
  Overall, this game should definitely be in your DS collection. Again, gameplay is what really matters, 
 but production values could have been higher. Intelligent Systems did a great job with this game, 
 and I expect even better things from them in the future.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 (Wonderful game, worth a buy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatOfMax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The day I got it , I was playing it in the parking lot and didn't go home for a lil' while. It 
 has passed 3 hours and still didn't go home. I really thought the game really knew what I was scheming 
 for a lil' bit but I it was a good thing. You will boast when you go against a very tough A. I. 
 counter attack , YOU'LL BE LIKE NO WAY !!! YOU will also get alot of other good times to play the 
 game too like after you beat it You can always make your new maps and convince your friends to 
 get a copy of the game . I guess thats why its called advance wars. It doesn't have the best graphics 
 but the artwork is a pretty nice touch. The music is pretty catchy but I think there is always 
 another way to make better music. I still think they should have used up all of the nintendo ds's 
 cartridge for better graphics and music. Besides visual/sound this game rocks. You should get it 
 and end up not going home like me. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamester14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best turn-based stratagy games I have played to date... lots of options, 
 addictive, and a good story line... this is an excellent one that is worth getting. The part I 
 loved the most is the seperate skills system now incoporated into the game, that really added depth 
 to an already great series, and the story line flows (even though I doubt that is the reason you 
 would get the game anyway) . New units give it a even more challenging aspect. Also, the AI in multiplayer 
 is great, and not all that of a push over as in older games, I actually found myself having to 
 "protect" weaker units from the tanks, unlike before with the enemy units attacking the closest 
 target that they could get to. It also seems the AI actually thinks up a stratagy to counter my 
 own, like I said, i used to be able to rush in and take the enemy HQ, but not anymore. And the 
 challenge and RTS mode are both great! even though they both kinda take a while to get used to. 
 The one thing that would have made this game perfect is a bit better "graphical" input, they should 
 have really maxed out the DS hardware by making the battle cutscenes 3D, what I mean by this is 
 that they should have made more immersive instead of having the cutscenes 2D. But with that, is 
 the only really thing I was hoping for in this TBS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djthompson64
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If you've been outside the Nintendo buggle in the past few years you'd have no idea what advanced 
 wars is. Well, It's your army against an enemy's army. Pretty simple. However the DS adds a few 
 new little bits which spice up an already great game. The enemy can be AI controlled or assigned 
 to another human via the wireless system. The ability to play against another human using the wireless 
 system is certainly more convenient than using the Link cable but that feature alone is not worth 
 the expense of two DS systems and a couple of copies of the games. There really isn't anything 
 in this game that would warrant such an expense since the control system doesn't even make exclusive 
 use of the dual screens or the touch sensitivity. 
  
  There's nothing in this version that couldn't be incorporated into the GBA. It's even to your advantage 
 to use the D-pad instead of the stylus since it's very easy to peck out the wrong command which 
 get very tidious in the heat of battle.
  
  Another new addition is the inclusion of two commanding officers. You can switch them in between 
 turns to access different special abilities. It gives you more flexibility and is more reactive 
 than proactive since you'll probably use it to counter one of your opponent's brilliant moves. 
 You may have heard about the inclusion of a real-time battle mode and while it does exist, it's 
 not nearly as much fun as you might be led to believe. It's slow and cumbersome. The controls are 
 sluggish and the distances are too far apart to generate any sense of immediacy. It's a novelty 
 that you won't get much replay value from. 
  
  With some graphical upgrades and the above-mentioned additions, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is recommended 
 for those that already have the DS and want to experience a game that tests their gray matter instead 
 of their trigger fingers. If you're a fan of the GBA series and you're looking for something new 
 and different - keep looking - and let me know when you find it.
  
  Overall if you care to take Avanced wars to two screens then yes it is worth it. the overall presentation 
 of the game is at a very high quality, the AI is as easy or as challenging as you want. It'll take 
 new-comers a few hours to work this out however once mastered you'll be able to enjoy possibly 
 the best action turn based stratagy game on the DS so far.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantstopplaying
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  I am full blown advance wars fan. I played the living crap out of it when i got it and it has consumed 
 quite a few hours of my life. It's like the GBA version but it has more units and dual screen combat 
 which i thought was fun. 
  
  Dual screen combat consists of you controlling the bottom screen while you or an ally controll 
 the top screen. You can send units up to the top one by placing them on a factory or your HQ and 
 pressing the send button. Then your units go up to the nearest city, base, or your HQ.
  
  The new units are the stealth bomber, the piperunner, black bomb, black boat and the megatank. 
 The stealth bomber is a bomber that can cloak itself in plain daylight. Piperunners are cannons 
 that slide along pipes and act as an artillery. Black bombs are suicide airplanes that blow up 
 next your enemies and cause 5 damage. The black boats are an interesting naval unit, they repair 
 units and can carry up to 2 infantry. The magatank is you guessed it a insanly powerful tank that 
 with the proper co power can destroy a neotank in one hit.
  
  The CO powers on this one are either single co powers or a powerfull Dual Strike. The dual strike 
 is one co power after another. The character your using uses his co power. After he is done wrecking 
 havoc on your enemy he switchs characters and the other co uses his power and gets to move again. 
 But dont forget that your enemies can use dual strikes to.
  
  During batlle you can switch cos to use their special abilities. This is most useful with an awesome 
 combination.
  
  You get new cos, units, maps, map enchancers, and new battle controll. Dont forget the awesome 
 advance wars music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The game multi-player is great, the campaign mode is also great but the ds mode is a waste of time 
 but this fact does not affect me while I only play in normal mode. The title looks like the two 
 previous title which is great but no graphical update was brought. The stylus control is great 
 for this type of game but I find it not quite accurate for a mouse like control. The multi-player 
 is quite solid and supports the game almost on its own with the campaign. The game is solid even-though 
 the graphics remind me of the gba version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megathrowbot2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I've heard great things about Intelligent System's Advance Wars series in the past, and with the 
 release of Advance Wars: Duel Strike on the Nintendo DS I decided this would be a great time to 
 start playing it. As soon as I picked it up I had trouble putting it down.
  
  Adcanced Wars is a turn based strategy game that takes war a little lightly than most game, though 
 is still fitting for youg 'uns and older audiences alike. 
  
  Gameplay of course is where this game shines. I can sum it up in one word: flawless. Basicly what's 
 done is you and your enemy take turns moving and building your units so you attack the enemy units 
 and capture buildings. The turns (called Days) are divided into phases one for you, one for each 
 of your allies, and one for you foes, the sinister Black Hole Army ( only in campaing mode) . You 
 don't have to move your units in any specific order so so you can move them according to your strategy. 
 Each CO has two special powers which are different for each CO. These become available by filling 
 up a meter that fills up as you attack units and are attacked. When it is half full you can use 
 that CO's power, and when it's completely full you may use their super power, an improved version 
 of their regular power. Later in the game 'tag teams' become available for use in which you choose 
 two COs and switch back and forth between them between battle in order to gain full use of each 
 of their special abilities. As an added bonus when both of the CO's power meters are full you may 
 use the tag power, which lets you use both of the COs super powers on after another along with 
 the units (so one power is used and then you move, and then the second is moved and you get to 
 move all those units again) , this can quickly change the tides of battle. Another feature that 
 has been added are DS battles, battle that make use of both the top and bottom screen. On the top 
 screen the second CO you chose for tag battles and the enemy's second CO battle it out, and the 
 victor get's to return to the touch screen to be used as a regular tag battle and the loser is 
 taken from the battle completely. However, you cannot directly control the units on the top screen, 
 only choose the way the CO behaves (agressive, defensive, etc.) . There are a few different modes 
 in this game: Campaign Mode, in which the Orange Star army and its allies battle against the Black 
 Hole Army, Combat Mode, a mildly entertaining and very difficult real-time game, a map editor which 
 lets you save up to three maps, versus mode where you can be pitted agains the computer or up to 
 eight players (downloadable or multi-carts) , and the War Room, a mode where you go against the 
 computer with unfair odds.
  
  The graphics are nice as well. They're really nothing special, but they still look great and fit 
 the game nicely. However, I have read that the units really look the same as they did in the previous 
 two games, so I'm sure they're due for an update.
  
  The music in this game can get quite catchy at times, and is of nice quality so you really cannot 
 complain here. The sound effects are great as well. The sound of tattering machine guns, bombs 
 dropping, and exploding tanks are beautifully satisfying.
  
  So I must say this game is highly satisfying and worth your time and money put into it. All I can 
 say is BUY BUY BUY if your a fan of previous Advance Wars, Fire Emblem, or any other TBS games, 
 and rent if your not.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryder13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Originally released in 2001, Advance Wars was, at the time, one of the best reasons to own a Game 
 Boy Advance, presenting an approachable yet deep turn-based strategy experience. Dual Strike is 
 the third game in the illustrious series, and is sure to score with fans of the previous games 
 and new players alike.
  
  The reason this game is so good is that it doesn't mess with the fundamentals of what were two 
 great previous games; changes to the core game are mostly subtle such as the tweaking of certain 
 units to create more balance and the addition of some intriguing new ones. However, this lack of 
 change is less welcome in the presentation department; though the music sounds better than ever, 
 the graphics are essentially the same as on the GBA, which is quite a disappointment.
  
  Being a DS game, one would expect the people over at Intelligent Systems to take the Dual Screen/Touch 
 Screen concept and run with it, and that's just what they've done; the top screen is used to display 
 troop information, other data (such as the time of an impending missile strike) and the idea of 
 a "secondary front", a new one for the series, where another CO controls a battle on another front, 
 which has a great impact on the outcome of the primary front. The game can now be played entirely 
 with the stylus and, while the control pad works perfectly fine, I must admit that the stylus makes 
 the game an experience more befitting the nature of the genre; being quite used to point-and-click 
 strategy games, the stylus makes the game control quite similarly.
  
  The name "Dual Strike" comes from the addition of "tag battles" to the series, where you use two 
 CO's alternately, and can use the "Tag" command to use have two turns in a row using two superpowers 
 - needless to say, the right combination of CO's can have a devastating effect.
  
  The CO's themselves are mostly the same as the ones from earlier in the series; the same rabble 
 of pre-pubescents, buff/chubby morons, complete weirdoes and "oh-so-cool" badasses, leaving you 
 with the impression that the citizens of Omega Land pick their leaders from a hat. The new CO's 
 are good additions to the campaign mode (which follows the same basic storyline as the previous 
 two Advance Wars games) , however one of the main characters, Jake, is probably, and I don't say 
 this lightly, the biggest lameo that ever lamed down the lame (forgive the lack of eloquence, I 
 just despise the fool) .
  
  Other gameplay additions include Combat mode... The less said about that the better. However, despite 
 the game's many minor flaws, Dual Strike is a wholly enjoyable experience, and surely a must-have 
 game for the fledging handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really great game and it is extemely fun. I am a big fan of the Advance Wars series 
 and I was really impressed by this game! The controls are solid, it's very addicting, and there 
 are tons of modes!! The only problem that I have with the game is it's graphics. I know some people 
 probably are ok with the grpahics, but they're not any better than GBA graphics. I have seen some 
 pretty good graphics on other DS games, but these graphics are not any better than it's predecessors. 
 Despite the graphics, this is a really good game. I especially love the map designer. If you have 
 a DS, you would be doing yourself an injustice by not buying this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupester7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is THE BEST DS game to date. The game has an amazing multiplayer capabillity. The graphics 
 are the same as the GBA games but still it's way better than them. The campaign seems to be addicting 
 because when I finished one mission I'd just gone on to the next not worrying about the time. Each 
 character has their own unique abilities. Which adds to the replayability. My favourite CO (commanding 
 officer) is Colin. All his units are cheap but at the cost of some firepower. That's just one of 
 the many COs there are. The dual screens add to the innovation because you can have one battle 
 occuring on the bottom screen and another on the top screen. If you own a DS BUY this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevynator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars DS is one of the best games I've ever played for any system. The original Adavance 
 Wars is good, but this installment adds so much more that you shouldn't think twice about buying 
 it- but at least finish reading this review before you go get it. By the way, I've had this game 
 for weeks, so I'm sure of what I'm typing.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game play is outstanding. In the game, you control your own army, with the objective to destroy 
 all of your enemies or capture thier capitol. It sounds basic, but there are many strategies to 
 take; which units, which CO, which CO bonuses, when to use powers, where to position troops-
  these are only a few of the decisions you'l have to make. The good thing is the high variability 
 of difficulty. The main campagn a good length, but isn't very difficult, but the hard mode is exactly 
 as it sounds in some of the stages. The Vs. and War Room modes both greatly let you set the difficulty. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are bright and engaging, but that doesn't mean they are perfect. I think they do as 
 well as they need to for the game, but they don't always seem great. The character images look 
 just a little shabby around the edges. Because of their cartoonish nature, they aren't very many 
 different colors, so where different colors meet it is a little jagged and pixilated. In some screens 
 the graphics are great, like the in the opening sequence, and all around are good.
  
  Sound:
  With headphones, the sound deserves a ten, but without them, you're missing a lot you 
 probably wouldn't hear. Someone may say its just because of the system, and I'm not sure whether 
 its just that the system that can't produce sound like the headphones or if the designers designed 
 the sound to be on headphones. Without heaphones, you can't hear all of the lower bass sounds in 
 the music and effects, but this could be because the game makers didn't make those sounds well 
 suited to the DS speakers. Overall, it has good music and effects that fit nearly seamlessly with 
 the graphics and gameplay.
  
  Value:
  You will get your money's worth with this game. It isn't even a full $50 like most console games, 
 and despite my very tight budget, I'd still probably buy it for that much. The campaign is long, 
 with a second hard campaign with altered levels to follow. Combine that with unlockables, a design 
 room, a free play mode, and challenges, and you have a great game. More mentionable features are 
 the Combat Mode and Multiplayer options. The same great game can be played wirelessly with multiple 
 friends, and an all new system of gameplay can be enjoyed in the Combat mode, where you control 
 one individual unit and shoot with the stylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstoffer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:36 am PT
Review:  If you have a GBA and you have not played either of the first two Advance Wars titles, chances 
 are it is because it is referred to as a "strategy" title. While the game is most definitely a 
 turn-based strategy game, the easy to pick up gameplay mechanics, and very solid presentation is 
 enough to entertain anyone looking for a good time.
  
  The DS version refines the well established formula, adding new features, like wireless multi-player 
 to the mix. The graphics have been updated for the two-headed system, though it is important to 
 note that the series is not known for it's graphic prowess. It makes up for the lack of flash with 
 a solid presentation, including some 3D elements, and an enjoyable soundtrack. The addition of 
 the stylus interface helps the game move faster by making it easy to select units and menu options. 
 This game proves that the stylus has a home in the menu-heavy strategy genre. I hope we see this 
 interface make it into other strategy games and RPGs.
  
  Overall, the star of the game is the gameplay. Anyone can pick up the game and have a good time 
 from the start. There is a learning curve here, but the game's Campaign mode leads new players 
 through the subtleties of battle on land, sea, and air. As the Campaign proceeds, new units, strategies, 
 and tactical elements are introduced. Because of this, the depth of the game is not immediately 
 apparent. The presentation and low-barrier new player experience reinforce this notion. But once 
 the tutorials end, and the full campaign begins, it's all-out-war, and a wide array of units and 
 strategies are available.
  
  It is a lot of fun to play against the CPU, and it does a good job providing a challenge, even 
 to experienced players. As with any game, however, playing another human being provides the best 
 challenge. Here the game shines. With wireless multi-player, including a single-cart option, players 
 can send their tanks, attack copters, and submarines against each other with no wires. The multi-player 
 game plays well, and the wide variety of maps allows games of different lengths -- a critical element 
 for portable gameplay.
  
  All-in-all, this is the best version of the Advance Wars series. It has made the leap to the new 
 generation of handhelds. It takes advantage of both the stylus and the wireless multi-player options 
 unique to the new handheld. Both options enhance gameplay in meaningful ways. The game includes 
 improved graphics, and the refined and stylish presentation we have come to expect from the series. 
 This is a fantastic game that will keep DS players busy for a very long time. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick_rick3715
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  STORY-10
  
  In Dual Strike, players assume the roles of Commanding Officers, leaders of armies which consist 
 of a variety of orderable units, ranging from simple infantrymen to large tanks to fighter jets 
 and submarines. In total, there are 26 different units, seperated into ground-, air-, and water-based 
 classes. Commanding Officers (COs) have different strengths and weaknesses, such as increased firepower, 
 or more money. Each CO also has two unique powers, called CO and Super CO Powers. These attacks 
 must be charged first, but offer increased statistical bonuses when activated, and occasionalty 
 large-scale attacks against enemy COs.
  
  The game's Campaign mode takes center stage among Dual Strike's different game modes; in it, four 
 armies known as Orange Star, Blue Moon, Green Earth, and Yellow Comet are in a war taking place 
 in Omega Land against the Black Hole army, which has risen to power after their defeat in Advance 
 Wars 2: Black Hole Rising. In addition to the Campaign mode, modes such as War Room and Survival 
 offer additional single player missions independant of the main story line. Several multiplayer 
 modes (for up to eight human players) exsist, in the form of both turn-based combat, and a real-time 
 shooting game called Combat Mode.
  
  GAMEPLAY-10
  
  The gameplay in Advance Wars: Dual Strike takes place on grid-like maps with each cell having a 
 specific type of terrain (plain, woods, river, road, city, mountain, and sea) which affects the 
 movement of the many various types of units. Units may be built for a price at factories, seaports, 
 or airports, or automaticaly given to the player at the start of a mission.
  
  Hardware features such as the DS's dual screens and touch screen are used in Advance Wars: Dual 
 Strike. The stylus can be used instead of buttons to navigate menus, order units, and, to fire 
 in Combat mode. The DS's top screen is generally used to display terrain, city, or unit intel, 
 though in some missions the top screen shows a second front. Airborne or ground units can be sent 
 from the first to the second front, but not vice versa. In some missions, something such as an 
 enemy satelite must be destroyed on the second front in order for units on the first front to be 
 able to capture an enemy headquarters.
  
  GRAPHICS-10
  
  This game takes after it's older siblings, in a good way, and adds to it. The sprites look so good 
 on the DS's dual screens. Each unit looks distinctly different than any other unit. In the nitty-gritty 
 you could say that it is some of the most interesting characters to move with a press of your finger 
 since Black & White. 
  
  SOUND-8
  
  The game has some great sound effects even though you've heard them in the other AW games but that 
 is not a bad thing, there are new sounds for new units and they sound official. The music isn't 
 anthing memorable but you won't get annoyed by it.
  
  VALUE-10
  
  You get what you pay for and much much more. You will be spending hours and hours playing the single 
 player missions, and even more than that playing multiplayer with upto 3 friends. You can customize 
 things to send across the screen while the other player is taking his turn, like "you got owned" 
 or "how could you do that to me". You can annoy your friends pretty easily with some of your antics.
 
  
  All in all this is the best game on the DS so far. Quite simply put if you don't have a DS, get 
 one...... NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbares544
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: DS is by no means a revolutionary game. It's just one of those games that is so much 
 fun to play. Best of all it is one of the few games on the DS that can be played using only the 
 stylus. I prefer it this way, I don't really know why but it is just plain cool. All you have to 
 do is touch a unit, and then point to where you want them to go. Then just select their target 
 and it's all good. Once you get the hang of it the battles just seem to flow. The graphics are 
 nothing overly flashy, yet they are very detailed. From the birds that are flying in the sky to 
 the waves. The dual screen system is put to good use. There are some battle where one fight it 
 taking place on land, while the other is taking place in the air. Both can be viewed at the same 
 time, however the cpu controls the top fight. In the end it all works out great. There is a lot 
 of stuff to unlock as well, and you are able to create your own maps to share with others over 
 wireless play. It is hard to believe that so much game was fit into such a small card. Technology 
 truely is a great thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeke_Link
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is the third installment of the Advance Wars franchise which started on 
 the Gameboy Advance (Or the NES in Japan with Famicom Wars) . All three games have recieved AAA 
 scores on Gamespot. Advance Wars is about wars in different worlds and commanders must control 
 units, ranging from gigantic megatanks to weak infantry, to conquer the enemies base or destroy 
 all of their troops.
  
  Advance Wars Dual Strike can be hard for gamers who have not played the previous games in the series 
 as Advance Wars Dual Strike requires alot of strategy and thinking. Advance Wars Dual Strike is 
 a huge improvment from it's predecesors. You can command up to two COs (Commanders) at once and 
 control two areas at once. There are also several new units with interesting effects such as "The 
 Black Bomb" and a new stronger tank called "The Megatank" and even a giant blob called "The Oozium"!
 
  
  The main story mode is long and challenging, and for those that complete it there is a hard mode 
 which makes the game considerably harder and is completely different to the normal campaig, the 
 AI dosen't just improve, the maps change to your opponent's advantage. The multiplayer is amazing, 
 especially with four people, there is also a map maker which allows you to make your own maps which 
 gives even more replay value. There are many COs to select from including ones that you must unlock. 
 There is a sort of action minigame within the game aswell. There is also an item shop with lots 
 of stuff to buy- such as colour edits for the characters and new maps for the War Room. The War 
 Room allows you to fight the computer in Maps you have bought in the item shop.
  
  My only concern is that the graphics have not improved much over Advance Wars 2, but the Semi-3D 
 terrain graphics and excellent sprites are still good. Overall Advance Wars Dual Strike is an innitiotive 
 game which involves lots of strategy and thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lv100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Wars DS is another great strategy game by Intelligent Systems. You might know the company 
 from previous Fire Emblem games (Fire Emblem 7, Fire Emblem 8: Sacred Stones) and previous Advanced 
 Wars games (Called Famicon Wars in Japan) which were all AA-AAA games. This game follows in their 
 footsteps. 
  
  Thhere are many modes to choose from, campaign mode which is the main story mode where you follow 
 mission after mission unlocking more and more by gaining medals and gold. (There are hundreds of 
 Medals to unlock more stuff, gold is used to buy more maps for another mode) And that mode is Survival 
 Mode. You choose 3 categories - Time, turns or gold in which you are limited to to pass continuous 
 missions without losing all your resources. Multiplayer is also another great add-on. You can type 
 your own message for your CO (Commanding Officer) to say if your units die or win.
  
  There are many new units in the game such as the Mega Tank (The strongest unit) but all units have 
 strenghs and weaknesses. But before I get to that I have to explain the varieties of units. There 
 are Navy Units (Water) Air Units such as planes, copters and Black Bombs, there are Infatry/Mech 
 (Infantry with Cannons) and there are Vehicles such as Recon (Which are great for terring down 
 Infantry) and Tanks.
  
  If you have played Fire Emblem, this game will be similar to you. It has a sort of triangle attack, 
 but more open ended. Some units has advantages and disadvantages as stated before. Fore example, 
 who would win this fight: Recon (Vehicle with Infantry inside) or just plain Infantry (Foot Soldiers) ? 
 Thats a no brainer-the Recon would win. But lets say the Recon was fightning Mechs. That would 
 be but a tie, taking away even or unbalanced amount of HP from each other. (Each unit can have 
 10 HP max)
  
  There are also COs you can choose from. You unlock more as your progress in Campaign and you can 
 also buy some alternate colors in the shop with your gold. Each CO has a unique power. There are 
 3 types of power, The normal one, special one, and tag power. (No not the deoderant) You can rack 
 the power bar up every time you take a hit or give a hit. The tag power is the new addition to 
 the game in which if you are playing a tag battle (2 COs on your team) and use the ability you 
 use both of their super powers combined, thus giving you 2 turns to strike. Some CO power combinations 
 are special giving the tag power a special name and effect.
  
  There are also buildings you can capture. Every building has 20 HP and you need infantry of a mech 
 to go on a building and capture it. The bulding's HP will go down depending on how much HP your 
 unit has. (If it has 5 it will cut down 5 on the building) There are many buldings. Some you can 
 build units, some you can build air units or naval units. The most common are just regular supply 
 building in which they provide you with supplies each day (A turn) . You can take over the enemy's 
 buildings (If you take over their HQ its game over for them) but they can do the same for you, 
 so watch out!
  
  AWDS has great music, a different song for each CO, and it maked you feel like your on the field 
 with the realistic gun sound effects... Okay maybe not so realistic, but pretty darn good for a 
 handheld..
  
  The graphics are my favorite part of the game, they look like toy soldiers (No relation to any 
 Eminem Album) and the sprites are pulled off greatly. The animations are fun to watch, but get 
 old after awhile, you can choose to turn them off, or skip them by touching the screen. 
  
  Oh yeah! The touch screen can get a little busy when you are running low on time - such as time 
 survival. Although there are few missions with a time limit, you can always slip your hand a touch 
 the wrong thing and ruin your whole plan if you aren't paying close attention.
  
  There is crazy replay value in this. If your a 100% freak, unlike myself there much for you to 
 do. You can get all 250 medals (By producing thousands of units, taking so many turns, ect) you 
 can play through the campaign mode on all difficulty setting, and you can also buy all maps, unlock 
 all COs and their costumes, make your own maps and try to beat the game in the least amount of 
 turns... The possiblilites are endless! 
  
  Sure, you might destroy the cart out of really hard missions in which you have to start over when 
 you lose, but when you suceed you'll be a happy camper.
  
  Also your COs can gain levels if you use them in a mission. 100experience=a rank up! And the better 
 you do on a mission, the better rank you get on the mission. The mission scoring is out of 300, 
 so make sure you always do well if you want money!
  
  Overall Advanced Wars DS a great War-Strategy game period. One of the best for the DS, get this 
 game if you are a strategy fan, or just a game fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leitheking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  I'm generally not into war games. I love the Civilisation series and Worms is great, but, apart from 
 that wars games are'nt my thing. However, Advance Waes: Dual Strike is my 3rd exception, and, the best 
 one. You'll need to be mentally sharp to suceed in in this challenging game. It will make you use 
 that gray matter more then the hardest university exam ever will. You'll have to know when to attack 
 and know when not to. The selection of units is great. From using the submarines to sneak up on enemy 
 islands to using battalion of stealth jets to bring down a Black Bomb to taking over a foe's Com 
 Tower with the humble infantry, AW: DS always remains fresh. And with the new modes, such as the exhillirating 
 Combat mode, a real time gameplay expeirience which puts you at the frontline, you'll be coming back 
 for more everytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonathanL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars games have already established themselves as the turn-based strategy kings of handhelds, 
 and while the competition is thin indeed, even a full field of similar titles would have a tough 
 time topping Nintendo and Intelligent System's modern, cute series of tactical warefare.
  
  With the jump from Gameboy Advance to Nintendo DS, the first element of improvement the gamer will 
 look for is visual. While Dual Strike is a clean and cute-looking game, the graphical leap in systems 
 is negligible. Backgrounds look much better, and there are small touches (like seagulls occasionally 
 flying across the map) that show better hardware, but for the most part, the look is the same as 
 it was in Black Hole Rising. In Dual Strike's favor, however, is the superb art direction. The 
 superdeformed units and anime-flavored character designs are original and entertaining, and refined 
 somewhat as well when recurring from previous games in the series. The battle scenes, brought up 
 by default (though this can be changed) when a unit attacks another, look almost entirely the same 
 as they did in previous entries.
  
  While the graphics aren't terribly improved, the gameplay has had enough added to it to warrant 
 the jump in hardware. Dual Strike features several additions to its gameplay, from the new Dual 
 Screen battles (some involving air battles overhead, while others have a second front) to the Tag 
 Team feature, whereby a player can switch between two COs during battles, and unleash massive two-turn 
 assaults in the sapce of one turn when their CO powers for both Officers are full. There is also 
 a Combat mode, which plays as a top-down shooter variant on the Advnace Wars formula. It doesn't 
 really add too much to the package, as it's not nearly as fun as the strategy gameplay, but it's 
 a nice diversion when the player doesn't have enough time for a full-on war. In addition to the 
 Campaign mode, the Vs. and War Room modes makea return, though a fair amount of maps return from 
 Advance Wars 2, which may be a bit disappointing to players who spent a fair amount of time with 
 the last game.
  
  Advance Wars 2 also features new units, each adding a subtle amount of layering to the gameplay. 
 The Black Boat acts as an aquatic APC extraordinaire, not only carrying infantry and mech units, 
 but also refuelling and repairing one unit each turn. The Black Bomb is an unmanned unit in that 
 it has short fuel reserves and acts as a controllable Missile Silo, though it has a radius larger 
 by one square and damage of 5 units. The Stealth Bomber is an expensive air unit that lacks a large 
 fuel reserve and isn't as powerful as the Fighter or Bomber, but while in Stealth Mode (akin to 
 a submerged submarine) , it can only be attacked by Fighters or other Stealth Bombers, making it 
 an effective air unit when an opponent starts manufacturing Anti-Air guns to defend against air 
 attacks. There is also an Aircraft Carrier, which can house air units and also fire on opposing 
 air units in a very generous range indirectly, and the Megatank, a behemoth of a land unit that 
 is hampered by ammunition storage, movement range, and fuel. Escorted by an APC, it will tear any 
 other land unit to shreds. The Piperunner is an indirect-fire unit that moves along factories and 
 pipes, but it is only useful on maps loaded with piping.
  
  In addition to these new units, Dual Strike also includes the addition of Comm Towers. These units 
 increase the firepower of the team that captures them successfully, making them very strategic 
 points to hold.
  
  The Campaign mode consists of the resurrection of the Black Hole army, occurring at the same time 
 as a wasting of the earth in Macro Land. Players then venture through over two dozen missions en 
 route to the end of the campaign, and while some of the later missions can be very difficult, the 
 campaign mode, as a whole, is easier than the previous game, and therefore much more accessible 
 than the last entry in the series. The opening missions are little more than a glorified tutorial, 
 and can prove frustrating for experienced players who know the drill, but overall, the campaign 
 is a good time, and an enjoyable beginning to the experience.
  
  I say beginning because upon completion of the Campaign, the player can unlock Hard mode and try 
 the game as some would argue it was meant to be. There is no room for error after a few missions, 
 and Hard mode as a whole tests players who are up to the challenge. Dual Strike made a smart compromise 
 by lessening the Campaign's difficulty and letting hardcore players get their kicks on Hard Mode, 
 while those comfortable with Normal can either work on improving their rank or moving on towards 
 the War Room and Combat modes.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike uses the stylus effectively, allowing players to control the game just 
 as well with the touch screen as they can with standard button presses, though veterans to the 
 series will likely not feel the need to switch to the tactile method of control. While the DS control 
 scheme is a nice inclusion, Intelligent Systems made no effort to force the controls on the player, 
 letting them go back and forth at their own lesiure without having to switch anything around to 
 accomodate a change in preference.
  
  Dual Strike also includes the standard CO color edit unlockables, as well as background choices 
 that can be unlocked, and the standard map design choices, although the game still limits the player 
 to only three custom maps.
  
  Advance Wars Dual Strike is the evolution of the series many felt was lacking with AW2. The inclusion 
 of new units, a new mode, a new structure, several new Commanding Officers, and the implementation 
 of modes that use boths creens allow for Advance Wars to grow more involved without becoming too 
 complex, making this the biggest, most interesting Advance Wars game yet. It's the best turn-based 
 strategy game on handhelds to date, and easily recommendable to anyone who enjoys a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alien-Pirate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  We all know it, turn based strategy rocks. We've all experienced it, from Advance Wars to Shining 
 Force, once in our lives. If you haven't... well, I'm shocked... but hey, let me get to the review, huh.
 
  Advance Wars is one of the most intense strategy games ever created by the likes of man, here is 
 how it works. You select (or are given) a Commanding Officer to control an army to fight the forces 
 of the enemy CO. Now each CO has his or her own strengths and weaknesses including super strong 
 tanks but low srength rocket launghers and All powerful units which cost a little extra. So, your 
 fighting the enemy, but you can't just send a couple of tanks and expect to win, you've got to use 
 your head... which reminds me...
  PEOPLE WHO DON'T LIKE TO THINK HARD MIGHT WANT TO GIVE THIS GAME A MISS
  Anyway, where was I? Oh 
 yeah. You've got to use strategy to win, you've got to capture cities and bases, deploy the right 
 units at the right time and know what the weakness of the enemy is and use it to your advantage. But 
 people who have played Advance Wars already know what to do... and hey, will easily complete the 
 first few missions in a couple of minutes but then it will get tough!
  Right now I've explained that on with the review. Advance Wars DS is a great addition to the series 
 bringing new devices into the gameplay. Not only that but with the stylus it is so easy to play. The 
 Graphics get an 8, they are nice but not stunning. Sound gets a 9... cos I love those tunes! I've been 
 singing, humming and whistling Jakes tune since I played campaign mode.
  Value... hmm...10, simply cos there is so much: campaign, time survival, turn survival, money survival, war 
 room, combat, versus, harder modes of each of those and the Design room to top it off. Gamplay get 
 a 9, the gaming formula is simple yet sweet.. kinda like pie. So if you've got a DS buy this now, and 
 if you don't buy a DS now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  ADVANCE WARS DUAL STRIKE is the latest and the very best in this massively anticipated and highly 
 addictive stunning game series. It is no doubt the best strategy game for any handheld including 
 the PSP. 
  This game has it all, from nice suitable graphics to amazing game play in both story mode and the 
 tones of other game modes that this little cartridge is packed with! 
  It will take you defiantly more than 50 hours to complete this game including all the story and 
 extra game modes. Because when you complete it once unlock harder difficulties and of course more 
 characters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justin26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I did not know this game but damn....... what a addictive game that is-
  Just another war strategy game , finish the campain and put it back in the box.................... NOT
 
  I just finished the campain mode and now i'm trying the hard mode (HARD)
  I didn't even try the War, Vs or combat mode with so many more levels (And CO's)
  Better If the 
 were more units but not a big problem
  d
  dI did not know this game but damn....... what a addictive game that is-
  Just another war strategy 
 game , finish the campain and put it back in the box.................... NOT
  I just finished the campain mode and now i'm trying the hard mode (HARD)
  I didn't even try the 
 War, Vs or combat mode with so many more levels (And CO's)
  Better If the were more units but not a big problem
  d
  d
  d
  d
  
  A really good game 
 I like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  When Advance Wars Hit the GBA, i dounted it, the fact of it is i didnt even care nor did i even 
 realize the game existed until one day i had some money, not enough for something good but enough 
 for a GBA game i picked up Advance Wars some how, i didnt realize, i'd fallen in love. i ask myself 
 2 this day "what the hell do i like about this s#! t!" and i have no answer 2 as of why yet. i even 
 liked losing at some point. advance wars 2 came 2 stores some what after.... and again i didnt 
 know or even realize it existed until some how i was at walmart and saw it for 20 bux..... and 
 well since i have been hooked, the only reason i owned a GBA, the only Game i had on GBA. Then 
 DS comes along and i expect none the less from the franchise with lil media coverage but the same 
 old. Advance War DS (Dual Strike) suprisingly got lots of attention. i tip my hat toward the devoloper. 
 for making the game improve on some flaws and making the better, best. advance wars DS, for many 
 who played the previous entrys is the same fun and a more indept story line with now upgradable 
 CO's. 2 people new 2 the franchise i would recomend trying it before u make a final decision though 
 it is a RTS it has very frustrating events and sometimes almost impossible odds so you may only 
 like it 2 a point. i love the series with a passion and i even sold my DS at one point but kept 
 Advance Wars DS b/c i want 2 b able 2 pick it back up in the near future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielpapps
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I was a fraid of this series becoming stale, but the innovative use of tag battles adds a completely 
 new demension of stradegy, to this already thoughful stradegy game. The game just feels classy 
 the moment you pick it up, there is a dramatic text driven section that outlines the going ons 
 in the game and learning how to play seems to be a lot easier and more enjoyable than previous 
 installments. Also the use of the stylus to command your troops is also well done, although not 
 extravagent, Advance Wars DS uses the touch screen well. The story mode is also well put together 
 with the black hole army misteriously recovering very quickly from the previous war, and your put 
 on the mission to find out wats happening. The only down side really is the fact that new players 
 to this series may be put of buy the fact that some missions can be quite lengthy and sluggish 
 in the way that the mission progrress's. Although this is expected to an extent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Se_BBB_e
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so you think this game looks boring from all pictures and video you have seen? You can't understand 
 why all reviewers give it very high scores? You've come to the right place. I'll explain it all.
 
  
  At first I, just like you, thought this game looked boring. And many other people have said to 
 me it was the same for them. I couldn't understand why everyone liked it so much. I checked the 
 videos - I saw ugly graphics, cluttered screen, diffucult and boring gameplay. However, then I 
 decided to try the gba predecessor of the game and from the minute I started it I was hooked.
 
  
  In this game you have plenty of time to plan your moves. Frankly, all the time you want. You can 
 do one move with every unit you have and then you choose "End" and your turn ends.
  
  You move your assigned units (you can also create units) and attack, conquer cities and more. The 
 different surfaces gives you different amounts of protection. All units have their pros and cons. 
 And cost, in some missions you can buy new units. There is airplans, boats, tanks, soldiers and 
 everything else you can imaging. When you attack, you see a close up of the area where the units 
 are fighting. Depening on their current HP and unit types, they will do different amount of damage. 
 The attacking unit will damage more than the attacked unit (if it's as strong och stronger or just 
 a little weaker) .
  
  You can repair units, capture cities to get money. And units run out of fuel and ammunition too, 
 which you, of course, can refill.
  
  But there's never a sign of blood. The whole game is made in a happy pastel color palette and it 
 doesn't give the atmosphere of a war. More like chess actually.
  
  Everything is very logical. Mountains give soldiers better protection, helicopters can't shoot 
 at planes and so on. All in all this is a very deep strategy game yet easy to pickup and with a 
 tutorial to help you learn everything. Yes, everything is explained.
  
  The graphics look ugly at a first look but as you play the feel appopriate, clear and even nice.
 
  
  The sound effects fits very well with realistic aircraft sounds, comfortable but not irritating 
 menu sound. And best of all - the wonderful music. The music maybe doesn't beat Mario 64 but it's 
 definitely good. There is many different tracks and the music changes depending on what happens 
 on the screens and what missions you are on.
  
  It is very hard to explain why this game is so good. But don't hesitate to buy it. I usally don't 
 like strategy game but this one hooked me instantly. Maybe the best game for the DS yet. If you're 
 unsure, make yourself a favor and rent it. Or simply buy it because you won't regret it. Or maybe 
 pickup the gba predecessor for a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobtheflounder
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike (AW: DS) is the third itteration in the series and the first entry to 
 grace the Nintendo DS. Anyone who has played either of the GBA Advance Wars games knows exactly 
 what to expect here. It is for this reason that I'm torn between how to score this game. The original 
 AW was a very good and innovative game that required lots of skill and patience to be sucessful 
 but at the same time rewarded such skill with plenty of unlockable levels to play through. The 
 second game took all of what made the first game great, added a few extra units, COs and a new 
 campaign mode but little else. While it was still a great game, it was basically a rehash of the 
 first title. AW: DS does basically the same thing; it adds more units, COs, and maps to play on. 
 Luckily, though, it also uses the DS's unique features to add much more to the overall experience. 
 
  
  First, and foremost, are the Dual screen battles. Many of the campaign missions feature battles 
 which take place on multiple fronts; one on the top screen and one on the bottom screen, with different 
 COs controlling the units at each front. These dual screen battles add a lot of strategy and depth 
 to the game and quite frankly are a lot of fun to play. Another welcome addition to the mix is 
 the fact that you can use 2 COs at once for each army. You can switch between the two COs at the 
 end of your turn and thus use their unique CO powers to your full advantage. And if you build up 
 both CO's special meters you can unleash a dual strike which allows you to take two turns in a 
 row and utilize both of your CO's special abilities giving you an almost unfair advantage in a 
 battle. The enemy can do the same so you must plan accordingly. The use of the DS's touch screen 
 also makes the game feel quite different as you can use the stylus to move all of your units. While 
 this was fun and a welcome change at first, I quickly found it easier (and more comfortable) to 
 just use the directional pad and face buttons for most of the game. The stylus though is irreplaceable 
 when creating your own custom maps as it makes it much easier to place units, buildings, and terrain 
 than the usual set-up allowed. Another welcome addition is the real-time-strategy mini-game which 
 is playable at start-up. It allows you to manually move a single unit around a map and shoot at 
 the other units... a welcome change of pace to say the least.
  
  All-in-all, AW: DS is a very fun game. While their are many similarities to the previous AW games, 
 these similarities can hardly be seen as faults considering how well-received these games were. 
 At the same time, the developers added enough new content and features to make this game stand 
 out as the best AW game by-far. If you have a Nintendo DS you would be a fool to pass up on such 
 a great game. If you don't have a DS yet, here's your reason to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Advance Wars game and certainly won't be my last.
  At first it took a while to fully understand everything. But once I understood
  the advantages 
 in the game I couldn't stop playing. This game has 
  an amazing replay value. Campaign, War Room, Multiplayer, Versus,
  Design Maps, etc. So far I 
 played about 87 hours and honestly it
  hasn't become boring at all. Theres a good amount of CO's and Army 
  units in the game. That 
 gives the game more strategy and fun!
  If you have a friend that plays this game then you'll be playing all day long.
  You just can't 
 miss out on this game! Kudos to Nintendo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apk07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Stunning gameplay, great graphics, awsome music, and loads of CO's; not much more you could ask 
 for!
  I had seen my friends play Advanced Wars games on the GBA before, but I never put a thought into 
 if i might like it, or if it was worth buying. I found out it was coming out for the DS so i figured, 
 "hey i could use a strategy game to relieve my boredom." A few weeks later, it came out, and i 
 purchased it. I got home and got right into it, seeing as i had nothing better to do. Turning my 
 DS off some time later, I realized I had played well through the day and it was far past the time 
 I should be going to bed at. Advanced Wars DS is highly addicting.
  If anyones unsure of whether this is a decent buy or not, I'll re-assure you its more than worth 
 your money. I'd have paid alot more for this game than what its worth just because of how fun it 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black-Paladin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:10
  Its just perfect... the way all units are balanced (Powerfull Megatanks have only 4 movement and 
 3 ammo, Battleships are expensive to deploy, weak infantry cost nearly nothing) ,The way your Commanding 
 Officers (CO's) have pros and cons (Grimm has 120% attack to all of his units but only 80% defense, Max 
 rocks with direct fire but his indirect units are scrap metal) . But its the way how the game is 
 played... The AI is superb and can sometimes really kick your... you know what... The way you open 
 fire on other units, move them around, capture cities and use your units abilities is worked out 
 so perfectly...
  Although the skill system is not really pleasant for AW-veterans, players new to the game will 
 see it as a godsend.
  
  Sound:10
  Each CO has its own defining music playing on the background (Rock on Jake, Country on Grit, Japanese 
 on Kanbei) , the sound is one of the best features of the game.
  
  Graphics:7
  Slightly improved from the original AW but i prefer the old ones, nonetheless the graphics arent 
 really top-notch but if you're a good gamer you dont care about graphics... its the game itself...
 
  
  Dificulty:
  This. Stuff. Is. Hard.
  Now im not really talkin about the Campaign missions because they can be completed easily, no the 
 28 Campaign missions are nothing compared to the majority of War Room maps at which you every mistake 
 can cost you your head... top-notch AI... word
  Still it isnt that Minddestroying hard as AW1 Hard Campaign.. that stuff made me cry...
  
  Learning 
 Curve:30 to 60 minutes
  Although new gamers will take a little while longer.
  The basics arent thought in a Field Training mode as in AW1 but in the Campaign which can look 
 a bit hasted for new players because they dont really know what to do exactly... still once youve 
 mastered the controls... it will take a lot of thinking and strategy to MASTER the game...
  
  Overall:"9.3"
  The Advance Wars series have become better, bigger, cooler and nicer... Thank 
 You Intelligent Systems and Thank You Nintendo
  If you dont own a DS including this game, you should be ashamed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodgedude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9.9 out of 10.
  Graphics: 9 out of 10, comment; The graphics are the same on the Advance Wars Series, but still 
 ROCK!
  Sound: 8 out of 10, because until you unlock the sound accessing mode the music is ok.
  Value: 
 10 out of 10, When I saw the Price I jumped went out the door and got it.
  Getting to Know It: Its easy if you have played all the other games [like me :) ]
  Overall: Loved 
 the game and series.
  This game was great and can never end really. Who would want to see the Advance Wars series come 
 to a end. I mean seriously. Come on now really. Who? Not me obvisley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  Great, innovative but advances skill too fast. It's interesting. It's music is great, It's playable 
 and stays by the old trusted 2-D action. Just remember to think and don't be rash. If you do, you 
 will suffer a lot of defeats. The new capabilities are great. It's sort of challanging but if you 
 are a quick learner or a fast thinker, this game is definetly for you. Lastly, It's history selection 
 is great. You can see all in game stats and it's just... wow. The history also shows how much units 
 you produced, how much units you destroyed and there is also a new unit. It is really slow but 
 it's powerful. I won't spill the secret, but it does one hit kills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazzza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Advance Wars game that I have bought however I have played on both previous games 
 and enjoyed them a hell of a lot. I was so happy when I heard that Advance Wars was coming out 
 for the DS, especially in the first year of the DS coming out. To call the game addictive is an 
 understatement. I cant actually stop thinking about this game as I go on in my life. I actually 
 find my self analysing life with little blocks where you can move, thats how badly this game has 
 got stuck into m head, its even scary, but I like it.
  
  Advanced Wars is basically a strategy series, where you build an army using the different types 
 of buildings and then wage war on other COs, which are basically people who control armies. You 
 can build a wide variety of units from man and tanks to ships and aircraft. They all have their 
 special weapons which are more effective against other certain units, for example, an A-Air would 
 be a lot more effective against a Helicopter than a Rocket. Advanced Wars is a great series and 
 will please you a lot.
  
  Back to the game, there is so much to do, a campaign mode which is basically the story in the game, 
 which gives you a very challenging game. There is a mode where you can practice your skills playing 
 against computers in a friendly, which can be rather helpful. There is also a challenge mode where 
 you have to defeat a certain amount of COs with different limits like having to defeat 11 COs 
 with only using 99 turns, which helps you get those all important points allowing you to buy all 
 sorts of things in the shop. Also there is a new mode for this game called combat which wasnt 
 in the other two games, it is basically where you control a unit in real time, and you try and 
 defeat any army strategically, which can be quite hard, however isnt as long as the campaign mode. 
 There is a versus mode where you use the same DS and take turns with another person to try and 
 defeat your opponent, very much the same style as the campaign. There is also another multiplayer 
 mode called wireless, which using two to eight DSs and the same amount of cartridges you can do 
 combat and the turn based strategy game with a lot more fun. Also within the wireless section is 
 something where if you have only one cartridge you can download it into other DSs with a demo 
 version of it where you can play one player games, or play multiplayer combat. Finally there is 
 also a mode where you create your own maps and you can play on these maps in single player and 
 multiplayer.
  
  I hope that this review helped you on your decision to get Advanced Wars or not as I believe it 
 is one of the best games out for the DS, and will be one of the games that will be remember on 
 the DS, for how great it was.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Littleedgitt98
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars: Dual Strike is a great game overall. It's a great strategy game. The gameplay is outstanding. 
 It also uses the great touch screen. The only bad thing about it is that you have to read subtitles 
 quite a bit. ( The characters dont have voices.) I also like the alternate gameplay modes... Like 
 multiplayer and I especially like combat mode. The graphics aren't the greatest either but they 
 are not the worst. There aren't a whole lot of sounds but when they do have sounds they're not 
 bad. It is definetally worth the money if your planning on buying it. I would definetelly recommend 
 this game to any DS owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  It took me a while to get this game. Unlike Metal Gear Acid, another strategy game that I avoided 
 for about a month before I actually got it, I actually wanted Advance Wars. It seemed to be the 
 first real decent game to come out for the DS since I bought the DS a year ago (yes, it really 
 has been that long) . I'll tell you, now with the release of Castlevania DS, and the release of 
 Mario Kart DS just around the corner, I'd say my 11 month wait for quality DS games has just about 
 paid off. This is the first step in that pay-off.
  
  This game starts out as a complete tutorial on everything in the game. Even in the later stages, 
 like 19 and 20, the game seems like one big progressing tutorial. This is not a drawback from the 
 game, it's actually a very nice way to keep things interesting throughout the game. The game is 
 always throwing new vehicles and new strategies at you level by level, and yes, the game does get 
 really hard if you're not an Advance Wars veteran. 
  I know this because I have never played any other game like this.
  
  The gameplay in this game 
 is a pretty tried-and-true format of military chess of sorts. You have several different types 
 of vehicles at your disposal, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. For instance, an artillery 
 cannon can fire from three to four spaces away from itself at any enemy target, dealing a fairly 
 good amount of damage, but it can't shoot anything that's right next to it, and it can't move and 
 shoot on the same turn. This is the same with rocket launchers, missile launchers, and battleships. 
 Aside from indirect combat units, there are infantry units, which aren't generally powerful, but 
 are the only units that can capture bases and cities, which is an extremely useful strength. Then 
 there are ground combat vehicles, air combat vehicles, and boats that also have their advantages 
 and drawbacks. These special abilities for each unit are mixed into one comprehensive strategy 
 game, and like I said above, it's just like playing chess with military vehicles. The gameplay 
 provse to be very addictive, and a challenge to those who aren't familiar with the series.
  
  The graphics I was not impressed by. This doesn't really matter much to me, because graphics 
 don't make a game. The graphics are decent and tolerable, as I would personally describe them. 
 They are clean and crisp for the most part, and there is sort of a 3D effect that happens when 
 you roam around a map with your screen, but that's the most 3D you'll get out of this game. It's 
 all 2D sprites and icons that move around the map at your command. The graphics do not bother you, 
 nor do they really ever make you go "wow, those graphics are great!"
  
  The sound in the game is very nicely organized, and do not ever get in the way of anything. The 
 music loops that play in the game are very catchy and sometimes I found myself humming them while 
 I played a map. The battle noises are convincing and satisfying to hear, and are used very thoroughly 
 in the game. You will never see anything do something on the map without making SOME sort of noise.
 
  
  The length of this game is fro 26-28 maps to play on, depending on whether or not you unlock the 
 alternate maps. You may find yourself stuck on a map or two, and a single map will probably last 
 you about 1 or 2 hours later in the game. There are other modes in the game besides campaign, such 
 as war room, versus mode, and even a single card multiplayer mode, although that mode isn't very 
 good considering the fact it's just you controlling a tank or somethign and trying to shoot your 
 opponent's units in a desperate attempt to claim victory for yourself.
  
  The multiplayer is an unbelievably great addition to the overall value of the game. You can create 
 your own maps that put your own creativity on the field of battle, and this proves to be a very 
 creative way to add some real action to a game. Making a map that's basically a bunch of mountains 
 with one straight trail right down the middle, with nothing but megatanks on either opponent's 
 side is definitely what I call action-packed fun. Aside from ridiculously linear, action-oriented 
 battles, you can also organize strategically witty maps, and share them with a partner to show 
 off your intelligent map-making skills. The multiplayer mode is very true to the single player 
 game in that you get exactly the same powers and resources in the campaign as you do in single 
 player. If you've got friend with the game, do not hesitate to get the game for yourself, if only 
 to play a couple matches with 'em.
  
  The game overall satisfies you with every glorious victory you celebrate in the game. Each map 
 presents a new and unique twist to maneuver around, the story is wonderfully laid out and interesting 
 to get into, and there are plenty of new vehicles and powers being thrown at you at every corner. 
 I highly recommend this game to every DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagoto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I played the last game on the GB but this one seems much better. It's a little bit better in all 
 respects... especially the 2 fields of battle and the two CO's. I really like the character designs 
 and the depth. It's kind of a hilarious game and it's got a really "scary" undertone because of 
 the war structure. I just keep thinking of those cute little guys getting fired upon and blown 
 off the screen screaming for help off screen while holding their heads to keep their brains in. 
 It is a little funny to think about little kids playing the game training themselves in the "art 
 of warfare". The CO's often think less about the loss of men in battle than what they are wearing 
 or saying to each other. Unrespectful cutie anime bastardos! 
  Anyway, it's got some real depth and is a hell of a lot more scary than some of the mature games 
 because of the war thing. Play it for a few hours and you'll be addicted messing up the enemy and 
 laughing your manical crazy laugh at your opponent when you realize you've got 'em by the ballz! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordStanDeluxe
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Along with Castlevania: Circle of the Moon, Mario Kart: Super Circut and Golden Sun, Advance Wars 
 was one of the "MUST OWN!" games back when the GBA first came out back in 2001. One sequal and 
 four years later, it's not as quite a hit as it was before but it still gots a strong following.
 
  
  If you played either Advance Wars 1 or 2, nothing really new is here. You still play as a CO who 
 has certin strengths and weakness' fighting another CO in a war. But this time you can have two 
 CO's, so you can switch off who you want to be instantlly.
  
  Like I said, nothing really new is here. If you played one, you played them all. The bottom screen 
 is where a majority of the action takes place. You move your units, attack the enemy, ect. The 
 top screen displays statistics and every now and then something else (like info on a incoming nuke) , 
 nothing drastic or even sky battles.
  
  The graphics haven't changed really either. Pretty much all you see here was used since the first 
 game. The battlefields now have this psuedo-3D look to them, but it's really just some funky use 
 of Mode-7. 
  
  The music is a mix of the GBA tunes *The exact ones* and new ones. The GBA tunes sound muddy, but 
 are still great. The new ones are all weird and not that catchy.
  
  All the favorite CO's return also, plus a few new ones. You play as a kid named Jake most of the 
 time, who for some reason uses words like "Word", "thats dope", "S'up". If this was a real war, 
 and we used CO's like that, I think friendly fire might be on a all time high.
  
  Overall, if you just can't get enough of the Advance Wars series, go for this game. If you're looking 
 into getting into this game series and own a DS, get this one even though it really wouldnt matter 
 which one you get since at heart, there all pretty much the same game with a diffrent story. The 
 gameplay is addictive and all, but it's still pretty much stayed the same since Advance Wars 1. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnaptraxS45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Ths game defines the word quality. Since i got this game i havent had enough of it. (I'm sooooooooooooooo 
 happy i got a DS) . Any way as i was saying this game has some really cool features which advance 
 wars 1 & 2 did'nt have. 
  
  Combat Mode which is set in real time
  Survival mode is where you have to do a certain number of missions within the time, money or turn.
 
  
  This game has so much to do init that it will use so many hours, days ,months of your life and 
 you won't regret it one little bit.
  
  This game has cool campaign leat alone the new units
  p. s. my favourite stealth bomber. sooo 
 cooool
  there are so many maps in war room includin the new dual scren maps.
  you will love this game
  TRUST ME!!!
  The game is worth every penny
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danls
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I am a casual gamer who has the attention span of a small rodent but I still found this game to 
 be immensely satisfying. Hiding behind a childish mask, lies a true strategy that will get brains 
 of all ages working. This game has many modes that will occupy you long after you have played through 
 the storyline. The storyline is rather bland in my opinion, but the game makes up for it with robust 
 gameplay. You start every battle as either 1 commander or 2 (which you can usually choose) . Each 
 commander has his strengths and weaknesses and all have a a special power and a super power. The 
 core of the gameplay is the tag-team battle system, where you can alternate between two commanders 
 at your will and eventually unleash a devastating "dual strike" in which you get two movement turns 
 and certain commander combinations will unleash other special abilities. Another feature is the 
 real time combat mode where you move your character (selected from a mech unit, a scout unit, an 
 artillery unit, and a tank unit) and fight against the computer or a friend to control the other's 
 headquarters or destroy all units. This game also has a superb soundtrack that really sets the moods 
 for the battles. If you get a chance, listen to it through headphones rather than the DS speakers 
 which tend to give the music a sort of edge. If you anger easily though, beware this game. It can 
 be frustrating at times. Over all though, I highly recommend this game to any fan of the strategy 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thargorx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  While I'm totally not a fan of war games. In fact the only game that has war in it, I ever likes 
 was risk. So I wasn't going to pick the game up. But then I had a slow period, so what the hell, 
 I'll give it a try anyway.
  Turns out, I'm totally hooked. I haven't played it very much yet, but I'm having a ball with this 
 game. I'd even go as far as to say, this a game you might get the DS for. I've played other fun 
 games, but most of them, I'd be just as happy to play on gameboy. This one however plays just fine 
 on the DS. Imagine moving your units around without the touchscreen. Unimaginable. I know, there 
 were previous versions in the series, so people must have done this without the touchy part, but 
 still.
  Other than that, just read the other reviews. For me, a wargame-dont-ever-want-it person, take 
 my advise: go get it. Fun fun fun :-)
  
  Edited: I just had to add some remarks after playing with it some more. I really really hate this 
 game. It's impossible to put down. You'll always go just one more round, one more fight... It's 
 preventing me from doing anything else. It's great. This really is a game you'd buy a DS for, hell 
 this is THE only game worth getting the DS for.
  I just love to hate it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamefire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best of the Advance Wars strategy series.
  This game has got all the features of Advance Wars and Advance Wars 2: Black Hole Rising. But now 
 it adds new features like new CO's (Commanding Officers) which have strengths and weaknesses like 
 strong in Naval units but bad in Air units. Another new feature is the new touchscreen gameplay 
 its takes time to get into but after a while you'lle be touching away. I actually prefer the D-pad (Much 
 smoother and faster gameplay.)
  Another great feature is the Map Edit with the Touchscreen, yet you can still make maps with the 
 D-Pad like in the other Advance Wars strategy games.
  There is also new units which you can purchase in the campaign mode when you complete a curtane 
 mission.
  The new units are pretty impressive like the Megatank (which is a stronger version of the Neotank. A 
 blackboat (Sea/Naval unit) which can supply ammo, fuel and can also repair 1 HP to land, sea and air 
 units. A bit like the APC in a way but the APC doesn't repair units only supplies ammo and fuel.
 
  There's still many other units which can cause you experimenting new strategies with them.
  The units, battles, landscapes, ect are greatly drawn and detailed.
  The Sound can be a bit annoying 
 at times once it gets in your head. But sometimes you'lle be humming away to the CO backround song.
 
  The Value is great about 30 pounds or 40 euro's is great for such a long game to keep you busy 
 for years.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  Just like its predesessors the gameplay really boils down to an intricate version of paper, scissors, 
 rock. Advance Wars DS makes this really interesting by adding enough different - balanced - units, 
 varied landscape-tiles with effects fitting the various units, ammunition and fuel supplies, fog 
 of war with line of sight and landscapes for ambushes, strategic resources like factories (to produce 
 units) and cities (to gather funds) , weather that changes movement/sight and so on. Everything 
 a small strategy-game would need (and more) in a Science Fiction setting. Great!
  
  The Campaign mode is a nice introduction to the gameplay and you meet new unit types one after 
 another at a steady pace. You get advice about possible ways of dealing with the missions - especially 
 in the beginning, and you follow the story of the allied forces versus the evil Black Hole-army. 
 Entertaining indeed. (Although the dialogs (and translations) are not excactly Wodehouse-quality, 
 they fit the atmosphere of the game.)
  
  Before each battle starts, after inspecting the battlefield, you pick one or two Commanding Officers 
 (COs) for the mission. Each CO has a distinct set of special abilities like for example extended 
 range of fire, extra firepower or more effective funding. These can be used to tip the balance 
 in tight turns of the game and is a nice addition to the strategic elements involved, but some 
 combinations of powers seem to get extremely powerfull and (maybe) shame this otherwise extremely 
 balanced game (Time will tell.)
  
  There are other negative aspects of the game, as well. The most annoying is that the AI sometimes 
 does some rather silly moves. Not often, but sometimes victories feel cheap because you know the 
 the opponent could have rolled over you if he for example didnt let your lone infantry sneak into 
 and conquer his unguarded base while he was busy bashing up north (An almost human error. ) Well; 
 Unwise AIs are unfortulatly recurrent in many (strategy) games, and on most occacions I would say 
 the AI does a descent job in AWDS (so far) .
  
  A thing that puzzled me in the beginning was that the games playfield is based on squares instead 
 of hexagons. Hexagons makes movement- and attack-ranges way more logical and thus easier to understand, 
 because cocentric layers of hexagons are a closer approximation to cocentric circles. I guess the 
 reason Intelligent Design chose squares might have been to make gameplay easier. For example it 
 is easier to protect artillery and such with fewer units involved. A square has ofcourse only four 
 neighbouring positions, whereas the hexagon has six. (The Civilization-series playfield is also 
 based in squares, something I hope can be modded into hexagons (like the last FreeCivs) with their 
 extensive XML- and Python-based modding-capabilities in Civ IV. ) This is a minor qualm, though 
 - one gets used to think in squares
  
  The different units also takes some getting used to, both in terms of recognizing their small sprites 
 in the playing field, but also who can shoot down who and how far they can shoot/reach. This is 
 not as obvious as in paper, scissors, rock, but one gets used to this as well and you have the 
 info on the different units close at hand. Neither the graphics nor the sound is something lots 
 of resources have been put into here. Both are seemingly taken directly from the GBA-version.
 
  
  One last annoyance Id like to mention is the lack of an undo-fuction. Im not saying one should 
 have an undo for battles and such, but for example the small commands that doesnt (really) matter 
 if one change. This, being played on a small handheld, it is a tad too easy to chose Wait instead 
 of Fire and then youre stuck right next to the opponent without the benefit of ramming him first 
 (This as well you learn not to do after a few hours of choosing the wrong option in the most awkward 
 situations)
  
  Otherwise the GUI is really streamlined and clear. You can play the game entirely with the stylus, 
 but the layout and logic of the buttons makes them my prefered way of interacting with the game. 
 This surprised me, as I thought that this is the sort of games that would be way easier to control 
 using the stylus - mimicking the mouse interaction of its PC-counterparts. The main boon of playing 
 a DS version of the game, as opposed to a GBA version, is in fact mainly the larger screen real 
 estate - the dual screens. Normally one screen renders the battlefield, while the other one shows 
 info on selected units and landscape. Some battles are fought on two fronts, other battles are 
 a race against time - for example a rocket racing towards us. The upper screen screen then shows 
 respectivly the other front or the countdown.
  
  So, even though it has its quirks, this game is the best one for my DS so far. (In fact I would 
 say its one of the very best games Ive played so far this year.) I havent tested the multiplayer 
 mode, but this Im looking forward to. Especially the ability to draw your own maps with the stylus 
 and play them with friends and enemies seems intriguing. The turn based concept is also perfect 
 for travelling, where ones attention might be needed elsewhere than the game for bursts of time. 
 Although it is too early to talk about lastability of the game it seems huge and, for me, good 
 strategy games tend to last 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rb7_brady
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Everyone will love this game even if you don't like the strategy genre. from my opinion it is the 
 best game for DS. There is just so much to do it's impossible to get boring playing this game. 
 In it you have to defend Omega Land from the Black Hole army who is sucking all the energy out 
 of it and turning it into a barren wasteland. there are 4 allied forces: orange star, blue moon, 
 green earth, and yellow commet. you'll have to use COs from all of them and some make really good 
 teams. after you beat the normal mode you'll unlock the hard mode which is the same as normal mode 
 only harder. Other than the campaign you can play in the war room, do versus mode, survival, and 
 combat. you can make 3 different maps yourself too! this game is a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonBoy2005
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  After several hours of play i was already tired of the incessant drone of the music and The tiny 
 indistinguishable figures. After several desperate attempts to play using the stylus i ended up 
 using the d-pad. the gameplay would be good if you were given more time to learn how to o things 
 (by the way this was the first advance wars i've owned) . After 10 levels that gently lower you 
 into the structure of the game and the units you are suddenly thrust into impossible levels that 
 i could only beat by playing again and again and memorising certain moves that the disappointingly 
 repetitive computer opponent would make again and again. After 9 day's of playing the game i took 
 it back to the shop and got myself a refund.
  After all of the good review's it got i ws really exxpecting something a bit special, however if 
 you do choose to purchase this game then make sure you dont have high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoh-Asakura
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, awesome storyline, good action and the levels are long to play out so you 
 dont have to expect to play it out in less than a week. So for all you AW fans like me, Buy this 
 game, it's very worth buying! This game surely kwalify to the Strategy game, it's not easy sometimes 
 hard, just like a strategy game has to be. The music is also very good expecially Jake's fight 
 music if you choose him as ur CO that fights a level. It has many characters so you have the inspiration 
 to play the level out till you get them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoofBitch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I have never played any Advance Wars games at all, Advance Wars DS is a very well done army tactical 
 strategy game. The storyline is very simple one army called the blackhole and other armies gang 
 up to team against the blackhole.
  Gameplay is good like any other tactical game. You take turns attacking each other. Each day is 
 a armies turn. LIke day one blue side turn, Day 2 Black hole side turn. On your turn you have choice 
 of moving you army units into war. There are many different army units from men on foot to air 
 jets and bomber. You choose each army unit and they have a range on the field where they can move. 
 This is where you use your brain to create strategy and make descision for a infantry to attack 
 a tank or capture the enemy headquarters. Thats your descision. 
  Graphics and Animation are beutiful. Everytime you attack a enemy or they attack you they show 
 like the little army dudes shooting a the enemy army dudes. The art is great on the characters 
 and army units.
  This game can be played up to 8 players with a single card and up to 8 players with the card. Very 
 fun with competing against your friends.
  This game is for people who have patience and like to use there brain. to win the battle rather 
 than rushing in shooting everything up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_of_yore
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  **First off I must advise you that I have not played an Advance Wars game to date, so don't blame 
 me if I leave something out that has to do with a previous Advance Wars game.**
  
  If you own a DS, Advance Wars is a must have. It takes great advantage of the stylus and brings 
 the gameplay to a whole new level. It speeds up gameplay considerably because you no longer have 
 to move around from space to space trying to get to your unit. Now just a touch of the screen, 
 and your off. The only problem I had with this is that if you don't have your stylus calibrated 
 properly you may end up wasting valuable turns pressing the wrong button.
  
  The graphics in Advance Wars are quite well done with good combat animations and unit design. Of 
 course the graphics look a little dated because of the way the characters look on the screen but 
 you get over it right away once you realize the sheer fun factor of the game. 
  
  Once deeply rooted into the gameplay of Advance Wars you may find yourself trying to put the game 
 down but you just can't because you are just 1 step away from victory. 1 small problem I had with 
 the gameplay is CO super powers. They may be able to turn the battle around but some of them are 
 a lttle unfair and can dominate you in one turn. If your not careful durring a Dual Strike you 
 may end up having your base taken in one turn because 1 unit can move twice that turn.
  
  The sound department of Advance Wars is fairly done with each character having his or her own theme 
 music. Some of the songs can get on your nerves. The sound effects are pretty well done for a handheld 
 but probably could have been a tad better. 
  
  Overall Advance Wars DS is a game that belongs in any DS owners collection if it isn't already. 
 If you can get past Advance Wars minor flaws such as Jakes pathetic attempt of being cool, you 
 will find a great game that you will play for years to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: all4me2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  With all the new units and ways to play, what's not to like? Intelligent Systems did just about 
 everything right with this, except 2 things: the graphics, first and foremost, could have used 
 a overhaul, maybe even go 3D; and the dual front capability was not utilized to it's full potential.
 
  Those minor issues aside, you can't help loving the brilliant AI, the numerous charismatic CO's, 
 the great variety of units, the colorful popout-at-you graphics, the touchscreen control, it goes 
 on and on....
  I do wish the could included something to update the game if you ever wanted to play online, but 
 it really is a side issue. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlynameicanget
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  ADVANCE WARS: DUAL STRIKE
  ---
  Rating: 9.5/10
  
  The DS has, so far, had some pretty good games and some pretty bad ones, but this one nails it. 
 Advance Wars: Dual Strike (whose "Advance" title is quickly becoming a bit awkward) is the sequel 
 to the two hopelessly addictive games on the Game Boy Advance, and is easily the best of the three, 
 and not just because it's got more content.
  
  Those new to the series will fit right in after a little practice. Advance Wars: Dual Strike is 
 a turn-based strategy game in which you build units, move them across a map, and destroy all enemy 
 units (or capture the enemy HQ) . The concept is simple but takes a lot of thinking to master. Strategy 
 is, obviously, heavily involved here; each unit has a strength to take advantage of and a weakness 
 to exploit. There are many types of units, from the standard-issue infantry to giant tanks to battleships 
 to bombers. Some units are direct attackers, and others attack from a distance. Some use fuel quickly, 
 others do not consume much at all, and others resupply fuel to units in need. Some use machine 
 guns, others use rocket launchers, etc. The game has a wealth of detail - too much to list here. 
 It's really not very complicated at all, and it's better for newbies to experience rather than 
 to hear me yammer about it.
  
  Veterans of the series will fall in love instantly with Dual Strike, and they'll appreciate nearly 
 every aspect of it (aside from the opening missions of the campaign, in which the experienced Commanding 
 Officers have somehow forgotten how to move a tank for the second time) . It would have been a bit 
 nicer if a separate tutorial was included for the newbies, but other than that I have very little 
 bad things to say about this game's Campaign mode. It's just as quirky and subtly humorous as the 
 storylines of the last two games.
  
  The story so far: Black Hole has - ready for a shock? - invaded some oddly-named world, again, 
 and it's up to every CO to try and stop them before they take it over, again. Why? Because there 
 just wouldn't be a story. So we are now off to "Omega Land", and we discover that the victorious 
 nations of Advance Wars 2 have put aside their troubles and formed the Allied Nations, to better 
 stop inevitable future Black Hole invasions. What happens next is only littered with a few surprises 
 here and there, but this isn't exactly supposed to be a professionally-told story full of drama 
 and suspense; it's just a story sufficient enough to reasonably explain all the cool things that 
 are happening on both of the DS's screens.
  
  Speaking of which, that's where the really nice part comes in. The top screen is used to display 
 a vast amount of data for each and every one of your units. Move your cursor over terrain and you'll 
 instantly see the benefits (and disadvantages) of moving through that terrain. Bring your cursor 
 to a unit and you'll instantly see how many rounds it has left, its fuel supply, its effectiveness 
 against other types of units, etc. It's all very well done.
  
  The bottom screen, however, is where everything else happens. This is where you purchase and move 
 your units around each chessboard-in-disguise map and attack the enemy. The brilliant thing here 
 is that you may use the stylus to control every single aspect, or not use it at all. Some people 
 will find that the stylus is good for quickly selecting and commanding units, but there's also 
 the risk of telling a factory to build the wrong unit. It could have been great if they had added 
 a confirmation box whenever a unit was selected via the stylus, because the right unit for the 
 job can often mean the difference between victory and defeat.
  
  And speaking of units, there's a whole bunch of new ones this time around. Critics of Advance Wars 
 2 were largely unsatisfied that only one new unit - the Neotank - was added to the roster. Dual 
 Strike brings six new units to the table, and they all feel like they were meant to be there in 
 the first place. Many missions of the Campaign deal with finding good uses for all of these units, 
 and they are all very clever in the way they do so. Some cool dual-screen battles are also used 
 where the top screen displays a secondary front; the bottom screen may send reinforcements to the 
 top screen to help them out.
  
  There's a truckload of new stuff here. Consider the side minigame, Combat, which is purely that 
 - a side minigame, at least until you purchase its harder counterpart with your earned points. 
 Survival Mode - a variant in which you are given a certain amount of money, turns, or time to complete 
 a series of maps - is a creative and welcome addition. And then there's the War Room, of course 
 - yes, vets may whine about having to play Spann Island, again, but there are plenty of new maps 
 available to satisfy anyone. A nice feature is also implemented in Dual Strike where COs gain experience 
 and can learn minor skills. There are Tag Battles, where 2 COs control the same faction and can 
 unleash a devastating one-two punch. There are new COs, new enemies, new tricks, new gimmicks, 
 new music, and so much more that doesn't deserve to be put in a list here.
  
  So far, I've spent over 100 hours with this game, and I havent even earned half of the 300 medals 
 unlocking by doing various things in the game, such as winning, losing, building 900 infantry, 
 getting a certain number of A ranks, etc. The game's depth is unparalleled on the DS, as is its 
 quality. Not a single DS owner should be without a copy, and if there ever was a reason to get 
 a DS, this is it. It is the best game in the series, on the platform, and one of the best games 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FooManChu_basic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has owned a Gameboy Advance over the past few years has likely played, seen, or owned 
 at least one copy of the Advance Wars series. While you could certainly stare at any of the titles 
 released over the past few years and seemingly think they were all the same with just a few thoughtless 
 upgrades, you would be dead wrong. As is the case with Advance Wars: Dual Strike, the latest release 
 on the Nintendo DS. While Intelligent Systems hasnt stretched to far in the series with the DS 
 counterpart to this popular series, the game still has enough fresh content between new gameplay 
 abilities and units to satisfy any fan of the series, and likely bring some newcomers into the 
 fold.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike begins with the entrance of two newcomers to the series and their current 
 battles versus the Black Hole Army, in Omega Land, apparently a place close to the other areas 
 the Black Hole Army tried to conquer in previous installments of the series. Jake, a cocky and 
 upbeat young recruit who talks part trash and part internet geek, is a fresh face and certainly 
 provides some comical entertainment, not only in the way he talks but his responses to some of 
 the returning good guys as well as bad guys in the game. Rachel is also a new entry available at 
 the beginning of the game, and she presents herself as the strategist for the Omega Land Army, 
 which is fitting considering she is the sister of Orange Star strategist Nell. 
  
  The game rightfully begins with the Omega Land army taking on Black Hole within a few missions, 
 and things pretty much make their progress similar to how Advance Wars 2 did, with a few twists 
 throughout to make things interesting as far as the story goes. One noticeable difference between 
 Advance Wars 2 and the DS counterpart is that the game is fairly linear in its progression. Where 
 as in Advance Wars 2 you could skip around or do other missions at your leisure and sometimes avoid 
 others, which gave the game a bit of freedom, Advance Wars: Dual Strike goes back to the tried 
 and true mission after mission straightforward approach. While this certainly doesnt detract from 
 the game, especially for enthusiasts you desire to play through all the missions anyways, it was 
 a nice break before that would let you take on another mission if you had some difficulty with 
 another in particular. Fortunately, unlocking the labs to get to other units is still in place, 
 so you can earn yourself additional skirmishes by correctly capturing specific cities and such 
 located on maps. The labs are also much easier to unlock this time around as the cast of characters, 
 whether fried or foe, give a few tips in dialogue as to when there is a new unit available to unlock 
 by either capturing a specific point or just by playing through the mission and using the particular 
 unit. This is something much easier than what was done in Advance Wars 2's method of unlocking 
 the Neotank for the other factions you fought with.
  
  Advance Wars: Dual Strike retains much of the same gameplay that made the other games in the series 
 popular, with a few tweaks. For those who unfortunately have not played a game in the series, here 
 is the quick rundown. You essentially use various units to traverse terrain and either take out 
 all of your enemies units using tanks, medium tanks, infantry, missles, bombers, and various other 
 naval, land, and air units. You finish the mission by either completing the objectives, which on 
 most areas are either capturing the enemies HQ with infantry or mech units, or defeating all the 
 units on the map. Many missions also include alternate win methods, such as taking out 3 special 
 cannons or may involve destroying a certain type of unit. Capturing cities with infantry or mech 
 units also help to provide resources to power your army and let you create more of specific units, 
 depending on what kind of unit production facilities you have such as airports for air units, ports 
 for naval units, and bases for the grunts of your armies like infantry, tanks, rocket launchers 
 and artillery cannons.
  
  Now that the basic gameplay has been discussed for those who are new to the series, we can discuss 
 the changes from previous installments. New units are introduced, which is standard for any strategy 
 game sequel or expansion, and Advance Wars: DS is no exception. One new unit is called the Black 
 Boat, a technology that you acquire by capturing a city from Black Hole and unlock a level to 
 retrieve the schematics. The purpose of this interesting new unit actually provides a nice alternative 
 to the lander, as it allows you transport infantry or mech units, and also has the ability to repair 
 any unit by one. The unit is even cheaper than the lander, but the boat is balanced by the fact 
 that it can only carry infantry, as opposed to the lander which carries tanks and APCs. The Black 
 Boat also is much more vulnerable to damage it seems, so the fragile unit is very cheaply made 
 but just as easily destroyed. The next unit we have is the Stealth, easily my favorite of the new 
 units. The Stealth is a very cool and unique air unit and is a very versatile member of your army, 
 as it can fly, has decent mobility, and can attack both air and land units, as opposed to other 
 air units that are limited in attacks. The Stealth units flagship ability, very similar to real 
 life units, is their ability to essentially become invisible and only be attacked by enemy fighters. 
 This allows the Stealth unit to attack even cruisers, the bane of air units, and effectively not 
 get counterattacked. The balance of the stealth unit comes in the fact that it is weaker than fighters, 
 so it can be taken down to size easily by enemy fighters, and the unit also uses gas incredibly 
 fast when cloaked so you can only last about 2-3 turns before this awesome airplane needs a refuel 
 from an APC or airport, so you have to take great care when using this ability. The carrier, introduced 
 on the same level as the Stealth, is a new sea unit that can hold 2 air units and allow them to 
 refuel if they park there till the next turn, and allow them to go out to battle again. The carrier 
 also has some serious anti air abilities, with incredibly long range to take out various air units 
 from a distance. The megatank, as the name implies, is an improvement over the neotank, introduced 
 in Advance Wars 2. Although the megatank is essentially a walking wall that can laugh its way 
 through hordes of standard tanks and medium tanks at times, its incredibly expensive to produce 
 and has a movement rate of 4, so its very limited in its abilities and the neotank, with its excellent 
 attack power, large movement range, and cheaper cost, is usually a much better and cheaper alternative, 
 but when you need something that can pretty much take a few hits so you can garner some shots in 
 say a Fog of War map from indirect units or swarm your enemy unnoticed, then this can definitely 
 make a solid piece of bait, that is if someone decides to take it. The piperunner, also a technology 
 gained from Black Hole, is an interesting indirect weapon similar to Artillery, but it has a wider 
 range and can strike units from afar. The unit is balanced by the fact that it can only move along 
 pipes, so its a very powerful unit with great range, but is also very limited by its movement. 
 The Black Bomb is also gained by Black Hole technology, and is a suicide air unit that can remove 
 5 health from any unit within its explosive range, but can easily be destroyed by mobile anti-air 
 units or enemy fighters so it must be used with extreme care. Last, but not least, is the oozium, 
 a unit used primarily by Black Hole but you can unlock it in the Battle Maps section from Hachi 
 for a price to use in other maps. Oozium is a one movement unit that will basically swallow any 
 unit that is next to it simply by moving on it, and it is also fairly durable against attacks, 
 but can still be taken out with ease since the movement range is so pathetic.
  
  As far as COs go, there are a few newcomers, both good and bad, and provide some interesting tweaks 
 in gameplay that can enhance and change the way you play battles. Jake, mentioned earlier, has 
 greater attack power with any unit while on plains, so while being in a defensive zone such as 
 forests provide others with strength, he is perfectly at home riding next to the road or engaging 
 in battle out in the open. Javier is another new CO from the Yellow Comet faction, and he actually 
 has greater defense versus indirect attacks and gains additional strength from a new capture point 
 called Com Towers, that provide your units with more strength and defense, but in Javiers case 
 gain that even more, especially when he unleashes his CO Powers. The campaign battles this time 
 around are very similar affairs to what was presented in Advance Wars 2, with many more objective 
 based levels, and some even take advantage of the dual screen as well. One particular mission has 
 a satellite that is about to strike Omega land and is even timed for attacks, but certain points 
 of the map on the touch screen can allow you to delay this, but thats something I wont reveal 
 for the sake of spoiling the fun. One of the more conventional ideas presented is where you control 
 two COs and battle it out on two screens. While you can allow the computer to command and direct 
 the battle on the top screen, many of the missions allow you to control the action, which at least 
 in my opinion is something that I want to take advantage of. Unfortunately, this doesnt ring true 
 with all the missions, but generally the top screen isnt that frustrating to win in most battles, 
 and you can send some units from the touch screen to the top screen to assist in the battles as 
 well. If you manage to win the top screen then you also get that CO to join in the battle below, 
 but any units on the top screen, whether they started at that map or were sent there, do not come 
 back down to the bottom screen. This does, however, allow you to use what is likely the trademark 
 gameplay tweak of Advance Wars: DS, which is the dual strike. Co Powers are still the same, with 
 normal CO Powers and Super CO Powers still existing, while some have been tweaked, such as Eagle 
 getting downgraded to getting half attack power with his normal CO power, but allowing him the 
 ability to attack twice, while the Super CO power has no penalties to power and still allows him 
 to attack twice.
  
  Dual Strikes, the trademark ability of this particular installment, is what sets it apart from 
 the previous installments in a major way. Any map where you get two Cos to control actually lets 
 you control a set of units but change between COs instead of ending your turn, which in effect 
 ends your turn but you have that particular CO to defend with and also use the upcoming day. This 
 is especially useful in some instances, such as using Colin early on to get a quick Medium or Neotank 
 out and then dropping in with someone like Jess or Max who excel with tanks and you can rush out 
 with a bang without having to pay the price that Jess or Max might have to pay, saving yourself 
 some cash but still letting you take advantage of the power that the latter two COs exemplify. 
 Dual Strikes are the other, and much more dynamic portion of the two CO fight. Your COs will both 
 build up power when you use them, but when you get both of their bars to the level where you can 
 use a tag power, it allows you to enable your units with the powers of each CO (when on their given 
 turn) , and can turn a seemingly losing battle into near victory if played right. Basically you 
 use the tag power, use your units (or remaining units if you built up to the Super CO power this 
 turn) , and attack your opponents units, but then you change to the other CO, unleash the power 
 of their Super CO ability, and it allows you to move and attack with the set of units again.
  
  Sound was always an upbeat and fun portion of the Advance Wars series, and while a lot really 
 hasnt changed this time around, that isnt really a bad thing. Many of the returning COs obviously 
 have their music to associate themselves with here still, such as Grits twanging low beat to Jess 
 funk and bass driven style (favorite of mine) returning as well. The new COs also have some nice 
 arrangements, with Jakes being the most memorable, being a bit heavy and seemingly grungy or dark 
 at times. Any new music presented in the game still has the same feel to it, but certainly when 
 it comes down to it, the music was always generally upbeat and flowed with the pace of the game.
 
  
  As far as looks, even though this has been released on the DS, you dont really see too many improvements, 
 and some characters at times look worse, not at a graphical glance, but just some of the design 
 isnt as impressive, as cool characters from Advance Wars 2, such as Sonja, now looks like a kid 
 instead of this military brat yet incredible military genius in the DS version. Rachel certainly 
 represents the younger Nell well, and Jake has this cool and kickback look that represents the 
 trend of kids today, which certainly matches his personality and attitude. So while the game hasnt 
 taken any graphical improvements, there are some changes, both good and bad, that are in the game, 
 but for the most part they are good and any weaknesses dont take away from what is otherwise a 
 fantastic game that is heavier on gameplay than it ever has been on graphics and looks. 
  
  Extras and unlockables were also something that was very much present in the previous games, and 
 it seems Advance Wars: Dual Strike takes this one step further by various tracking options. You 
 can still unlock various maps, COs and colors this time around, but you also get medals not only 
 in ranks and such like before, but for many different things you do throughout the game. The game 
 has a history option, where you can track pretty much anything you have done in game, from how 
 many medals you have, to how many of a particular rank, the amount of time you have played, how 
 many infantry, megatanks, recon units, and any other unit, as well as those you have destroyed 
 as well. You can collect it seems 300 medals throughout these various goals listed, and you get 
 more medals obviously with the more you play the game. While this could certainly seem a bit tedious, 
 it gives the Advance Wars addicts out there another goal to reach and keep them busy for a fairly 
 long time. The endless goals and options it gives you and units you have to create/destroy could 
 garner likely over 100+ hours to maybe even come halfway to achieving the goal of total completion, 
 but more likely taking much more time than that. 
  
  The War Room also returns, which unfortunately has many of the same old maps that were present 
 in the other game. Depending on how fond you were of those or desiring new maps, this may be a 
 drawback for some, but overall there are some new maps and with the dual strike abilities this 
 certainly changes how many of these maps might be played as well, so things can definitely become 
 very fresh, and along with many of the new COs presenting some interesting abilities as well. 
 
  
  One new interesting addition that is completely new for the Advance Wars series is the combat mode, 
 which is the newly anticipated real-time mode. This isn't really similiar to your typical rts, 
 but more of an action paced game where you control one unit that attack many enemies while trying 
 to either destroy all their units or capture their HQ. You get a set allotment of points to buy 
 units and they each have their own strengths and abilities, and all can capture buildings to help 
 recover health but obviously infantry or mechs are faster at capturing then a tank obviously. This 
 is a nice side offering, and while certainly not as deep as the main game and campaign, it's a 
 nice alternative to the turn-based element and a feature many would find a welcome and interesting 
 addition. 
  
  Multi-player, also an element present in the two prior games, is now taken one step further this 
 time around with some interesting options that are presented. You can now engage not just with 
 four players but up to eight players, which can certainly make things a bit more hectic and interesting 
 as far as alliances and battles go. The DS, with its Wi-Fi abilities also intact, can connect wireless 
 with other DS titles, and you can play with other players whether or not they have a copy of the 
 game through the DS download play option, which is similar to the old link play with Advance Wars 
 games not requiring anymore than one copy of the game and some link cables, but this time the cables 
 are obviously not required. 
  
  All in all, Advance Wars: Dual Strike makes some great changes to the overall gameplay of the series 
 to suddenly make it a whole new ball game to not just casual players but those who have played 
 the previous installments to death. The game does take a bit of a step back in difficulty, so those 
 used to the tough as nails Advance Wars 2 might find themselves flying through the third game in 
 the series, but it certainly picks up near the end, and the changes in the gameplay still keeps 
 things fresh and fun for anyone interested. Overall, Advance Wars: Dual Strike gives the DS a fantastic 
 strategy title that will be fun for years to come for just about any gaming fan.
  
  -FooManChu311 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrme89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I first have to say how awsome of a game this is. Many things from the old game has been brought 
 to this one. The AI seams like your really playing against some one real, the variaty of new and 
 old units are a great combination, and the war room is better with a whole assortmet of new and 
 old maps.
  The new features are also a good fit with te already super features. The new survival and combat 
 modes also flesh out the complexity of the game. The new survival mode lets you select three diffrent 
 modes, money, turn, and time. These modes bring you through twenty levels with a limited amount 
 of what you select. The combat is the firt time advanced wars has tried somthing diffrent. In this 
 mode you select units such as mech, recon, artilary, and tank all having diffrent atributes. you 
 then go to a normal level except you control one of your units with the d-pad and shoot at thigs 
 with the tutch pad. Personaly I didn't enjoy this a much as the othe game type.
  The newest feature is with your CO. In the old games when you won a battle you got monney to spend 
 on maps but in this instalment you level up your characters with experience also. The better you 
 do in a level the more experience and money you gaing. When you gaing 100 points to level you up 
 (about 2 A) you gaing access to skills. They start at thing like 5% fire increase and you soon 
 gaing more strategic skills like +1 vission in fog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reigun147
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 27, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  At first, you would think that how can a game be as good or better than the first two games. The 
 game totally surprises gamers with a great story and plot even though it is the third game in the 
 series. But stories can't just make a great game, the gameplay didn't change much except for new 
 vehicles, power, and a great amount of brand new character along with the old from the first two 
 games. I am not saying that it is a bad thing that the gameplay has not been altered, because just 
 for the fact that it is one of the most enjoyable gameplay style ever since the first rpg style 
 games like Final Fantasy or Chrono Trigger. There is a new mode though where you play a real time 
 battle instead of a turned based one. The value of the game itself is really good. It should give 
 you about 30-35 hours of enjoyable gameplay. If you beat the campaign mode then you are in luck 
 because of the wide array of extra maps for War Room and VS Mode. The replayabbility of the game 
 is crazy and if you haven't played any of the series, then this is the perfect time to start. It 
 is a great game and I recommend it to all gamers who are fans of strategy games. And if you aren't 
 then I think that Advance Wars: Dual Strike would most definitly change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Red_Button
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 26, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  Finally, the DS has recieved the blessing it needed, and it's in the form of a turn based strategy 
 game called Advance Wars: Dual Strike.
  
  Gameplay:
  The best aspect of Advance Wars: Dual Strike is it's gameplay. Here's how it works; every mission, 
 you're either given a number of units, or several factories, airports, and ports to build your 
 army, or both. Every turn, you can move each of your units, build one unit per allied property 
 (assuming you have the cash) and attack any units within range of your own units. The gameplay 
 eases you into the experience, but shows an unprecidented amount of depth once you get going. This 
 game, to no exageration, has the most depth and strategy than any other game ever released.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer of this game is simply put, awesome. There are around 800 different 
 maps to play on, and with the huge differences in gameplay from map to map, you could have thousands 
 of games and never play the same game twice. On top of the turn based game that makes the majority 
 of the gameplay, you can play a real time combat mode that is a great way to have a quicker match 
 with some friends.
  
  Sound:
  The great sound in this game doesn't come from the quality, but the amazing and extremely catchy 
 tunes. Every CO has several tunes, and on top of the tunes for the intro, credits and menu that 
 makes around 30 great musical tunes. And all of them are great.
  
  Game modes:
  This game has a huge amount of variety, which is what makes it so replayable. There is a campaign, 
 which has almost thirty varied missions. There is a war room mode, which has approximately hundreds 
 of missions, pitting you against seemingly insurmountable odds. Then there's survival modes, which 
 gives you the task of completing a mission within a set turn limit, budget or other limitations. 
 There's a new combat mode, which is a real time arcade style shooting mode, which is pretty fun, 
 and a good change of pace.
  
  So, in conclusion Advance Wars is one of the most smart, deep and overall good games ever to grace 
 the screen of any handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 25, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First off this is the best handheld game i have ever played. The sheer depth of the gameplay and 
 its amazing strategy elements make this a must have game for any DS owner. Forget Black hole rising! 
 This is the daddy now!
  
  Gameplay: It will keep you hooked for as long as you play a DS and its strategy and AI is incredible. 
 Never has a game been as deep and strategic as this. Dont worry if you dont know how to play cos 
 the game starts out slowly and with a good tutorial taking you step by step. Also Combat mode is 
 very fun too.
  
  Graphics: Even though they re 2-D it is still very polished and very well animated. the GBA graphics 
 with shine juice thrown on!
  
  Sound: Catchy tunes and sound effects. Very impressive.
  
  Value: Lots to unlock and a vey long and challenging campain mode make this an essential package 
 at any price. Never has a game been so rewarding.= Lots of unlockables.
  
  Tilt: BEST GAME EVERRR!
  
  WHO NEEDS A PSP NOW! HAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_pixelator
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Do we really rate games as AAA when they offer so little that's new on a system capable of so much 
 more in terms of input methods and graphics?
  
  Sure, the DS isn't a 3D graphics powerhouse, but this game just looks and feels far too much like 
 the last two AW titles to really justify a high rating. The secondary screen is for cut scenes 
 and status info while the touchscreen control fails to provide any real benefit (I went back to 
 regular d-pad after fumbling with the little plastic DS stylus after I found that it's actually 
 just as efficient) . 
  
  I'm a big AW fan from the beginning, but this just seems to me to be a mild reheating of an old 
 dish, rather than a real revamping. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: As always, AW is addicting to play. I'll still give it an 8 in this category, but that's 
 only really thanks to some new units and other minor tweaks. I find very little really new or original 
 with AW: DS to warrant anything higher. 8 is still good, but it's not new anymore.
  
  GRAPHICS: The big failing of this game, for me. I expected little 3D units, more sophisticated 
 cutscenes and graphics, variable battlefield zoom and rotation. Nope. This is the same old GBA 
 AW with very clunky little animations added to the units, and I do mean CLUNKY. I even think the 
 backgrounds/maps look worse than earlier versions. Cutscenes are the same old stuff with perhaps 
 even less stylish flair... And the characters have a 'scanned and retouched' look about them that 
 doesn't feel right. Definitely not this game's strong suit and lends some credence to the notion 
 that this might have originally been a GBA game in the works before being adapted for the DS instead...
 
  
  SOUND: Here there's an acoustic improvement over older titles, but no really atmospheric effects 
 and the music sounds eerily unchanged (with some reworking) from the older games. Again, the same 
 old thing with a mild gloss-over. The DS is capable of much, much more.
  
  VALUE: As with most DS games, the low price = good value. It would just be a better value had the 
 game been more improved from older iterations. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 19, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars DS is the third installment of the critically acclaimed, high selling GBA franchise, 
 but in this one, the action takes place over two screens instead of one. This game boasts a great 
 gameplay (like always) , pretty good graphics, a great soundtrack, and great multiplayer to make 
 it one of the best, if not the best, DS game. For those few of you who don't know what Advance 
 Wars is, it is a turn based strategy game for the previous few Nintendo handhelds. The reason the 
 games have been so popular is that it offers a cartoony, comic version on the oh so serious matter 
 of war. It puts you in command of a commanding officer (better known as CO's) , and deploys you 
 right into certain battle situations/missions. This, hands down, is the most addicting, fun handheld 
 game to date. This time around, the Black Hole Army is back, and this time around, all four nations 
 (Orange Star, Blue Moon, Yellow Comet, and Green Earth) are all in it together in the fight for 
 Omega Land. This also means all the CO's from the previous games that kicked your butt are all 
 working with you, which definately makes the game a lot easier. This not only adds to the amount 
 of playable CO's in multiplayer, but also adds to the almost endless possibilities of Dual Strikes. 
 Dual Strikes are probably the biggest gameplay addition to the game, allowing you to select two 
 CO's and switch off throughout the course of battle. Your CO's still have their CO Powers and Super 
 Powers, but if both CO's bars fill up all the way, you get to perform a Dual Strike. This unleashes 
 the first CO's super power, then after you perform your turn, unleashes the second CO's super power, 
 and you get another turn to move and attack. In addition to this, certain CO's have better connections 
 with each other, allowing for more powerful Dual Strikes. Another gameplay addition is of course 
 the use of two screens in the action. This is really cool because it displays every sort of intel 
 about the units you've selected, their environment, and other useful things. Also, in special missions, 
 the top screen changes to display specific intel for that mission. For example, there is a mission 
 early in the game in which a missle is launched to the Orange Star HQ, this gives you 30 minutes 
 to complete the entire mission. On the top screen, it keeps a running timer of how much time is 
 left, and the position of the missle. A very convenient thing about the top screen changing is 
 the fact that you can instantly switch back to the regular intel at your own leisure. The other 
 big gameplay addition is the fact that you can level up your CO's and eventually learn individual 
 CO skills that you can use during the course of battle. It does however, take a while to level 
 up your CO's (this depends too on how often you use a CO, and how well you perform during a battle 
 with him/her) . In addition to the single player campaign, the game features a stellar multiplayer 
 that hasn't really changed, but is still great. This features multiplayer on both one and multiple 
 DS's, and an very diverse, simple map editor. Overall, Advance Wars hasn't changed one bit in gameplay, 
 but that's alright with me. The graphics of the game are a little strange to me. I don't know whether 
 it's more pixels on the DS screen than GBA's but they're a little more blocky. The cartoonishness 
 (if that's even a word) to the game still is very amusing, and great, but the overall look of the 
 graphics in general are not as great. The sound to the game is a great factor. It's so amazingly 
 loud, which is awesome for a war/turn based strategy game. I love blasting it when I'm in a huge 
 battle, and it just adds to the fun and addictiveness of the game. The tracks that accompany each 
 CO during his/her turn. They may be rather simple, but they are really good to listen to. Overall, 
 this game is flat out great. It lasts a long time, and it's highly replayable. Not only is Advance 
 Wars DS a great buy for DS owners, it could be a reason to go out and buy a DS for it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: origin_zero
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is just simply too amazing to describe with words. 
  The visuals remind me of old-school SNES games, when games were really good and took you along 
 time to finish them. The game-play is deliciously addictive. I've played over 30 hrs in the game 
 and I still haven't finished the game. The storyline and characters will draw you into the game. 
 The music is one of the aspects of the game that I just plain love. The songs are awesome, and 
 the only way to really appreciate all of this is by playing t.
  
  Definitely a Nintendo DS must have!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  When you pick up Advance Wars: Dual Strike for the first time, you'll probably have one of two 
 reactions. First of all, if you've never played an Advance Wars game before, you'll probably notice 
 how simple the game appears to be, despite being a pure strategy title. At the same time, you'll 
 notice just how deep it can become, and begin noticing just how engaging it can be. If you've played 
 either of the other games in the series for any stretch of time, you'll probably notice at first 
 that it bears quite a lot of similarities to those earlier installments. But you'll also notice 
 a lot of differences and improvements, and gradually discover even more enhancements and additions 
 that make this stand out as the best game in the series so far, and as one of the best games the 
 DS has to offer.
  
  For the uninitiated, the game is a fairly simple strategy game, something akin to a game of chess. 
 However, the pieces you move around the board are actually soldiers on a battlefield, and they 
 can all do much more than simply traverse the spaces on the map. Not only that, but your goal is 
 not only to outmaneuver your opponents, but also to outgun and outnumber them. Victory in this 
 game comes when you either manage to capture your enemy's capital by breaking through their defenses 
 and reaching it, or by outright destroying their entire army. The exact way that you go about this 
 changes from map to map, as their are literally hundreds of different levels for you to play with 
 in this game.
  
  There are three very specific kinds of units in this game, land, sea, and air. Each of them is 
 restricted to certain parts of the battlefield. Within those three simple types of terrain are 
 several different sub features, such as mountains on land and coral reefs in the sea. Different 
 types of terrain restrict where different units can move. For example, a vehicle such as a tank 
 cannot travel over a mountain, nor will it be able to move over the ocean. Seafaring units cannot 
 travel on land, or in rivers, oddly enough. Aerial units, on the other hand, are able to move across 
 any sort of terrain with no problem whatsoever. Every single unit in the game has it's own strengths 
 and weaknesses, making strategy incredibly important. No single unit is utterly useless, nor it 
 all-powerful and completely unstoppable. You also have the option of choosing one of several different 
 Commanding Officers, each of whom affects your troop's abilities in different ways. Strategy is 
 what makes this game work so very, very well. If you get hooked on it, exploring all these different 
 nuances and trying to complete all the different maps, you may find yourself playing Advance Wars 
 for a long, long time.
  
  There's more than one mode of play open to you when you pick the game up. Firstly, there's the 
 game's Campaign mode, which takes you through a series of missions with a story connecting them 
 all. Then there's the War Room, in which you play through single maps in whatever order you please 
 in order to achieve a high score on all of them. Then there's Versus mode, in which you can play 
 any one of dozens of different maps against either the computer or a friend, if you find the opportunity. 
 After that comes Survival mode, in which it's up to you to play through a series of different maps 
 under one of three different restrictions. Finally, there's Combat mode, a real-time combat game 
 played with the units from the other modes. You can also buy more maps and other fun stuff in the 
 Battle Maps section, or design your own maps for use in Versus mode with the game's handy map designer. 
 The game even keeps track of a huge number of stats for you from the moment you turn it on.
  
  People who have played the other two games in the series may feel a bit concerned about just 
 how much has been added to this game. After all, Advance Wars 2 didn't quite feel like the expansion 
 on the original game that it should have been. Fortunately, Dual Strike does manage to add several 
 new things that spice the game up quite a bit. Besides the brand-new Survival and Combat modes, 
 there are several new units that have been added to this game. Among them are Stealth Bombers, 
 which can become invisible to enemy troops, and Black Boats, which can repair other units while 
 they sail the seas. Then there's the incredibly powerful Megatank, which can do incredible amounts 
 of damage to almost any unit while remaining incredibly durable itself, yet is very expensive to 
 produce and maintain, and has a low movement range.
  
  Graphically, the game doesn't seem like a huge improvement over the GBA Advance Wars games, at 
 least at first. You will quickly notice however how the gameplay field on the touch screen has 
 been titled a bit, in apparent attempt to make the stylus more useful in controlling things. However, 
 it may take a while to appreciate some of the other changes, such as those that have been made 
 to the battle animations that occur whenever two opposing units attack each other. Everything has 
 a bright, cartoony look to it that's quite pleasing to the eye, and seems to make light of the 
 idea of a war being fought on the two screens of your DS. It's all quite lovely really, and the 
 game's visuals are all very enjoyable.
  
  The game's sound also hasn't evolved much, it would seem. Each CO has their own unique music that 
 plays whenever they have control of the battlefield, just like in previous games. Every single 
 tune that plays is a like it or hate it sort of thing, though the styles of music tend to differentiate 
 quite a bit between tunes. There are also a bunch of different cartoony sound effects to go along 
 with the game's cartoony visuals. They all work quite well, but there's nothing terribly spectacular 
 about them. This isn't a game that's really all about the audio anyway, but what's there is worthwhile.
 
  
  Overall, Advance Wars DS is the best reason of all to buy the DS. It's a long, satisfying strategy 
 game that's incredibly deep and easy to learn at the same time. There's enough material to keep 
 anyone busy for months, and it even includes all of the War Room and Versus maps from the first 
 two games. If you've never played Advance Wars before, or if you have, you still owe it to yourself 
 to pick this up. It's a game that simply refuses to disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: map586
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 6, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best handheld games I've ever played. Starting with the graphics, they are not 
 revolutionary but they don't need to be. This is a strategy game that focuses on the gameplay. 
 The sound has been improved since the previous Advance Wars games. Every person has their own theme. 
 The sounds that the vehicles make sound a lot more realistic than before. The gameplay is better 
 than most strategy games on handhelds. No unit is invincible, all units have their weaknesses. 
 All COs are different, none of them have the exact same abilities as another. Some of the new gameplay 
 additions including the new units are welcome additions. The Advance Wars veterans will have to 
 learn the new units to survive. Fog of War helps add to the gameplay making you think about what 
 you're doing at all times. This game's lasting value is what makes this game worth the money. There 
 are a lot of gameplay modes that can take over 50 hours to complete. The multiplayer is some of 
 the best multiplayer on the DS. You can battle up to 7 other players wirelessly. Overall this is 
 best DS game to date and maybe even the best strategy handheld game. It is a good reason to buy 
 a DS if you have not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 2, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a new Advance Wars game for some time now. And all I got to say is that 
 it was worth the wait! The graphics are very good they could have been a little better but it is 
 good in a long shot! The Story Line takes place several Months after the events on AW2. While Black 
 Hole is at it again attacking new territory. This game has several mysteries to it and is very 
 entertaining. I have seen better story lines but the story line on AW: DS is nicely done! The sound 
 is the best I have heard in a DS title yet! The value of the game is very good as well. The gameplay 
 is very addicting going level after level unlocking new content on the way. The game Difficulty 
 is Hard. Not too hard but hard. If you need a new DS game in the lacking collection, or if you 
 want a hard DS game this is the game for you! Best DS game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTGWARGOD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 31, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Back when i had a GBA and advance wars was released in 2001, it blew me away. This was the perfect 
 strategy game that the GBA was dying for. NO aspects of this game was taken lightly during development 
 as you can tell. Looking at all three games this game has a superb interface and very balanced 
 gameplay.
  
  what REALLY shines on Advance Wars DS, and even Advance Wars 2 is how Intelligent Systems (game 
 developer) manages to create sequels that kills NO aspects of the game, or degrading them in ANY 
 way, and STILL manage to have extras and little improvements that makes it a PERFECT sequel that 
 is a totally "must buy" game even though the core gameplay is identical. Intelligent Systems isnt 
 just "playing it safe" either by making similar sequels too, if you liked ANY of the advance wars, 
 you Will Love DS.
  
  The way that Intelligent Systems incorporates Dual screen and Touch screen is just perfect. (and 
 not many things in life are perfect) .
  
  Gameplay (10) : The gameplay is very well balanced and it has something for everyone, whether you 
 are new to this type of gameplay or you waiting day after day (or hour after hour) waiting for 
 this sequel to come out, The campaign will even challenge the most hardcore gamers and will still 
 be fun for casual DS gamers. The map sizes are just perfect for a small handheld.
  
  Graphics (8) : Intelligent Systems kept all the original models for all the units from advance wars 
 2, which still looks good, but on Advance Wars DS, the battlefield is a bit tilted to give it a 
 more lively look, however at the sametime it makes those game units a bit grainy. Also the CO's 
 are not fully animated but their facial expressions can change. But the great part is the battles, 
 the battle animation looks very nice and you would say to yourself (theres no ways it could have 
 looked better than this) . Also this is a strategy game and you can easily look past any graphics. 
 The goods and bads give the graphics a solid 8.
  
  Sound (10) : wow. Intelligent Systems didnt even skimp on music design, which just rocks the house. 
 Also the sound samples were changed to sound more like their real-life counterparts.
  
  Value (10) : This game has insane replay value, there are a TON of unlockables. my favorite mode: 
 Multiplayer with friends, you can have just as much fun swapping your handheld back and fourth 
 between players because it works just as good as wireless linking them with 2 or more DS's.
  
  Tilt (10) : i would be crazy not to give this a 10 when this game (in my opinion) is the best 
 thing that happened to handheld gaming.
  
  its your loss if you own a DS (or a GBA) and dont buy ALL of the advance wars series.
  Most good 
 games on any console tend to have an audience that complains about a game or sequel, but i have 
 not yet found a gamer, a Real gamer who was not happy with advance wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Awesome.... riveting and beautiful. This game is absolutely addictive. One of the most enjoyable 
 experiences I have ever had on the DS. Highly enjoyable. 
  The best ds game yet. Even if you fail a mission on campaign mode you don't mind replaying the 
 same mission just because you can try a different strategy the next time around. The step up from 
 the GBA is truly remarkable. I would recommend this to anyone who is interested in playing a remarkable 
 and memorable strategy game. 
  
  
  I love my little DS. It is the innovative piece of hardware with the most interesting software 
 out there. Thank God for Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Since the dawn of the GBA, Advance Wars has been a popular series. Mixing the strategy genre with 
 a war theme isnt necessarily new, or innovative in any way, but the way Advance Wars presented 
 it self and the way the story flowed right along with the gameplay. Dual Strike manages to transfer 
 all of these things onto the DS flawlessly, while also improving on the core gameplay making the 
 game even better than before.
  
  If youre too lazy to read this review, just let me sum it up for you: Nintendo and Intelligent 
 Systems have made one of the best strategy games of all time even better. The main reason for saying 
 this is the touch screen. No longer must the player go through numerous blisters involving the 
 d-pad. The stylus makes gameplay much swifter and user-friendly. Those fans that enjoy the d-pad 
 can still use it, but the touch screen makes things much easier.
  
  The touch screen improves not only gameplay, but everything in general. The menus are much easier 
 to navigate, CO powers are quicker to access, and Combat mode (which will be explained later) is 
 much easier to control. Although sometimes the touch control can be frustrating, as the screen 
 wont always pick up/click on the right thing. So, while making things incredibly easier, it can 
 also make them frustrating at the same time. So, it balances itself out pretty well.
  
  But, the gameplay itself hasnt changed much except with the addition of the second screen and 
 a few other things. With the second screen comes another front, or battlefield. This means that 
 there is either one CO fighting on each front, or a tag team fighting on both. Generally, the computer 
 character controls the battle on the second front, leaving only the first front for the player 
 to worry about. If the CO on the second front wins the battle, it affects the first front, and 
 vice versa. Although one might want to only concentrate on their own battle, watching both screens 
 is a good idea, because if something goes wrong, the player can switch control over to themselves 
 and take matters into their own hands.
  
  Another new addition is the Tag power. Pretty much, if the player is doing a Tag Team battle, they 
 get to use both of those COs Super Powers consecutively. It can turn the tide of battle very quickly, 
 and need to be planned for when playing against another Tag Team. Each person has their own Super 
 Power which fits their personality. For example, Colin is prone to spending money, so his power 
 gives him more money to buy weapons. So, they player will want to plan accordingly. Generally there 
 are certain characters that stick out that would work well together, while some dont. 
  
  Each character in the game has their own unique personality. For those gamers who have been fans 
 since the GBA days, knows each of the old characters back stories. But for those players who are 
 new to the series, Dual Strike provides enough back story for players to understand exactly who/what 
 the CO is. This is good for new players, as knowing what COs are like will help them in battle, 
 because certain situations call for certain COs.
  
  There are three types of battles in Advance Wars; land, sea, and air, just as a real battle. Some 
 units of each type can attack one another, but not all of them. Each of the types has their own 
 base, which can be captured or are available at the start of the battle. Certain units cost more 
 because of power or mobility. The units are priced fairly well. No unit it too much, and no unit 
 cost so little that they can be mass produced. Money can be earned by capturing neutral or enemy 
 cities. Every turn, funds will be added to the players bank. This is an important part of the 
 game, which is generally overlooked.
  
  Fighting has always been one of the highlights of the Advance Wars series. Whenever the player 
 engages in battle, the screen zooms into a cutscene where the battle is played out. The winner 
 is usually obvious, and eventually the cutscenes become rather obnoxious. Thankfully, they can 
 be turned off and the player will only see the outcome of the battle. Not only does the attacker 
 do damage to his/her victim, but the victim also attacks back. Both units may have the same amount 
 of health, but one unit will do more damage than the other. It all depends on whos attacking and 
 which unit is where. For example, if one unit is attacking on a plain, and the other is inside 
 a city, the unit inside the city will have more defense, giving them somewhat of the upper-hand. 
 Its all in the strategy.
  
  Generally, Advance Wars has always been about strategy. Not this time. Along with all the strategic 
 modes of Dual Strike, is a real-time action game, subtitled simply; Combat. The player starts with 
 a certain amount of fund, in which they must buy units to use on a map. Whats really cool about 
 Combat is that its not like a regular Advance Wars game. Instead of turn-based attacks, the player 
 simply taps the screen where they want their unit to fire and run around using the D-Pad. Its 
 rather fun, but it can be annoying, as they units have to last the player not just one round of 
 battle, but three or four. If its a new experience the gamer is looking for, this fits the bill 
 perfectly.
  
  Another new addition to the Advance Wars series is the Survival Mode. Its just what it says, survival. 
 The player plays numerous battles in a row, until they get knocked out. Its nothing to rave about, 
 but its fun for those hardcore fans out there who like challenges. Also, Dual Strike tracks the 
 players stats. How many kills, deaths, minutes played, buildings captured, etc. Its nice to look 
 back on accomplishments, especially since Dual Strike has a lengthy story.
  
  Besides a few new additions, Dual Strike is a lot like the previous titles. I still has the War 
 Room, which is a plain deathmatch. Multiplayer modes are still as good as ever (and they can be 
 both single or double pack play [Combat is also multiplayer] ) . Customization options are still 
 there, and as stated earlier, map creation is easier than ever. Maps can also be traded with other 
 Dual Strike owners via Wi-Fi, which is also a nice addition. There are also tons of pre-made maps 
 for purchase, which means the player gets a lot for their money.
  
  Advance Wars has always been a game that looks good. Back in the GBA days, it was a pretty good 
 looking game, but on the DS, its looks exactly the same. Not to say that it looks bad, but its 
 nowhere near the full potential of DSs 3D capabilities. Same can be said of the sound. Although 
 better than the graphics, the sound hasnt changed much since the second game. Of course, Dual 
 Strike doesnt rely on looks, but rather straight gameplay, no neither of these really matter that 
 much.
  
  Easily, Dual Strike is one of the best games for the DS. Sadly, its bang-for-your-buck value, lengthy 
 story and improved gameplay will be shadowed by the hype of Nintendogs. If youre a DS owner and 
 youre looking for a great game, Dual Strike is definitely up there with the best games on the 
 DS. It sticks to the core gameplay that made it great, and improves on it greatly. Although, Dual 
 Strike is a strategy game, which means its not for everyone. So if youre a fan of the Advance 
 Wars series, this ones a no brainer. If youre new to the series, Dual Strike is a great place 
 to start. Overall, Dual Strike is a great game, and easily the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newedge14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 29, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is a great addition to the series, with it's multiplayer and multiple 
 game modes this really is a game that is worth buying. The Advance Wars series has always had a 
 great appeal to strategy gamers but it lacked a map editor to keep the fun going and a few tweaked 
 options. Now Dual Strike has given us the complete package.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for Dual Strike has the same great Advance Wars strategy but with dual strike 
 the few subtle additions made the game become even better for strategy. The new Tag battles really 
 make the game even greater as you can now use two CO's abilities and have tag-team powers. This 
 releases a element of which CO should I use. The multiplayer is a great addition. It is great how 
 you can play with one or two Advance Wars Dual Strike Cards instead of either having to turn off 
 your DS so you can download or you don't have it. This makes the game even greater. Also with the 
 addition of the map editor you can do a lot of things and create a full out war on just land, sea, 
 or air. These specialty battles make the game even greater.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have the same superb Advance Wars quality but you would think that they 
 would updat to a new graphic lokok on a new, more powerful platform. Oh well, the graphics are 
 still crisp and the battle sequences are still pretty cool.
  
  Sound: The sound is great from the first cinematic and it fits the situation. The game really has 
 a great sound style for the DS.
  
  Value: This game is really worth it, I would even pay $50 for this amazing title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars Dual Strike is the third game in the highly praised Advance Wars series. I played 
 a little of the first, but other than that this was new to me. Other than the difficulty, I'm pleased 
 to report this is an all around great game and should be in any DS owner's collection. When you 
 first start the campaign, you watch the Advance Wars version of a cutscene which is really just 
 pictures of the characters faces with text by them. It's nothing ground breaking but it works. 
 The basic story of the game is the infamous Black Hole Army is back and you and several new recruits 
 have to stop them. It uses the timeless strategy of not letting you know the enemies plan until 
 it's nearly too late to stop them. When you finally get to play, you are guided by your mentor 
 Rachael. She tells you what units do and what most of the controls are. The first few levels ease 
 you in very gradually to what you think will be a pretty simple game, but things get rough fast. 
 Almost every mission one or more new units are put in for you to use. This is fun until you are 
 forced to use all of them together. That is when things get frustrating. You have tons of units 
 and you struggle to remember what situations each excels in. This will likely take you several 
 tries to complete and get used to. Once you do though, the game gets a little easier since you 
 know what everything does. You'll know at a glance how far each unit can move and know what each 
 unit is at a glance. This is when the game gets really fun. Another cool feature is the CO's abilities. 
 When you kill enemies the CO meter fills up. When it's full you can do a special move which buffs 
 your units, or if you wait to fill the second bar up you can unleash a power that can turn the 
 tides in a single turn. Depending on which CO you're using the buffs are different. One CO might 
 specialize in close range while the next specializes in long range. This adds even more choices 
 at your disposal to take down your enemies. The graphics are nothing special. In two words, very 
 pix-elated. They could have been done better but in the long run it doesn't detract from the overall 
 experience of the game. The sound is, again, nothing to get excited about. There are very few different 
 songs in the game, but at least the ones you do have are pretty good. It keeps the atmosphere light 
 and upbeat. In addition to the campaign, there are several other game modes. My personal favorite 
 is just like the regular game except in real time. Others include a multiplayer for use with friends 
 and a map editor. This makes the replay value huge. You will most likely be playing this game for 
 months. It is addictive, fun, and well, addictive. If you're a fan of the first two Advance Wars 
 games or a newcomer, this game has something for almost everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeteosMaster1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This is obviously the greatest game in the advance wars series, and most likely the best game for 
 the nintendo ds. Everything is the best it could be, even though it may take you a while to learn 
 the ropes if you have never played an advance wars game before. There's not much to say about the 
 graphics except that they stuck with the old 2d style. I like it, but some people were disapointed 
 with the fact that the graphics didn't get spruced up at all. The sound is good, but I usually 
 keep the sound off anyway.
  Definitely get this game. Its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm a huge Advance Wars fan. Let me tell you, I've played through the previous GBA incarnations. 
 I've pretty much filled my name in War Room, bought everything from Battle Maps, and abused the 
 Map editior like no tomorrow. Now Advance Wars Dual Strike releases, and you possibly wonder how 
 a great series like this can improve. Well let me tell you, it not only meets my expectations, 
 but it exceeds them by tenfold. 
  
  Background:
  Advance Wars is a turn based strategy game, and previously used to belong on the Gameboy Advance. 
 This fantastic series now makes it's way to the DS, and improves a lot of the gameplay thanks to 
 the DS's features, while remaining true to the original formula that made it so addictive, and 
 loveable in the first place. This time around, you go through fighting the Black Hole Army... again. 
 Who's some how recovered quickly from your previous encounter, where they were left pretty much 
 dead on the last game. Now ruled by another, this game has you taking the roles of numerous Commanding 
 Officers (COs) trying to stop them and once again trample the Black Hole army. 
  
  Presentation:
  Advance Wars is a game known for it's deep and complex strategy. While it doesn't 
 excatly push the DS's power to any limits, it does use some nice 3D effects with the well animated 
 sprites, to make it look more than a rehash of the previous GBA games. The well written dialouge 
 and colorful cast of characters each have their own personalities, that reflect who they are. Each 
 character is very unique, and all fit the game very well. Not to mention you will learn to love 
 and even hate certain characters, and feel close to them. The dialouge really brings out the game, 
 and is very well written. 
  
  Controls:
  Well here, the controls will remain the same, but you can use the touch screen if you want. I haven't 
 really used it much, I prefer the traditional D-pad personally. But don't worry, the Stylus works 
 good too, and commands are easy to issue as well. But where the touch screen input really shines 
 is in the Map Editor. Now it's much more easier to creat maps, and change what you wish to place 
 on the fly, making it an obvious choice for everyone. 
  
  Sound: 
  The sound here is very good. It's nothing spectacular, but each CO as you may remeber from the 
 last games, have their own music when in battle. Some of the sound effects have some slight improvements 
 over the GBA games. The music from the COs in the last game have marginal improvements, but the 
 new CO have a much more richer music composition than the others. The DS speakers are loud though, 
 and this game makes sures you hear each and every explosion quite well. It sounds nice, but nothing 
 too great, all in all. It is great, just nothing too far advanced.
  
  Value:
  This game will have you coming back for months. With so many unlockables, 300 medals, an RPG like 
 system with your commanding officers, where you can raise their ranks allowing you to give them 
 new abilities. This game has so much to offer, it won't be completed anytime soon, and will have 
 you using your DS for a LONG time. You can creat a map, using the map editor. There's the choice 
 of the D-pad or the Stylus, but I have a right to bash you, because the Stylus makes everything 
 SOOOO much easier. There's Battle Maps, where you can purshase COs, Maps, and other stuff like 
 in the other AW games. You can participate in Survival, where you go through a series of maps with 
 limitations, campaign, (the story mode) or Combat, this little "mini-game" basically where you 
 purchase troops, and get to controll them shooting the opponents and capturing bases in real time. 
 And last but not least, the best part of AW: DS, is Multiplayer. So much support for WLAN gaming 
 like DS battles where you battle on the top and bottom screens at the same time, normal battle, 
 where you use just one screen, combat, and you can even send maps to your friends, and play on 
 your custom made maps. Also during play, you can send messages to your friends, and customize what 
 to say, no it's not using the mic. (Sadly) It's just typed messages assigned to a specific button. 
 (Ex: A button could say "Hello" or be changed to what you want)
  
  Overall:
  Well, I must say, this is no doubt the best AW game in the series. The only real complaint I could 
 have on this game, is the fact that there's no Wi-FI online support, but just WLAN support. However, 
 it's just a slight miss, and perhaps something that may happen in the next Advance Wars possibly? 
 Either way, this game makes up for it, with loads of unlockables, great gameplay, and being one 
 of the greatest handheld releases, and possibly game releases this year. I must say, if you do 
 not like TBS games, this one probably won't be able to change your mind, however I recommend you 
 try this game out at least, because it certainly is a great game. Especially if you own a DS and 
 haven't had anything to play on it for quite some time, and wish to engage in a long and thrilling 
 game. One other note I would like to mention, if you've played the previous Advance Wars games, 
 this one may come off a little easy for you. I've yet to fail in not recieving an S ranking and 
 I"m on Mission 22. So.. it' was a bit easy, I've yet to been defeated, and mostly finish my battles 
 a bit quick. But I think this game will be challenging to anyone who has not had any play of the 
 previous games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 26, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Advance Wars is not a new series, in fact there have been two Advance Wars games for the GameBoy 
 Advance. Now Advance Wars doubles up and makes its first appearance on the DS, and it is one of 
 the few games that will make you proud to be a DS owner.
  
  If you've never played an Advance Wars game, it's a Turn-Based Strategy Game in which you and a 
 buncha other CO's are trying to defeat the Black Hole. Under your command are infantry units, tanks, 
 mech units, artillery, aircraft, etc.
  
  The game can be controlled two ways, you can use the familiar button and D-Pad control, or you 
 can do everything using the touch screen. The option is nice, but you'll probably want to use the 
 D-Pad/Button configuration for everything but the Create-A-Map mode, as sometimes you'll think 
 you've pressed Fire, but you've actually pressed something outside of the box, which cancels the 
 command. Other then that, this is solid action here and any DS owner should definitely check it 
 out.
  
  The game's graphics are what we've come to expect from this series. The game takes advantage of 
 the DS's two screens by having all of the action on the bottom screen and read-outs about a unit 
 you select on the top. This configuration works quite well.
  
  The game's audio is lacking some. It has neat anim music, but it loops and gets old after a while. 
 But for a handheld, the music is still very catchy and appropriate.
  
  The game also takes advantage of DS's Download and Play feature, offering an unheard of eight players, 
 as well as multi-card support, with again eight players. The multiplayer is very fun and engaging, 
 especially since you don't need to be within a few feet of each other like previous games with 
 the link cable.
  
  All in all, if you have a DS you owe it to yourself to get this game. This game is tied with Nintendogs 
 as the highest score I've ever given a game, and trust me when I say, you'll love Advance Wars 
 Dual Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiker71
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  AWDS is really one of the best games that is out for the DS so far i think. It will be fun for you 
 for a VERY long time even if you beat the game because it has so manny other modes like combat 
 mode and survival mode. its really worth the 35$ i got it for and it will make a great game to 
 add to your game bucket (or whatever you call it) . AWDS is a great game for those of you who are 
 just getting there DS and ever better for those who have theres. Wll theres my review it suxs i 
 know but its my first bye and go buy AWDS now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpicle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I played the orginal advance wars when my step brother got it and it blew my mind ( only had the 
 gameboy advance out at the time) . Well anyway when i learned that this game was coming out for 
 the ds, I got exited, I could not wait for it to come out. I got it just yesterday from eb and 
 I cannot put it down. The gameplay is intense especially when you use the dual powers, you get 
 to attack twice in one turn (its saved my butt more than once) . Nintendo has kept the same style 
 that I liked about the first one and yet has added a few twists. This is why nintendo has been 
 in the biz for so long, eat your heart out, sony!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandro909
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  DS owners have been waiting for a game like this ever since it's slow and unsatisfying launch, 
 but it's finally here.
  
  Dual Strike Plays quite well with the new touch screen gameplay. However, occasionally you will 
 hit the wrong selection because most of the units and selections on the screen are a bit too small. 
 But it still works superb, if you're careful. It gives the game more of a PC feel, because moving 
 the stylus is much faster than lugging around with the old D-pad. As for the actual gameplay, it's 
 still the good old Advance Wars we all know and love. It's still as fun and addictive as ever. 
 This time, however, there are several new units to use in your battle strategies. With this new 
 installment, almost all the areas are covered in terms of military units, except for the mysteriously 
 still-missing Sniper unit. There are several game modes, units and unlockables here, which might 
 explain the somewhat dated graphics.
  
  The DS is capable of graphics equivalent to the N64, but Dual Strike does not seem to take much 
 advantage of this. For the most part, the battlegrounds still appear 2D, except for a slight angle 
 to the camera to make it seem somewhat 3D. It's not an entirely bad thing, as the graphics still 
 manage to look good, and they do their job just fine. The Action still looks great, and now there 
 are a few added visual tweaks that make the game more enjoyable to look at, even if it isn't state 
 of the art.
  
  Most of the same sound effects are back from the previous games here, and they still sound as they 
 should, most of the time. Of course, there is new music in most areas, including new themes for 
 the several new COs. The sounds do their job, and they all sound quite good for a handheld game.
 
  
  There is much to be seen and done in Dual Strike. First off, there is the Campaign, then there 
 are things like the Wireless capabilities, verses modes, the map editor, and all sorts of things 
 to keep you busy with the game for a while. Unfortunately, wireless single card games can only 
 play 'Combat', which is not nearly as fun and addictive as the strategy portion of the game. Combat 
 is a little real-time minigame, where you directly control some of the Advance Wars units. It's 
 not very fun, but that's what's there, and we can't do anything about it now. If you want to play 
 the strategy part of the game, you will need a game card for each player. Up to 8 players are supported 
 this time.
  
  When you consider the good and the bad, Dual Strike is still an excellent game, that should not 
 dare be missed by each and every DS owner out there. It's not perfect, but it's still an amazing 
 achievement that is unsurpassed in the handheld market. It is so well executed, that it rivals 
 many PC Turn-based strategy games, too! If you have a DS, you need this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Improving upon arguably the best strategy series not on a PC is certainly a daunting task, yet 
 once again the folks at Intelligent Systems have successfully conjured up another gem in the form 
 of Advance Wars: Dual Strike, a game which no strategy fan, nay, any DS owner should miss.
  Critical to the series, the basic core of game play of Advance Wars remains nearly identical to 
 the previous incarnations. For those unfamiliar, AW follows a system of turn-based strategy in 
 which players alternate moving their units around a board of squares and subsequently attacking 
 their opponents units or capturing their cities and factories for valuable resources to increase 
 their power. As always, the game is deceptively simple on the surface, but has an incredible and 
 sometimes almost too daunting level of depth and complexity for experienced players to master.
 
  Each player is made unique by having their own Commanding Officer (CO) , which modify certain unit's 
 abilities and also grants a special ability usable at critical moments in the game as a final push 
 towards victory. The new twist (and the main reason for the Dual Strike moniker) is that players 
 can now choose to have two COs on their side, further adding to the depth and necessity for proper 
 planning in order to achieve victory. There is also a heap of new units (7) and COs (9) added to 
 this edition, most of which are very worthwhile additions to an already solid base.
  A couple of new game modes have been added as well, some good, some bad. On the good side is survival 
 mode, which operates in much same function as it does whenever such a mode appears in fighting 
 games. Players are given the opportunity to see how long they can last through a series of maps 
 using only a pre-assigned limit on variables such as time or resources. The mode is in my opinion 
 a long-overdue and very welcome addition to AW, and a great way to serve as a proving ground for 
 new strategies and tactics, not to mention help to gauge your strengths and weaknesses in the game.
 
  Another, albeit not as exciting addition is Battle Mode, a rather strange spin-off in which AW 
 goes real-time, allowing you the freedom to move one unit at a time around the map firing upon 
 whatever enemy opposition appears. What may be a mildly interesting diversion for a few seconds 
 soon degenerates into a rather boring and somewhat clunky bash fest which most players will easily 
 pass over. I have to wonder what exactly Intelligent Systems was actually going for with this other 
 than morbid fascination, but nonetheless the mode can be easily overlooked in the face of all of 
 the strategy goodness in the main game and does nothing to take away from the AW experience.
  For AW veterans, you will find plenty to love about Dual Strike. The campaign, although again centered 
 on the nefarious forces of the Black Hole Army, is easily the longest yet in the series, and should 
 provide a decent challenge once the game gets going. Undoubtedly an annoyance for some however, 
 is the fact that the game is built somewhat around players new to AW, meaning you will have to 
 once again slog through a number of boring and fundamental early missions in order to get to the 
 good stuff.
  The graphics and sound department of Dual Strike, the least important but still interesting aspect 
 of any strategy game, retains a lot of the same quality of past AW titles, with just a few tweaks 
 to take advantage of the more powerful hardware. Suffice to say if youre looking for something 
 to showcase the power of the DS this is not it, but really Advance Wars has been so well presented 
 in the past its not too big of a deal, and besides if you play strategy games for the looks I think 
 you may be in the wrong genre anyway.
  Control is as spot-on as always, with nothing important worth mentioning, just the way I like it. 
 Maneuvering the cursor is quick and easy, and the dual screens make battlefield management easier 
 than ever.
  On the multiplayer front, tweaks have been made to make the game more enjoyable as well. One problem 
 I and others found with Black Hole Rising was a decidedly unbalanced CO list, however in Dual Strike, 
 even with the addition of nine new leaders, the game returns to a more balanced state. Minor problems 
 do still exist however whenever two COs are on one side, however, because at times certain combinations 
 can very handedly bowl over the competition when in the hands of a skilled player.
  The abilities of the DS are also on full display in Dual Strike. The game has full wi-fi support 
 for easy multiplayer gaming access and map swapping, and the stylus actually helps to make map-making 
 and navigation easier than ever. In addition, the dual screens are very effectively used, having 
 one screen be the general map overview while the other serves as either a unit information screen, 
 meaning players will no longer have to constantly switch screens to review different units as they 
 had to do in past games.
  You really could spend the better part of day celebrating all that is great in Advance Wars: Dual 
 Strike, but then again that time could be better spent actually playing the game! Suffice to say 
 if you have any interest in strategy titles you need this game, and even casual fans are recommended 
 to give this game a look. High-quality DS games may be more few and far between then some would 
 like, but with this game and the charming Nintendogs both recently released, it looks as good as 
 a time as any to finally take the plunge on the handheld.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarioDS
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  So far the DS has seen some poor games, some mediocre games, and a few gems (Canvas Curse, Meteos) . 
 But Advance Wars: Dual Strike denies all of those categories and forms its own: "must have". If 
 you've put off buying a DS until now, it's about time to change your mind. Advance Wars is by far 
 the best DS game yet, and maybe even the best in the series. And like its category states, it's 
 a "must have".
  
  The storyline in Dual Strike is teeming with interesting twists and colorful characters guaranteed 
 to keep you interested in the campaign two or three times over. And that's just the tip of the 
 iceberg. Dual Strike offers five different and unique modes. This game card will not leave your 
 DS for a good two months, if you're fast. And if you have siblings or close friends who owns a 
 DS, even longer than that. Dual Strike offers DS download play, so only one person needs the gamecard 
 to engage in wireless multiplayer action!
  
  The graphics in this game are stellar. Sure, the maps look practically the same as the GBA games, 
 but the backgrounds and cut-scene type things offer some very pretty graphics, and definitely show 
 off the DS' capability for stunning color visuals. 
  
  The audio in Dual Strike is pretty much what you would expect. However, I think the music is much 
 better on Dual Strike than either of its predecessors.
  
  Honestly, I can't do anything but praise this game. I can't find anything major at all wrong with 
 it. It's the first "must have" game for the Nintendo DS. This game, Nintendogs, and a $20 price 
 drop, it seems the DS is leaving the PSP in the dust.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sp0inK
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars : Dual Strike was my first Advance Wars ever, and i have to say that i'm impressed 
 with the amazing and fun gameplay in this game. 
  I'm not very sure what improvements have been made since the previous Advance Wars games on the 
 GBA though, since i've never played them before. Out of the 2 control schemes, i'd prefer using 
 the stylus instead of my dpads to control this game.
  This game features units such as the infantries, mechs, tanks, APC, artilleries, helicopters, battleships, 
 subs and many more.
  While battling, the top screen displays information about units, and the type of terrain the cursor 
 is pointing to.
  The bottom screen is where the main action takes place, you use either your stylus or Dpads to 
 control what is going on. To move a certain unit, all you have to do is tap on the unit once, and 
 a box will appear, this box shows you the area your selected unit is able to move. You will have 
 to guide your unit to the selected area by drawing a line with your stylus. 
  The game also features different modes such as the War Room, where you battle the computer in order 
 to get a high score.
  It has a versus mode where you can battle with your friends or a computer player.
  A survival 
 mode, where you fight through a series of maps
  And lastly the Combat mode.. i haven't tried this one out yet.
  
  New players to the Advance 
 Wars may have difficulty getting used to this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldzboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  AWDS (Advance Wars Duel Strike) , serves as a highly immersing strategy game, similar to the Final 
 Fantasy Tactics games, from the storyline, to the graphics, this game just amazes you so much, 
 with the old cast and some new characters, and everything from air assault, to water assault, it 
 takes all these elements, puts the together in a package and it's good. Even though this game had 
 it's share of good qualities, it also had its faults. This game is almost like it's predecessor, 
 with the bam bam, to the bang bang, but aside from that, it has a brand new story line. This game 
 sounds great! From all the war sound effects, to just moving the cursor over text, it sounds great. Now 
 to wrap up this review, if you're a strategy fan, buy it, if you're tactical-strategy fan, buy 
 iy, if you have a DS, buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
