-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires: Mythologies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/ageofempiresmythologies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brilliant blend of RTS and turn-based design conventions.
 Outstanding strategic depth.
 Lengthy campaign and numerous other modes.
 Solid interface and presentation values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little formulaic when it comes to scenario design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 141 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date: Nov 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A mix of real-time and turn-based conventions makes Age of Empires: Mythologies an addictive venture 
 into the ancient world. 

  Turn-based strategy gamers in need of a fix should probably drop their PCs and pick up a Nintendo 
 DS if they haven't already. The genre is thriving on the handheld system these days, with games 
 like Age of Empires: Mythologies and Civilization Revolution and the Advance Wars series leading 
 the way. Griptonite Games has done a terrific job with this sequel to 2006's Age of Kings, reimagining 
 another Ensemble Studios oldie but goodie with enough depth and detail to satisfy the most discriminating 
 strategy purist, while remaining accessible to neophytes.  

           Here comes Perseus, so bring on those nasty medusas.      

  This is a hybrid of traditional 
 RTS gaming, like that in the classic Age of Empires games for the PC, and of old-time turn-based 
 strategizing seen today largely in DS games such as Advance Wars. RTS influences include the three 
 complementary factions -- the fierce Norse, the jack-of-all-trades Greeks, and the defensive Egyptians -- and 
 the need to build settlements and gather resources. Villagers are employed to construct various 
 buildings to help your civilization thrive. Mills are used to process wheat, barracks and stables 
 produce and enhance various units, and shrines generate god powers. This sounds like a typical 
 RTS, although the game plays out in turns. Each day you erect buildings, crank out spearmen, archers, 
 cavalry, and the like, and then shuffle them around the map into battle positions.  

  In many ways you have the best of both worlds here -- the tried-and-true design conventions of an 
 RTS along with the more measured tactical considerations of being able to dole out orders in turns. 
 The depth is tremendous, especially for a handheld game. The three lengthy single-player campaigns 
 tour through the factions in historical order. You can also take on solo skirmishes and a selection 
 of scripted scenarios for each faction, or battle up to three other players locally or online via 
 Wi-Fi. Map design and objectives are fairly predictable in the campaigns and the scenarios, although 
 everything moves along pretty quickly. If you like traditional turn-based gaming, you'll like what 
 is on offer here, even though you won't be blown away by any innovations to the genre. Sieges are 
 the main annoyance. They tend to drag on too long and turn the otherwise crisp and clean graphics 
 into mobs of colored blobs where it's just about impossible to see where your camel ends and the 
 enemy's spearman begins.  

  A rock-paper-scissors formula has been followed for combat, so there isn't any reinventing of the 
 wheel in battles. Still, a lot of features have been crammed into one tiny DS cartridge. Factions 
 are loaded with unique touches that give the game a serious historical/mythological flavor. Culture-specific 
 units such as the Egyptians' camel cavalry and the Greeks' hoplites make those races very distinct, 
 and the legendary fighting prowess of the Norse is underlined by the way they curry the favor of 
 their gods through battle (no temples or obelisks for these guys) . Special abilities and units 
 are granted by the gods every time you advance to another of the game's four ages. As the Greeks, 
 for instance, you start off worshipping Zeus and taking advantage of his Thunderbolt skill and 
 then add a minor god, such as Athena and her restoration healing ability, every time you move ahead 
 an age. Heroes like Heracles and Hatshepsut can also be sent into the field of battle, and special 
 myth units, such as the powerhouse Egyptian sphinx, can also be recruited.  

           The visuals are nicely detailed, and you'll have no problem identifying units.      

 
  Mythologies blends its two genres into a smooth and elegant presentation, and the visuals are 
 beautiful. Unless you're in the close-combat situations of a siege, you can always tell one unit 
 from another and even spot sharp little touches like the swishing of a sphinx's tail. Audio is 
 quite limited, which is probably to be expected given how many features were shoehorned into the 
 cartridge, although there is just enough variety in the music and the unit acknowledgements to 
 keep you from getting annoyed. Commands and unit navigation are handled with the stylus on the 
 bottom screen. A few minor responsiveness quirks interfere with the functionality at times, especially 
 when you're trying to change the camera location by dragging the map, although all in all it's 
 a good attempt at replicating a mouse-oriented PC interface on a handheld. The top screen is mostly 
 used well, displaying information tidbits like unit stats and battle animations. You can also flip 
 this screen to a detailed overview of the entire scenario map that you're currently playing, complete 
 with icons denoting the locations of all units, buildings, and resources. It's a bit of a shame 
 that this map isn't shown on the top screen at all times, though, as it is a pain to have to pull 
 it up. A lot of space seems to be wasted on the top screen, so it likely would have been possible 
 to cram a map in there without crowding out too many stats.  

  Let's hope we don't have to wait two more years for another addition to the Age of Empires family 
 on the DS. This franchise might not have a lot in common with the PC games upon which it is based, 
 but it has more than enough magic to keep you playing just one more turn for many hours.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The game was all right. The problem was that, what is the point. THe game in general makes little 
 to no scence. It was rather dull. THE computer cheats a whole lot making it just evil. I played 
 the age of Kings for my DS. That was good. I find that they should more often than no stop while 
 they are ahead. There are only two types of games that should be continued. Ones that can be made 
 into something new all together, or games that are still good, they just need a face lift. An example 
 of the first, ledgend of zelda. Example of the other, Doom. This game was neither. O. K. where was 
 I oh yes reason why I hate this game. I is a low end game. It has some bugs that are needed to 
 work out. They could have spent another month or two working it out. An example is when the enemy 
 computer moves their people more than once. pain in the neck. Anothe is less obvious. Did you notice 
 no mater how many turns that went by with little food or gold comming in that they could keep making 
 more and more high powered troops. To be noticed i found it odd, but did not pay attention to it 
 until I read one of the guides on this sight. (Yes I am that bad a games) . Overall. do not buy 
 this game even if you have money to spend. You do not get your monies worth, and I do not care 
 what others say. This game needs work. I should not have bought it. The only reason, I am a sucker 
 for mythology. But some people like the game, so rent it first, do not buy it right away, or look 
 in the clearence bin very soon. (either way) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalstarzer0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  OK first of all this game is not like the computer game much. It is a turn Based game that is a 
 little addicting. If you are good at it then it is very addicting. In the Egypt campaign (which 
 I am still tring to beat) is easy then gets challenging at the end. There is three main tribes 
 to choose from: the Egyptians, the Greek, and the Norse. It also seems as if there is a 4th tribe 
 for the end. You start out with a town center to build builders who build building to train troops, 
 get resources (to use to build and train) , and improve your stuff. Then you try to destroy the enemy's 
 buildings and troops and win the war. There are also other modes where you try to capture the temple 
 and keep it for a certain amount of time and in campaign there are sometimes special missions. 
 The overall game is good, it as OK graphics, and it takes a while to beat. This is a must buy for 
 stratagey game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthwormjim11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  With all these PC strategy games out there, with the mouse
  and fluid controls. But could it be possible to make a strategy game
  on the DS? The answer is 
 YES! Age of empires is a turn based 
  strategy game. Which is good, because it would be stressful 
  if it was real time. You start 
 off with a town center and your hero
  that you choose. 
  There are three races in the game. Egypt, Greek, and Norse.
  Each race has three major gods, 
 along with some minor gods
  and heroes. You can win by either destroying all of the
  enemies buildings and units or capturing temples.
  There are a number of modes to play. Such 
 as skirmish
  or campain. The bottom line is, If you like stratagy games
  and you have a DS. Get Age of Empires: Mythologies.
  It is a true masterpiece of gaming, and 
 strategy.
  So go buy it.......... now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of real-time strategy games, and long for them on the DS, which I think is perfectly 
 suited for the handheld. If you're like me, and look for RTS games on the DS, your options are 
 limited: the original AOE, Warhammer, perhaps Lock's Quest (great game) , and likely the best - 
 Advance Wars.
  
  I, however, am a huge Crusader-era fan, and naturally jumped on Age of Empires: Age of Kings - 
 which didn't disappoint. The next logial leap was to try Age of Empires: mythologies, and I can 
 say thankfully, that the game is just as good or better.
  
  You'll be particularly pleased if you're a fan of ancient mythologies, as you'll traverse the single 
 and unfortunately short campaigns with the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and Norse. "Special" units 
 are created which are the hallmark of the game, and will depend on the ancient mythological civilization 
 you're playing. Examples include medusas, chimeras, and more. The use of "God Powers" further enhances 
 the battle strategy, and is also a welcome addition.
  
  Overall, a compelling game that is worth playing. The DS should have much more of this type of 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EgyptRaider
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  Before i give you my opinion about the gaqmer i should tell you that I'm a huge fan of the Age 
 of Empires Trilogy, Age of Mythology on the PC.. and Age of Kings was from the beginning of my 
 DS "carrier" my favorite DS game.
  
  I was very exited when i heared about the fact that Age of Mythology (Wich was my favorite game 
 that day and brought me into the "Age of" series) came to the DS... I've followed it much and thought 
 it would really be a great game..
  But when i bought it.... it wasn't what i expected: a improved version of Age of Kings.
  
  
 The game itself isn't bad at all and a good rival compared to Civilization (and Advanced wars mayby 
 but i never played it) But when you go compare it to Age of Kings You miss many features wich made 
 Age of Kings so special and you see that the AI (wich was also to easy in age of kings) Is even 
 easier in Mythologies. Although it did improved visual and the fact that you can do it on Wifi. 
 (I'm not able to use Wifi, so it's even less interested for me)
  
  The Hotseat (Wich you also had in Age of Kings) has also a Major "error" what it shouldn't had. 
 While it's the turn of the PC.. you can't see him doing ANYTHING... so if you want to know what 
 is happing with your units and whos attacking who... you have to wait until it's your turn.
  
  When I look at the features Age of Kings had i miss some very good things:
  -First off all 
 i miss the special abilites wich made each unit unique. Let's say.. The Templars had a special 
 ability to heal during battle and is clearly seen on the screen that he does. 
  -Also one of the most important things in battle was the veteran systym.... after some battles 
 your soldiers get some stats improvement wich go up every 3 (or 2 in case of the samurai) survived 
 battles. This systym let you really do your best to keep ur units alive and retreat them back to 
 town. 
  -When you walked into a area of fog of war (a location you can't see) you could walk into a enemy's 
 tile and your turn with that unit ended. Although they also explain this in the Mythology Tutorial.. 
 your not even possible to walk on a area in fog of war where a enemy stands... wich throws away 
 the feature that you shouldn't go hasty into the fog of war.
  
  BUT... there are some gameplay features I'm glad they're gone or have been added.. (I don't include 
 gods choise wich I explain later on)
  -First things of wich I'm very glad they're gone are the castles.... They were to OP (over powered) ... 
 You could give the excuse: Heey... everyone can build one so you both have OP things... that unfortunatly 
 isn't true.... because the AI RARELY makes even a single castle... while you can have three to 
 four in each game... and they take even 4 tiles wich is very big...
  -Also a feature I'm glad it's gone/improved is the technology feature... Every turn you were able 
 to choise a single technology from your Empire Menu... In Mythologies you have to select one in 
 a building wich also counts for it's "unit"for the day. (a bit more like the PC versions had)
 
  -The civilizations are much more improved though..... I saw someone (i guess in another gamespot 
 review) complaining about the fact that the civ. amout has been reduced form 5 to 3.... but i don't 
 agree with that... the 5 civs from Age of Kings are hardly different from each other... (they only 
 have some useless bonuses wich you don't know at all... and have only TWO special units (Castle 
 unit and Hero) .... but while there are 5 civs there are only 3 different buildingstyles because 
 the french and english.. and the saracens and the mongols... have the same one... only the japanese 
 have a unique one.
  These small differences could you also largly compare to the three major gods of each civ.. (having 
 each some unique minor gods, and technologies.)
  So that would bring Mythologies to 9 civs... instead of 3 or even 5......
  
  The AI has been 
 in both games VERY bad... but in mythologies it is even worst... espacially the Norse..... because 
 they make rarely a ox cart.. and only have a town center wich spawns Ulfarks form age one wich 
 you can easily defeat with your Age III army around that time.
  Also the AI almost seldom creates myth units wich is very stupid ofcourse.
  
  When I go compare 
 the game to the PC version (for so far as possible) ... I do see that they have changed some things 
 wich they shouldn't..... Espacially for the minor god things...
  In the PC version you could each age up choise between two minor gods.. with his or hers unique 
 units and technologies wich is alo clearly stated in the age of screen. Now you are only left alone 
 with the name of the Minor god and the name of his or her mythical creature. (alhought this is 
 only annoying for beginners) .... also... you cant not just choise every age between two different 
 gods.. now you can only choise between 4.. or 5 gods... over the whole game.... (compared to the 
 PC where you could choise over the whole game 6 gods.) Leaving out a few gods wich you and me could 
 have been one of your favorites one... (Like Ptah was to me.)
  
  The Campaing is HORRIBLE..... but I'm largely talking about the story... it images Set, Hades and 
 Loki as pure evil gods.... wich they were not.. (I don't know of Loki thouh) Hades was just lord 
 of the underworld... not evil or anything... and Set also wasn't evil... only painted as evil during 
 the war against Horus and Osiris....
  
  The thing I REALLY miss is a feature EVERY game had... both Mythologies games as well as the age 
 of empires serie... is the history menu or the library... Alhough many of you never used... there 
 are enough who did... It's just part of the whole serie.... and suddenly the left it out...... 
 How stupid van you be as creator?!...
  
  Also the controls and use of the screens has gotten worse.... In Age of Kings I really used the 
 touch screen alot wich was used pretty good.. (hard to explain now) but.. in Mythologies I never 
 used it... (believe me, I tried alot) So now I only use the normal buttons... (taking away a big 
 feature of the DS) ... The Top screen wich gived ALL information about terrain units buildings etc. 
 has been "raped" (didn't know another word ;) ) by the creators... Instead of good stratical information 
 the went for some "nice" decoration....
  
  The Terrain info has also gone from 100 to 0.... First every type of terrain had a specific range 
 of sight, sight cost, movement cost, defense improvement and range increasement (or decreasement) 
 and the fact if siege untis or cavalry could walk on it or not..... It did used some practise to 
 learn all this but it does give a huge stratical boost.... Mythologies has only now defence increasement 
 (or decreament) ...
  
  The Unlockables though are much better, more and nicer.. and takes some time to unlock..
  
 
  Every comment i have said was about strategy and gameplay wich are in my opinion the most important 
 thing.... but ofcourse it's essential to say that the game did improved alot with visual and sounds... 
 and transported alot of sounds from the PC to the DS... (wich is a good thing.. really)
  
  I think i have said everything I needed to say by now...
  
  So as conclusion...
  
  The 
 game itself is.... nice and still worth to buy as it could entertain you for a very long time... 
 But compared to age of kings it's a huge letdown... and if you haven't Age of Kings and are planning 
 to buy mythologies..... Try to get your hands on Age of Kings wich is by far a better game then 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bllasae
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great expansion to the original Age of Empires: Age of Kings, but with one crucial difference, 
 Mythical units. Now, being a fan of the Age of Mythology game on the PC, I knew that I had to have 
 this game, and it does not disappoint. The game features single player and multiplayer, the single 
 player also including Campaigns, tutorials, scenarios, and a skirmish mode. The Campaign, which 
 is great by itself, includes Egyptian, Greek, and Norse civilizations. The tutorials, obviously, 
 introduce you to the game, and the skirmish mode is the "Random map" option from other RTS games. 
 The game is great, and a great addition to anyone's library that loved the first Age of Empires: 
 The Age of Kings game, and also anybody who loves the Age of Mythology game for the PC, and other 
 Real Time Strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of 2006's sleeper hit Age of Empires: The Age of Kings, which was a relatively 
 basic (for a strategy game) yet entertaining experience. It didn't have many modes and its visuals 
 were ugly, though, which set it below other DS strategy games such as Advance Wars or Civilization. 
 Mythologies is here to set things right and outdoes Age of Kings in just about every way, and is 
 a welcome addition to Ensemble's time-honored series.
  
  Keep in mind that even if you enjoy other portable strategy titles, you may want to stay away from 
 Mythologies. Mythologies' depth is more complicated than almost anything else on the system, and 
 it really takes a time commitment to be comfortable with the game. In fact, matches can last hours, 
 which unfortunately ensures online opponents will rarely stick around for a full match (even when 
 an opponent disconnects you don't get the Win) .
  
  If you can get past the hardcore learning curve, though, Mythologies is a TBS fan's Heaven. The 
 wealth of modes here is fantastic... Hot seat, DS download play, multi-card play, scenario matches, 
 skirmishes, three campaigns, tutorials, achievements, online play -- the list goes on and on. Mythologies 
 is more feature-packed than most console games; it takes dozens of hours to unlock everything, 
 and even then only the skillful will be able to do so. The game also rewards you every time you 
 play, which is nice.
  
  If you've ever played a game in the genre before, you know what to expect from Mythologies' concept. 
 You start off with nothing but a Town Center and a Hero and slowly build more buildings/units to 
 conquer everyone else on the map. Your units can only build around your Town Center, and unlike 
 in Age of Kings you cannot create new Town Centers (or Castles) . Instead, there are one or two 
 neutral town centers on the map that players can take over if they want. Another addition to Mythologies 
 is that you select Gods who, while not visible on the field, can use a powerful ability once. You 
 start off with one God, and each time you Age Up (by researching techniques and acquiring large 
 amounts of resources) you can select one more. 
  
  There are three races you can play as (Greek, Norse or Egypt) ; each race has their own special 
 units and unique strengths. Unlike Age of Kings, there is a very large difference between each 
 race; for example, the Norse race doesn't even build mines or mills to acquire resources (they 
 create Ox Carts, which stand on resources for awhile and slowly acquire them) . It would have been 
 nice to have more races, but it's definitely a strong improvement over Age of Kings.
  
  Maps are consistently large, which is mainly why matches take so long. In parts this is good; it 
 requires more strategy and skill to win a match. At the same time, this makes Mythologies not very 
 good as a portable title. If you're hunting a game to play during short lunch breaks or bus rides, 
 don't get Mythologies -- not only does it require a lot of thought process (meaning playing at 
 home is optimal, thanks to the lack of noise) , you'll never get close to completing a match. Plus, 
 once you take a break from your DS, it's virtually impossible to come back and try to complete 
 a match without rethinking your strategy for a few minutes.
  
  Combat in general has changed. Ranged units are a lot better, and siege units can attack and move 
 in the same turn. "Myth" units have been introduced, which are large, powerful fantasy creatures. 
 There are now three main types of units; Humans (strong against heroes) , heroes (strong against 
 myth) and myth (strong against humans) . The rock-paper-scissor idea works like a charm and everything 
 is balanced perfectly. The biggest change from Age of Kings is that every unit has differing amounts 
 of health, as opposed to every unit having 10 hit points. The AI has drastically improved. The 
 game always plays to its races' strengths surprisingly well, and don't be surprised if Mythologies 
 hands you your butt if you crank the AI up to hard.
  
  Gameplay aside, Mythologies' visuals and sound are certainly improved. Everything is a lot more 
 detailed, and Myth units look great and are large on the field. Occasionally this can create a 
 camera issue, but it's no big deal. The visual design is frustratingly generic, however, which 
 keeps Mythologies from being on par with other DS strategy titles. As opposed to each race having 
 a theme song, in Mythologies only one song plays the entire battle (maps have their own songs) . 
 The soundtrack is good and voice overs are nice, although hearing the same song dozens of times 
 will understandably get old.
  
  Quibbles aside, this is easily one of the deepest DS games out there, and if you're a strategy 
 fan with no fear of a learning curve this game is for you. It may not be good for portable play, 
 but Mythologies' sheer number and quality of modes is astounding. Mythologies is mostly a winner; 
 just don't expect to be treated to the same fantastic online play or exceptional visual design 
 you can be treated to in other DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Age of Kings and this sequel is very much like that game, but with improved more colorful 
 2D graphics and some new army types that includes mythological creatures. The basic gameplay is 
 the same as before with only slight variations. One reader review lamented that one cannot make 
 veteran troops anymore but that's not a deal breaker. There's a city upgrade to make veteran troops 
 early in the game. It certainly doesnt ruin the game that a troop that survives a battle no longer 
 become "veterans."
  
  Faults? Not many but it should be mentioned that the upgraded graphics come at the cost of some 
 sluggish framerates when scrolling around the map, versus their previous game.
  
  The game is too easy though, even at the harder difficulties. As long as you play a careful game 
 and send in troops in groups, you'll win. This was a problem with the previous game too and its 
 a shame this game continues to be too easy.
  
  The weirdest thing (and it seriously affects strategy) is that one cannot get rid of a troop or 
 villager once created (unless you send it into battle to kill it on purpose) . This can be a serious 
 strategic concern since you can have only support so many troops with food. If you make too many 
 villagers early in the game and then get attacked, you may find yourself wondering why the game 
 makers wont let you get rid of troops you dont need any more.
  
  What would make the game better? A more aggressive enemy AI. Too often the AI holds back, and its 
 just a matter of me going in there with enough troops to destroy its buildings. 
  
  The new heros and god powers are fun to deploy and the game is still worth the bucks if you like 
 turn-based games. I gotta wonder exactly how long the GS reviewer played this game. There's some 
 issues like the ones I mention above and I'm kinda surprised they arent covered in the GS review 
 because they should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maethlin
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I seem to be the lone dissenter here, but I feel strongly enough about it to write a review. I 
 really cannot understand the high accolades this games gets. Don't get me wrong, it's not a terrible 
 game. Good turn-based strategy is hard to come by on any platform, so I welcome this effort.
  
  But in light of it's predecessor, this one really just falls flat. First and foremost is the 
 omission of unit-leveling. The fact that every unit could level up in AoE: Age of Kings was a great 
 feature which totally drew you into the game and made you attached to your units. You did everything 
 you could to keep your veterans alive, and to develop new veterans that could withstand punishment.
 
  
  Taking that away from AoE: Mythologies really takes away a lot of the feel of the game. That aside, 
 this game also sports fewer factions, and the other cardinal sin of gaming... waaaay too easy a 
 difficulty. Perhaps I'm growing too old, but I really miss the days when game developers made you 
 work for your wins. In fact, even Age of Kings was a tad easy but Mythologies is a relative cakewalk.
 
  
  I would be much happier if they just brought back a new AoK with many new scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azriel1990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Two years ago, Age of Empires: Age of Kings graced the DS, based on the PC game of the same name. 
 Unlike it's predecessor, the game was a TBS (Turn Based Strategy) not an RTS and saw several omissions 
 including certain factions, naval units/ battles and a several other things present in the original. 
 Never the less, the game was still a fine remake and one of the best TBS of 2006.
  
  Two years on and the follow up to AoK has finally been released; Age of Empires: Mythologies. Like 
 it's predecessor, this is based on a classic PC title, the combat system is turn based with you 
 building up your income, god powers and your army, researching technologies, aging up and eventually 
 crushing your opponents. You play as either the Egyptians, Greeks or Norse through 3 lengthy campaigns 
 all of which present varying challenges with increasing difficulty. 
  
  In addition to the conventional units, there are now Myth units, these are specialised units which 
 are summoned via specially built structures (temples, shrines etc.) . Myth units are a fun addition 
 to the battlefield, and watching a squad of Anubites crush enemy cavalry or a giant Scarab beetle 
 dismantling an enemy building never gets old. As you age up you will align yourself with various 
 Gods and Goddesses such as Anubis, Hathor, Thor, Athena etc. who will grant you special bonuses 
 and powers to use on the battlefield.
  
  These powers include Locust Swarm where you devastate the enemies food production for several turns, 
 Deluge which floods the River Nile damaging all enemies on the battlefield or Eclipse which shrouds 
 the battlefield in darkness and increases the strength of your Myth units, these powers are available 
 plus many more. In addition to the three campaigns, there are also options for Skirmish mode, Multiplayer 
 wireless, wi-fi and hot seat matches, DS Download and Play and Scenario mode featuring set piece 
 battles for each civilization. There are also the usual unlockables with the new addition of an 
 achievement system similar to the one used on the 360 and Ps3. Oddly however, the game lacks the 
 library from AoK.
  
  The visuals are a fairly good step up from AoK, with units looking more detailed and battle animations 
 looking much, much better. Visuals however do still suffer from becoming too cluttered during large 
 battles (particularly siege battles) . The audio isn't particularly inspiring with the same sound 
 effects being heard over and over. But considering the scope of the rest of the game, this is easily 
 forgivable.
  
  The game itself doesn't make drastic changes to the series, take away the God abilities and Myth 
 and Hero units and you essentially have a game very similar to Age of Kings in terms of the gaming 
 mechanics. Combat hasn't changed, each turn you move your units around, construct unit/ resource 
 production buildings, research technologies to improve your military and help you advance to the 
 next age and finally defeating your enemy by conquering their city. Unlike in AoK, simply destroying 
 the Town Centre isn't enough, you have to capture it with one of your own villagers which is a 
 nice twist. Attacking the enemy is very much a sort of rock, paper, scissors set up (e. g. Spears 
 are good against Cavalry but week against Heavy Infantry etc.) . But there are enough changes to 
 make the game seem refreshing and not just "another sequel".
  
  There are some minor flaws, the above mentioned lack of a library which is disappointing (would've 
 been nice to read up on all the different myth units, heroes, civilizations, Gods etc.) . On top 
 of this the stylus controls can be a little clumsy at times, especially in big battles when there 
 are lots of units on screen, the battle effects (when destroying enemy buildings) also seem to 
 have been toned down a little. None of these flaws however are truly game destroying, they are 
 in fact relatively minor.
  
  While it doesn't reinvent the wheel, it doesn't break it either. If you played and enjoyed AoK 
 DS or loved the originals this is a must buy for 2009. A lengthy, in depth and thoroughly addicting 
 TBS with plenty of re-playability potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Three interesting factions with many gods to appease and use. Solid rock-paper-scissors style turn 
 based warfare.
  
  The Bad:
  A lot shorter than the original, and fewer races to try. Many of the differences between the races 
 are cosmetic. A lot easier than the first one.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  It was the first AoE that prompted me to buy a DS when it first came out, and was the first game 
 I played on the DS. Of course, that experience spoiled me rotten, in that I was treated to one 
 of the best turn-based strategy wargames for any handheld. Stylish, long, fun, and, yes, educational, 
 with some nice descriptions of real historical figures and their actions in the middle ages. The 
 standard rock-paper-scissors style of combat (pikemen beat horses beat footsoldiers) made for some 
 interesting tactical decisions. 
  
  So now, we have AoE-2, with three new factions to play, and a whole slew of new features. How does 
 it measure up?
  
  Well, fortunately, a lot of the good was retained from the original: interesting settings, decent 
 graphics, and fun-to-play game mechanics involving a combination of resource management and army-building. 
 Unlike the other main competitor in this genre, Advance Wars, you can build your army any way you 
 see fit, with buildings that churn out several types of a particular warrior (archers, infantry, 
 cavalry) , rather than have a set army to work with on the board. So, if you want to create nothing 
 but a bunch of archers, you can try that strategy. While this sort of game usually encourages turtling 
 up, AoE mildly punishes you for not exploring much, since you need to mine for gold and farm food 
 on specific squares on the map.
  
  This incarnation has a new layer of strategy involved: in addition to the usual light and heavy 
 infantry, archers, and cavalry, there are three "kinds" of units available: human, mythological, 
 and god. So, you can a mythological archer, or a god-infantry, etc. These three 'kinds' also have 
 a rock-paper-scissors setup, increasing the tactical possibilities.
  
  Whie it sounds complex and thrilling on paper, in practice, the game is, most of the time, relatively 
 straightforward, such that when the enemy attacks with a certain type, you send in the appropriately 
 strong countertype to mop up. This punch-counterpunch gameplay continues right through the entire 
 game, which is, unfortunately, relatively short. Each faction only has 8 missions, and each mission 
 is between 5-30 minutes, depending on your tactical abilities. However, thanks to skirmish and 
 multiplayer modes, this isn't that much of an issue either. The AI is nowhere near as ruthless 
 as that found in Advance Wars, resulting in an easy-going set of battles where you typically start 
 out on the defensive, build up your resources and age-up to gain stronger versions of your units, 
 and sweep across the map decimating all in your path. The only deviation from this formula comes 
 with the occasional boss battle (which aren't that difficult either) , or a no-build map where you 
 are given a set number of units and need to accomplish some task. Once finished the main story, 
 however, 'hard' more unlocks and the game's challenge level improves significantly. 
  
  One major deviation from the first AoE is the lack of historical buildup prior to each battle. 
 Maybe I'm alone on this, but that was a big part of the charm of the first AoE . Luckily, though, 
 it is enjoyable to play, and easy on the eyes and ears, so most won't mind. 
  
  Graphically, things are improved over the first one, with maps seeming less cluttered, and animations 
 looking smooth and clean. Not clean enough to want to use the stylus, but luckily the arrows and 
 buttons configuration is very intuitive, and not an impediment to playing at all.
  
  
  In summary, AoE-2 adds some new depth of strategy with the inclusion of gods and mythological units, 
 but sacrifices the depth of storyline. The skirmish mode, though, more than makes up for the lack 
 of length and depth, making this one a permanent fixture in most libraries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I tried the first AoE for DS, and though I thought it was a solid strategy game, it was a bit dry 
 for my taste. I never quite took to it with the zeal needed to see me through to the end. But... I'm 
 a huge mythology buff (as I'm sure many of you are) , and I couldn't help being curious about the 
 follow-up.
  
  Mythologies is a turn-based strategy game, and in terms of movement, it's very similar to Advance 
 Wars. However, the overall gameplay structure is more akin to the Warcraft series, in that you're 
 building structures to produce units, such as builders, infantry, mythological creatures, heroes, 
 etc.
  
  There's also a basic rock, paper, scissors formula in place; human units are weak against myth 
 units, myth units are weak against hero units, and heroes are weak against human. However, there's 
 also the consideration of each individual unit type, as light infantry are generally weak against 
 calvary, and so on and so forth. And therein lies most of the strategy for this game. Wisdom in 
 your choice of unit movement will be key to your success during missions.
  
  The game's broken up into three different campaigns (with eight missions in each) -- Egyptian, 
 Greek and Norse -- and surprisingly, they all play quite a bit differently from one another. You 
 start out with the Egyptian mythology, and it plays a lot like the first AoE DS. It's fairly straight-forward 
 and does a bit of hand-holding to get you prepared each step of the way (there are separate tutorial 
 missions as well) . But when you move into the Greek campaign, the missions start to get varied 
 up a nice bit, and you're left to figure certain things out on your own, though nothing that should 
 stump anyone familiar with this type of gameplay. There are even bosses at the end of certain missions, 
 and they are good fun to take on, offering a real challenge.
  
  Probably the strongest element of Mythologies is its ability to keep you interested. Strategy games 
 in general can be a bit tedious and time consuming, with little action to keep your attention. 
 But almost every mission in Mythologies starts you out with the chips stacked heavily against you, 
 though as long you play smartly, you'll almost always succeed. There's so much reward in seeing 
 your armies slowly gain the upper hand, and it's a formula that fills you with a desire to keep 
 on playing to see what the game will throw at you next.
  
  The stories are also very interesting, and if you're into mythology, the presentation here should 
 definitely satisfy. There aren't any long and drawn out segments of dialogue, but what's offered 
 is entertaining and adds so much to what could otherwise be a fairly dry experience.
  
  It also doesn't hurt that the game looks fantastic. You couldn't tell by looking at screenshots, 
 perhaps, but Mythologies offers some of the most detailed and attractive 3D graphics on DS. The 
 on-map models and skirmish animations are really cool to look at, but when you actually see the 
 models up close on the top screen, it's damned impressive. Sound effects and music are also well 
 crafted and do a great job of supporting the gameplay.
  
  Mythologies is a great package with lots to do. Some missions can take over an hour to complete, 
 and I'd guesstimate there's likely over 20 hours of gameplay in total just for the single-player 
 offering alone. But the multiplayer is also quite extensive, with both single-card play and online. 
 If you had trouble getting into the first game, this AoE might have the formula you were looking 
 for. Using mythology as its thrust was a great idea for the series on DS, and the presentation 
 and entertaining missions just help bolster what was already a great game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
