-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Age of Empires: The Age of Kings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/ageofempiresiiageofkings/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engaging turn-based strategy effectively translated from the classic PC series.
 Five compelling campaigns pack in many hours of gameplay.
 Dozens of different unit types and unique technologies to research.
 Great presentation features lively battle sequences and good music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay's pace can get sluggish in larger battles.
 Visuals sometimes get too cluttered.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,377 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Backbone
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date: Feb 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The hit PC real-time strategy series goes turn-based in this well-designed translation, which packs 
 a surprising amount of historic battles into a small package. 

  Talk about a pleasant surprise. Age of Empires for the Nintendo DS shares its name with the popular 
 and long-running PC real-time strategy game series, but it's been completely redesigned to play 
 well on a portable system. Specifically, this is a turn-based strategy game that plays much more 
 like Advance Wars than like previous Age of Empires games, which force you to be very quick with 
 the mouse and keyboard in order to succeed. Yet almost all of the elements that made the original 
 version of Age of Empires II so great are still here, despite such a fundamental change to the 
 gameplay. There are a few relatively minor issues with Age of Empires for the DS, but for the most 
 part, this is a fun, deep, and addictive strategy game that packs in a good history lesson to boot. 

          Move over, peanut butter and chocolate. Age of Empires for the DS is a winning combination 
 of the depth and content of Age of Empires II and the slick turn-based design of Advance Wars. 
     

  Last year's long-awaited Age of Empires III took the series into the colonial era, but this game 
 takes the conquest back to the medieval ages, where armies lived and died primarily by the sword. 
 The game features five different playable factions: The Franks, the Japanese, the Mongols, the 
 Saracens, and the Britons. That's fewer than you might expect if you're familiar with Age of Empires 
 II, but you'll appreciate having the ability to recruit unique mercenary units from other civilizations, 
 such as Persian war elephants, Viking berserkers, or rifle-wielding Turkish janissaries. Each faction 
 gets its own single-player campaign spanning five or six missions (big missions in most cases) . 
 The game does a great job of infusing these campaigns with storylines based around the trials and 
 tribulations of some of history's greatest military heroes: Joan of Arc, Yoshitsune Minamoto, Genghis 
 Khan, Saladin, and Richard the Lionheart. The stories mostly unfold between missions, but they're 
 well written and engaging, so you might just come away from this game eager to learn more about 
 these great tacticians. More importantly, the campaign missions are generally diverse and interesting, 
 challenging you to make some tough decisions, tempting you with optional objectives, and surprising 
 you with occasional twists. You can play the campaigns in any order, though they're successively 
 more difficult, and you must play through the missions themselves linearly.  

  The campaigns could easily last you more than 20 hours, and at that point, you've still got skirmish 
 matches and multiplayer battles to explore. Skirmish matches can include up to four human or computer-controlled 
 players, and there's a wide selection of maps to choose from (though there's no option to make 
 your own maps) . Multiplayer supports local wireless play if you've got friends with their own copies 
 of the game, though luckily, there's a pass-and-play option as well. Because this is a turn-based 
 game, it's actually pretty convenient to pass the DS from one player to the next between turns. 
 The multiplayer options are nice to have, but thankfully the computer artificial intelligence puts 
 up a solid fight. Multiple AI personalities and difficulty settings are available as well. What's 
 more, as you finish campaign missions, you earn points with which you can unlock some new units 
 and a bunch of new maps. In case it isn't already clear, there's a lot of stuff to play in here. 

          The five big campaigns do a good job of staying focused on interesting historical characters, 
 while putting you through some big, tough battles.     

  The game initially looks like Age of Empires II, and even though it's turn-based, a lot of tried-and-true 
 real-time strategy conventions carry over. You'll be looking at a map from an isometric perspective 
 on the bottom screen, while the top screen shows you detailed information about different terrain, 
 buildings, and unit types. During your turn, you can move all your units, engage in battles, build 
 structures, and conduct research. Then, when you choose to call it a day, your allies or opponents 
 do the same, and so it goes until either you win or you lose. The game does a good job of preserving 
 the task of having to build up a base and establish an economy, but without miring you down in 
 micromanagement. You do need food and gold to train units, build structures, and research new technologies, 
 and you get it simply by having villagers construct mills on wheat fields or mines on gold deposits. 
 Then you get additional resources each new turn, enabling you to fund your war machine.  

  Building a diverse military force is the key to victory, since every unit type is effective against 
 some other unit type. For example, swordsmen, cavalry, and spearmen have a rock-paper-scissors-style 
 relationship, so as tempting as it might be to recruit a horde of knights on horseback, your opponent 
 could easily counter you just by training a bunch of inexpensive spear-wielding troops. Of course, 
 things get to be more complex than that once you factor in various long-range units like archers 
 and skirmishers, siege weapons like battering rams and trebuchets, and more. On top of that, you 
 constantly need to weigh the benefits of training more units versus using your resources to improve 
 your technology. With enough research and spare resources, you can "age up" to the next stage of 
 your civilization's history, which makes your units stronger and gives you access to new types 
 of troops, buildings, and technology. So there's a technological race happening in the background 
 even as your military clashes with your enemy.  

          It's one of those games that can keep you playing for 'just one more turn' for a long time. 
     

  The main issues with Age of Empires for the DS are mechanical or cosmetic. You can't scroll the 
 screen that quickly whether you're using the D pad or the stylus to play, so on larger maps, the 
 action starts to feel a bit sluggish. What's more, battles containing multiple opponents also tend 
 to bog down, since the AI noticeably takes time to think through its turn. As for the problems 
 with the presentation, the map graphics -- while attractive in general -- can start to clutter up badly 
 when you've got a lot of units and buildings in close proximity. You've still got the detailed 
 view on the top screen to help inform you, but things can get confusing at a glance. Finally, the 
 game's great-looking battle sequences are reminiscent of the clashes between armies in Advance 
 Wars, but in time, you'll want to skip them. You can, but the game doesn't give you good feedback 
 about a battle unless you watch it. Killed units simply disappear from the map without any sort 
 of visual or audio cue. These types of setbacks really don't do much to hurt Age of Empires, but 
 they do detract from it a little.  

  The presentation of Age of Empires for DS is mostly great, though. Rousing (but repetitive) musical 
 themes aptly fit each of the different factions, and sound effects for screams, acknowledgments, 
 clashing swords, and such were mostly lifted from Age of Empires II and get the job done well. 
 Meanwhile, there's unique artwork for the different campaigns and all the dozens of technologies 
 you can research, and watching the smoothly animated armies clash on the top screen can be genuinely 
 exciting. So even though there's a fine strategy game underneath it all, Age of Empires doesn't 
 skimp on the quality of its presentation. In short, if you're on the hunt for another portable 
 strategy game to keep you busy either for hours on end or for a few minutes at a time, don't hesitate 
 to check this one out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (98 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Morto00x
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the screenshots for this game I thought it would be really crappy (since I was 
 expecting a real-time strategy game) . My opinion changed after playing this game for 5 minutes.
 
  
  This game reminds me the old Warlords 3 (1997 version) game with an Age of Empires environment. 
 Good times!
  
  On the down side, a few things really bother me. First, the game can become really crappy when 
 you are in the middle of a battle and you basically have a bunch of units crammed together in a 
 small space and you can't really see what units you have are looking at. I guess the size of the 
 DS screen is the main reason to that. Because of this I found really annoying to play with the 
 stylus as I always ended up selecting the wrong thing. 
  The other annoying thing is the inability to kill/delete your own units. Having a bunch of villagers 
 making farms and mines at first can be very useful. But once you are already into battling and 
 having reached the capacity limit, all those villagers are a pain in the butt.
  
  Nonetheless, I'd really recommend it if you are into turn-based strategy games (especially because 
 I can't think of another game of this kind for the DS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan099
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  very hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant 
 win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery 
 hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but 
 funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard cant win... but funvery hard 
 cant win... but fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceGamer01
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is HIGHLY recommended to anyone who LOVES stradigey games and loves AGE OF empire
  
  this game really just is made up of old heros such as joan of ark, sala -ad-din , king richard 
 and much more!
  
  this game is pretty hard if you are used to the controls of the computer version but once you start 
 the tutorial you get it in like 5 seconds.
  
  There are some bad sides to this game though like
  
  if you pay to faast then it will freeze 
 and you will lose ur progress and that is bad another thing is that if you get on the game again 
 the song will be really wierd.
  
  if it weren't for those This game would've gotton a ten from me.
  
  WHAT"RE YOU W8tTING FOR 
 GO BUY THE GAME AT SAMS (IF THEY STILL HAD ANY)  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friedweasel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun to play. You can play as one of five factions being either the Britons, 
 Franks, Mongols, Saracens or Japanese. Each army have their unique hero's and the campaigns are 
 based around the stories of these heroes with a lot of historical accuracy. For example you can 
 play as Joan of Arc saving the Franks from the British invaders. Or you can play as Genghis Kahn 
 going around and conquering the Middle East.
  
  This game is a turn based strategy but maintains the same feel of it's P. C counterparts. Instead 
 of being quite quick with your keyboard and mouse trying to keep up with everything you can go 
 about it in a more sluggish matter making the best decisions and thinking everything through, a 
 bit like and advance game of chess. One thing about this game is that it isn't short. With a 25 
  30 hour campaign mode and extensive skirmish and multiplayer mode there is plenty to do. Plus 
 as you complete campaign levels you gain points which can be used to get extras like special units 
 and extra skirmish maps further increasing this games longevity. This game features an excellent 
 multiplayer system although no internet play. If you have friends with this game you can play turn 
 to turn via wifi on everyone's consoles. But what I really like is the fact that you have a hot 
 seat mode. You can have 4 people playing on one console and being turn based passing the console 
 around really doesn't effect the game play ( unless you forget to end the day and everyone sees 
 what you have done ) .
  
  Another great point of this game is the visuals. It is played from an isometric view point like 
 many great strategy games and the graphics are nice. On the bottom screen you can control your 
 armies using either the touch screen or button controls. On the top screen you can view unit, structure 
 or terrain information and when your units come to battle you can view the battle sequence. The 
 battle sequences have a nice 3-D graphical style and in despite the fact that they often have minor 
 but noticeable errors add quite a lot to the game.
  
  One of the points which isn't so positive is that it can get quite slow. Whether that the A. I can 
 get a bit slow to make up its mind when there are 3 or 4 players or that moving around is a bit 
 slow there is a lot about this game that is slow. Overall this is a great game with high marks 
 from most reviews and high marks all around with me. Fried Smash Weasel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game overall is a great turn based strategy game for your DS. This is a great game and is 
 worth the 30 some dolllars for it.
  
  Story
  
  I have to say the story here is lack luster because watching the worded movie and medival pictures 
 didnt really keep me intreasted in the story that long. But its overall strategy and gameplay kept 
 me playing.
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The gameplay itsself is pretty fun. The sixty some units you get in the game are fun to play with 
 in the game and the terrian and map are niceley detailed. Some missions take longer than others 
 and the occasional glitch in the game made me start the mission over or having to start on the 
 last saved game. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  For the DS these graphics are pretty top notch. Watching the 3D animations are fun to watch, such 
 as using archers and rainiing arrows down from afar is pretty satisfiying.
  
  Sound
  
  The Medival Music in the game adds a nice depth to keep you playing the game for a long time.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  With its nice graphics, great strategy, and innovative design this game was fairly fun to play 
 but the occasional glitch and lack luster story kept me from giving it a solid 8. But for people 
 who love turn based strats. than this game is for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchiz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Still playing this. Already anticipating being sad when it's all done! As an oldster (46) who's 
 relatively new to gaming (I have a Wii and a DS) I feel I'm only just starting to understand why 
 people liked TBS games in *any* format, like Risk (which went soooo slowly I could never stand 
 it) . Now, with the instant gratification and learning curve of an electronic opponent -- to say 
 nothing of the accompanying library and other features -- I'm hooked. PLEASE tell me Advance Wars 
 games for DS can hold a candle to this?? My only complaint is that the graphics are awfully cramped. 
 There should be a zoon function with games like this so you can quickly pick out one unit from 
 another. 
  
  On a more sober note, it really does make you think about the grueling length of some of these 
 wars, and the human costs. We're lucky to be experiencing this stuff merely as a game, no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 22, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  For those of you thinking about getting the game because you liked the PC version and are wondering 
 the differences and how good it is, I would read this first and then rent.
  
  First off, I would get the game with a manual. Unfortunately, since its only available used it'll 
 be harder to get.
  
  The NUMBER ONE MAJOR DIFFERENCE is that this game isn't in real time. You can only move/create 
 one unit each turn/day, and even then they have limited walking space. This is a good idea for 
 battle, but villagers, monks, and creation, its a bit time consuming.
  
  Next is resources. Wood and stone don't exist. Also you don't mine/collect* here. You build a mill/camp 
 on a gold rock/wheat and then for mills build a farm, and start earning income each day. (*There 
 are some bonuses that you do get though)
  
  Several units don't exist especially since there's only 5 campaigns. Like the gun powder men, they 
 don't exist. Also towers are for healing/defense only. The wall also doesn't exist. Monks can heal, 
 collect relics, and convert units but not buildings. 
  
  And also the cheat codes don't work (like MARCO, POLO, ROCK ON, ROBIN HOOD) .
  
  In addition 
 there are pre-set skirmish maps, but you can't make your own map.
  
  The music is different too, except on the title screen.
  
  Lastly, the game can only save one 
 file, which kinda sucks if your working on multiple campaigns or if you made a mistake on one (but 
 I guess one is better than none) .
  
  But overall, the game isn't that bad and has a lot of playtime (you could be looking at a whole 
 summer evenings even) . 
  
  But I'd rent it first or get it at a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Seeing as I have been an avid Real-Time strategist for at least a couple of years now, I thought 
 try something new. However, this isn't my first time on a Turn-Based game as Civilisation was once 
 a game in my 'illustrious' collection of classic games.. So, moving on slightly, Age of Empires; 
 Age of Kings is a PC port from the classic that was released way back in '99 (but it isn't the 
 first time the has been a port of AoE as there is one on the PS2.) on the Nintendo DS, and, as 
 ever, I will tell if I thought this game is a classic or just.. y'know, a flop.
  Firstly, AoE; AoK's positives, I must have to concede first how impressed I was with the games 
 interface, very polished and with easy navigation, which opens the account of Backbone's release 
 well. Furthermore, there is a tutorial which helps very kindly in learning the basics as this is 
 basically the first of its kind, with you helping Joan of Arc on her march to reclaim France from 
 Britain etc. Also while playing in this section of the game I began to take note of how excellant 
 the visuals looked, for a DS game at least, as I believe it would of been hard to determine which 
 angle is best for the game to operate at to give the player the best viewing point. When I got 
 into the campaign I honestly thought that AoE would crumble miserably as the possibilities of pulling 
 of a decent campaign semt rather slim at this stage, but, I was intrigued to see that the campaign 
 does play very well and that it is of a very good length which certainly kept me entertained for 
 a long period of time to say the very least.
  Also I am very pleased because AoE keeps simpally the most enjoyable aspect of any RTS or TBS game, 
 Skirmish Mode, with the five nations (or, in this stage in history, better known as factions) to 
 choose from the outstanding amount of maps to choose from and the nice feature to customise what 
 style you want the apposing AI to fight in (agressive, defensive, both etc) is especially good.
 
  To add to AoE seemingly endless amount of positives, also there are lots of unlockables to attempt 
 to get by earning 'Empire Points' by winning games and rankings for your profile to go up in, which 
 is accompanied by a 'Library' to view the history of the different campaigns, civilisations, heros 
 and buildings the game has an outstanding amount of replay value for you to enjoy.
  Even so, AoE does have some negatives to dumb down the seeming euphoria that arised when I first 
 purchased the game, a little dissapointed is that animations in the fighting scenes could have 
 been a little more crisp and generally enjoyable to watch. Also, it would have been nice to be 
 able for your cities to have a little more freedom by building structures more spaced out rather 
 than looking more congested and hard to distinguish the buildings from the units, and lastly it 
 also would have been nice to see single-cart multiplayer options and also WiFi, which would of 
 really made this game something very special (although in my eyes it already is.) .
  As a conclusion to my first DS review since joining Gamespot, I would like to reccomend this game 
 to any Rts or Tbs lovers who have the priviledge to own a Nintendo DS. It has a wide range of single-player 
 options and the opportunity to play in multiplayer, although as I said it would of been nice to 
 see the single-cart play and WiFi, the game does succeed in creating a decent, if not itself a 
 classic, port from the PC original AoE; Age of Kings.
  
  /HiiperDrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Here's a quick review...
  
  I've been holding out buying this game, but I've been on a strategy kick lately, after just recently 
 beating the latest Advance Wars and playing some medieval strategy boardgames with friends. I've 
 heard good things about the AoE game for DS, so when I finally found a copy (not as easy as I expected) 
 I decided to give it a try.
  
  Those familiar with turn-based strategy games will have no problem diving right into AoE. The game 
 plays out in a series of missions... on some, your forces are pre-deployed, and others you must 
 create them by having villagers build a town. Town construction plays almost like AoE's RTS roots, 
 you must build resource-gathering buildings on resource-full sites using your building units, then 
 manufacture garrisons and the like to muster forces. In addition to all this, many buildings can 
 be upgraded by building others adjacent to them, and you can conduct research to give random bonuses 
 to your army. It's quite fun, and adds some depth to the game.
  
  When it comes to fighting, it plays just about as you expect a fantasy game like this would. There 
 are several different types of units, that have all sorts of logical strengths and weaknesses. 
 You can field infantry, which are good at destroying enemy buildings. Cavalry move fast and smash 
 infantry, but fall to pikemen. Archers can attack from several squares away. You can also build 
 war machines that move slowly but decimate units and buildings. There's a fair amount of unlockable 
 units too, and the more you research in your town, the more upgraded units you can field.
  
  And so, you slosh through the campaign, marching units across the countryside, waging battles 
 and razing enemy towns. All good fun. The game is really solid, and the AI is only stupid when 
 it wants to be (basically, in the tutorial missions) . The mission plots draw on actual historical 
 accounts, so they're somewhat interesting. The multiplayer functions are all there, with plenty 
 of maps to play... a shame you can't make your own though. I also find myself wishing there might 
 have been a single-card download play function, but that might just be wishful thinking on my part, 
 and hotseat works great at the lunch table.
  
  The graphics are good... the map is clear, though I'm sad you can't rotate it. The top screen is 
 left for unit and terrain info, as if ripped directly from Advance Wars. Come to think of it, this 
 game plays a LOT like Advance Wars, excepting the isometric camera angle and fantasy setting. The 
 sound is pretty average, with generic battle cries and sword-clanging over top of the same sweeping 
 orchestral fantasy fare you've heard for decades now.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  Those who enjoy turn-based strategy will be right at home with AoE. It's a solid game all-around, 
 with lots of content and tightly-balanced gameplay. Fans of AoE might be turned off by the turn-based 
 nature, but this game proves that it can translate between game types fairly smoothly.
  
  As a fan of turn-based games like this one (I've thoroughly played games like Advance Wars, Dia 
 Senryaku, Fire Emblem, a wealth of tactics RPGs, Shining Force, Military Madness, etc) I have to 
 admit that although Age of Empires is quite good, it really plays it safe when it comes to strategy 
 games. It really doesn't do much that hasn't been done before. In this regard, the game rarely 
 ever "wowed" me. It's definitely worth playing, but there comes a point when a game has to separate 
 itself from the crowd to be truly unique. If I wasn't a die-hard fan of medieval warfare, I might 
 have nearly become overwhelmed with the idea that I'd played this game already before I'd ever 
 bought it.
  
  That being said, AoE might not take as many risks as it should have, but it delivers what it promises, 
 a meaty strategy game that anyone with a little patience, a love of history and having their doods 
 fight other doods with swords can really get into. I recommend it and am glad it's part of my collection.
 
  
  +Good graphics
  +Solid turn-based gameplay that's well-balanced
  +AI is decent
  +Compelling historical plot
  +Plenty of missions to play
  +Solid multiplayer support
  -Doesn't 
 take any risks with the TBS formula
  -No single card download play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erkidu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  -Overview-
  
  Age of Empires: Age of Kings is a worthy addition to the Age of Empires franchise. Temporaily abandoning 
 the series' trademark real-time strategy, Majesco instead chose to go with turn-based strategy 
 in their DS debut. In Age of Kings, you play through various campaigns and take control of some 
 of the more well known historic warriors, such as Joan of Arc or Richard the Lionheart.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The touchscreen has been perfectly implemented in Age of Kings. It controls everything 
 on the screen and does so seamlessly. For instance, you touch one of your units to highlight them, 
 and then simply touch the screen where you want that unit to go. It ends up being remarkably intuitive. 
 The only downside to this aspect of the game is that it is sometimes difficult to choose a specific 
 unit if multiple units are standing closely together. Age of Kings is relatively easy in the beginning, 
 but soon becomes very difficult in some of the later campaigns.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  While not a graphical powerhouse, Age of Kings is definitely pleasant to look at. What it lacks 
 in technical detail, it makes up with vibrant colors and pleasing animation, especially during 
 the battle cutscenes.
  
  -Sounds-
  
  Definitely one of the high points of the game. The soundtrack is riveting and uplifting. The sound 
 effects are fantastic and convincing.
  
  -Presentation-
  
  The menu system is outstanding in Age of Kings. Everything is easy to navigate and everything about 
 the game's presentation, from musical cues to the mini-menus used to designate a particular units 
 assignment is nearly flawless.
  
  -Value-
  
  Age of Kings will give you many hours of quality gameplay. The game does offer some multiplayer 
 options, such as hotseat - but a title like this absolutely screams for online play. Regardless, 
 if you have a friend handy, hotseat is a blast, and the single player mode alone makes this game 
 worth every penny.
  
  
  -Overall-
  
  An outstanding addition to your DS collection. I would go as far as to say that I prefer this title 
 to Advance Wars Dual Strike - and every DS owner should give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L8erSquare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires: The Age of Kings is a great turn based strategy game for the DS. This game will 
 have you gathering resources, building a kingdom, and raising an army to take down your opponents. 
 In the main campaign it uses true historical events which i found to be rather dull and uninteresting 
 as a games main story. Ididn't enjoy the story's because it was such a simple and rundown version 
 of these great historical figures lives. Besides the main campaigns story it also throws some variety 
 into its missions. Some missions are your basic build a town and army to wipe out your enemy, some 
 missions are escorting, and others are about getting from point a to point b without getting your 
 army wiped out and with inability to produce more troops it can get very challenging. The combat 
 system feels like a game of rock, paper, scissors where one soldier is stronger over another type 
 of soldier. I found myself saving my game often because the game would sometimes experience lag 
 during the combat animations or the screen would freeze forcing me to restart my DS. Sometimes 
 pressing the "B" button would fix this. I have also had a few occasions as to when it would tell 
 me that it was unable to save my progress, once again i would find myself forced into turning my 
 DS off and on. With that aside its still one of the best turn based games for the DS and it has 
 a lot of replay ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised when playing this game how addictive it became. I am a RTS on the PC fan and 
 didn't think I'd get into one on the DS at all, but this game surprised me.
  
  The tutorial was fun in of itself just getting you used to the game. Then being able to play free 
 mode and set the level of each of your opponents makes the game very deep. You can have 4 total 
 teams on a map including yourself. You can make one easy, one medium and one hard. Or you make 
 any combo of them you want. It can be as little as 2 on a map or up to the max 4. This I would 
 try to pick randomly so I wouldn' t know who was going to be more aggressive as I played the game. 
 
  
  That made for some unbelieveable play by the computer AI. Thinking I was pushing forward on a weak 
 'easy' opponent I had another come in the back door into my town and wipe me out. I never saw it 
 coming. Things like that make me totally regain strategy instead of the usual store up goods and 
 bombard afterwhile. 
  
  The one downfall was the slow down that came about when i had opened up most of the map and had 
 units all over the place. The game really chugged then, but it ended soon after with my victory 
 so I was ok with it.
  
  To me this game is worth the price tag. $35 is a no brainer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grw111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  When i first played it i was a bit synical about how good it was gonna be, but after a bit of playing 
 and found how to use strategy in games.
  
  I played this game on a mate's DS and playing this game only, it made wanna buy a DS.
  
  A 
 must buy game and well worth the time spent playing this game.
  
  Also i would say that if you are thinking of going for advanced wars or sommet like that, i would 
 think again and go for something that is not as well known in the hand-held gaming universe and 
 go for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  I got this thinking it would be like the computer game version. First off, it doesn't go online, 
 so no fighting other people. A tiny letdown. Then I found you can't build more than like 2 different 
 buildings, that made me mad. Some other things wrong with it? Lack of resources, graphic problems, 
 game is to easy to beat, what's the point of even putting it on the touch screen? But the game 
 was ok if you like cheap knock offs of award winning computer games from like 5 years ago. Not 
 a game I'd recomend to friends, family, or bassically anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_dusk
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, here's a surprise: Age of Kings for the DS. Sound odd? It is. When You start it up, you are 
 greeted by a remix of a familiar song. The featured art is a style I personally don't like, a complete 
 change from the original. Age of Kings for DS offers a lengthy campaign (complete with obnoxiously 
 long tutorial) Empire map games which is just a new name for a Random map , and a Bonus Items feature 
 which allows you to purchase extra content such as new maps and units with points you earned from 
 playing well (Think Advance Wars) . Unfortunately, there is no option to create your own map.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphics are relatively good. Tiles on the map look great but the units on them; 
 not so much. The Overworld unit sprites are pretty much always considerably larger than the tile 
 they stand on (at leased in height) which can make things very cluttered and confusing even in 
 a relatively small battle, it doesn't help that units are sometimes hard to tell apart by their 
 sprites, either. An example of this are Militia and Villagers, which have very similar or identical 
 sprites.0
  In my opinion, the unit portraits would have been better in 2-D, the 3-D models being pretty dull 
 looking. This goes for the models in combat sequences as well. When a battle starts, the fight 
 is shown on the top screen, with the two groups beating each other up much like in Advance Wars 
 (except with swords) These models are rather stale looking but at the same time have a certain 
 appeal about them.
  
  SOUND
  Sound is pretty good. The Screams, clangs and trampling moises of the original game are featured 
 in the battle sequences, bringing back sweet memories of campaigns past. However, on the DS they 
 sound old and out-dated and sometimes you wish they had just scrapped them.
  Most of the music is great, but often repetetive.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This version is completely 
 different in mechanics, being turn and tile based. The game is also more Settlement based. What 
 I mean by this is that you can only build buildings next to a town center, with the exception of 
 Castles, Wonders and other Town Centers. The Civilization list has also been narrowed down to British, 
 Franks, Japanese, Mongols and Saracens. However, you can employ mercenaries of other civilizations 
 such as Persian Elephants and Chinese Chu Ko Nu (Although I highly doubt Joan of Arc had any of 
 them in her real army) There are still plenty of differences between civilizations, including unique 
 units trained at the castle.
  
  Overall, I suggest you pass on this one. It's not as good as it could have been.
  
  (NOTE: 
 This review is not entirely finished, and might not ever be) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philipxb
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Well, this was my first Nintendo DS game, and i liked it a little bit at the beginning, but i didn't 
 love it.
  I was not playing it for so long, before it got too boring, and i haven't turned it on since.
 
  It's quite too hard for me, and i did never completed all the missions.
  I think that this game is not the worse game that i ever played, but it really think that this 
 game, is not a game for me.
  Since it's not the worst game i've played, and i'm not a completely hater of this game, then i 
 rated it 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b1wfdz33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires: age of kings is a new title from Backbone entertainment that takes what was once 
 a real-time strategy game into a deep turn-based one that also manages to stay very true to its 
 roots.
  
  What AoE for Nintendo DS does best is captures the experience of Age of Empires on the PC and squeezes 
 it into handheld form. Taking a smart move instead of designing a RTS on the DS (even through the 
 system is quite capable) you get a TBS game similar but much deeper than Advance Wars DS. In AoE 
 you are one of five historical commanders, there are five lengthy campaigns in the game with each 
 one you play as one of the commanders. Each campaign is comprised of five missions giving you a 
 total of 25 different missions to go through, each are different from one another which gives lots 
 of variety. The games first campaign is the tutorial which you command as Joan of Arc which is 
 very seamless from the rest of the campaigns since it is a campaign but gives you very helpful 
 tips at the beginning which you can also choose to ignore if you please.
  
  Where the game starts to differ more from Advance Wars (other than it being a historical game obviously) 
 is that it involves much more RTS game elements into it, giving it more of a traditional Age of 
 Empires feel. You have structures that you command you have your villagers construct new ones to 
 give you more options such as new units, abilities, better resource income, etc. The thing with 
 Advance Wars is that you have static units, you set your army out and fight until once side is 
 out of units thus making gameplay much faster paced. With AoE you can constantly build new units 
 from basic swordsmen, knights, archers all the way to special units which you earn when you have 
 newer structures such as siege weapons, exotic units, etc. With this your not going to have that 
 feeling where the enemy outnumbers you because you have one unit left, with AoE you just simply 
 rebuild a new army before the enemy strikes down your base. With this of course makes the gameplay 
 much longer than a session of Advance Wars but thankfully the save anytime anywhere option lets 
 you continue your campaign whether you want to spend 5 mins. doing your campaign as you wait for 
 the bus or want to spend an hour, it simply continues on your most recent turn. The game controls 
 very well, again similar to Advance Wars, you use the touchscreen constantly throughout the entire 
 game, the only buttons you may press is B to cancel a command and start to save your game. The 
 game controls very smooth, sliding around the map is fast as well as selecting units/ buildings 
 to give commands.
  
  Visually the game is very clean and vibrant, from a good presentation to an easy to navigate menu 
 system. Obviously not as detailed as you would see on the PC but for DS standards its pretty sharp. 
 There is also the battle sequences which are nicely detailed with nice 3D rendered sprites clashing 
 into combat that animate well well with each other but if you turn off this feature then it will 
 be pretty hard to tell when a unit is taking damage other than the little health meter since there 
 is no combat animation outside the battle sequences.
  
  Another part of the game where fans of the Age of Empires series will get a good vibe is from the 
 audio. Featuring all the unit sounds from the PC versions of AoE as well as the music which all 
 sounds fantastic and is very clear but the only downside is that the music is pretty repetitive 
 yet not noticeable since you'll be hearing the sounds of units clashing weapons more than the music 
 most of the time.
  
  Multiplayer is a great feature to AoE, though only local, its great if you have a few buddy's that 
 are up for a good match up to 4 players or if you want to have a skirmish with the computers which 
 adds a lot of replay value.
  
  A note about some minor issues about the game, the only problems that you will encounter is that 
 sometimes units can be very hard to pick out when your in a mass crowd, larger units like mounts 
 tent to block smaller sized units on screen like siege weapons, happens not that often but can 
 be a pain, best way to pass this is to use the shoulder buttons to skip through units. The only 
 other problem I encountered is a very infrequent freeze up. The game will sometimes lock-up on 
 certain battle animations so best be sure to constantly save your game so if you do freeze up, 
 just restart your DS and continue where you left off, or do as I am currently doing and turn off 
 the battle animations.
  
  So if your looking for a solid strategy game for the DS that packs it full of what you loved about 
 Advance Wars and/or Age of Empires and offers a deep lengthy single player and fantastic replay 
 value then look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Thomas_bobbypin here!
  
  i decided to rent this game one time when i was bored and after playing a bit i realized i couldn't 
 put it down! with historic battles that you relive, and change its an amazing game and many many 
 times i would find my self getting stuck in a spot and having to restart! the multiplayer is the 
 same as the pc ones but instead of RTS (real time Stategy) its TBS (turn based strategy) which 
 was really fun. and plus there are advantages to being in certain places like archers in the mountains... they 
 get an advanced sight and attack range. and each peice (or unit) has its own strength and weakness. 
 the graphics are pretty good sound is awesome value i say its over the top.
  
  worth Buying w/o renting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  Age of empires: Age of kings plays like most other strategy games. There are certain specifics 
 and objectives unique to each mission and you have to advance across a grid-like board and attack 
 enemies. While doing so, you can build money-earning establishments (which is usually done on certain 
 plots of land that have some type of resource indicated) , hire fighters, and advance through the 
 ages . Everyday (if you have enough money) you can research a new topic that will help you during 
 the mission. Once you reach a certain level of revenue, food, and research you can choose to age 
 up, which lets you build more efficient armies and more advanced buildings. Once you have built 
 all you can or want and moved your armies closer or farther away, then you can choose to end day. 
 The mission objectives usually require you to defeat a certain army or reach a certain goal in 
 a certain number of days, which suggests that you must build quickly in order to succeed. The actual 
 combat is handled with turn based attacks where the attackers revieves less damage than they would 
 if they were defending. You usually position yourself right next to enemy and attack, and certain 
 militia types are stronger than others, so you must plan out who will attack whom. Ranged attackers 
 can also attack from farther away (you can use specific terrain elements to your advantage such 
 as mountains or swamps.) Each type of troop can move a certain distance so you also have to plan 
 who will move where to move efficiently across the battlefield. The only gripe I had was that the 
 touch screen sometimes had trouble reading which option I tapped with my stylus, so the attacking 
 is better handled with button use only.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  If you're playing Age of empires on a handheld for its graphics, then you don't know what you're 
 doing. The graphics work, but that's the best that can be said. Sometimes, some buildings can overshadow 
 others which make them tricky to locate, sometimes leading to many taps before you find the one 
 you are trying to get at.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  Although the background music has a presence, it can sometimes get to be annoying or tiresome, 
 and you may want to listen to something else as you play. The sound isn't terrific, but it somewhat 
 fits the battle, which is a bit of a plus I guess.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Just the tutorial mode alone could serve as a small, but functional game. Each of the missions 
 are long, and sometimes difficult, which is good for the games level of challenge. There are abou 
 5/6 defferent stories each with 5/6 different missions, which means you will be playing this one 
 for awhile.
  
  Reviewing tilt: 8/10
  Although fairly weak from a technical standpoint, AOE: AOK delivers a long, challenging, and incredibly 
 deep experience that should satisfy any strategy lover in need of a new challenge.
  
  / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game i have to admit but there really is something missing. In the PC version u had 
 a great deal of fun trying to move around find your enemies wipe them out as well as managing your 
 own empire. It's a good replica of the old PC game but it's lacking the management and the learning 
 curve is just disastrous. Like really they made the game like chess but it still is ok but still 
 lacking the addictiveness and the fun it used to have. Like really when i first saw the game it 
 looked awsome and i also when i first tried the game said lets see if it matches the old version, it 
 doesn't. The old PC version is the one i'd recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: With the release of Age of Empires 3 in 2005 and set in the colonial era but, this game 
 takes the conquest back to the medieval ages. The game features five different playable factions: 
 The Franks, the Japanese, the Mongols, the Saracens, and the Britons. But with the lack of fractions 
 will make up with the ability to recruit unique mercenary units from other nations. You can recruit 
 Persian war elephants, Viking berserkers, or rifle-wielding Turkish janissaries. In the single 
 player campain mode it mixed the storys ofJoan of Arc, Minamoto, Genghis Khan, Saladin, and Richard 
 the Lionheart accually quite well together. The stories mostly unfold between missions, but they're 
 well written and engaging. The campaigns can last you more than 20 hours, and at that point, you've 
 still got skirmish matches and multiplayer battles to explore. The battle sequences are alot like 
 the clashes between armies in Advance Wars, but in time, you'll want to skip them because it's 
 almost always the same. Graphics: Graphics are ok. They are in 2-D and are quite colorful. Also 
 everything is set up like the PC game of Risk where you have to move groups of your units around 
 on the board and fight the enemy and such.
  
  Sound: The musical soundtrack is really done well but they become repetative after a while. Also 
 the voice acting is also done quite well I might add.
  
  Value: All in all this is suprisingly entertaining and has a good replavalue condidering how the 
 game plays. The only thing that I don't like is the repetative battle sequences and music. I give 
 this game 8.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadsrule626
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires: Age of Kings is a game where you must build your civilization and fight to keep 
 it standing. You can choose from several different countries, including the Britons &amp; Franks. 
 Each country has it's own hero which grants the country special abilities. The fight sequences 
 are OK, but not exactly as good as the PC version of the game. Although, it is a DS game and you 
 can't expect too much out of it. The Multiplayer option is good... especially the hot seat option 
 which allows players to take turns on 1 DS.
  
  Overall, Age... is a great game, and a must-buy for strategy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  basically what i just said. in the start the game is far from astonishing. but however eventually 
 it grows on. different levels are cool. and the different strenghths and weakness's of each group 
 is also pretty cool. i just really think advance wars is better, better looking, better gameplay, 
 faster moving, and more customizable. in conclusion i think this is a mediocre turn based stagegty 
 game but not the best on the system for even on the genre. and this game is really boring it must 
 suck on the pc. the game is cool for 10 bucks but advance wars is still better! so check your bargain 
 bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a game for my Nintendo DS and, living in Europe, there weren't that many titles 
 to choose from. I had read some positive reviews on this game and, after some doubt, bought it.
 
  I had never played an age of empires game before so i can't compare it to those games. In this 
 game however you first choose a people, like the French, the English, the Japanese, the Saracens 
 or the Mongolians. Each of them has a unique historical leader with special powers. After choosing 
 the game begins and you have to obtain certain goals to successfully finish a given scenario. Most 
 of the time this means building towns and castles, doing some research and development and then 
 wiping your opponent of the face of the planet. Sometimes you start of with a standing army and 
 you only have to wipe your opponent of the face of the planet. Those were the days...
  The gameplay is intentionally kept very basic. You build for instance a mill and you get food from 
 it for the remainder of the game. You don't need to harvest or anything. Most of the time you have 
 plenty of money to buy new units, but the game limits the number of units you can build. That's 
 why you need to have quality units to make the difference. There also is a strategic element in 
 the gameplay, like pikeneers are good against horses and archers are no good against buildings 
 but it isn't that much of a deal. The game does some nice storytelling so you get to learn something 
 about history which is nice. At the same time, all parties can make use of the same units. You 
 can play a level where two English groups are in battle using camels, which is weird. Age of Kings 
 makes good use of the DS' touch screen and has a nice musical score making it enjoyable to play. 
 It isn't very exiting but still can be quite addictive as you use the stylus to move those little 
 men on the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I must just really suck at this game or something but i even found the joan of arc tutorial pretty 
 hard. But the whole game is pretty fun. I love strategy games for the PC and loved the age of empires 
 games, and really wanted this game for a while. Even though the graphics arent that good considering 
 its for the ds, its still fun. Its a pretty long game too. Its like the games for the computer 
 because you can make things like stables and barracks. You also collect things like money gold 
 and wheat to make your building and troops. You can also advance through the ages like the others. 
 Although you can only advance I think up to age 4. Its still a good game. I picked this up a few 
 days ago at a gamestop sale for $14.99 brand new. I definetly think it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheddarLimbo
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  There is an inherent danger in messing around with a good thing. An award winning PC franchise 
 like Age of Empires knows how to do real-time strategy right. So what happens when you take that 
 formula, strip it down to bare bones, and rebuild it as a hand-held turn-based game for the DS? 
 Age of Emipies: Age of Kings from Majesco is exactly that, and thankfully the results are terrific. 
 With a rich, colorful presentation, Age of Kings for the DS provides hours and hours of play and 
 makes a great addition to any DS collection. The turn based play of Age of Kings is easy enough 
 to grasp even for gamers who arent familiar with the genre (and if it isnt, an entire six mission 
 campaign will serve as a tutorial) . Players take it in turns to move their Empires units around 
 a map across various terrains to engage enemy units and buildings. While your military units march 
 across mountains and plains, the rest of your Empire is hard at work, harvesting resources, constructing 
 buildings, exploring unknown frontiers, and researching technologies to improve your society. When 
 your Empire gains enough knowledge about the current era, you can advance to the next Age, gaining 
 access to stronger units and technologies in order to defeat your opponents.
  
  The balance of the game comes from the players choices about how to spread their resources into 
 all the different disciplines. Do you spend your money building up extra infantry units, so you 
 can defend your territory? Or would it be better to hunker down, and focus on trade and resource 
 improvements so you can earn more money each round? These decisions are further complicated by 
 the criteria of each mission, which varies greatly. Some campaigns have you striking out to defeat 
 an opponent as quickly as possible, while others purposely start the player in a weakened position 
 against superior troops.
  
  Each of the five campaigns focuses on a different Empire of the Middle Ages, each with their own 
 Hero character to command. Joan of Arcs Frank Empire is the easiest and acts as a tutorial for 
 players. Increasing in difficulty from there are Minamoto of the Japanese, Genghis Kahn leading 
 the Mongols, Saladin of the Saracen Empire, and King Richard the Lionhearted of the English. Players 
 may start any campaign they like, though each chapter within must be played in order to unlock 
 the next.
  
  Controlling Age of Kings is both simple and elegant. You can use either the standard button interface 
 or the stylus to equal effect. You can tap units or grid spaces to gain more information on them, 
 and tapping buildings will bring up a list of their functions, such as building new units, or managing 
 resources. The lower screen serves to show the isometric grid map on which your units and buildings 
 are placed. The upper screen will show the detailed information of the currently selected tile. 
 Youll see information like terrains inherent bonuses or penalties, a units health, offensive 
 and defensive capability, a units potential movement, and so forth. You are given a lot of information 
 on which to base your tactical decisions, so youll find yourself moving all over the map frequently. 
 This can easily be done by sliding the stylus near the edge of the map screen, or by the shoulder 
 buttons, which rotate through the roster of available units on the field. Selecting a unit will 
 also indicate where it can move and what spaces it would be able to attack after moving, which 
 allows you to plot out both the potential movement of your own units, and those of your enemies.
 
  
  Engaging enemy units will bring up a side-by-side comparison giving even more information, as well 
 as comments from an advisor as to the wisdom of your proposed attack. Often times, the outcome 
 is easy enough to predict, but with all the special bonuses for technologies, terrain, and unit 
 powers, it can be overwhelming, and its nice to have this feature to help make the right decisions. 
 Once youve committed to an attack, youll be presented with a colorful animation on the top screen 
 that acts out the two forces coming together in a violent clash  complete with painful groans 
 and arrow thwips!
  
  The historically based campaigns will take even veteran gamers upwards of 12 hours to complete. 
 Gameplay is further extended by the many optional goals in each mission. These goals add additional 
 criteria to the completion of each mission like: complete the mission by a certain time, destroy 
 or protect a certain unit, require that a player purposefully handicap themselves with sparse resources 
 and technology. They provide an additional challenge for those players looking to really test their 
 skill.
  
  As if that werent enough, there is another mode called Empire Maps, in which you can select a 
 map on which to play, choose opponents and their Empires as well as their alliances, and can customize 
 the battle to your specifications. You can also choose to play against enemy AI, or against other 
 human players via WiFi. There are enough variants and maps available that you can easily spend 
 as much time on these randomly generated missions as you do with the main campaign.
  
  The colorful visuals bring a lot to the games presentation. The map is bright, and terrain and 
 units are easy to distinguish from one another, with lots of tiny ambient animations to add to 
 the flavor of the landscape. Windmills turn, rivers shimmer, and hidden artifacts glow. The menu 
 system is simple but effective, allowing you to drill down into levels of depth whenever you feel 
 it is necessary. Each campaign mission is accompanied by some particularly pretty artwork stylized 
 in a medieval fashion.
  
  There are lots of little touches in terms of the sound as well. Each Empire has its own musical 
 theme, which will play during that Empires turn. They are each well mastered and indicative of 
 the Empire they represent. There are also countless sound effects throughout play for everything 
 from horses galloping, to a blacksmiths hammer. Units also have their own sound effects as they 
 react to your orders. All told its a great audio-visual presentation that strikes the perfect 
 balance of accenting the Gameplay with visuals and sound, but not overwhelming things or bogging 
 down the play.
  
  The only real problem with Age of Kings lies in the form of several all too prominent technical 
 glitches. Animations will lock up from time to time, or sound effects will inexplicably begin to 
 loop and will continue to do so until the DS is reset. The game has a nasty habit of locking up 
 when there are a lot of units on the board as well. The most notable of these is the three letter 
 glitch, which will corrupt the cartridge completely if you choose a file name of only three characters. 
 Most of the time, these glitches are an inconvenience that can be overcome simply by saving frequently. 
 One wonders, though, how an entry to such a prominent franchise could be released with so many 
 bugs.
  
  Age of Empires stays true enough to its roots with this new iteration and makes a surprisingly 
 easy transition to a hand-held arena. The great presentation and lengthy campaigns provide more 
 than enough content to satisfy. The move to turn-based play may throw some fans of the series off 
 for a while, but as a hand-held strategy game, its hard to top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: you can choose out five  and JAPANESE, each 
 civilization have a own hero: britons have RICHARD LIONHEARD, franks JEANNE D'ARC, mongols GENGHIS 
 KHAN, saracens SALADIN and the japanese have MINAMOTO **** different units.
  THE BAD POINTS: gameplay's pace can get sluggish in large battles, visuals sometimes get to cluttered, no 
 wi-fi, the game is so frustrating hard. even the tutorial is hard.
  [CONCLUSION] AGE OF EMPIRES: AGE OF THE KINGS for the nds is not the game were i hoped for, compared 
 with the pc version of the game. the most fun getting ruined by the fact that that this game is 
 VERY VERY HARD.
  but this is only my opion. but now i do to negative about age of empires: age of the kings, but for 
 the gamers this game delivers a long time enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 7, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is relatively fun given that the DS only has 2 turn-based strategy games at the present, 
 Advance Wars DS being the other. Advance Wars is the better of the two with a more stylish presentation 
 and game-play but AoE offers the freedom of building towns and units anywhere on the map offering 
 more customization of strategy, etc. AoE offers a more traditional strategy game where you must 
 train workers to gather natural resources needed to construct buildings and train units. Each turn 
 you are allowed to research one item and once you've researched the required number and have enough 
 resources you can Age Up allowing you to create more powerful and diverse units. The major glitch 
 that turned me off (and finally drove me to trade this game in) occurs most frequently when playing 
 the Empire maps mode against more than one computer controlled enemy. Late in a game, after a hefty 
 investment of time, the game decides it no longer wants to save and you are presented with a screen 
 telling you to turn off the system and re-insert the game. Most of the other glitches in this game 
 (read forum for descriptions) are avoided by saving often but not this one! One could argue that 
 this problem MIGHT be avoided by not playing against more than one computer controlled enemy at 
 a time, however, this is one of the best options of this game and a player shouldn't have to sacrifice 
 game-play to avoid glitches. Needless to say I turned off the system but I did not re-insert the 
 game. I talked to many people and discovered that this, among others, is a common glitch. There 
 is also a glitch that apparently locks up the game making it permanently inoperable and I actually 
 discovered two used units at my local game store that had this problem so beware if you plan to 
 purchase this game used! As I said earlier, this is a relatively fun game but the glitches can 
 drive you to sell it or avoid it altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan2214
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and highly addictive. My mate is even going to buy a ds for this game that 
 is how good it is. I mean you can't realy go wrong when you buy an age of empires game you always 
 know it is going to be good. Well at least when ensembles studios makes it as every pc version 
 of this game is amazing.
  
  To start with as soon as you begin to play you hear the great age of empires theme song which is 
 very cool. In this game there are 5 different campains and 5 different civilisations to choose 
 from. there is one campain for each civilisation. However some are easier than others and each 
 campain get icreasingly dificult as you play through. This game does a great job of setting the 
 scene and telling you clearly what you need to do in each mission. The five civilisations in the 
 game are franks, british, japanesse, mongles and sarecens. which all have their own strengths and 
 waeknesses and all have different artitecture and armour and weapon designs. This game has a huge 
 amount of units and buildings as well to allow a great array of stratagy which this game is full 
 of, you also get one historic hero per team and he has powers that can be used to help you win. 
 However if he or she dies you can't get a new one.
  
  In single player this game is great and will make you become so addictive you lose track of time 
 which i have done a lot while playing this game.
  
  This game looks amaxing on the ds as the animation and grafics of the game are full of colour and 
 style. This game still looks and feels like the pc version but also has a look of its own.
  
  The sound of this game is exceptional from the battle cries to background music it is all top 
 knotch.
  
  This game also has great multiplayer game play which is fun and you and your mate can easily play 
 a game together with computer controled civilisations as well if you want them on. You can even 
 play with one ds by just passing it around with up to 4 player. You can't play online however using 
 nintendo wi-fi but i am sure if they make anymore age of empires ports they will put it in.
  
  The ds game is turn based however which i quiet like as it is a change from the pc versions 
 that i play alot and makes me have to use new tactics.
  So if you are looking for a new ds game on your ds that will keep you hucked for weaks to come 
 look no further than this. This game is a bit more complex than advance wars but is still just 
 as amazing. Advance wars better watch its back as this game is a an amazingly good turn based stratagy 
 game. Plx make a age of empires 1 or 3 game on the ds.
  Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  It's not a bad game since it won so many good votes. Like many AOE players, I started out playing 
 the first AOE in the PC version. And although using cheats wasn't really fair play in a game, at 
 least it got me through the stages and I was happy. But AOE on the DS, can be pretty hard I'd say. 
 The graphics, movements and music are good, but it just seems pretty weird to play AOE without 
 using any cheats. Yeah, it might have been more a guy's game, but I have always been fond of RPG 
 Strategy games, yet this one seems a tad too hard for me. I took like 10 hours to completed the 
 Yamamoto stage 2 and I stopped there. Not much patience I guess.
  
  My advice if you're a true AOE fan, you might still need to follow the walkthrough provided. Otherwise 
 like me, I had to restart the campaign like 3-4 times just to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSuper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Just about everyone has played or heard of the amazingly popular Advance Wars as well as the worldwide 
 best-selling Age Of Empires : The Age Of Kings. When Majesco realized that combining those two 
 games could be a smash hit, it contacted BackBone and the development of the turn-based version 
 Age Of Empires : The Age Of Kings DS started.
  
  When first playing this game, you'll think that this game isn't so different from the Advance Wars 
 Series. Yet when you really get in to the game, you'll come to find that this game is very different. 
 The first difference can be found in the graphics already, instead of choosing the old-but-faithful 
 overhead view, the developer chose to use the graphically more impressing and more challenging 
 to make 3d isometric view. Sure, it's getting used to initially, to move the cursor around, but 
 it gets more useful after a while. The battle animations are, au contraire Advance Wars, fully 
 3d animated. This gives a brilliant view and it shows the DS' maximum at graphics. Yet the sound, 
 oh the sound, hasn't been used fully, since there is that constant, neverending background music. 
 The additionnal battle music and other sounds from buildings, units and other when you use them, 
 are all taken from Age Of Empires : The Age Of Kings, the PC version. So instead of using a bit 
 of inventivity, Backbone chose to play it safe and took the old but wellknown sounds.
  
  The gameplay, in which your military, economy, exploring and research stats are very important, 
 resembles the Advance Wars but also the orginial PC version. In stead of having to collect 4 resources, 
 namely food, gold, stone and wood, you only have two to collect; gold and food. But don't think 
 this makes it any less hard. You can also get some resources from your town center, wonder or church, 
 if a monk has brought a relic to the church. There are also pick-ups all over the map, goats that 
 give you foodstuffs, crinkets that bring up some cash ... There are also ruins scattered across 
 tha map, which can give you an extra militia, extra food, extra gold, an extra technology or the 
 unit who discovers it can be killed due to no reason at all. That makes it a bit more challenging. 
 Off to the battle sequences, most maps are in fog of war, but no fog is an option that can be chosen 
 as well, although it makes the game a whole lot easier. There are five main civilizations, Japan, 
 the Franks, Mongolia, the Saracens and ofcourse the Britons. Every civilization has one hero which 
 is given at the beginning of every game, the Mongols have Genghis Kahn as example and the Franks 
 get to have Joan Of Arc. These heroes have different hero abilities, like to heal units or to kill 
 surrounding units. Choosing civilizations can be wise, because a. e. the mongols have a technology 
 discount while the Franks have extra income from their farms. Yet in the 5 campaigns, you can't 
 choose your civ, you'll have to play with what you get. The Hundred Year war is one of the campaigns 
 and lets you play with Joan Of Arc. There are four types of combat units, Ranged, Infantry, Cavalry 
 and Siege. These all have advantages and disadvantages against each other, a. e. the cavalry is 
 very effective against the ranged units and infantry, yet the infantry is strong against siege 
 ... . There are more than 60 different units which can be chosen from and the variety is huge, 
 differing from Paladins to Welsh Bowmen to Trebuchets to Swiss Pikemen. If completing a mission, 
 you get a score, your empire points. These can unlock extra maps and extra special units, but also 
 give you a status. If you can get 3000 empire points, with an avarage 100 empires points/ map, 
 you get the status Sultan, but when just beginning with zero empire points, you're still a peasant. 
 Getting the highest rank, Emperor, is a much anticipated goal.
  
  To end with, the game is plagued with annoying glitches such as unable to save or the game just 
 freezing. This occurs frequently and can irritate a player endinglessly. The most well known glitch 
 is that if you pick a username of 3 or less letters, the game crashes. Why ? Nobody knows, but 
 don't try that at home !
  
  As i conclude, Age Of Empires : The Age Of Kings DS is a great game with a huge amount of unluckable 
 things and great graphics and gameplay, but due to uninteresting sound and annoying glitches this 
 game doesn't get a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megastarjosh
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing interpretation of AOE for the DS. It is a challenging game which means 
 you wont complete it in 5 mins.
  Its A Complete Bargain - &pound;19.99 Game! You can even get it cheaper elseware. You can play 
 multiplayer with only one game pack and one DS!. You just take it in turns.
  
  You can play multiplayer wirelessly with 2 DS systems and 2 Game Paks which me and my brother do 
 and it is AMAZING!
  
  A MUST HAVE FOR DS.
  
  There are 6 different difficulty in 1 player.
  
  There is an easy tutorial mode which tells 
 you everything that there is to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greaterlegion
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  i was really excited when i saw this game and snapped it up, however when i got home i discovered 
 that the store clerk forgot to put the game in.. damn so the next day i go back to get it and boot 
 it up... its only got worse.
  
  you see AOE2 was on of the first games i ever played and i loved it, the movment and the whole 
 build your own town thing was cool so when i found out the DS version had taken a way most of those 
 things i was shattered, you can only build town right next to town halls so you end up with a cramped 
 little honey comb of building untill you explore and find other bases.. this is as the enemy attacks 
 you through the same route..... over and over.
  
  you see unlike Advanced wars AOE2 has 1 point ina map where your units with block up and will stay 
 like that untill one of you gives, as far as ranged untis go there is much and not many ways to 
 sneak around the back of the battle or anything tactical because if you do that you wont have enough 
 units to replace the ones getting killed and you lose the battle, while the hero untis are cool 
 the money system and the throw your units to a wall and see who gets through way of fighting really 
 dosent feel like the orignal.
  
  while the single campaing is ok the multiplayer aspect is the only way you'll have fun, find a 
 friend or someone who is willing to waste 20mins to stand there clicking archers and carvlery to 
 attack you foot soilders only to have them replaced again and again. if in doubt go get advanced 
 wars duel strike its more fun has more tactics and is worthy of its franchise...
  
  this on the other hand is why i fell asleep in history 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rave_n2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised by how good a transition Age of Empires made from PC to DS. The graphis are great, 
 bright, and colorful. The sound is fun and exiting. Tons of replay value, each battle turns out 
 completely different ech time you play it. Ahh, yes, the battles. They are sooooo much fun!!! When 
 you start a battle, you just can't quit! The tactical fighting system is a charm to witness, and 
 the little screen showing each individual fight is really kool. The touch-screen is fun to use. 
 Unfortunately, many of the battles are too hard, but it can still be an exiting ride even if you 
 lose. There are so many varieties of warriors, and it is a joy to watch them at work. The stroy 
 is great, you go through tons of different historical fights, and they are all fun. I would recommend 
 Age of Empires: The Age of Kings DS to just about anyone, even those of you who are unfimiliar 
 with the series. This game was a fun play, and well worth the $17.89. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyclam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  its a good long game and the multiplayer is pretty good with your friends. lots of units and large 
 battles and its just a great game. its a very long game and its a good game. I think its a long 
 game and it is a long hard game that deserves some time. I think its great and it is worth the 
 27 dollars canadian i payed for it and i think anyone who liikes strategy will like this game. 
 At first when you play it, it is hard, but when you get into it it is really fun and long and worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomandas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires successful franchise made its way to Nintendo DS console as adapted version of one 
 of most successful RTS of all time as Turn-Based Strategy game. With 5 different sides, 5 campaigns, 
 bunch of multiplayer maps and a good assortment of units at your disposal.
  
  Gameplay goes as you build buildings, expand, acquire resources, research and upgrade your structures 
 and units and go through the ages as you advance in technological and cultural level.
  The whole interaction with objects is done on the Touch-Screen while most of valuable information 
 about objects, terrain, research, game-status and battle animation is seen on top screen. Your 
 most important building is town centre which gives opportunity to build villagers and 8 different 
 types of buildings around it plus additional defensive towers. But you can build only 4 of them 
 at one town centre which brings strategy to that point where you must choose what you need most. 
 Never less, you can build several town centres , to build all the other buildings necessary. there's 
 few special stand-alone buildings like castle - which like in old game produces your special unit 
 , wonder a side specific building which different according to which side you choose.
  
  For resource gathering, which are sadly only two of type - grain and gold, you must place the mill 
 or gold mine on right place for it. For example if for farm, you must find grain on map to place 
 the mill on it so it will gather food for you. Like in old game you had to assign villagers for 
 different work, here the only 2 possibilities of using the villager is to build building or loose 
 it in battle.
  
  The combat unit assortment is quite wide but not over the top. Just like in good old Age of Empires 
 II every side has its own unique units, technologies and strengths. The unique edition of the series 
 is heroes which are the most powerful and differently gifted units. Each of the sides have their 
 own hero . For example Franks has Joan of Arc while Mongols Genghis Khan . The hero unit is gifted 
 with powers which somehow enhance friendly units attack power, support by healing or inflict damage 
 upon foes.
  
  The game offers 5 lengthy campaigns, great count of multi-player maps (though you're unable to 
 create your own) , a bunch of unlock-able content as new units and maps. You unlock content by finishing 
 the campaign missions, and acquiring points for your playing level.
  Multi-player is multi-card play based, but happily there's hot-seat regime which allows which-console 
 game around your friends' hands.
  The skirmish mode is included as well, as for AI opponents is pretty good and can be pretty challenging 
 at times.
  
  AGE OF EMPIRES: AGE OF KINGS DS is another great turn-based strategy since Advanced Wars DS, maybe 
 not as challenging and fast-paced which is mostly because of units count which make game lag a 
 bit in larger battles. But is a totally worth-buying-playing game. It will deliver deep game play 
 as well satisfying turn-based battles. Must have for FANS of series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norabbitnofun
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  Age Of Empire: The Age of Kings is a turn-based strategy game that you are going to want to compare 
 to Advanced Wars: Dual Strike because it essentially has some of its ingredients in terms of building 
 units &amp; buildings.
  
  To start with, it does have an age feel to it with buildings &amp; discoveries needed before you 
 can progress to the next age (up to IV) . And units of the advanced ages are more powerful than 
 those of the earlier ages. So you will be battling as one of the five middle-age heroes and there 
 is a reference to history in the 5 single player campaigns (Whether Jeanne d'Arc, Japan or others) .
 
  
  Game mechanics will lead you to discover its rock-and-scissors aspects (with lancers countering 
 cavalry countering swordmen, in turn countering lancers. :-) As usual on the GBA, here we also 
 have an animation showing combat when it happens - which you will probably turn off soon due to 
 its duration.
  
  You will find difficulty ramping up well - up to rather more difficult than other games (without 
 reaching the hard mode level of Fire Emblem, as far as I have experienced ;) .
  
  Graphically, the game looks good without being excellent. Somehow the theme did not really buy 
 me, even though I did not find anything wrong or lacking with it.
  
  Sound-wise this game has a good rendering. Units mumble something when you select them (there is 
 one speech I still don't understand) , weapons sound metallic when they clash, and there is a quite 
 good theme playing in background. However these sounds are not much varied and you likely won't 
 find yourself carried through by the theme as you could with Fire Emblem or Advanced Wars.
  
  Controls are responsive. (Players used to Advanced wars will have to exchange L for R but that's 
 about it. ;) Navigation through maps is a problem though because it feels slow when you want to 
 travel through the map (and there is no shortcut to accelerate this) .
  You can use the stylus - yes you can. But the experience will leave you willing more reliability. 
 When you select fixed elements of the screen or menus, it works fine. But when you try to select 
 units, due to their overlapping between them and with the scenery, it is unsatisfactory.
  
  There is a bonus points system that will let you buy extra maps and extra unit types.
  
  Overall, 
 I had a better tilt with the other many games from either GBA or DS library - especially Advanced 
 Wars: Dual Strike, Fire Emblem (all 3 games) , RebelStar, Zone of the Enders. Because these have 
 a further feel to them - either because they have a story with characters you carry from one mission 
 to the other, or simply because they have a great theme with a flawless execution.
  But if you are out of strategy games in portable format - I would say why not? try this game.
 
  
  Note: I have not tried the multiplayer (my personal belief is that it does not really make much 
 fun for a turn-based game to play with someone else waiting for your turn to end.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires: Age of Kings brings the series to the DS but with turn-based gameplay. It is surprising 
 that they could fit so much into one game. Too bad a whole lot of it it complete crap. The game 
 does not play very smoothly and in big battles things get really laggy and clustered. It is hard 
 to tell which units are mine and what kind they are. There are a quite a few types of units. Swordsmen, 
 archers, pike-men knights and so on. 5 factions are available for you. These are the: British, 
 Franks, Japanese, Mongols, and Sacens. Unfortunately they play almost identical, the only differences 
 being their hero unit and some little stuff like how fast they mine gold or their upgrades. Each 
 faction has their own campaign and there are skirmishes. You can play hotseat but there is no single 
 card play. One part I did not like was you had to get resources and build a lot of buildings to 
 win a skirmish. At least in Advance Wars there were not so many buildings. Then of course there 
 is the freeze. This game will suddenly freeze and when you try to play it again it is just a black 
 screen. The graphics are pretty chunky and blocky. The DS can do better. Hopefully Panzer Tactics 
 will stop the string of disappointing string of strategy games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires for the DS finally this game rocks.
  
  Campaign mode: I'm not a Real Campaign mode guy so i didn't really like the campaign mode on this 
 because it's WAY different from the comp. version. Some people will like it though.
  
  Gameplay: Great I'm the guy on these type of games to set up your battle. Its really fun. It needs 
 work on the battle sequences though otherwise it's really good.
  
  Graphics: Need work. Pretty good for a Ds game but still. Audio: The sound on this game is really 
 good for a portable. I don't care what you say. It's even got the Age of Empires 2 Theme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I never liked turn based strategy games until recently when I played actually good ones. I used 
 to think you couldn't beat advance wars when it comes to turn based strategy games but I was proven 
 completly wrong and i have fire emblem sacred stones to thank for that!! (see my review for that 
 game if you have never heard of fire emblem) Now with age of empires age of kings and fire emblem 
 I will hardly touch advance wars! For those that still love advance wars buy this game or fire 
 emblem. Now to the review. Age of Empires has everything you need in a turn based strategy game. It 
 has skirmish mode were you can play aginst up to three other players (cpu controlled or human) and 
 even a hotseat mode that allows everyone who is playing to use one ds to play and you pass it around 
 to whoever's turn it is. It has 5 different campaigns which have different objectives and optional 
 objectives. Each campaign uses a different nation. There are 5 different nations to use Mongols, 
 Japanese, Franks, Britons, and Saracens that each have a unique hero unit. The battle cinematics 
 are in 3d and it is interesting to see different units battling each other (sometimes i sacrifice 
 my villagers just to watch them try and kill knights with pitchforks lol) . There is also a shop 
 were you can buy special units and skirmish maps like knights of the round. This is definitely a 
 good buy if your looking for a ds game! If you don't have a turn based strategy game you should 
 buy this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTWiggy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I havent really played AoE on the computers that much but when I did it was great. To see a transition 
 from the computer to the DS (which I play often) I thought it would be best to see how this game 
 was. I was not let down at all!
  
  Gameplay: It basically plays out like Advanced Wars except with medieval units with a twist and 
 a change here and there. Makes for a great presentation when you see colliding armies take each 
 other out!
  
  Graphics: Obviously since its on a handheld graphics are going to be far from perfect but for the 
 DS it looks really really nice.
  
  Sound: As far as sound goes you hear battle cries and the clashing of swords in the heat of battle 
 which makes you feel like yeah beat the crap outta him! yeah! harder, harder! but the sound also 
 glitches from time to time so just a minor problem.
  
  Value: It definitely has playback value for endless hours of fun like Advanced Wars not to mention 
 you can buy little goodies and what not in the store.
  
  If your up for some good turn-based strategy games... then these are the dark ages for you to conquer! 
 (good times, good times... :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  a succesful game like Age of Empires The Age of Kings for PC. The graphics are bad, and I still 
 am learning how to walk in the game, I just seem to manage walking by clicking all over the place. 
 However, sometimes the 2 screens can be confusing, and in some areas I would prefere to have to 
 PC version of this game. What I find weird about this game however is the graphics are like GBA 
 and how it is nothing like the Age of Kings on PC.
  
  They should have made Age of Empires III for DS instead of this game. I am surprised how it is 
 a diffrent publisher, it still should have been mircosoft that made this game. But indeed this 
 was a fare game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  I like Age of Empires for the DS. It's a nice tactical strategy game with good graphics and compelling 
 game play. Sometimes, when there are many units on screen, which happens frequently by the way, 
 it can be difficult to tell what's going on, what a given unit's health is, etc., but for the most 
 part the game provides plenty of methods of assessing the situation.
  
  The artificial intelligence of the enemy can sometimes not make a lot of sense. You spend a good 
 portion of the game looking for the enemies weaknesses so you can exploit them but they don't seem 
 to be quite as careful as you are. But even with the poor AI the levels are fun to play and it's 
 great that you don't have to worry about using up all your units in a given map. Once the map's 
 over the next level starts with all new units and conditions. Each is self-contained which makes 
 the game very clean and tidy.
  
  There are some serious bugs in the game. You can't make it through the tutorial for instance unless 
 you play a level in a certain way. People have complained of lost saved games and so forth. This 
 shows a rushed game to market, no doubt, but even with these problems I recommend Age of Empires.
 
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycozannet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is very good, glad they used a turn based system. 
  The two problems I found : the graphics are not very sharp and in big battles you might not recognize 
 units in the crowd... the other concern, much more important, is that after playing with three different 
 copies of the game on three different ds (one ds US, one ds EU and one ds lite EU) and of course 
 switching game and systems, the game always "crashed" after a few hours of game. It actually refuses 
 to work, and when I try to turn it on the screen stays black... beside that, if you are lucky enough 
 to own a perfectly working copy of the game it is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start my review off by saying that I've never played any AoE games on my PC. I know 
 they're good, but until now, I didn't have a good enough computer to play them on. That said, I 
 found this game to be a fun and refreshing breath of air in the DS's game library. The missions 
 all require a fair amount of strategy, but are not too hard for noobs to the genre. However, (possibly) 
 my personal favorite mode is the alternate single-player mode, which is basically multiplayer but 
 against the computer.
  The graphics are nice, especially the 2D sprites on the bottom screen. The 3D models shown during 
 battles look good, but don't take full advantage of the DS. It should be noted that, in the heat 
 of battle, you may get mixed up trying to find and move units because it can be hard to tell where 
 one unit is in relation to the others when the screen gets filled up. This is a rare problem though.
 
  The sound is great, and I really enjoy the music in this game. Some of the soldiers voices might 
 annoy some people, but I don't mind them. Control is very tight, and you can choose to use the 
 D-pad of the stylus to move around. I recommend the D-pad. Finally, I can't write and AoE: AoK review 
 without mentioning the battle system. The battles play out much like they do in Advance Wars, making 
 the game instantly familiar. Certain units are better against others, like in pretty much every 
 other strategy game. You can also merge 2 units of the same class, creating a more powerful unit. 
 The resources in the game really add to the strategy, and it's always tons of fun to build up your 
 cities and armies before a big strike.
  All in all, I highly recommend AoE. It's fun and addictive, and multiplayer modes are a blast. 
 If you see this lying on store shelves, you should definitely pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznsmarti
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  this game offers a lot, such as the skirmish type option, where you get to have up to four people 
 on a map with or against you, different difficulty settings, and then there's the campaign, which 
 is enjoyabe but really hard on the richard the lionhearted ones. you play through some of the important 
 accomplishments that those heroes go through and the battles can be very long, but luckily you 
 can save during your turn. it is a turn based strategy, with 5 factions (mongols, saracens, japanese, 
 franks, and britons) which all have their strengths and weaknesses (although there is an option 
 to make everything equal) not only that, there are bonuses that allow you to purchase units and 
 maps with points that you earn from completing campains and maps. this game also had lots and lots 
 of depth, and that turned me off a little bit with all the special abilities, building things, 
 and other stuff. but once i got the hang of it, it became really interesting and i stayed up until 
 midnight playing it. but this game does have its glitches though. sometimes the game just freezes 
 up, and it gets slow when there are lots of units on the map. there's also lots more, but i'm too 
 lazy to explain it, but its a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSXSayian
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has its goods and its bads. Starting with the goods
  
  Goods: The game has excellent graphics. Everything is clear and awesome. The battle scenes are 
 always fun to watch. A lot of campaign and empire maps to enjoy. Enough soldiers to make your medievil 
 cravings fulfilled. Cool heros that you can play as.
  
  Bads: Even the creators said that the game willl freeze which it did. So save often. I find that 
 this game can get boring after a while. Getting is a pain in the a**. Sometimes using the stylus 
 can be a pain as you click something that you didnt want to click.
  
  Overall: Fun game but its your choice to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Having played Age of Empire games on the PC for years, I was really looking forward to this one 
 and was not disappointed! I love strategy games and I have always hoped a decent one would come 
 out on the DS or PSP. Yes, I know Advanced Wars is a good game, but honestly, it is not a realistic 
 historical simulation ... And granted this is not completely realistic either, but is closer and 
 much less whimsical. :) 
  
  The gameplay is fun and addicting, although the graphics and sound are merely average (but are 
 not awful or anything) . Age of Kings has a LOT of unlockables, including maps, different units 
 and so on. There are TONS of different maps you can play on and I challenge you to get bored with 
 this game (assuming you like this type of game in the first place) ! But the thing I like the most: 
 It is accessible, easy or difficult (depending on your game settings) , and you can play huge protracted 
 games or short ones (quick ones are like 20 -30 minutes, depending on the size map you choose and 
 settings) . And every time you win, you get points toward that next cool map or unit, under the 
 unlockables!
  
  Age of Kings is a great game for the DS and I highly recommend it! I travel on business a lot and 
 it is awesome to have a great strategy game to play on the road. Besides, I can only stand to see 
 Mario fall off a cliff (due to my incompetence) so many times. :) Age of Kings is a great game 
 to play on the road for all of you strategy buffs and casual gamers! Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepper8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics 2D and okay 3D. Its gameplay is great. Has five different countries 
 with unique music for each. It has a wide variety mercenaries and military units. It works great 
 in multi player. It has many things to unlock and research. You can rank up and do campaigns. Has 
 five ages with unique researches. It would be better if it was more like Age of Empires 2 with 
 more stuff andnot turn based. With turned based you start to get bored and and lose your interest.
 
  
  Good: good gameplay, awesome sound, nice maps.
  
  Bads: not online, okay 3D graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acamike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  I have currently played thru the Joan of Arc campaign and Im well into the Miamoto one. Besides 
 that I have played tons of hours multiplayer hot seat with a friend.
  
  I am very pleasantly surprised by this TBS game. It has more depth and strategy than you would 
 think. Everything counts. Terrain, research, fraction and so on. So there are a lot of things to 
 consider when playing.
  
  The controls are easy and can be done by stylus only. However after some time I found that it is 
 faster combining the two, even necessary at some points. For example when there is a lot of units 
 adjent to each other it is almost impossible to make the correct attack because the unit figures 
 are so big that they blend in together. So to see them and to do the right attack moves you would 
 have to use the D-Pad and read the info in the top screen. This is a bit annoying because you should 
 be able to use the stylus 100%. This doesnt ruin the game though.
  
  When completing campaign missions you get points that you can use to unlock new units like Knights 
 of the Round Table and maps. This is pretty neat as it gives you some incentive to complete the 
 game. You also get a mission rating when completing a mission. The rating does not affect the number 
 of points you get though.
  
  Multiplayer: I have played a lot in hot seat mode and its very good. Very balanced and it really 
 matters what you research, place your towns/castles and so on. Also you really need to use the 
 terrain. I havent played all the maps yet because just a single game in hot seat mode can take 
 a looooong time. You can save your hot seat game though. Unfortunately there is no download/play 
 option which I would have liked. Also there is no WiFi which would really have rocked.
  
  All in all this is a great game that I will be playing for a long time.
  
  The Good:
  - Lots 
 of campaigns and nations
  - Very balanced gameplay
  - Good options in multiplayer setup
  
  The Bad:
  - No WiFi
  - When there is a lot of armies close together its hard to tell what 
 is what
  
  What I would like to see in a sequel:
  - WiFi
  - Up to 8 players/ bigger maps
  - Diplomacy in multiplayer (transfering resources, alliances) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about Age of Empire for the Nintendo DS. i though it would be dumn and quirky 
 like the games EA games and EA sports been making for the nintendo DS. When i first get the game 
 i was stunned by how much thing Majesco fits in the little cartridge. you can choose from over 
 42 different armies.
  The game did a good job delivering its view on the dark ages on beyound.
  the graphics its not 
 great as some DS games, but get the job done.
  its also very addictive. you go want play through each five of the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgnurules
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the Age of Empires series, you will notice this game is much different from 
 the pc counter part. First off the turn based game play just doesn't feel the same as real time 
 and the game feels much less fun without it. In later games, many teams and large armies end up 
 as long boring times between your turns and your opponents. Another frustrated aspect is often 
 times when playing in the middle of the game in single player or multiplayer, errors occur resulting 
 either quiting or having to start all over if you forgot to save which can be annoying in long 
 battles.
  
  The graphics: Age of Empires Ds keeps a simple 2d grid style map, but armies are cluttered and 
 look quite clunky when many are bunched up together.
  
  Sound: The sound is mostly recycled noises from AOE2 and it is pretty noticeable that is okay but 
 could sound better.
  
  This game will be fun for a couple of weeks perhaps with 5 campaigns with 5-6 per campaign and 
 random map. multicard and hotseat modes are nice to play if you don't get too many disconnection 
 errors.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabestdabest
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game first and foremost because I am a fan of turn-based strategy. The Advance Wars 
 games are some of my all time favorites. Second, I've always been interested in the Age of Empires 
 series, giving this game even more appeal.
  
  As a turn-based strategy game, this game doesn't disappoint. Fans of the Age of Empires series 
 will definately see familiar sights, such as maintaining enough crops and gold to sustain and purchase 
 your troops. The depth of this game might throw off newcomers, but you'll soon be battling it out 
 like an expert. There are tons of different units to chose from, from spearmen and swordsmen, to 
 all sorts of cavalry and archers. A hot-seat mode is available for multiplayer gameplay with only 
 one DS, and wireless (unfortunately, not Wi-Fi) warfare is also an option. 
  
  There is plenty of lag, especially in huge battles, that constanly bugged me during my experience 
 with this game, but that is only one of the problems. Age of Kings is also prone to freezing, and 
 my copy of the game was completely destroyed during one incident (when I start up the game now, 
 only a black screen is visible) .
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of strategy games, this is a worthy recomendation from the gameplay aspect. 
 Unfortunately, you'd better think twice, as your copy might get broken like mine was.
  
  Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCRCPBXBOXFAN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  insignificant things could have been worked out but I was blown away at how good it was. And owning 
 the PC versions it definitely captures it and shrinks it into DS. You could spend hours hours playing 
 this game. The sound is just sound so that is why it got a lower score. I just turnthe sound off 
 just a preference for handhelds. Integrating the stylus function like a mouse was cool too. This 
 game is perfect for the DS and I am very glad they made it. It is just a great game. It would be 
 a great edition to your library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it might be something like Heroes of Might & Magic (a game I really like) , 
 but instead it turned out to be more like Advanced Wars (a game I don't really like) .
  
  The gameplay is really too hard and involved to be playing in 20 minute chunks on my bus ride to 
 work, so it's not really the type of game I'm looking to play on my DS. This is really more of 
 a game to be sitting down focused and concentrating in front of a computer by yourself, and not 
 a portable game where i am trying to not miss my stop on the bus.
  
  But even sitting by myself playing at home it's still too much going on for the little screen of 
 the DS. I understand that this is based on a old computer game, where 10 years ago it might have 
 been fun, but not now.
  
  Not really worth it in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenPDP7
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  First the good: the game is very fun! I like the Hot Seat mode, personally, as fighting computer 
 AI isn't really as much fun for me. I especially like the unique blend of TBS and RTS elements 
 in this game- such as the inclusion of "aging up" like in the RTS Age of Empires games for PC, 
 as well as the building of mills, mines, etc. to collect resources. The graphics are good, and 
 the battle animations are entertaining to watch, although in battles containing many units, the 
 smaller maps tend to become very cluttered as they fill up, and it can be very difficult to see 
 what's going on in those situations as units become difficult to distinguish from one another. 
 As far as the music goes, it's reminescant of AoE III for PC in some places, and overall very appropriate. 
 
  
  Now the bad. Mid- to late-game battles are ANNOYINGLY INDECISIVE! An overwhelmingly superior force 
 will _often_ be unable to completely eradicate an enemy in one turn, leaving the battlefield strewn 
 with mostly defeated units that bog down movement and slow the action down to a snail's pace. This 
 is my single greatest complaint about this game. Another problem is that the game is glitchy, and 
 suffers from slowdown in larger battles. Sometimes pieces of the menu graphics simply disappear, 
 and battle statistics don't always match what actually happened on the screen. Sometimes the battle 
 music will simply fail to activate when the game goes into the battle animation, and all you'll 
 hear is a glitchy blip. 
  
  This game is very fun, and intruduces innovative, RTS-like concepts into the world of turn-based 
 strategy. It could, however, have been more adeptly executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  At first, I was very confused and barely understood this game (I couldn't even win against an easy 
 computer on single map) . Then I got better once I beat Joan of Ark campaign and learned about all 
 of the strategies. Although I still can't beat a hard computer and the hard campaign, I still enjoy 
 this game very much. I like the fact how you can purchase new units and maps in the bonus item 
 option. There is also so many things to research to make your civilization better and advance it 
 through the ages! This is a must-buy for the ds if you have patience and like strategy games. It 
 is only 29.99 so it's a perfect buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfaus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  It has the Age of Empires units, 5 of the civilizations, and a lot of the same buildings and technology's 
 to research. However, for Ds this game has really been taking to a new level. It is turn-based 
 which really changes things up. I think that you can't go buy this game thinking Age of Empires 
 for PC because it really isn't. I like it though. I think it is a lot of fun to play and takes 
 a very long time to beat. I have not come even close to beating it yet, I am still stuck on the 
 next to last training mission, which I keep dying on. That is why I gave it its hard difficulty. 
 As for sound, it has all the classic battle music and menu music and I LOVE it. The battle animations 
 are really fun to watch, especially watching a big group of archers fire upon a crowd of militia 
 or cavalry. The Campaigns, which there are 5 of I think, each have from 3 to 6 missions. About 
 30 in all, each taking about 30 or 45 minutes each and I would doubt anyone could beat them all 
 on the first time. The reason why I call it under appreciated is because I never hear anyone give 
 it praise or say how good a game it is. But I'm saying it right now. YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED 
 IN AGE OF EMPIRES DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilelf3214
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The new turn-based sort of thing was pretty new to me... but not like I havn't played 
 anything like that.. If you've played Heros of Might and Magic then you'll know what i mean. Nothing 
 that new really same old Characters that u get to play, but those new hero powers and unit specials 
 are pretty cool. Throws in som new stuff. The new thing is that if the units get hurt they get 
 weaker and weaker to a point where they get so weak that a single attack comming from them can 
 wipe that unit off. If you've played Ages of Empires II for PC its nothing that new.. the Campaigns 
 seem pretty familiar.. they like tell it out differently but still.... overall the gameplay is 
 pretty nice and i hope to see more games with this kind of gameplay comming out soon.
  
  Graphics: The graphics really aren't that great the units, buildings and etc are detailed pretty 
 well and everythign is animated pretty smoothly but its raelly nothing to go crazy over.... The 
 battle animations stand out from the rest of the game, but besides that theres really nothing else. 
 Overall the graphics are pretty decent.. not the best.. but really not that bad either..
  
  Sound: The soundtracks and music in the background sound familiar maybe some new things here and 
 there, but there really isn't anything new... The music matches with whatever position that your 
 in pretty well. The quality of the sound is pretty decent too comparing it from the PC version 
 and the DS version its really pretty good. Overall the sound isn't that new or really all too great.. 
 but goes well with the gameplay is pretty decent.
  
  Value: You can get this game for around $20-$30 depending on where you buy it or what ever... This 
 is a pretty nice game *points to score* If your a fan of turn base games then sure, but even if 
 your not.. u should try it out... about the same cost as the other games out there but this game 
 stands out and would be great investment to make for your DS.
  
  Overall this game is pretty awesome and really addictive. Theres alot of different games out there 
 for the DS, but this one just caught my eye. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan 
 of the Ages of Empires series or anything who is a fan of turn-based games.. or if your just new 
 to this whole thing.... this is a great game and u really shouldn't miss out on it =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistol_Man
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 17, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game! Now, before continuing on, I have not played Advance Wars: Dual Strike, 
 so the score that you beleive it deserves might change if you have. Now that that is out of the 
 way, let me tell you how cool this game is! First, the basics. There are four or five different 
 civilizations to chose from, including the Saracens, Mongols, Britons, and others. Each civilization 
 gets one unique unit. However, if your favorite unique unit is MIA, don't worry. You can buy other 
 unique units at the market from such civilizations as the Persians (War Elephent) , Vikings (Berserker) , 
 Celts (Woad Raiders) , and others. Each turn, or day, you can order your troops around on a chess 
 like interface. Horses go further then foot soldiers, different terrain offers different bonuses, 
 and other small things like these really add to the strategy. Also, you can build mines and farms 
 to gather resources so you can build barracks, archery ranges, and other buildings, as well as 
 units. However, you can only build 12 or so units, so you won't have sweeping armies like in the 
 PC versions. However, each unit is actually many of that unit, and when you command a horse to 
 attack a trooper, the battle animation begins, and threre is many horses attacking many troopers. 
 This is hard to explain, but once you see it, it will become obvious. Now to the simpler topics. 
 The graphics, while not mind blowing, are crisp and clear. Also, the sounds are lifted straight 
 from the PC versions. Lastly, the music is new, but would fit in the PC version, though it is a 
 little grainy on the puny DS music capabilities. In conclusion, this game is highly reccomended 
 to any fan of the PC version who is not bothered by the fact that it is now turn based (But well 
 done, I swear!) or by anybody who is looking for a quality strategy game. Please get it, as it 
 deserves a much bigger audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediwannabeon
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I was at first dissapointed when I realized it wasn't going to be a real time game, but that dissapointed 
 turned to happeness as soon as I started playing. This game is good fun for the DS system. With 
 lots to do there is never a complaint for boredom. The graphics are above the norm for DS, but 
 the game can get sluggish in a few spots. The sound is resonable. Also the presentation is definitly 
 excellent. If the game had been real time I would have been able to give it a higher score, but 
 since it did not I can not justify giving it a score higher then 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was expecting a slow, borrring, expernice of a game! I was wrong!
  Good: A good Real-Time Staragey Game for the DS a challenge!
  BAD: Graphics could have been better 
 along with sound and more.
  The gameplay is very fun with alot of fun things to do. Build an empire destroy other empires a 
 CIVLIZATION clone not realy well maybe but a good one. AN RTS for the DS like Shogun Empires was 
 kinda sucky not as good or funas this game!
  
  Graphics are kinda dissapointing I thought they could have been a little better and colorful but 
 they are still pretty good for a handheld RTS game!
  
  The sound is kinda good also I love RTS and RPG and some FPS I hope they make a sequel for the 
 DS and improve the graphics and sound those were the only problems I had with Age of Empires for 
 DS!
  
  I thought that the PC version was kinda better but the DS version is good too I ordered he PS2 
 verison from Japan on the internet I hope it is good because I bought it for $40 bucks!
  
  I love this game so it gets a 10 in TILT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsonfb
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  one of the best games on the ds. im a hardcore rts fan, but this game looked really cool and i 
 was bored, so i bought it. it must've been my destiny (lol) no reallly. this game is soooo cool!!!!! 
 it really is just..........."gasp!" i play at least one hour a day now. ive had it for like 2 months. 
 i used to play it 3 hours a day. it still is not boring!!!!!!!!!!! so much replay value. in a way. 
 if you beat or dont like the campains, then theres a skirmish mode!!!!!! you can choose between 
 tons of options, allies, civs, time zones. it is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  this is not my favorite age of empire game because is just dos not really capture the real game 
 but it is o. k. the good part of the game (and its kind of cool) is that you can go to the hard 
 levels and play them. one other good thing is that you can buy solders and stuff in the market 
 and its well... kind ok. now this game is ok but there are so bad things too. one thing that is 
 bad is that after a while is gets a little boring. this game was good and bad for me. the gameplay 
 was the best part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires was one of the first PC games that I played a lot. In fact I would say that it was 
 probably the reason that I started to enjoy playing games on the PC in the first place.
  
  This is almost an exact port of the original game and it is a pretty good one at that. Pretty much 
 everything is here that is in the original and it plays identically as well.
  
  Having the touch screen on the DS is great and helps the game flow along nicely.
  
  This is 
 a great addition to the collection and one I would recommend heartily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Ok, here's the deal. Age of Empires is a great game. It's a nice strategy game for the DS. The 
 game takes you through a great tutorial as you go through the first campaign and you basically 
 pick up everything you need to know from there.
  As you play the scenerios and campaigns you pick up points that you can spend to buy certain troops 
 or unlock certain maps that stick to your profile. Kind of a neat concept but it would have been 
 better with more depth.
  One of the biggest problems with this game, and I mean huge problem, is that during actual game 
 play if you choose the save and exit option your game will freeze and never work again. I know 
 this sounds crazy but it's already happened to my friend and myself. I've returned three copies 
 already and have decided not to purchase another one.
  The best way is to avoid the problem is of course no to use the save and exit option, but by the 
 time we figured it out I didn't care.
  Age of Empires is a really cool game for the DS for a strategy game on the go but be careful on 
 how you save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biobug
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Overall a solid game, one of the first 3rd party good ones for DS. I think they made a good transition 
 from the PC version to the DS version. The turn-base does talk a little long for multi-player but 
 all ou have to do is turn off animation and you can finish a match in 15-25 minutes easily. The 
 multi-player has tons of replay value. The single player has loads of missions to keep you entertained 
 for 20+ hours easily. The unlockables give an incentive to replay, they also help you in further 
 singl-player missions, and boost the muli-player. I recommend it to anyone who likes action games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- It'll take a while to get a good feel for the game and will be pretty hard at first. 
 It's no problem moving your soldiers around and making orders, so the only thing you have to worry 
 about is getting together a good strategy. That was no problem to me because I am a huge RTS gamer. 
 It just took me a while to carry them out until I got a better feel for TBS. Once you get a hang 
 of it it'll be much easier. The game should last you a long time and when you beat it you still 
 have empire maps to play. I did have 1 problem however, the game froze on me once. Not too bad 
 a problem, if you save often, there's no need to worry.
  
  Graphics- The graphics on the main screen are 2d but very flashy. The top screen will have a more 
 3dish look to it and its actually pretty fun to watch both sides smash into each other. Though 
 many have had trouble with the view on the main screen, I've seen no problem with it and have never 
 had trouble moving my men into certain squares.
  
  Sound and music- The sound of steel crushing steel is well put into the game as are the little 
 war cries the men make on every charge. The only problem with the sound is the same annoying ring 
 after every battle. The music is plain but isn't bad to listen to (personally, I'd rather have 
 an i-pod handy, same with most all games) .
  
  Story- It's exciting old war stories... what else to say?
  
  Overall- I liked this game and 
 if you like TBS (or even RTS for that matter!) , you'll probably like this game too. It's a good 
 game and will keep you busy (and off drugs) . Worth the $30.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndjedinak
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  At first, I was very excited about this game. I have been an AOE fan since the original, and having 
 a mobile version was quite enticing. My first hours spent playing the game were happy ones, and 
 I was generally very impressed with how well it translated to the DS.
  
  The oft-mentioned problems with clustered units (difficult to see what is where, difficult to move 
 clustered units well) is quickly noticeable, but a minor annoyance I was able to work around after 
 some familiarization. And the unit cap helps here; I typically remembered what was where.
  
  However, the big downside to this game is the level of "difficulty." The only thing "difficult" 
 about the "hard" opponents is finding the time to play out a 4 on 4 "hard" battle. Yes, I have 
 experience with AOE, and Advance Wars, but I'm not the world's greatest strategy game player. Where 
 AdvanceWars would occasionally challenge me, I've never been beaten by this game. It is disappointing 
 to win all the time, really. Especially when the larger games take quite literally HOURS. And all 
 throughout you know you will win as you steadily chip away at the enemy.
  
  I think this game is far overrated. It's not a terrible implementation, but it is terribly boring 
 after a very short period of time. Skip it and buy Advance Wars, IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyegor
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Age of Empires for a couple of weeks and have been largely impressed. The tutorial 
 mode is good and the user interface is solid. Since people have covered the positives in glowing 
 detail, I'll delve into the the negatives a bit.
  
  GIven the small real estate available, the interface is good. It would be nice to be able to zoom 
 in a bit in order to get better control over your units. It would also be nice to be able to rotate 
 the map.
  
  My biggest gripe is the beta release quality. The game has locked up at least 10 times during play 
 and about 3 times using the save and quit feature. Majesco's response to the latter problem is 
 to save only, then power off. No solutions yet to the random lockup issue. 
  
  I'm pretty disappointed in the quality of this game. We can't exactly go out and patch the cart, 
 now can we?
  
  It appears that Majesco is going to have to do the right thing and replace the bad cards with more 
 stable code. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  the game was too alike with other games, no originality. Compared to ensemble studios other games 
 it is nothing. Although the game is long enough and the hours good it just isent fast paced. The 
 game is way too slow and it got pretty anoying after a while. The computer is way too defensive 
 to make this game a worthy game. It is always anoying to find your army doubling theirs and then 
 taking an hour for my troops, particularly the battering ram to walk slowly to their base. Also 
 if your ram breaks itll take forever to get another one over. Antoher annoying feature to this 
 game is the mountains. While your army is slowly trying to cross mountains three archers are shooting 
 arrows at youusing hit and run techniques. Also with the unit cap is way too small. somtimes you 
 have 2000 dollars and cant make -----. Another thing is the cramps. the picture looks way too crowded 
 to see anything. They should make the movement much faster. in parts of the game you ll be screaming 
 hurry up to the machine. also your troops always walk in a stream which makes it easy to kill. 
 if you wait for all your troops to come out it will be extremly crowded nad u never know what is 
 enough. With the fog on it is even more annoying with archers slowly picking your uits blind while 
 you slowly try and trdge over the mountains. In conclusion they made this game way too slow. They 
 coulda easily done better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I finally managed to obtain a copy of Age of Empires: Age of Kings for the Nintendo DS. Odd, the 
 game has been out for a few weeks now, but it's so popular, that it's becoming hard to find! Having 
 never played any of the Age of Empires games for the PC (though I am learning the fine nuances 
 of Civilzations IV) but loving turn-based strategy, I decided to buy it.
  It has a long learning curve if you've never played Age of Empires before (and I haven't) but the 
 game has a great built-in tutorial that teaches you everything you need to know. (Although it is 
 quite involved, and will take you a while to get through all the fine nuances of it.)
  
  I am almost done with the tutorial, and I must say, I am loving this game! Everyone [IGN, GameSpot] 
 mentioned about the issues with the screen cluttering up when you have units, buildings and enemy 
 units on the same screen, but I never found that much of a problem, I simply used the D-pad when 
 that happened.
  
  The touch-screen works great, but there are certain points when you will want to use the slower 
 D-pad (on a bouncing bus, for example!) I love the parts in-between the "chapters" and the library 
 which give me lots of information on the real civilizations as I play them, and about the characters 
 (like Joan of Arc) whom I never really knew their story! It's a lot like the info given during 
 a History Channel documentary, and it really enriches the gameplay for me.
  
  Chapters have goals to play, but the fun part are the bonus goals.. you don't have to do them to 
 beat a chapter, but if you do, you get "empire points" which allow you to unlock new units and 
 maps for multiplayer. I found the game a lot more fun when I tried to complete all the bonus and 
 main chapter goals.. it's harder then you think!
  
  My only gripe is the lack of personality during the battle scenes when you attack (or get attacked) 
 units are animated but look the same, and do the same things everytime! Also, I don't like the 
 fact that while their is a mini-map, their is no option to leave it on during gameplay; basically, 
 all you get to do, is look at it, then put it away until you need it again!
  
  And there is Fog of War, which I some people hate, but I think makes it more of a challenge then 
 if the whole map was revealed...
  it works just like it does in all other strategy games.. can't see unexplored territory, and when 
 you leave an area that has been explored, you can still see the terrain, but not any units!
  
  I enjoyed the resource gathering element, but it's very bare.. see gold, build a mine.. it refreshes 
 each game "day" ditto to farms and mills.. no servants have to go back and forth (like warcraft 
 2 and 3)
  
  Also, I, like many others, found the game does suffer slowdown when a battle begins, and it even 
 froze up on me! Be sure to save often, just in case. Great Game! If you liked Advance Wars, give 
 this one a shot!
  Now, it's on the Age of Empires II and the expansion for me. Hope it's as good as this one for 
 the DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  First off i loved the age of empires series on PC. Im completely new to turn based strategy so 
 i wasnt sure of what to expect. I was pleasently surprised with how much gameplay this game has 
 to offer. I was really disapointed with the campaign. It just was too long for my tastes. I really 
 like using the empire map mode. Thats just a free for all basically. I like that because you can 
 choose any options that you want. I was amazed at how close this game was to the pc version. Same 
 units buildings stuff like that. Its alot of fun to have friends over and sit in different rooms 
 and play eachother. It gets pretty competitive. The sound really wasnt my brand of vodka. The music 
 gets old so i shut it off so its silent except when im in battles. The graphics are pretty good 
 for a DS game. But stuff gets a little cluttered. This game has a hell of a lot of play time. The 
 campaign takes forever. And i spend a lot of time playin with friends or just playin against computers. 
 I really liked this game but if you dont like turn based games you obviously arent gonna like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the game I first realised how easy the game played and how the game looked 
 similar to advance wars on the DS. First lets begin whit the campaign mode which is very solid, 
 whit a solid stories and different tribes such as Japanese, Mongols, franks, Britons, and an other 
 tali-ban tribe that I forgot its name. Now the multi-player, while lacking the wi-fi feature the 
 game's multi-player stays pretty much fun. With a new feature called round table many people can 
 play at the same time with only one ds and one cartridge. However the game lacks the create a map 
 function which is pretty sad. But however it does possess an impressive wikipedia type encyclopedia 
 about all of the civilization and its troops, buildings and researches. In bottom line the first 
 successful Microsoft handheld game lives up to its PC origin and teaches us that a turn based strategy 
 game is as addictive as a real time strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  So I traded in my PSP for a DS a few weeks ago. Reasons? Sick of the really good-looking but expensive, 
 crappy, frustrating, no-fun offerings on a twitchy, pixel-death-prone fragile system that costs 
 as much as my first car. Read my blog for more details.
  So I traded the system and several games in for a new DS with Mario Kart and AoE. What a difference.
 
  I'd actually started to believe that I was "growing up" and was just not a gamer anymore. None 
 of it was fun, or at least wasn't fun for long. Then I stuck this cartridge in and was swept away. 
 
  Dang, this is one fun game. 
  Yes, a few flaws, like the crowds on screen, but otherwise, a wide array of leaders and units to 
 fight with (who wouldn't want to send that platoon of elite Elephants in to trample those wimpy 
 archers?) , a lengthy campaign mode, lots of new maps and weapons to buy as rewards for success, 
 and a skirmish mode. THIS is what a video game is supposed to be: entertaining, lengthy, and value 
 for your money.
  OK, ok, it's not all wine and cheese, and a few tweaks might have made a great game into a perfect 
 one. For example, the unit acknowledgements get old very quickly, and the crowds mean you have 
 to do a bit of scrolling. But the play itself is so satisfying, lengthy, and close to the original, 
 that these little flaws are easily ignorable. If you like building up a town, mining and farming 
 for resources that you use to generate your army with, then sweeping across the map decimating 
 all who stand in your way, you have found the right game. 
  It is as close as you can get to Starcraft on a handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwozniak
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  First, I'm a huge AOE fan. I studied movies of AOE2 to castle and rush effectively, and I really 
 played it to death for a while. I haven't played much AOE since then, so I was really looking forward 
 to picking up this title.
  
  Second, I'm also a huge Advance Wars fan. Since I got my DS I haven't really been able to get away 
 from this game. I got Mario Kart, Brothers in Time, and Phoenix Wright, but I barely play them 
 because I'm always playing Advance Wars.
  
  Now on to my feelings about AOE on the DS...
  
  The good: I love how similar it is to the PC! Seems like the majority of buildings and units 
 are here, and the sounds are better than expected for the DS. The game is fun, the campaigns are 
 solid, and the included races give enough gameplay options to make it interesting. The new research 
 system is nice, though there are some techs I'll probably never research because it just doesn't 
 make much sense to go back and get them when you need to get X for the next age.
  
  The bad: My main beef is that the game is too easy. This is probably caused by my playing Advance 
 Wars to death. It's basically the same game, just different units. Once you know how to group your 
 units together, exploit favorable matchups, etc. it just becomes super easy. I also dislike the 
 rating system. Advance Wars made it really difficult to get a great score (but here it's pretty 
 easy to get the 3stars on just about any map) . The economy numbers also seem to be off a bit. I 
 typically have limitless amounts of gold once I hit castle because the one tech/turn limits the 
 amount of resources you can spend. 
  
  The rest are pretty much covered in most reviews you read: the angle of the camera is really horrible 
 when you've got a lot of units on screen at once, it's a big pain to scroll around the map, and 
 it'd be nice to be able to cycle through unmoved units with the shoulder buttons. When you've got 
 a ton of units on a big map, it's a big pain to find em all. Usually it's only the monks I'm sending 
 to a relic that I forget to move, but it'd be great to have a button to go to the next unmoved 
 soldier.
  
  Overall: I do like this game, but I suggest you get Advance Wars first. If you like it and want 
 something with a different theme, pick up Age of Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirm_17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  dude i totaly wanna buy this game lets see if it lives iup to standards. it kinda sucks that it 
 wont be liek the orignals since it would be really easy to drag a box arounf a group of soldiers 
 adn touch the enemy u want them to attack. that would be sweet. if its what i expect it to be its 
 gonna be like advanced wars me thinks. youll have to build ur force over days and turn. i dont 
 get how the fog of war will work. if only they made it liek the original! oh yeah! oh yeah.. . 
 .. . i still have to play it yet. im goin to hawaii so hopefully buy it for the plane trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Advance Wars has always dominated in turn based strategy and in my opinion still does and then 
 there was fire emblem which advanced intelligent systems turn based empire even bigger but then 
 came age of empires. Age of empires is not too far away from advance wars but it gives a average 
 presentation. The first level has you wanting more but then again you get to pick which level to 
 go on.
  
  You see there are five heroes to choose from and you can take any road you want from Joan of Arc 
 to Saladin, they all are interesting in fact they feel amazing and oddly enough they don't get 
 repetitive seeing as to how you play with them through five missions each. Although you can go 
 back to the levels after you've finished them.
  
  The landscapes are pretty with pretty high quality when you fight on them in the actual battles 
 yet its not the lands they mess up on but the lack of weather. Rain nor Snow is in the game which 
 makesthe landscape put down to a bare minimum but it isn't all too thin.
  
  The fighting is above average with clanking of the swords and other attacks that have there own 
 sounds to them. Though the biggest problem in the game can be with there sound, no not the sword 
 fights but the music. After fighting a battle you can hear one of two sounds. If you win a fight 
 you hear a type of victory sound but if you lf you lose one you hear a type of defeat sound. Yet 
 there is no draw sound when you have two samurai's clahing with 5 health left each. Even though 
 that almost is never the case the sounds get repetitive after fishing about one hero's campaign. 
 What's even more troubling is that the hero's never say anything which is the only downside to 
 them.
  
  The fighting is one thing that never wears down. You have a vast array of units and unlike advance 
 wars you buy even more units. There is a rock paper scissors kind of feel like fire emblem. A few 
 times if your opponent is weak enough you may be able to defeat a strong type of unit with a weak 
 one but that usually is not the case. The thing about the game that made it most interesting is 
 that you start at one age and can end up on another one. Your men also advance themselves you can 
 start with militia all the way to two handed swordsman this can be fun to watch.
  
  The multiplayer is ok but it feels tired as the you've all done it before in campaign. The only 
 difference is you can fight heroes against heroes but even then it doesn't feel epic seeing as 
 to certain heroes have advatages against one another. For instance when using **** against Richard 
 the lionhearted you can easily defeat him as your men by your side posses pike which take down 
 horses well so it is best to fight with people who don't have an advantage over one another but 
 when with 4 people someone will have the advantage.
  
  Replay value is pretty bare seeing as to how after you've finshed the campaigns you will have most 
 of the stuff and while plenty of unlockables you really feel for more heroes. The game is ambitious 
 but no matter how hard it tries it doesn't out do advance wars but mark it that it is way deeper 
 and it makes the game fun by adding a little history lesson in. The game even with it's flaws deos 
 not get old quickly in fact I'm not even a fan of turn based yet I'm not bored with it. A beautiful 
 game that has flaws but really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok heres how it goes. This game is pretty cool, but it could of been better. I personally prefer 
 the Age of Empires of the PC (not a big turn based fan) but this game looked cool so i got it anyway. 
 At first it was pretty cool the game was fun and better than i though for turn based games, But 
 after playing for at least two hours it got sort of repetative and not as fun. This game takes 
 long to beat a level, at least hours, which is good because you don't beat it right away, but after 
 along time you just wanna quit and go buy Age of Empires III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mriemer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to play this game since turn-based strategy is one of my favorite genres, but there 
 are problems with all aspects of the game that make the game frustrating and ultimately boring. 
 Here are the major problems I had with it:
  
  - Control: The touch screen controls were not tight. I had sufficient difficulty getting the game 
 to recognize the unit I wanted to attack that I quickly gave up on stylus control in favor of the 
 d-pad. Unfortunately, since the game uses a 45-degree axis rotation, the d-pad controls were not 
 intuitive.
  
  - Graphics: The graphics initially appear to be better than most other handheld strategy games, 
 but the graphics impair game functionality. The main problem I had was that when I was in a battle 
 with many units in close proximity the relatively large unit graphics and small screen conspired 
 to make it very difficult to discern unit types, terrain, and unit health.
  
  - Population Limit: The game imposes a population limit that is too low which greatly hinders progress. 
 I frequently found myself in a situation where I had plenty of resources, but nothing to spend 
 them on because the population limit starts very low and grows slowly. This was a major contributor 
 to boredom I experienced with this game.
  
  - Offense-Defense Balance: Another major contributor to boredom, was that it just took too long 
 to kill enemy unit. The game was fair in that neither you or your enemy had a significant competitive 
 edge, but unfortunately it frequently took 3 or 4 units attacking a healthy unit to completely 
 destroy it. This also meant that I frequently had many units with low health which combined with 
 the low population limit meant that progress was frequently slow, often one tile per turn.
  
  Ultimately, this just has too many significant problems to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  Aoe was a blast with the nitendo DS i mean the graphics are great the gameplay are totaly new i 
 mean how great is this but what would really rock if the game is in a 3dimensional game that would 
 totaly rock i mean Aoe is great but for me if were to be 3d i would give it a 10 of 10 but now 
 it isnt 3d i would give it a 8.5 ok sure i rate the graphics to 10 but i would still want it to 
 be 3d.
  
  Aoe is a game that has a good campain but at the same time its to short and the game dosent really 
 inspires me on how the story really goes since i still dont get those good total battle kind of 
 feelings but still Aoe is still a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukeshaver
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much. I think they did a great job at converting it over from an rts to a tbs 
 game. There is only one bad thing, the AI is way to easy. I own the computer on hard mode. If only 
 they made the AI smarter, then i would give it a 10/10. I always loved the persian war elephants, 
 and since they only had 5 civilizations, I didn't think they would have the war elephants. I was 
 wrong. They did a great job by making them mercenaries you could hire. I also love the units they 
 kept and it doesn't feel like they needed the ones they left out. The campaigns are fun and there 
 are plenty of maps to choose from, which is very good for replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alecv1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  When I first heard this game was going to be Turn-Based, I said, well, its not going to be great, 
 But when I picked up the game from my local game stop and popped it in my DS i was amazed, the 
 graphics can be very cluttered times, but the game play makes up for it. There are plenty of campaigns 
 and this will keep you playing this game for hours at time. The campaigns are challenging at times, 
 but this is good because the fact that we want a good long game for the ds. Playing one game at 
 time will take at least an hour, so this game WILL keep you busy, I was disappointed that there 
 was no wi-fi support, but since you can pass the ds around with up to 3 other of your friends without 
 the game, makes up for that fact. The sound was great with real music from the original game, but 
 is a little choppy on the ds's little speakers, I would go to your local game store, pick this 
 up for its amazingly small price, and make your ds worth while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I was a little afraid that I had wasted 30 buckaroos when I bought the game, but after some playing 
 I found that it was one of the best games I have in my DS collection. I haven't really played all 
 that much of the campaign, but what I have played of it was very enjoyable. I like to play the 
 skrimishes or 'empire maps' as they are calld in this game. The empire maps are a lot of fun, and 
 with multiple difficulty levels it is easy to ease (easy to ease... that sounds pretty cool) into 
 the game. 
  It plays a lot like civilization, but is a lot simpler which is nice since it is on such a small 
 screen. You only have to worry about food and gold, gold is obtained by building mines on sqaures 
 of land with large nuggets on them and mills with adjacent farms built around them provide food. 
 I found it kind of easy to build a strong economy since once you have built the mills or mines, 
 you never have to worry about them again (unless they're blown up or otherwise destroyed) Another 
 problem is that during large battles I found it hard to select my units since they were closely 
 intermixed with the enemy, and the units can be small to touch with the stylus, but if these flaws 
 can be overlooked (very very easy I assure you) you are left with a great great great strategy 
 game that will take you back to the times of AoE II for the PC. I kinda wish it had wi-fi though...... but 
 anway, if you are hotly debating inside your mind whether you should buy it, my vote is yes. Ta 
 ta for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowStar05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  I love any game that has anything to do with battle stratagey, and for me Age of Empire: Age of 
 Kings was the best 2-D strategey ds game ever!!! This is a game where you can take control of legendary 
 heroes like Joan of Arc, Genghis Khan, Richard the Lionhearted, Hamato Yoshimitsou, and Saladdin. 
 A lot of games are remebered in history as classics for a lot of reasons like best gameplay, awesome 
 storyline, and rock hard graphics, and that is why Age of Empire: Age of Kings will go down in 
 history as the best 2-D stratagey war game for the ds, and I hope for more of the Age of Empire 
 series to make it to the ds really, really fast, and very, very soon!!! I recommend this game to 
 anyone, even if your not familliar with the series like me you will fall in love with it, and you 
 will spen mind numbing hours day, and night playing, I also recommend it to players looking for 
 a challenge, because this is the hardest game I have ever played throughout my whole life of video 
 game playing. So if you purchase this game I will gurantee you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires for the DS combines elements from the series, along with other games in the stratagy 
 genre to create on of the most addictive games on the DS.
  
  Like in other Age of Empires games, you are put in control of one out of a selection of nations. 
 In this installment, you'll be able to control the Franks, Britons, Mongols, Saracens, and Japanese, 
 each one having it's own pros and cons. Each nation also has a campaign mode, in which you play 
 as one of the five historical figures in the game as they fight in their historic battles.
  
  The graphics are nicely done. The characters look decent, if not a bit on the odd side. Some 
 look wierd in places, but it's nothing serious. The buildings all look as they should and most 
 look better than you would probably expect. The envirnment could have been done better in a few 
 areas, but is still passing. Evirnment terrain looks ok, but seems a bit dull here and there, especially 
 the water.
  
  The gameplay is what's going to keep you coming back. Age of Kings for the DS doesn't stick with 
 the real time combat, but goes with a turn based style. This helps new players to not feel as if 
 they must rush their way though everything to keep up with the computer, but at the same time allows 
 veteran players to encounter a new stratigic challenge. As in the previous Age of Empires games, 
 you have a variety of units to choose from, all of which being better or worse against another. 
 However, the type of unit and placement will either win you a battle faster or cost you more dearly 
 than in previous games. Each unit has a specific amount of spaces it can move depending on what 
 it is and what terrain it's moving on. So it's best to think before moving a unit, much like chess. 
 
  
  Seige is also different. You can either choose to burn the town center to the ground and everything 
 around it, or you can destroy the Town Center by itself and take control of buildings around it, 
 much like in Rise of Nations. Building your town is different as well. You can have up to four 
 choice buildings around each town center. Depending on what buildings you wish to build will either 
 hurt or help you in the long run. Resources must be found and harvested in this game. Once you 
 find a resources, either food or gold, simply build the correct thing overtop of it, and it'll 
 generate an unlimited amount of resources.
  
  Sound is largely the same as that in the PC version of Age of Kings, but is a bit fuzzy in a few 
 small areas. The villagers' and a few soldiers' speech is a bit off, otherwise the sound is good. 
 Each building has the sound that it did, and is very well done. You won't be hearing the same in-game 
 music for each nation either, as each one has it's own theme.
  
  Multiplayer is good, although online would have been a nice addition. If one of your friends has 
 the game, and a lot of spare time, it's worth playing. However, since games in Age of Kings can 
 go on for so long, you may not get to finish it depending on how much time you have on hand, and 
 of course, you cannot save multiplayer games as you can single player.
  
  Even after you beat all the campaign modes in the game, you'll come back over and over again to 
 play the Empire Map, which is basically a skirmish, and the multiplayer. There's even a Library 
 where you can read about the various nations, units, buildings, and ect in the game.
  
  Age of Empires: Age of Kings for the DS is not only one of the most addictive games on the DS, 
 but is one of the best overall. It manages to combine elements from stratagy games of different 
 types, along with it's own, the create on of the best games you'll find on the DS to date. If you 
 have some extra money to spend and are looking for a good DS game to keep you entertained for long 
 after the game is completed, don't hesitate to pick of Age of Kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haruko05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Similar to AOE3 but not quite, plays more like Final Fantasy Tactic. It freeze randomly, but not 
 that much to me. 
  
  In Campaign mode, there's different goals you gotta meet which can get kinda hard the first play 
 around. Then when you get bored of Campaigns, there's always the Entire Map (Skimish) mode. With 
 maps and new unit type to get. 
  
  If you have played Final Fantasy Tactic, then I doubt you would have any trouble at all since it 
 plays the same way, either way, the tutorial is easy to understand and fast to learn.
  
  Overall, I love it and I'm sure it'll provide hours of entertainment to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has had a pretty good showing recently. With games like Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, 
 Mario Kart DS, Animal Crossing, Meteos, Kirby: Canvas Curse, Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, 
 and Advance Wars: Dual Strike out for the system, there hasn't been a real shortage of quality 
 games for the system. Age of Empires: Age of Kings seeks to expand your library of excellent DS 
 games by providing you with a surprisingly faithful translation of the pc real time strategy series 
 into an addictive turn based formula not unlike Advance Wars or Final Fantasy Tactics. The ace 
 up Age's sleeve though is that it's got even more depth than those great games have to offer. While 
 a bit slow sometimes, it's incredible depth, historical flavor, and lasting value really add up 
 to a great package.
  
  Age of Empires starts off by giving you a tutorial section where you play as Joan of Arc. There's 
 a decent bit of history here, and you might actually learn something if you pay attention to the 
  story. Those looking for a Final Fantasy epic will be disappointed, 
 but these historical tales are harrowing enough to provide a good backdrop for some serious strategy 
 gameplay. You'll gradually be introduced to new play mechanics by your escort through the course 
 several levels, each one playing up a certain core aspect of the gameplay. While there's definitely 
 a good bit of reading you'll be doing here, it never makes you bite off more than you can chew. 
 In essence, it eases you into the game nicely. As someone who is generally overwhelmed by strategy 
 games, I found this surprising and enjoyable.
  
  Interestingly enough, the game has many of the trappings of a traditional real time strategy game. 
 You'll harvest resources, build armies, upgrade said armies, advance in ages, etc. However, this 
 has been translated to a turn based formula, undoubtedly because of the lack of a mouse and keyboard. 
 While I definitely think that the stylus would be more than serviceable in the absence of a mouse 
 for some real time action, the turn based formula works quite well. In fact, some might find it 
 more enjoyable because it gives you more time to pause and scheme, thus playing up the strategic 
 aspect of the game.
  
  The game gives you a myriad of options when it comes to tactics. There are many different types 
 of units, and some like Joan of Arc have several hero powers available to them, such as the ability 
 to make all units next to the hero lose 25 percent of their health, etc. Unit movement is handled 
 on a grid system very much like Advance Wars or, well, pretty much any turn based strategy game. 
 Each unit has a movement rating and certain terrain types require more movement points to cross. 
 It's a very familiar system and it works just fine here. What is nice to see though is that different 
 types of terrain really make a difference in combat. Mountainous areas give you a big bonus to 
 sight and ranged attack, and certain units aren't as effective in areas (like archers in forests) . 
 Certain units can't even enter some types of terrain, an example being that cavalry cannot enter 
 swamp areas. All in all, it's another nice layer of strategy in an already deep game. 
  
  Age of Empires uses an upgrade system where you advance in, unsurprisingly, "ages". These are basically 
 tiers of technology where you can, under certain conditions, advance in an age and be granted access 
 to new research options. There happens to be a slew of choices here, and it is left up to the player 
 to decide which are best for their current situation. The whole system of building your town and 
 upgrading/researching techs is part of what makes the game so addictive, and it's a welcome addition 
 to the realm of turn based console strategy.
  
  Graphically, the game is fairly pleasing. There are some cool looking drawings for the main characters 
 on the menus and at the beginning of missions. The tradition of dialogue boxes with talking heads 
 continues here, with nicely rendered heads to do the jibber jabbering. The game is played from 
 a 3/4 perspective, and looks fine for the most part. The game is played on the bottom screen with 
 info boxes and a map displayed on the top screen. When you attack, the game uses the top screen 
 on the DS to show the carnage up close and from a side scrolling perspective. The only real significant 
 complaint about the visuals is that when a bunch of units are clumped together it's nigh impossible 
 to tell them apart, meaning you have to highlight each square to find out who's who.
  
  The audio is probably the weakest part of the package, though it gets the job done. The sounds 
 of combat convey the concept of clanking swords and spears, though a few of the effects seem a 
 bit on the low quality side. There is some fairly good music backing things up, though it can get 
 a titch repetitive. Overall, the sound does a fairly good job of everything, though it could have 
 been a bit better.
  
  Even though the audiovisual presentation isn't quite as vivid as Advance Wars, Age of Empires is 
 a completely worthwhile strategy game for the Nintendo DS. People who were put off by Advance Wars' 
 cute anime feel would do well to check this one out, as it's every bit as deep (and, in fact, deeper) , 
 but has a much more adult oriented tone. Even fans of the pc games will find plenty to like here, 
 as the game keeps the spirit and depth of the classic series, but makes a fresh experience out 
 of it by going with a turn based formula. The fact of the matter is that, regardless of platform, 
 this is a very solid strategy game with tons of content and addictive gameplay. That it somehow 
 managed to squeeze itself onto the DS makes it even more impressive.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: udnoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I don't feel sorry buy in it. I have never played the PC version. I keep 
 on hearing that is not same as the PC, is a little bit different, but this version is great. I 
 already pass the tutorial level, it was easy but explains how the game is played. This game is 
 more like Advance Wars.
  I also like how they put the history of Joan of Arcs from beginning to end, all done fast and shortly. 
 I have played Command and Conquer on the PC. I wonder if they going to bring it to the DS, that 
 will be great. Now that I think about it, they are so many classic game out there that could be 
 remake on the DS or PSP. If you like this type of game then you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageIgna
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires is a very well known real time strategy, and now it is coming out with a non-computer, 
 turn based strategy on the Nintendo DS. That's quite a bold move... and thankfully, it's been pulled 
 off nicely.
  
  As a turn based strategy, you take your turn and then the enemy takes theirs (hopefully you already 
 knew that) . You get a good amount of units to choose from, buildings to build, research upgrades 
 to fund, and resources to seek out. Just seeing all there is to see in the game will take a pleasantly 
 long time.
  
  The progression of your empire is pretty simple; you start off with a villager, the only unit that 
 can build things (very vital!) and two militias, your first military units. The militia are strong 
 enough to hold their own in battle, and while the villagers can fight they won't do much. Using 
 the villagers you must start to build your town center, then branch out looking for gold vaults 
 and fields worthy of farming. Gold and food are the two currencies in the game; they are what you 
 use to build and produce everything in the game. You also will need to build barracks for infantry, 
 stables for cavalry, and various other things that will aid you. And at the same time, there will 
 be a "Research" menu in which you can choose one of many upgrades for your empire, all at the cost 
 of some gold and food.
  
  Then, after you've hit the required amount of research upgrades and have enough gold/food, the 
 game will allow you to move up an era. Once you do so, you will get stronger units to pick from, 
 more buildings to make, and more research upgrades. All in all, there are 4 eras; and units of 
 the next era are much more powerful than units of the last, which will push you to constantly build 
 up so you can progress through all 4.
  
  Also, the game gives you the option of five empires to build -- the Mongols, the Saracens, the Britons, 
 the Franks, and the Japanese. They are all unique in their own way and are worth exploration.
 
  
  Getting into the content of the game, it's actually quite plentiful. There are 5 campaigns, each 
 one averaging about 4-6 missions. They get very challenging, but not to worry -- the first campaign 
 is really a tutorial. However, the tutorial should still be counted as a campaign... it does get 
 harder nearing the end.
  
  A great feature of the game is the Single Scenario, in which you can create your own battle. You 
 can choose your own empire, the map you use, the number of enemies, their difficulty and aggression, 
 what era you start on, and much more. You can even create teams...2 on 2, 2 on 1, and 3 on 1. This 
 can very well burn up a lot of your time before you ever set eyes on the campaign.
  
  However, there is one problem. The AI is passable, but not stuff of good quality. If you are serious 
 in playing the game, you will get frustrated at how easy the AI is. There are 3 settings for them... Aggressive, 
 Average, and Defensive. They are roughly set apart and stay for the most part true to their names. 
 However, the problem comes in when considering the difficulty setting: easy, normal, and hard.
 
  
  The sad truth is that all three of these are no match for any gamer who actually uses tactics in 
 the game. Even in "Hard" mode, the enemy units are quite braindead. They simply mosey around until 
 they see something, then they make a beeline for it and attack. They don't try to aim for any sort 
 of terrain, choke off certain bridges, form a line to lower casualties, or anything but simply 
 walk around.
  
  At the time of writing, I am in a 2-1 match against two "Hard" opponents and I am still winning 
 by a landslide. As it is, I'm using very minimal tactics; only the basics. It's very disheartening.
 
  
  However, this problem can be solved if you have a friend who has a DS, Age of Kings, and a fully 
 functional brain. While the game won't save your multiplayer match, it is still a great relief 
 that you can fight something that will fight back.
  
  As I said though, the campaign does get very challenging. However, this is mainly because the campaign 
 throws you in specific missions where the goal is more than conquering the enemy, and whenever 
 it is, the developers made sure to make you outnumbered. But this doesn't mean that the AI is tough... it 
 means that the circumstances are tough.
  
  Age of Kings is a good tactics game though, and definitely worthy of buying.
  
  Judgement Time:
 
  
  Difficulty: Easy -- Yeah, the campaign gets hard, but the AI are braindead otherwise. I think that 
 outweighs circumstancial difficulty.
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes -- While it'll take longer than this to discover everything in 
 the game, to understand the mechanics and such it doesn't take very long.
  Time Spent Playing, to Date: 40 to 100 Hours -- I know it says 'to Date', but I figure that wouldn't 
 do it justice. The truth is that I haven't over 40 hours... but I know that I will end up eventually. 
 Anything less really doesn't say how replayable this game is.
  Classification: Solid -- The game ultimately is a good and solid experience, albeit some lacking 
 areas (namely, AI) . I recommend it to anyone who likes this genre.
  
  Gameplay: 7 -- The gameplay is solid, but isn't outstanding.
  Graphics: 9 -- Very good for the 
 DS. Many have said it gets cluttered if you have a lot of units, but that isn't a big drag, and 
 I think it's exaggerated. The semi-polygon/semi-sprite graphics work really well.
  Sound: 7 -- Once again, nothing outstanding here, but still pretty nice. The battle sound effects 
 are good, but there are some points in the game that seem like they could use sound where they 
 don't have any (for instance, the destruction of a unit doesn't give off any sound or animation. 
 What the hell?)
  Value: 9 -- This game will keep you busy for a long time.
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8 -- Like I said, it's a good game for the genre. Nothing extraordinary, but definitely 
 worth the buy.
  
  My Score: 7.9 -- Buy it. You WILL be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PipsBlackStang
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Very Good Game if I could get it to work! I played for a couple hours total and the game is amazing. 
 I purchased my original copy and after playing for about an hour I saved and shut off my DS. I 
 came back to play it and the DS reads the cartridage but when I pick AOE: AOK to play it brings 
 up a black screen. I tried it on my brothers DS and same thing happened. So I brought it back to 
 Blockbuster where I made my original purchase and they checked it out and called it a manufacters 
 error. So they give me another copy of the game and after about 20 minutes of playing I save and 
 the whole game freezes and the it starts to make this annoying sound. Well I shut off my DS and 
 try to start it again. The DS reads the cartridage and I go to play AOE: AOK and the same thing 
 happens. So I bring it back to Blockbuster and those were the only two copies they had so they 
 give me a giftcard and tell me to try and purchase it somewhere else. Whats up with the game? All 
 my other games work fine. AC, Mario Kart, Tiger Woods, Wario World Touched, Mario and Luigi DS, 
 Super Mario 64, all of them work perfect still. What the hell is going on? Is this happening to 
 anyone else? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Age of Empires for the DS is a long-awaited and well-worth-it iteration of the PC classic. Though 
 of course there are differences between the two version, you'd be hard pressed to unduly criticize 
 the Nintendo DS version as anything but fun and engaging.
  
  I won't go into detail regarding unit types, heroes available, since that is covered ad nauseum 
 in the gamespot summaries. 
  
  Immediately, the quality of the title is evident in the impressive history available for reading 
 of the various heroes, the "illuminated manuscript" type mini-cut scenes and simple yet impressive 
 and engaging musical score... all of which help give the feel and ambience of the various time periods. 
 
  
  While units may tend to look bunched together, and telling them apart is somewhat tricky at times, 
 the gameplay and short battle scenes play out nicely and smoothly. I still haven't got tired of 
 watching them after a few days. The myriad researchable technologies and resource management, combined 
 with the unit cap that keeps the game on a smaller scale from the PC version works impressively 
 well. It was nice to see that the DS version wasn't 'pushed' into trying to completely mimic it's 
 PC version cousin.
  
  Unlockable units and maps allow for good replay value and strategizing tactics, while the in-game 
 save feature allows you to (as ANY portable game should) stop and resume action at any time.
  
  Overall, the game is more mature than most DS titles (also a welcome change) and should provide 
 tens of hours of entertainment for fans of history and real-time strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Turn Based Strategy games then you will love Age of Kings. Its much like the 
 Advance Wars series but set in a medievil era and with the option of constructing buildings. In 
 fact it has much more content then any Strategy game in the mobile game industry. Everybody says 
 that the gameplay is slow but isnt it supposed to be! The only problem is sometimes the screen 
 gets too cluttered up but other than that Age of Empires: Age of Kings with its Multiple Races 
 and Unlockable content is a must have for all DS owners out there who play Strategy Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Age of Empires is very good game. Especially fo the DS. It is very similar to the other Age of 
 Empires on the PC. YOu command and conquer other territories. There is only one thing. You have 
 to think, as strategic games should be. Age of Empires DS has good graphics and gameplay is very 
 good. So far I personally like it. If you want a game where lots of strategies are involved, AOE 
 is definitely a suitable game for. Also the music hasn't changed, yes it brings me back good ol 
 memories! jejeje. Anyways, be sure to pick it up jeje! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  A home run on the part of Majsco. This game will probably achieve the rating of the best game in 
 my DS collection. Which would beat Mario Kart, Animal Crossing, Nintendogs, Mario 64, and more. 
 The game is incredible from beginning to end. The only flaw I can point out so far is that the 
 game-play is fairly slow. I love the battle sequences, buildings, units, and civilizations. The 
 terrain is exceptionally good. The campaigns are definitely the best part of the game. They are 
 interesting, with sudden twists and turns all through. I'd say this game is a mix of chess and 
 the real Age Of Empires. I really don't mind that it is Turn Based Strategy. It is easier to think 
 and take your time on moves. Also, another fun feature in the game is the hot-seat mode. While 
 only having one DS, me and my bro. can experience full Multi-player capabilities. Absolutely Brilliant! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paintedson1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I guess I was one of the lucky ones to get this game today. So for those of you who are out 
 in the cold waiting for your game store to get with the program I'll enlighten you a little about 
 my first few hours with this game. I CANT PUT IT DOWN!!!!! Let me start off by saying that I am 
 a huge AOE for the PC fan and a huge Advance Wars fan and this is just as good as both of those 
 games in its own way. I havent decided if its simply because I have this incredidbly deep strategy 
 game that I can just kick back on the couch with or the anticipation of whats coming up next. Anyway, 
 you will not be disappointed if you have a pulse and you can read.
  
  Graphicaly it is what I expected, maybe a little hard to differenciate what unit is what sometimes 
 but thats trivial in my book.
  
  Sound does the job
  
  Value, I'll get my moneys worth, and for 30bucks i think I already have
  
  This game gets me 
 so pumped about the future of the DS... Bring on BLIZZARD!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doesetsu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  As my first game reviewed The Age of Kings was a real pleasure to play. Game play was incredibly 
 easy to pick up! The DS library has been seriously lacking in great strategy games as of late. 
 Majesco and Backbone really pulled out a winner with this game.
  
  Single player campaigns are good clean fun, having the chance to lead various armies as a key historical 
 figure is. Earning points to unlock special units and maps quickly becomes an obsession.
  
  Although the sound and graphics were not tens in my scoring they were certainly far from disappointing. 
 I particularly enjoy the rolling songs of the Saracen and Japanese armies. The battle animations 
 however are top notch. Each battle can be watched in fun complete with sound effects! Watching 
 my samurai smash into the ranks of enemy villagers is devilishly entertaining.
  
  Multiplayer is where The Age of Kings really shines brightest. The games are long and in-depth, 
 perfect for the strategy guru and new players alike. Multiplayer sessions can be tailored to exactly 
 what you and your friends want to play. Small maps are for short games and large maps for hour 
 long battles for total domination. In my opinion The Age of Kings is a must buy for DS owners. 
 Everyone has something to get out of this game, extensive single player campaign modes and great 
 multiplayer fun for you and all your friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Age Of Empires: The Age Of Kings cant be specifically defined, but think of it as a combination 
 of Advance Wars, Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, Fire Emblem, and Tactics Ogre... but its not like 
 ANY of those games, this one features historic battles that actually happened.
  
  You can battle alongside different heroes that really existed like Joan Of Arc and Richard the 
 LionHearted.
  
  It has a lot of elements from the PC version, like the technology researchment, it features five 
 challenging campaings and loads of different unit types.
  
  It takes you back to medieval times unlike the recent Age Of Empires III who took place in a colonial 
 era.
  
  Another cool feature is that they decided to keep each civilization's different unique units like 
 the turkish janissaries, the persian war elephants and the viking berserkers.
  
  The soundtrack is amazing, it has great music and sound effects.
  
  Overall Age Of Empires: 
 The Age Of Kings is mostly great, but it's greatness is shadowed by minor glitches and flaws, and 
 the sluggish long battles, but anyways it is great! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
