-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Air Traffic Chaos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sim/airtrafficchaos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the more addictive puzzle games of the year.
 Different airport layouts result in a constantly evolving challenge.
 Simple controls.
 Cute, low-fi graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of trial, even more error.
 More modes would have given the game a longer shelf life.
 A few US airports would have been nice.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.0, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 71 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date: Sep 9, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Air Traffic Chaos has all of the fun of controlling the friendly skies, without any of the gruesome 
 consequences and desperate thoughts of suicide. 

  Air traffic controllers work in notoriously stressful conditions. At major airports, they are responsible 
 for the flow of hundreds of planes (and thousands of passengers) per day. So is there fun to be 
 found in a game devoted to a profession that's noted as much for its allegedly high suicide rate 
 as its sedentary nature? In the case of Majesco's Air Traffic Chaos, the answer is a resounding 
 yes. It's sometimes stressful and often diabolically difficult, but Air Traffic Chaos also happens 
 to be one of the surprise Nintendo DS games of the year, as well as a must-buy for fans of brain-bending 
 puzzles.  

           Air Traffic Chaos is a charming, challenging puzzle game centered around one of the toughest 
 jobs imaginable.      

  As an air traffic controller, you're responsible for guiding the incoming and outgoing traffic 
 at one of the five Japanese airports that are included in the game. Each airport has three progressively 
 more difficult challenges associated with it. At the easiest levels, your job is simple: Make sure 
 the incoming and outgoing planes don't come in contact. And while that most basic of rules is obviously 
 still the goal at the higher difficulty levels, the number of variables that look to complicate 
 your job in the ATC tower increase dramatically.  

  The primary variable in the game is the individual layouts for each of the airport levels. Your 
 most powerful tool for success in Air Traffic Chaos is your understanding of how each unique airport 
 is organized. For example, the opening level, Fukuoka, is a simple one-runway airport with four 
 gates into which any plane can taxi. By the time you get to the advanced levels, such as Tokyo 
 International or New Chitose, you're dealing with multiple runways that split between civilian 
 and military air traffic. You'll also be dealing with gates that differentiate between domestic 
 and international travel, as well as complicated plane taxi lanes. If you toss wind speed and direction 
 (which affect the runways an incoming pilot will choose to land on) into the mix, as well as a 
 stress meter that fills up as you leave pilots unattended in the air or on the ground for too long, 
 Air Traffic Chaos quickly blossoms from a run of the mill "profession" game into a challenging, 
 addictive puzzler.  

  You control traffic on the ground and in the air by issuing commands. You'll use either the D pad 
 with the buttons or, preferably, the stylus with the touch screen. To issue a command, you simply 
 tap on the plane you wish to communicate with and then choose from the list of available commands. 
 For planes in the air, commands can range from changing speed to determining which runway to choose 
 for a landing. For planes at the gate, you'll need to run through a list of pre-takeoff rituals, 
 which includes confirming the flight plan, determining the takeoff runway, pushing back from the 
 gate, clearing a plane for taxi, and, eventually, clearing for takeoff.  

  Timing is most delicate in Air Traffic Chaos. For example, you don't want to bring in a plane too 
 early, only to leave it clogging up the runway while you wait to finish the pre-takeoff routine 
 for a gated plane. Eventually, you'll figure out that you can more or less start a plane's landing 
 routine when you begin another plane's takeoff routine, though, as things ramp up in difficulty, 
 it's rarely that simple for long. It's in that complexity and, thanks to a relatively smooth learning 
 curve, your always-increasing understanding of how a particular airport works that the fun is found. 

  Yes, it's fun and undeniably addictive, but there is some frustration in ATC, primarily with the 
 finality of the commands you issue. Only one command in the game is reversible -- "clear for landing" -- which 
 gives a pilot final confirmation to make a landing attempt. Aborting a landing will return that 
 plane into a circling pattern, which itself can be problematic if you've got a lot of traffic in 
 the air. None of the other commands can be taken back, and as a result, you can often see your 
 mistakes far in advance of their eventual consequences. For example, if you decide to push a plane 
 back from the gate before an incoming plane has finished its taxi routine, you can often count 
 on those two planes colliding. There's no artificial intelligence on the pilot side that will assist 
 you in avoiding these types of hazards. Instead, you are solely responsible for keeping every plane 
 on the ground and in the air away from trouble.  

  There's also a good deal of rote memorization to the challenges in the game. If you attempt a scenario 
 enough times, you'll know exactly when the wind speed and direction changes, then anticipate when 
 additional planes are incoming. That said, the game's expert challenges can be incredibly difficult 
 with windows of opportunity that seem better measured in seconds rather than minutes and where 
 a single ill-conceived command can result in disaster later on in the scenario. There's lots of 
 trial and error in Air Traffic Chaos, with a particular emphasis on the "error."  

           No time for flop sweat; you've got to keep that traffic moving!      

  Air Traffic 
 Chaos would have benefited from a more varied set of modes. The game's anime-inspired character 
 designs are just begging for a story mode that could flesh them out, but unfortunately, the 15 
 challenges are all that's available. There's no multiplayer either, though you can wirelessly share 
 high scores with your fellow ATC players. Finally, budding pilots might get a kick out of the terminology 
 glossary, which breaks down some of the realistic pilot/tower lingo used in the game.  

  At its most challenging moments, Air Traffic Chaos is a real test of your time-management skills, 
 but only rarely does the game ever feel like a chore. More often, you'll be sucked in by the game's 
 deceptively simple gameplay, compelled over and over to give a scenario another try. When you add 
 in cute, SimCity DS-like graphics and a catchy soundtrack, you've got one of 2008's more surprising 
 finds on the Nintendo DS. It might be flying under your radar, but Air Traffic Chaos deserves a 
 look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: etmaul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Once I heard about this game back in early 2008, I took interest immediately. After several delays, 
 the game was finally released and a hit was born. I mean not only did it get reviewed, but in made 
 Gamespot's Editor's Choice, "Most Surprisingly, Good Game!"
  
  Now, being a real air traffic controller, I could be critical about this game, but this is a game 
 after all, and it does this controller justice. I've logged over 40 hours on this game because 
 it is tough at times. You will find yourself going back to the expert levels and trying different 
 things or just going for a higher score.
  
  It can be frustrating sometimes because you have to keep track of arrivals and departures, but 
 the DS utilizes both screens brilliantly. The top keeps track of the planes visually, while the 
 bottom has a maximum of 4 arrival strips and 4 departure strips at one time. While this may not 
 seem like a lot, it can be especially if you are too busy focusing on air instead of ground or 
 vice versa. Tapping on each strip allows you to select the plane, issue instructions and even see 
 what their arrival time is so you can decide the sequence of arrivals and departures. There is 
 no unlimited amount of gates, so once you depart a plane, you can land a plane to take the other 
 one's place at the gate. Seems easy right? Hardly, you have to take many things into account: is 
 the plane a domestic flight or international, how fast is the plane going in the holding pattern, 
 will the plane turn off the runway so I can depart another? So many challenges go into this game 
 that it is fantastic!
  
  Thus, I can only hope that Majesco is thinking about a sequel for this game, and adding Wi-Fi so 
 you can download more airports, or maybe challenge another player to see who can get the higher 
 score. This game is a steal at $19.99; if you can find it and have ever been fascinated by how 
 busy airports operate, pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YWP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly challenging and addictive. Even with easy airports, the expert level 
 is very difficult but not impossible. The controls are very easy to learn. The most important thing 
 is the organization and strategy. I whish there were more airports including some of the US airports. 
 There are only five airports with 3 difficulties in each. Interestingly, the ones with 3 or 4 runways 
 are easier than ones with a single runway. Considering there are only 4 slots for take off and 
 landing, it is quite difficult to see all that is going on. I find the landing is easier also. 
 The departure needs many more commands than landing. Also, it is quite difficult to get timing 
 down for Taxing and take off.
  
  
  I wonder why this game is pretty much unknown. Gamespot is right on. This is one the best game 
 that no one (well almost no one) played in 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helioprotus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  This is great and has tons of potential. I would suggest, a time trial mode with time selection. 
 Much more airports with custom possibilities. Multiplayer mode is a strong factor in any game and 
 this lacks game lacks that. Consider this a really short game. But the expert mode can be tricky. 
 That's were you might stumble for a few days. Unless your a pro air traffic controller. This game 
 is no challenge. The basis of the game is down right legit and original. The graphics are what 
 you would expect is a child's typical game. They are cute and easy on the eyes simple. Perhaps 
 a story mode would have given the game more of a interest hook. The sound is as simple gets. The 
 controls are the by far the easiest thing about the game. A stylus is the key. And makes this game 
 simple, fun, and highly addictive at times. Sometimes the time limit isnt enough. Maybe stressing 
 out is a good thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  If you have ever wanted to be an air traffic controller, Then here is your chance to do so without 
 putting anyone in harms way. Air Traffic Controllers get paid big bucks because they have a very 
 dangerous job, to do keep the skies safe from traffic collisions. and keep the ground safe for 
 airport safety in their terminals. You can play this great little game and completely immerse your 
 brain in what I call a shift frenzy puzzle.
  
  Just what is a shift frenzy puzzle? It is that sliding traffic game you play to get one thing free 
 of a bottleneck but that is a stationary board and this is moving traffic. so it is very challenging 
 indeed.
  
  You will start off in one of 5 Japanese Airport's manipulating jets on the ground and in the sky. 
 it's easy at first to observe what is happening. The tutorials are excellent starting points and 
 not lengthy at all.
  
  You will board and wait for the radio message to clear for confirmation of the air space and speed 
 at which your jet will travel, Then you will call for a tug to be pushed out on the taxi way and 
 wait for any oncoming planes to cross in front of you or wait to receive were you will taxi to. 
 next you will taxi onto the runway and stop short asking for permission to cross or clear for take 
 off, After which you will be given the message to clear and you will rev up your jet engines and 
 roll out and into the sky asking to contact departure you have successfully departed one jet. If 
 this sounds like fun it is and the graphics are just as cool as you can imagine. every little detail 
 can be seen if you look hard enough the programmers went to great lengths to make these little 
 sprites.
  
  That is just part of the game the other part is controlling air speeds of incoming jets and determining 
 safe runways for them to land in. Making sure the path is clear to enter a ground terminal without 
 collisions of on ground planes. moving or stationary
  
  So as you can see you have to be on your toes. A cup or two or three of coffee would not hurt either.
 
  
  Have I got your attention and heart rate up yet? Don't worry you have a stress meter and it will 
 fill up if you become over stressed you will be glad to know your shift will end abruptly without 
 a nice comment from the crew. Or you may just cause a collision in which you will be called names 
 by your crew and fired! Or you may finish on time and get the credit you deserve to move on to 
 new and exciting airports.
  
  The night scenes are actually very cool as the jets come in with their running lights and gear 
 down absolutely attention to detail. Watch out for rain wind and snow they all play a big part 
 in this game especially when it comes to landing. 
  
  I cannot say enough of this fascinating and addicting game.
  
  Graphic Details 10
  Sound 
 10
  Music ( although fitting for the game it is a bit annoying but it does change for each airport) 
 8
  Game play all touch screen activation 10
  Interface Very Very nice and easy to use 10
  
  This Game is probably flying under your Radar ( no pun in tended) just make sure you pick it 
 up if your into fast moving shift style puzzles. It's highly addictive!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleman00
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game may look for kids, and feature outdated graphics, but it will get your brain going and 
 test your prioritizing skills. The whole point of the game is to see how many things you can keep 
 track of at once. You are scored points depending on how fast a plane can reach its intended goal 
 (either take off or arriving at a gate)
  
  On the easiest difficulty, you'll have maybe two planes in the air at any given time, with one 
 or two on the ground waiting to take off. Landing the planes is easy, just move them to an empty 
 gate, provided there isn't a plane on the runway blocking you.
  
  On higher difficulty, especially on Expert, the game throws more planes at you that are trying 
 to land, while also giving you a full airport with planes waiting to take off. Can you keep an 
 eye on those planes flying over the airport? Can you adjust their speed in time so they don't crash 
 into each other? On the ground, will the lanes get clogged with traffic? Can you recognize which 
 plane should leave first so as to maximize the amount of points you get?
  
  The later airports (which act as stages) give you more gates and more runways to deal with, and 
 each airport can be played on 3 difficulty settings, each setting with a different goal. All in 
 all, about 12 stages, which provide around 10-15 hours of gameplay if you want to beat all of the 
 stages. I'm sure there are people that will enjoy playing the stages over and over again, as well.
 
  
  Some things are frustrating, like there are times when you can't issue an order to a flying plane, 
 like 'speed up' or 'slow down', and it never gives an explanation as to why it does that. Sometimes 
 the plane is just flying and not doing anything, but I can't issue orders. This has led to several 
 mid-air collisions for me. Also, I think simple 3D graphics could've added a little more to the 
 presentation. I'm not sure if the game is part of a series or not, but it looks like a GBA port.
 
  
  A fun little game that is pretty cheap; I picked my copy up at Best Buy for $20 US. Puzzle fans 
 and gamers that enjoy brain teasing games will get a kick out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderSR388
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Air Traffic Chaos uses the less is more approach when connecting to the player visually. 
 No flashy effects or 3-D space here, just 2-D goodness. Does that mean the game is ugly? Quite 
 the contrary! ATC uses bright 2-D visuals to help draw the player into the world of a high-stress 
 air traffic controller. Dialog between you and airliners is handled through small dialog tickers 
 under each planes name. This game as a very charming look and is easy to enjoy.
  
  SOUND: Again not the strongest category, but ATC does well at conveying the sense of being in a 
 airport control tower. Background chatter over the radio. Sounds of planes touching down or taking 
 off. The BGM can be a little annoying after 20 minutes though and unfortunately there is no option 
 to turn it off.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Pretty simple. You're an air traffic controller tasked with landing and departing airplanes 
 from busy airports without causing "chaos". 
  
  The complexity of this game lies in the balancing of arriving and departing flights. You can have 
 at anytime a maximum of 4 arriving flights and 4 departing flights. Juggling 8 flights through 
 1 runway and 4 gates is very challenging and in the lies the fun. At anytime you must be watchful 
 of how fast planes are moving in the holding pattern to avoid mid-air collisions and must adjust 
 their speeds accordingly. 
  
  Also you must keep an eye on the ground making sure planes aren't taxiing on the runway where you 
 just gave another plane permission to land, which will cause a game ending ground collision screen. 
 Taxiing more then one plane on the runway will also cause this. Some larger airports in the game 
 have a domestic and international runway. You must be sure of which flight you are sending to what, 
 because landing the wrong one will make big problems.
  
  Each flight has a stress meter that rises when they are in a holding pattern to long or are delayed 
 at the gate. Once that meter fills up, it's game over. 
  
  It can be chaotic and overwhelming at first, but once you get into a groove you'll almost feel 
 like a symphony orchestrator in a ballet of air and steel. Brilliant!
  
  OVERALL: If you like strategy/puzzle/management games or ever had a passing interest in being an 
 air traffic controller, definitely check this game out! And while not the deepest game on the DS 
 it's certainly one of the more enjoyable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
